Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q1 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn conference over to Rob Fink with KCSA to begin.
Thank you.
Hosting the call today are Dita Bornicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph Tenne Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President in Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements related to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management's current estimates projections of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as the result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see risk factors as described in the annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28 2011.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the Securities and Exchange Commission such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of the Ormat Technologies believe that adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurement that both management and investors benefit from referring to this non-GAAP financial measure in assessing Ormat Technologies' liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparison to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn over the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website www.ormat.com.
Under the events calendar (sic) [IR and Presentations] link as found in the Investor Relations tab.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Yoram.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our first quarter 2011 results and outlook for the near future.
Before reviewing the results of the quarter I would like first to address North Brawley.
As has been the case for the past several quarters operating expenses at North Brawley overshadowed the strong performance of most of all clients'.
The unique operational challenges in North Brawley limit our ability to forecast operational progress and expected timeline.
We plan to continue to update on a quarterly basis on our efforts and plans to reach operational balance.
However we will not guide on the expected timeline as long as uncertainty remains high.
With that I would like to begin with a review of the first quarter operational updates.
Joseph will continue and provide financial review and Dita will conclude with business and regulatory updates.
Starting with Slide 5.
The highlights of the quarter was an 18% increase in total revenue.
The growth was driven by strong electricity generation across most of our portfolio as well as an increase in the Product segment.
The total generation from our U.S.
and international power plants increased 14% from approximately 918 000-megawatt hours in the first quarter of 2010 to over 1 million-megawatt hours in the first quarter of 2011.
Noteworthy contributors compared to last year were the OREG facilities Puna operating at normal capacity and the full benefit of the Mammoth complex.
We're continuing to work through the issues of North Brawley.
The East Brawley injection fields has provided a relief but it's not sufficient to solve our injection needs.
We spent substantial efforts in an improvement to our production pump and has applied this in most of the operating pumps.
Further modifications will be needed over time but we think that this will allow a significant movement in the service life of the production pumps which are now the highest operating costs of the complex.
As we've been operating new wells sand production has been fairly high but associated cost has been under control and we have been working on ways to further reduce sand separation costs.
The injection in the eastern field is not as good as we had expected and we are drilling 1 more producer on the eastern side and hope for a better balance between east and west.
A capacity demonstration test was conducted with production at 33 megawatts and we have the ability to retest before April 2012.
We plan to connect our new East Brawley well and rebalance cost.
We will continue to target deeper injection and look for deeper production.
Jersey Valley as previously described we have completed the plant at the end of 2010 and has been generating power under pre-commercial arrangements.
The well field development is not yet complete and we're still limited by the injection capacity.
Our plan is to maintain the plant at pre-commercial conditions until we can reach at least 12 megawatts and more work is planned for this month.
It should be noted that the operation of the plant is smooth and that it is not carrying the same operating expenses as North Brawley.
For an update on our future growth please turn to Slide 6.
In the table you can see the status and expected completion schedule for each project under construction.
In Puna we're waiting for the PUC to approve the 8-megawatt PPA and for help with the complete interconnection activities for the full benefit of the power plant to be realized.
However some power cells are expected in the third quarter of 2011.
In light of the high impact of Puna on our portfolio we plan to drill an additional production well to provide stair capacity.
We are in the advanced stage of equipment manufacturing in the 30-megawatt McGinness Hills project in Nevada.
We have submitted documents to obtain the required construction permits and environmental assessment.
We expect commercial operations of the project's first phase in 2012.
Field development in Tuscarora in Nevada has been completed.
We obtained most of the required construction permits.
We have broken ground at the plant site and plan to start mechanical work towards the end of the second quarter.
The NEPA process which is required for a compliance under DOE 1705 loan guarantee program is in progress for both the McGinness Hills and Tuscarora.
In DH Wells in Nevada we completed the drilling of 2 wells and we continued with the drilling activity.
The final project under construction is Olkaria III - Phase 3.
We amended and restated the 20-year PPA to purchase an additional 36-megawatt from the new power plant at the Olkaria III complex which is expected to come online in 2013.
This important milestone enable us to move the project to construction status.
There are no updates on Mammoth and Carson Lake.
On Slide 7 you can see the detail [indiscernible] of projects under development.
In Indonesia we're still discussing amendments of the PPA with the off-taker in parallel we are continuing with the financing process.
We're in the very stage of construction and development of 10 projects that will end by the end of 2013 more than 220 megawatts to our portfolio.
In addition we have 78 megawatt that will come from the Sarulla project in Indonesia and Solar PV projects in Israel.
Turning to Slide 8.
In addition to the projects under construction and development we also have 31 geothermal leases waiting to begin exploration or in early exploration phase.
In the U.S.
we currently have 15 sites in various stages of exploration.
Since the beginning of 2011 we have entered into new lease agreements covering approximately 8 000 acres of federal or private land in Nevada Oregon and California.
In total our land position for future development increased to 351 000 acres.
In addition we have entered into an agreement with Weyerhaeuser granting us an option to enter into the geothermal lease covering approximately 264 000 acres of land in Oregon and Washington.
Under this agreement we have the exclusive right to explore the land for geothermal resources and may enter into one or more geothermal leases.
As we described before this is a strategic move for the company to save for exploration on leases that have more favorable permitting timelines in projects.
Let us now turn to Slide 9 for an update on the Product segment.
The first quarter of 2011 saw an increase in the Product segment orders with contracts for the supply of geothermal power plants and other power generating units outside of the United States.
As of this month we have a backlog of approximately $84 million $11 million of which is subject to notice to proceed.
The backlog excludes $15 million in revenues related to the REG LNG projects in Spain.
Most of the revenue are expected to be recognized in the second quarter of 2011.
We expect the activity in this segment will continue to grow with additional opportunities from international markets.
However as we discussed in the past revenues are less predictable in the Product segment as a result of the lengthy sales cycle and customer financing that is required.
With the operational review complete let me turn the call over to Joseph for the financial updates.
Thank you Yoram and good morning everyone.
Beginning in Slide 11 total revenues for the quarter ended March 31 2011 we're at $97.8 million an 18.3% increase over the revenues of $82.7 million in the first quarter of 2010.
In our Electricity segment on Slide 12 revenues for the quarter were a $78.3 million an 18.4% increase over revenue of $66.1 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The increase in revenues is resulting from an almost 14.2% increase in total output and a slight increase in the average revenue rate of the company's Electricity portfolio from $72 per megawatt hour in the first quarter of 2010 to $75 per megawatt hour in the first quarter of 2011.
Total electricity cost of revenues in the first quarter of 2011 was $65.9 million compared to $54.5 million in the same quarter in 2010.
This reflects higher costs associated with operating and maintaining the North Brawley power plant in the first quarter of 2011 which increased from $9.5 million in the first quarter of 2010 to $14.3 million in this quarter.
This includes the cost of replacing pumps in the production well.
As we've previously said we expect a higher level of operating expenses to continue at least through the next few quarters.
In our Product segment on Slide 13 revenues for the quarter were $19.6 million an 18.1% increase over revenues of $16.5 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The increase in our products revenue is a result of increasing our Product segment customer order.
Total products cost of revenues for the quarter were $16.9 million compared to $12.4 million in the same quarter of 2010.
Moving now to the next slide which we present combined gross margin and gross margin for each segment for the quarter.
The company combined gross margin for this quarter was 15.3% compared to 19% in the first quarter of 2010.
The electricity gross margin in the quarter was 15.8% compared to 17.5% in the first quarter last year.
As you can see excluding North Brawley the Electricity segment gross margin would've been 30.5% which is a typical margin considering first quarter seasonality input.
In the Product segment gross margin was 13.6% compared to 24.8% in the first quarter last year.
Such decrease is attributable to different product mix and different margins in the said contract.
We expect an improvement in the margins of this segment in the rest of the year.
Moving to Slide 15.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $13.1 million compared to $9.7 million in the first quarter of 2010.
The $3.4 million increase was principally due to increase in the total amount of interest due to an increase in the level of debt which was partially offset by an increase of $700 000.
In interest capitalize to project as a result of an increased aggregate investment in projects under construction as well as a decrease in interest expense as a result of principal payments.
Now moving on to Slide 16.
Net loss for the quarter was $9 million or $0.20 per share basic and diluted compared to a net income of $1.8 million for $0.04 per share basic and diluted for the same quarter in 2010.
The decrease is principally attributable to the North Brawley power plant which had a pretax loss of approximately a $10.3 million or $0.23 per share for the quarter.
As shown on the following slide Slide 17 adjusted EBITDA for the quarter to the first quarter of 2011 was $27.2 million compared to $32.1 million in the same quarter of 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2010 included a onetime gain of $6.3 million as a result of the sale of GDL.
Adjusted EBITDA includes consolidated EBITDA and the company's share in the interest taxes depreciation and amortization related to its unconsolidated 50% interest in the Mammoth complex in California in the first quarter of 2010.
The reconciliation of GAAP to net cash provided by -- to adjusted EBITDA and additional cash flow information is set forth below.
The reconciliation of GAAP cash flows for operations to EBITDA is set forth in Slide 27.
Moving onto the next slide.
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities as of March 31 2011 decreased to $64.8 million from $82.8 million as of December 31 2010.
The accompanying slide breakdown the use of cash during the first quarter.
Liquidity came from the issuance of senior unsecured bonds the sale of OPC Class B membership units to JP Morgan and cash derived from operating activities.
Our long term debt as of the end of the first quarter 2011 and the payment schedule are presented in Slide 19 in the presentation.
Slide 20 reflects our dividend policy and recent dividend declaration.
On May 4 2011 Ormat's Board of Directors approved the payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.04 per share to send to the company's dividend policy which targets an annual payout ratio of at least 20% of the company's net income.
The dividend will be paid on May 25 to shoulder the freight cost as of the close of business on May 18.
The company expects to pay a dividend of $0.04 per share in the next 2 quarters.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Dita for closing remarks.
Thank you Joseph.
In my remarks I will cover recent business updates for a few of our capital progression and conclude with revenue guidance for 2011.
Let me start on Slide 22 with some recent regulation and business updates.
In California [indiscernible] Governor Jerry Brown signed Senate Bill 2X (SB 2X) to increase California's RPS to 33% by 2020 among the most aggressive renewable energy goals in the United States.
We see this increased demand and in particular the influx of the increase in California RPS as one of the most significant opportunities for us to expand existing projects and to raise new projects.
In February 2011 we signed 2 PPAs.
First we signed a 20-year PPA with NV Energy to sell 30 megawatts of clean renewable energy generated from the Dixie Meadows geothermal project located in Churchill County Nevada.
We are currently in the exploration phase of Dixie Meadows project that would be eligible for the cash grant under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 if the project is completed by the end of 2013.
Second we signed a PPA with Hawaii Electric Light Company to sell at lower price 8 megawatt of energy to be generated from the Puna power plant.
The supply which is subject to any escalation is independent of oil prices.
And as we mentioned we signed a 20-year PPA amendment with Kenya Power and Lighting Co.
the offtaker of the Olkaria III complex located in Naivasha Kenya which moved to construction immediately after.
You can see our CapEx requirements for 2011 on Slide 23.
In the remainder of 2011 we plan to invest approximately $226 million in projects currently under construction and in addition $186 million for development exploration and other developments as written in the slide.
The funding of this program will come from cash on hand at the end of the first quarter cash from operations and new corporate lines of credit project baked under the U.S.
DOE loan guarantee program for 2011 for Jersey Valley in agreement with COA and cash grant for Jersey Valley and Puna.
Going forward we intend to finance our projects under construction with long-term project finance debts and ITC cash grants.
Now please turn to Slide 24 for our outlook for the remainder of 2011.
We continue to expect 2011 Electricity segment revenue to be between the $315 million and $325 million while we narrow the range for our guidance for the Product segment revenue to be between $80 million and $85 million.
As we said in the last earnings call in February we may report a loss in the second quarter of the year but we expect to be positively in the remainder of 2011 and in the full year.
Operator at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ben Kallo with Baird.
I want to start on the Product segment and congrats on some new business there.
Could you just kind of walk us through what the mix issue was on the margin side? And then maybe give us a little more detail about what you're seeing both in the U.S.
and then you mention that there's some opportunity in the international side of the business could you just give us some more detail on that? The mix between geothermal and remote power unit in our Product segment the margin doesn't really depend on the nature of the control system.
Specific negotiated plants for specific contracts.
The next generated a little lower margin and then the mix of the first year 2010.
But we don't see it as change in the gross margin number only longer-term basis for the full year.
And so the U.S.
market as I'm sure most of our people know we did not get the 2 of 3 orders for a unit that are -- that have been ordered for geothermal fleet with our program and ready to go forward because at least with respect to one project it will subject to a deal longer under the innovative program.
And another supplier won't eligibly turn program the program technology and did not require it.
The other order that we'll announce – major order that we'll announce is not for and we didn't get it.
We are not aware of any other program fee that is eligible for this time.
Okay good.
And now moving on to Electricity segment.
For Brawley and then Jersey Valley first on Brawley.
Can you just guys can just update us again on when if and if you expect to get to that 50-megawatt level? And then how much of your CapEx have you outlined on Page 23.
Okay you have that less of $17 million there but -- so could you just tell us when and if you could get to that 50-megawatt number? And then on Jersey Valley how much time do you think that'll take to get to commercial operation? And at that time what are your ideas around ITC cash grant? Will you apply for that or will you wait till you get to the full 50 megawatts? Really what I said in the beginning of our call is that what we would like to do is we'll continue an update on Brawley but I want to say a date just because there is an amount of uncertainty and so we would like to avoid that.
And in terms of Jersey we don't think that it's a very long process.
There's some more well [ph] field work that we need to do the well is certainly part of it is going to the ITC cash grant.
So it'll be a shame to apply before we've completed all that work.
But clearly the ITC cash rent is planned for that as well.
Okay.
Then just finally on your CapEx versus your liquidity.
Can you give us an update on the loan guarantee process when do you expect to have that finalized? I know it's taking longer than anyone had hoped for.
And then how much shifting are you doing in your development in spending on new projects because of any type of liquidity restraints if any just update us there.
Okay.
On the loan guarantee program firstly we are thinking very close to a conditional commitment.
But until we have it we cannot say it we cannot say we have it like any other closing but we are close.
When we are going to get the loan knowing the royalty it's probably going to be at the very end of very last month of the availability of the program which is September of this year.
At least that's our working assumption if it's only happened many months earlier we can get it much more than the month earlier.
What was the other question? Did you have another question Ben? I remember now you're asking if our development is constrained by resources like natural resources the answer is no.
If we have no projects ready for development for exploration we would have done more.
It's the activity that takes to grow responsibly exploration is not financing.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Clegg with Mizuho.
At what point do you make a determination about impairment on North Brawley? And what key factors do you have to take into consideration to take that decision? And have you looked at how much impairment could be on that? We are looking at impairment every quarter Paul.
It's not something that we've done at a certain point and then north.
And then I think we've talked in length about EP in our February earning call where we provided maybe a little bit more information.
We believe that we can get to the output of deposit without requiring impairment.
And this is a combination of operating cost and output.
And we've looked at it now again and still don't think it is necessary.
As you know our reference did take an impairment because they are already talking the closing to IFRS and continues IFRS so under GAAP.
Public information looks at this and see the analysis down there.
Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about competition in the Products business? Have you seen any new serious competitors emerge? Given maybe a relative lack of activity there are you seeing some of our competitors become more aggressive? I alluded to it when I spoke to the prior question.
Yes we do see one competitor exiting the U.S.
market.
I think that they are taking more risks than we are willing to take.
And I still think that our performance technology enhancement technology is the winning technology.
Okay.
And you may have run through this I apologize if you did I didn't catch it but the fact that you were a taxpayer during the quarter would you mind just running through that again if you did? We are not a taxpayer in the States.
We are taxpayer in Israel and Nicaragua this quarter.
We will not pay taxes in Kenya and in the Guatemala we have tax rebates.
So but the tax amount that we pay Israel have been reduced dramatically from 25% to 15% in this year.
Very important to know.
Alright actually one more question I'm sorry.
Did you say how much depreciation was on North Brawley this quarter? Smadar you have the number? It's about $2.6 million sorry $2.1 million.
Around $2 million.
Your next question comes from that of Elaine Kwei with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Does your current guidance for electricity revenue assume that oil stays at current levels and [indiscernible] revenue stays at current rates? The assumption is that oil prices are slightly lower than what they are at current level.
Not as low as last year but lower than what they at the current level.
Inc.</strong> And just at this point with North Brawley is it just is it that the problem is identified and contained and it's a matter of going through all the repairs that are necessary or are new things also coming up in the process? It's probably more the former than the latter.
We have I would say that there are 3 factors.
It somewhat of a repeat of the previous call but 3 factors: one is having enough injections; second is having enough production; and the third is increasing the service life of the production pumps because it is such a high expense item.
And I would say that reaching on operational balance is a compromise between those 3 factors.
So for any injection capability there's a production capability and the cost of operating the production pumps.
The cost of operating the plant that will strike a new balancing or balance point.
And this is really what we're focusing on.
In this quarter we spent a lot of effort in improving the production pumps.
We don't think that we're there but we think that we'll see.
Through the rest of the year we'll see lower cost in that sector.
And we've improved our injection situation with the East Brawley wells but it's lining up and we need to continue and improve this.
And this will continue ramp up production which has been ramping up every quarter.
When exactly will we get there and what would be the operating expense is associated with it this is the part that is a little hard to predict.
Inc.</strong> And then just one last quick one were commodity costs at all a factor in the product list margins this quarter? Slightly yes because as you know commodity prices did go up in the last 6 months.
And it certainly in fact in exactly in the same way as in 2009 some of the increased gross margin was due to reduction of commodity prices.
It is not a major item but it is to a certain extent yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Arcuri with Citi.
Guys it's Sam.
I was wondering if you can just talk in general in terms of some of the it seems fairly regular operational issues with one side or another is this kind of endemic to geothermal plants? Or is it perhaps a different technology that might be used to make some of these disruptions less frequent? I was just wondered if you could comment on that.
Were you asking if can you start the question again? What was the first part that you were saying? On a fairly regular basis here quarterly there's either an issue with North Brawley or Puna or any variety of your plants.
Is this specific to geothermal plants in general? Or do you think this is a perhaps an issue related to technology or personnel? I was just curious if you could comment on that.
We didn't report any issues in the operating plants this quarter so we didn't have any substantial issue.
But if you I think a detailed look into our power plants will basically show that this is what the operating plants is all about.
It's about performing maintenance whenever you can predict a failure before it happens and you're ready with it.
Then of course you're at the advantage.
But sometimes you can't.
Things happen either weather-related or just wariness that's a history of power plants or the reality of power plants.
And the difference between regulated utilities and IPPs that the regulated utilities being allowed to put most maintenance into their rate base are actually paid for super high reliability.
And so they actually have a very typically a very generous philosophy and a very generous schedule maintenance activity.
And IPP needs to maximize profit because nothing is rate based.
And therefore IPPs have to try and find out how much schedule maintenance and preventive maintenance is required and makes a lot of sense.
Theoretically with enough spares and enough sparing you could have no downtime to troubles if you don't have can justify that economically.
And so our major events in operating plants are unplanned outages or planned outages.
And this is why we work on them but there's nothing that's just the reality of operating plants and what's specific about the geothermal industry is that you have very little control over your geothermal field on the production side.
And again it's not so much related to technology it's just the reality of geothermal.
It's just like you can't exactly predict or control how the wind blows or installation when it comes to the wind industry or the solar industry.
But let me add to it in a bigger sense if you look at the availability of the capacity sector of various technologies geothermal including Ormat are on the highest front.
We are still and I don't know if Smadar has a number but we are still about 95% of if we exclude boarding.
Boarding is a specific issue a specific problem that is not typical not to our portfolio of projects and not to geothermal in general.
But if you exclude boarding and you look at our performance numbers they're one of the highest in any technology not only in geothermal compare it to combined cycle compare it to call compare it to any traditional technology we are selling very high on availability.
Okay.
If I could maybe ask one last question can you give any perspective on your end on the outlook for the loan guarantee program in terms of whether weather it continues past the September deadline? We of course don't know but the assumption is that it will not be -- the outlook and assumption is that it will not be extended that we are going to have this one loan guarantee project financing for a portfolio projects.
And the rest is going to be in the market and I must say that the market today is very open and very attractive for projects finance.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> A couple of follow-up questions.
First on North Brawley I think your loss for the quarter was a little over $10 million and if I check back to what happened in Q4 it looked like it was closer to $4 million or $4.5 million.
And I was wondering what sort of happened over this period of time that's maybe worsened its performance or do I have the last quarter's numbers wrong? No I think you're about right to what we did in the first quarter and it continues into the second quarter is really the upgrade to all of our production pumps and that's a very high-ticket item.
In return of course it provides geothermal fluid and ultimately megawatt hours and we set a new generation as a result of that work.
But the impact on the first quarter operating expenses has been substantial.
We've gone through almost all of them.
LLC</strong> Just so I understand.
So the operating costs of the pump is incrementally high but you're not yet seeing the benefit through increased output? Or you're still taking lower than PPA pricing? I guess I'm trying to understand why if the output is going higher and why are you're not seeing that on the revenue line? Because the revenues were -- revenues were higher other than the fact that it's a time use of contract.
So there is same generation in the first quarter is not as valuable as second and especially third quarter.
So there's an element there but no the generation was way higher than previously.
However it is not and just to clarify it's not operating cost of the pump it's replacing the pump upgrading it and putting it back into the well.
So the issue is very high expenses while you upgrade the pump of course you don't enjoy the flow from that well.
And we've been working on a number of wells and concurrently actually.
So this is -- the impact it's a high expense and the results are something that we will get mostly in the future quarters.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So just so I understand this is the expense of the pump replacement some which is capital and some which are OpEx.
But you’re still not done that it will be done at some point in second quarter in terms of...
All of this was -- all of it was expensed.
None of it was capital.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But there will still be some of the incremental expenses going to the second quarter on the pump replacement? Correct.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Real briefly we have gotten some indications that on the cash grant program that maybe it wasn't done to the extent you had continuing cost you may be able to go back and sort of reopen the cash grant for a project.
Is that the case from your understanding and is that a meaningful opportunity on North Brawley? It is.
it is the case and we know that you can submit another application on North Brawley.
Yes.
LLC</strong> Any thoughts on that or obviously you want to see how much more work you need to get done before you go there? We want to decide what is the right time to submit it but yes we are planning to submit based on these new...
LLC</strong> Okay.
The last issue on North Brawley just so I understand is have you seen any -- on existing wells that have been running for I don't know a year now or a year plus have you seen any reduction in sand content? And has there been any deminuation as you sort of gotten more of maturity on these wells or has it remained at stubborn high levels over time? No you're right Dan.
It's a - mature wells actually all mature wells have seen -- we've seen a reduction in sand content than reduction in sand production.
And then within the wells we have some that are more sandy as we call them and less sandy But the sand production diminishes in all wells.
What we have done as part of the well field work that was completed in December December January what we have done is we started up I think 5 new wells.
Not all of them are new but some of them just were not operated until this point because of the layout of the piping.
And therefore in terms of sand production we still have high sand production because the mix is some new wells some old wells.
But all of them diminishes over time.
LLC</strong> I guess what I'm trying to get to is there some prospect that even just naturally you could see some improvement just as you have less new wells and more mature wells in the mix and that might help you out a little bit in terms of either reduce separation or reduced disposable management cost? The answer is yes.
And to be a little more technical what I would say is that really this will be very helpful for us.
The highest impact is really on life of production pumps.
And there are upgrades that we have done that handle brine chemistry and brine conditions but the sand itself it's just an erosive erosive material because the pumping reduces pump life.
And what we know we will get to or fully expect to get to is a point where there is less sand in the brine and therefore it's 2-year run life or service life of the pump 1.5 year to a 2-year service life is feasible.
And in many ways this would be the biggest impact in making this project similar to all other fields.
And there the indications of the drop in sand content on wells is being matured is a very positive trend and will have very high positive impact from us.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Two other one is a question I want to get into.
One is you mentioned in your 10-K some details about potential contract repricing or I guess contract changes on some of your California plants maybe over about 1 million-megawatt hours fairly sizable.
Any update on what the progress is on -- I guess you refer to it as a global settlement.
Any potential for improving realization as we move into '12 and beyond? It's a we're in the process itself so really it would be a it's hard for us get priority because it's not done.
We’re hopeful that the results outcome will be good.
There is different interpretation of what the global settlement really means.
Not the IPPs in general but renewable energy IPPs and we're discussing with our off-takers.
LLC</strong> So this is something we should keep our eye on but it's too early to say if there's going to be a pricing uplift? Correct.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the last thing on the bank lines I know I think at year end you did have -- some of your bank lines that were maturing in 2011.
Can you give us an update first of all on the maturities because when I looked at the schedule you had on your powerpoint it looked like you had pushed those forward? And then secondly can you give us an update on any covenants that are involved in some of those credit agreements? First of all we are renewing each of the matured.
The only change the cost will be higher than in the past and we are also negotiating new lines of credit.
Actually the covenants we have one set of covenants that is similar to all lines lot of credits including the bond that we issued in August and February.
And we proved that the covenants in that negotiation and the debt to EBITDA ratio level is set for 7.
LLC</strong> And do you have any way on that debt to EBITDA covenants carve out North Brawley or do you still think you have adequate room even with some of the loss in North Brawley? At this point we do not.
LLC</strong> At this point you don't need to carve out North Brawley? No.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Daniels with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Just want to go back to the nice improvement products backlog and I'm not sure if you had answer this or not on the first question but was that primarily driven by international projects or U.S.
projects? And maybe you can give us a sense of internationally where you see things picking up? Is it Latin America South America or Asia Pacific? So the answer is yes it was mostly from international projects and I think -- I think I don't know that I can give you an exact answer but I can give you a good directionally answer I think and this also goes back to previous question on what is happening the U.S.
And really the biggest -- the most important factor in the development of geothermal project is developing the field and developing field [ph] to the point where it is -- we you have good clarity on what your geothermal fluid is and what it can do and what production conditions are and injection conditions are.
In many ways this is what we're dealing with in Brawley is a result of not knowing a few things when the plant was built.
Most geothermal development is done in stages where as good develops to the point where there's enough clarity on what it can actually do.
And then power plant is built on it.
And if you go around the international some of the international markets you'll see that there are prospects or say fields in different countries that have been brought to this point and to the point where the owner of the plant could actually go ahead and bid on a power plant not on expected fuel conditions but on somewhat proven field conditions.
In that sense for the immediate future say for 2011 business and greatly to 2012 business you need to look at who is really at such an advanced stage.
And can truthfully release a project and potentially ask for bidders to bid up our plan on that project.
Unfortunately some countries are could be -- can have a large base for instance or there are great expectations from Chile but if you look at the status of the field there the field has not been developed yet and therefore Chile is very attractive but Chile is a place that could mean business only later in the decade and not right now.
If you look at the Pacific Rim in the Pacific Rim there are fields that are mature.
Of course Indonesia has a lot of discoveries.
New Zealand has substantial discoveries and these are areas that one should look for for substantial business at this point.
And as people take or developers take more time to explore countries that are emerging for the as far as the geothermal industry is concerned maybe there will be fields there that can be -- that we can sell a plant or an equipment to.
And really in a way in the United States that type of work we are doing that work for ourselves and we're losing projects.
But if you look at on the new industry level there are not too many fields that have brought to a condition where the true relationship between the supplier contractor and owner can be successful.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Understood thank you very much for that detail.
How about Kenya? We've seen you guys obviously operated there for a long time.
And I think geothermal development co is looking to build new a plants about a 800 megawatts.
You guys participating there at all? Are you optimistic on Kenya? We have the which is 36 megawatts under construction it's only we sign PPA we remit and deposit this under construction.
We are also participating in the expansion of the additional potential for Kenya but this is the longer term.
There is no extension.
So let's say part of the -- I mean in any of our disclosures because it's a fully development frame Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then just one more question.
Within the backlog I know that you have won the contract with Raser Technologies and Lightning Dock in light of their obvious filing.
Is at that backlog in risk in terms of Raser? The Lightning Dock is not -- so the numbers that we are resuming through the release contractors one which is still subject to the -- previously subject to -- but the lightning doc is not south of this number.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Farwell with Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> You mentioned the RPS in California do you see any specs in PPS pricing near-term? And will we see any projects in California move up in priority given this development? The consuming industries have issued our deposit of issuing us the so more or less now so I don't know what we will feel prices.
I think this process is continue to the end of the year or I don't know if we can continue to take them.
I think that it will definitely mitigate the low gas price in Brawley.
But it's just in that something that we see it's what I think.
Clearly demand has an impact on prices.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And on the discussion of leverage you have over $400 million of CapEx from the last over this year and then perhaps the next year.
How are you thinking about your capital structure as the leverage moves up? We think that with additional projects coming online and relative to finance them at least for the next 2.5 years with a 30% cash grant the level of debt that company can afford can capital all the needs.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Driscoll with Capstone Investments.
Thanks for taking my questions.
My first question is if you can talk maybe about the acquisition cost for the leases that you acquired at least in relation to what you may have paid for the federal leases over time? And whether that was a factor and/or really it was to avoid the very long permitting delays in the federal lands? And then the second part is whether this might be an ongoing strategy to look at the private land opportunities in the western parts of the U.S.
versus the constraints that's seemingly aren't going away.
And then have a follow-up.
So the acquisition costs were not substantial.
The issue is really -- I mean we need to look for resource and we're looking for resource wherever the resource is.
But in the past development on the federal lines was actually easy path and we've created a large inventory of land on federal leases.
It has become clear in the past 2 years that the lands maybe attractive and there is a process to develop on federal lands.
But it is slow and therefore we are prioritizing private lands.
It is highly geography-specific right? And that's fundamentally we're looking to where resources and can be developed.
But our priority to private lands is certainly a strategic move.
Does your pilot top with Nevada Geothermal? Are there other opportunities like that since it's seemingly a number of your competitors certainly don't have financing opportunities you do or the exactly the case about ground? Are you looking at further joint ventures may be because of relatively poor performance and some of your competitors recently like free up or slow? Slow down the exploration risk for you guys? So we are open to working with other players in industry.
The first requisite is really having good resource.
And if somebody has good resource we'll be happy to find a way to work together.
We'll be very interested in fighting over to work together whether it's necessary the structure was Nevada Geothermal or a different structure.
It's hard to tell but the basis is finding the good resource and we've been following our work.
We have gone through many fields in the past 5 years.
And we know that there's a big -- there's a substantial filtration between prospects and fields that should be developed.
And maybe I'm getting myself that's really -- it's all about the good resource and is it good and how you differentiate in value between a prospect and a proven field.
Sometimes that distinction in the industry was not made and maybe as reality or experience as the rest of the industry maybe this will change.
Let me just ask it may be a little bit different way.
Given your expensive resources in terms of exploration the way you approach it really differently than your competitors have you done extensive work of your competitor’s lands to look for those opportunities? Or is that just part of parcel the way it conduct your exploration that you happen to pass over all those resource opportunities? I'm not sure that I understand do you ask whether we've analyzed our competitors' lands? Probably some of them and some of them we may like and some of them we don't like.
So obviously Crump Geyser is the land that we like.
Your next question comes from the line of JinMing Liu with Ardour Capital.
This is Andrew for JinMing.
I'm sorry if this question got asked already but in the Equipment segment I just want some additional detail.
Where did the sales come from geographically? And where you see a potential market on that side? The sales of Asia and Europe I don't think that we had Latin America this quarter only we have Africa so its Asia and Europe.
I don't think it's so important the geographic location.
It's only information whether there are rare opportunities of developing [indiscernible].
And also is the revenue being recognized this year for the sales? I mean going forward? For the most of our things.
There are some exceptions but for most of our things recognize revenues on the percentage of completion [indiscernible].
Okay.
And just I also back on the last question on North Brawley.
I do feel these costs are pretty much peaked in your own opinion.
I know that you already answer this a few times but just to get an idea do you feel that the number you put up there as far as CapEx is pretty much going to be it's a more optimistic number? I think what we put up what we internally but it is the same.
No certainties on that being the case.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Tamara with Pax World Fund.
I'm sorry if I missed this.
What were your CapEx for this quarter? Was it $55 million? It was cash $55 million.
Cash of $55 million okay.
And I'm just looking at -- it looks like you're -- as someone mentioned before leverage is going up free cash flow is going down.
Would you really be comfortable with leverage at 7x? I mean I think that's what you said your covenant was.
Would you really be comfortable taking leverage up to that level? And then also is it sensible to continue to pay a dividend with leverage that high? Some are probably not fundamental.
Cash going to down.
We have availability of lines of credit and so I don't think cash is actually going down number 7x- the covenant that we are not at 7x it be that we are way lower.
Having to hedge as much projects say by 2013 in order to get as much operation cash fund as long as a something which we reported and even if temporarily we reach that goal will be around at 7x.
I think EBITDA will be pickup once -- and come down to normal levels [indiscernible].
It's not an issue.
Given the -- most of our products there is an amortizing based over the life of the project.
I mean we do have the life of credit which are sort of down but utilization portion of these land of credit is not full.
And the more important portion of our debt is the portion of finance debt [indiscernible].
Badly over the life of the PPA.
So typically the majority of the typically between 10 and 18 years -- capital debt for close to 20 years.
So -- we can that business principal a higher leverage.
Yes cash flow was what I meant and cash flow has been negative because of CapEx and basically you've been you borrowed money to like the $100 million I think that just got done which is probably one of the reasons that cash you still have cash on the balance sheet.
But if you believe that leverage once it's basically project finance and once the leverage or once the projects get down leverage will come back to a normal level what do you think a normal level for leverage would be? I don't know what you mean by [indiscernible]but let me say this that in most companies which we are typically have a cash outlay if you have CapEx higher than operating cash flow.
That's the nature of the most companies and we definitely plan to be those companies for a number of years looking forward.
I can't tell you until when but certainly for a number of years.
And as long as you get finance debt amortizing long term I think this does not impact the financial health of the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Bennett with MorningStar.
I don't mean to go over this crown [ph] again but on the international side you had not too long ago signed a deal with JFE in Japan.
And I was wondering what you see the opportunity there given that some of the largest manufacturing of geyser-mode equipment manufacturers in the world are Japanese companies and sort of how you're going to approach development? The reality is that there's no geothermal development was done in Japan for the last number of years and supply equipment out of Japan but not in Japan.
Whether this will change is the attitude to nuclear power is a question we are not sure that we have exactly it may occur -- who knows? But We do not see the Japanese market as open yet for additional geothermal development.
The agreement with JFE has been upheld to penetrate into that market for which technology and we have to see whether that will come.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Kallo with Baird.
Just 2 quick follow-up questions.
First I saw in your presentation that I think maybe this is the first time maybe you said last time that Sarulla you're moving forward with the financing concurrently with finalizing the PPA.
What's the earliest that you could start the product revenue.
Let's say if it's signed in the next couple of weeks on that side? And when will financing be closed? I better question is when does financing stop.
The 2 financing efforts that we stopped when the couples disagreement between EFC and JFE are going to be done.
Probably repeating myself but we think it's imminent in the financing out.
The first for a financing consortium means that not we are optimistic about the project but also optimistic about the project.
Let's say on our shareholders first to wait for the opportunity to take the [indiscernible] -- after at least it's been signed And so are we still looking at a year after signing? Yes.
And then secondly back to -- not to beat this too much but your CapEx versus your resources here if I look at $4 million and $12 million CapEx and $465 000 to $8 million of capital resources but within that $468 million is a $108 million of deal that we're not really sure whether they're closed I think you said probably towards the back half of the year.
Is there some timing risk here for having the capital for your CapEx? Is there any way that you can bridge over that until you get the deal of your loan guarantee? The resources don't show that I think for more fuel it's shown there.
It's really up to us to the OE a long term.
And that certainly mitigated.
If we will see if not closed by September we can always reach to the private market and this is going to be -- projects.
And then in the first is the same private partner loan guarantee.
Other elements that are not shown on that of course is the operating cash flow.
So we do have a question.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Clegg with Mizuho.
Not to again beat the dead horse here but one more probably question on North Brawley.
If not for the pump replacement during the quarter what would capacity have been? I guess what I'm trying to get to is you said you eventually get to 1.5 to 2 years of service life on the pumps but how often will you have to do the pump upgrades? And in the meantime is this sort of an interval lengthening from here or is it an ongoing process? Or do we see sort of a break in those expenses for a quarter or 2 and then you get hit with another big expense in production loss a couple of quarters from now? How should we think about that? So it's a highly forward-looking statement.
If you would accept that but I think that if first if we were not -- of we didn't have to upgrade the pumps we probably would have averaged during the quarter in the min-30s somewhere in the mid-30s in terms of generation.
It could be a little higher could be a little lower.
We hope that the current fix that we implemented will give us on average 12 months.
We already have -- we had a few wells where we're very close to 12 months already upon maturity and that's really our hope.
And if the health materializes than we should not see too many pumper placements during the balance of 2011.
And then yes the or I should say the -- your next question of whether we will get to what we need to do in order to get to 1.5 or 2 years on service life then really our plan is to be ready with a new and improved design of course as we learn more.
And so that once this batch of pumps reach their expected 12 months of service life we would put a pump that is the pump that is better and hopefully will take us to 1.5 years or more than that and especially if spend production continues to diminish then should be easier to do.
Will this happen? We don't know.
These are typically big decisions in terms of that's the money goes into the well a lot of the money goes into the well in the form of pulling the old pump and putting in a new pump.
And over a period of 3 to 7 days.
And then you just need to hope that the decision was the decision was right and that the quality control the whole chain was the right quality control and that you actually get what we are hoping for.
Did you say mid-30s capacity more or less? Just for the record where were you on average for the quarter for North Brawley? I think that for the quarter we were a little under 30 close to 30 but a little under.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the floor back to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you for the interesting conversation.
Hopefully we were able to convey the main message and that is other than Brawley our operation was good during the quarter.
Our progress was good during the quarter in both the development construction backlog and we hope to -- the Brawley issue and continue with our plans and actually regardless of the Brawley issue.
Thank you all for your interest in the company.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Julianne and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Ormat Technologies Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn conference over to Mr.
Rob Fink of KCSA Strategic Communications.
Mr.
Fink please go ahead.
Thank you Julianne and thank you everybody for joining us.
Hosting the call today are Dita Bronicki CEO; Yoram Bronicki President and COO; Joseph Tenne CFO; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plan objective and expectations for future operation and are based on management's current estimates and projections of future results or trends.
Actual future result may differ material from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see risk factors described in the annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28 2011.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures such as -- defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the Securities and Exchange Commission such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of Ormat Technology (sic) [Technologies] believes the adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurement and that both management and investors benefit from referring to this non-GAAP financial measure in assessing Ormat Technologies' liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparisons to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn over the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Events and Presentations link that's found on the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Rob.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our second quarter 2011 results and outlook for the near future.
The second quarter was highlighted by stronger results in the Electricity segment where revenue increased by 18% year-over-year and generation by 11%.
Operationally we continue to focus on an efficient operation of our existing power plants.
Works were issued for each operational well in -- of North Brawley and execute on the last Product segment orders were received while continuing the activity for long-term growth.
Strategically we are seeing increased interest and business activity from key markets outside of the United States.
I will go into greater detail on how we view this international growth later in the call.
But before I do Joseph will provide the financial review and Yoram will update on our operational progress.
As usual following my remarks we will open the call up for Q&amp;A.
Let me now turn the call over to Joseph.
Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Beginning on Slide 5.
Total revenues for the quarter ended June 30 2011 were $104.6 million an 18 -- an 8.7% increase over revenues of $96.3 million in the second quarter of 2010.
In our Electricity segment on Slide 6 revenues for the quarter were $81.2 million an 18% increase over revenues of $68.8 million in the same quarter last year.
The increase revenues is the result of an 11% increase in total output and increase in the average revenue rate from $78 per megawatt-hour in the second quarter of 2010 to $83 to a megawatt-hour in the second quarter of this year.
In the Product segment on the next slide revenues for the quarter were $23.4 million down from revenues of $27.5 million in the same quarter of 2010.
In the second quarter we recognized $7.9 million relating to an experimental energy plant in Spain which represents the amount we received from the customer in July following their acceptance in the second quarter of 2011.
Upon completion of final acceptance test the amount -- the customer will pay the remaining balance of approximately $8 million which will be recognized as revenues in the fourth quarter of 2011 or in 2012.
Moving to Slide 8 which represents combined gross margin and gross margin for each segment for the quarter.
The company's combined gross margin for this quarter was 31.7% compared to 19.4% for the second quarter of 2010.
The Electricity segment's gross margin was 23.4% this quarter compared to 7.7% in the second quarter of last year and 15.8% in the first quarter of this year.
Excluding North Brawley the Electricity segment gross margin would have been 32.3%.
In the Product segment gross margin was 60.5% compared to 48.6% in the second quarter last year.
This increase is attributable to the $7.9 million in revenues relating to the experimental energy plant with virtually no associated cost of revenues since the related costs have been included in research and development costs in previous periods.
The increase is also attributable to a different product mix and different margins in the sales contracts.
Moving now to Slide 9.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $17.4 million compared to $9.4 million in the second quarter of 2010.
The $8 million increase was principally due to an increase in the total amount of interest due to higher level of debt and a $4 million loss on interest rate lock transactions in the second quarter of 2011.
This loss is related to the proposed DOE loan guarantee transactions -- transaction which was not accounted for as a hedge transaction.
We expect to incur an additional loss of $1.6 million from the interest rate lock for the second quarter and for the second part of the hedge in the third quarter of this year.
Now moving on to Slide 10.
Net income for the quarter was $8.2 million or $0.18 per share basic and diluted compared to net loss of $1.5 million or $0.03 per share for the same quarter in 2010.
The increase is attributable to the increase in the gross margins of both Electricity and Product segments.
As shown in the following slide Slide 11 adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2011 was $47.7 million compared to $24 million in the same quarter of 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter of 2010 included the company's share in the interest and taxes depreciation and amortization related to the -- to its unconsolidated interest in the Mammoth complex in California in the second quarter of 2010.
That complex is now fully consolidated in the second quarter of 2011.
A reconciliation of GAAP to net cash provided by operating activities to adjusted EBITDA and additional cash flows information is set forth in Slide 26.
Moving on to the next slide.
Cash and cash equivalents and marketing securities as of June 30 2011 was $67.4 million down from $82.8 million as of December 31 2010.
The company's slide break down the use of cash during the first half of 2011.
Our liquidity came from the issuance of Senior Unsecured Bonds this is obviously Class B membership units to JPMorgan and cash derived from operating activities.
Our long-term debt as of the end of the second quarter of 2011 and the payment schedule are presented in Slide 13 of this presentation.
Slide 14 reflects our dividend policy and recent dividend declaration.
On August 3 Ormat's Board of Directors approved payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.04 per share the same for the company's dividend policy which targets an annual payout ratio of at least 20% of the company's net income.
The dividend will be paid on August 25 to shareholders of record as of the closing of business on August 16.
The company expects to pay a dividend of $0.04 per share in the next quarter as well.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Yoram for an operational update.
Thank you Joseph and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 16.
As you have seen in Joseph's presentation we had good results for our Electricity segment with total generation increasing to approximately 980 000 megawatt-hours in the quarter with good cost control.
The Jersey Valley project is currently operating below its lowest design capacity.
This is primarily due to the need to shut down one of the injection wells that was rendered unusable by old mining wells that we believe were not adequately plugged and abandoned.
We plan to drill additional wells and add injection capacity for the project.
We have applied for the necessary permits and expect to receive such permits and complete the additional drilling by year end.
Due to the delay in reaching the design generation we will need to get time extension from the PPA offtake.
There were no major events in North Brawley since the previous call.
We've been focusing on minimizing the operating expenses while we develop a plan to increase capacity of the plant.
We did drill a production well that we expect to be successful and have increased revenues and reduced costs.
For an update on our future growth please turn to Slide 17 in -- where you can see the status and expected completion schedule for each project under construction.
In McGinness Hills we are progressing with the field development and power plant equipment is in transit to the site.
We made progress in the acquisition of the required construction permits and required environmental assessment is in process.
In Tuscarora we have completed the field development and physical construction of the power plant is in full swing.
As for the CD4 project we have been working on permitting and expect to resume field development in third quarter.
As you can see in the slide we changed the capacity to 30 megawatt.
We still expect the total capacity from the re-powering of Mammoth and CD4 to be between 65 and 70 megawatt.
The change reflects our expectation to divert more megawatts into the re-power facility.
But this may change as we continue the development.
In the Wild Rose prospect which we'll formally  refer to as DH Wells we drilled 2 wells in the prolific low-temperature shallow reservoir and continue to explore the deep reservoir.
We plan to release the power plant to construction upon completion of the resource evaluation.
We have continued drilling for Phase 3 of our Olkaria plants in Kenya and the power plant equipment manufacturing is in progress.
We originally planned to resume the development activity in the Carson Lake project in Nevada upon the receipt of an environmental impact study for the project.
The approval of the required study is still pending and therefore there is no certainty that we can complete the project by 2013.
We have also started the process of terminating the old PPA for the project then we'll work to develop one that fits the new characteristics and timeline of the project.
On Slide 18 you can see the detailed list of projects under development.
In Wister the exploration progress still probably suggest that we may not be eligible for an ITC cash grant.
In Indonesia the Sarulla project we have reached a critical point in the negotiation with the offtaker PLN and the resource owner PGE.
The consortium continues its effort to reach agreement for the contractual amendments required for bankability.
We hope to reach an agreement at the near term.
However there is still no certainty on the outcome of the negotiation.
We're on various stages of construction and development of 8 projects that are expected to be completed by the end of 2013 and will contribute approximately 175 megawatts to our portfolio.
In addition we have approximately 130 megawatts in various stages of development.
Turning to Slide 19.
In addition to projects under construction and development we also have 32 sites in early exploration or where activity is yet to begin.
This quarter we started drilling in 2 sites in the United States and signed our first BOT agreement in New Zealand.
Since the beginning of 2011 we have increased our land position by approximately 12 000 acres in Nevada Oregon California and New Zealand.
In total our land position for future development increased 355 000 acres and an additional 264 000 acres under geothermal lease option agreements.
Let us now turn to Slide 20 for an update on the Product segment.
We successfully secured new EPC and equipment supply contracts.
This quarter we were awarded one supply and one EPC contract which represents the largest product order in our company's history.
And as of the end of the quarter we have a backlog of approximately $225 million which will positively impact our Product segment revenues over the next 3 years.
We were pleased with the increase in this segment.
However as described in the past this segment is less predictable and tends to be cyclical.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Dita to address this further.
Thank you Yoram.
And now I would now like to review our capital position for revenue guidance for 2011 and conclude with comments on the international business environment.
You can see the -- our CapEx requirements for 2011 on Slide 23.
In the remainder of 2011 we plan to invest approximately $141 million in projects currently under construction as well as an additional $77 million for development operation and other uses as detailed on the slide.
The CapEx requirement has been by revised to reflect scheduled updates in projects under construction and development as mentioned by Yoram.
The original budget included CapEx for the solar projects under development in Israel and certain exploration activities which are expected to be conducted beyond 2011 and in fact due to major delays in 2010.
The original budget for the year also included the acquisition of certain land prospects but we decided to cancel it again due to the anticipated permitting delays at location.
The funding of these programs will come from cash on hand at the end of the second quarter cash from operations annual corporate lines of credit projects based under the DOE loan guarantee program and cash grants.
Turning to Slide 23.
You can see our revenue forecast for 2011.
We continue to expect the Electricity segment revenues to be between $350 million and $325 million and as we recently updated $90 million to $100 million for the Product segment.
To date [ph] and as we look beyond 2013 let me take a few minutes to discuss the international markets such as geothermal development and our activities in this market.
Opportunity in markets outside of the United States has provided Ormat exposure in orders which offer growth and diversification.
At the recent inauguration of the Ormat-supplied Las Pailas power plant Costa Rica's Minister of Energy Mr.
Teofilo de La Torre explained the uniqueness of geothermal energy.
And I quote a short translation of one passage from his speech.
"The 35 megawatts of geothermal electricity supplied by Las Pailas to the nationwide grid is equivalent to 90 megawatts of hydro or 120 megawatts of wind.
Last year the 6% of installed geothermal capacity satisfied 12% of the area's energy needs." This is the advantage of geothermal energy technology compared to other renewable resources.
The appetite for geothermal development is increasing internationally.
We saw one key substantial new geothermal power plant construction in New Zealand and Kenya's investment in geothermal development as well as Chile's geothermal activity.
Japan probably as a result of the Fukushima disaster they renewed geothermal development in Japan.
From our earliest project success until today we had positioned Ormat with a diversified portfolio of geothermal assets and a responsible approach to managing our growth.
On the macro level the fundamentals of geothermal energy remain excellent and we plan to continue to develop projects in [indiscernible] and the rest of our geography for 2013 and beyond as our commitment to the renewable industry and to geothermal is long term.
We thank you for your support.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Ben Kallo with Baird.
Could you guys update -- could you update us on what the production level of Brawley is? And then remind us what the treatment is if you have to write the asset down how you make that decision? I think that the average production for the second quarter was around 26 megawatt.
With I think as we described in our last earning call our plan for this quarter and the next few quarters is not to run the facility at the demonstrated 33 megawatts or close to that which is what it was tested at at the end of the first quarter but basically run the better-running equipment or the better-running wells so that we can reduce the margin between our revenue and costs and reduce the drag on our ongoing EBITDA while we develop the plan that will allow us to have all of our wells to be good wells and bring the plant back to capacity.
And at the current stage there are no ramifications to running anywhere between the 33 megawatts and what we run today.
And it's just an economical decision or a short-term economical decision not to lose money on marginal wells.
Okay good.
As a rule -- I know that a lot of people have been reading some stories out there that the utility might take that project from the Medco consortium although it seems like in your presentation you guys don't take that view.
Could you just talk about that for a second? Not exactly Ben.
The utility is trying to take that project back if we are not going to reach acceptable solutions shortly.
What is shortly? I don't know.
So I can't tell you it should be a month or it should be -- what that will take.
But the plant is there.
That's the reality.
We are still negotiating and hoping to get to a resolution.
But there is no certainty.
Okay.
Then my last question is on your LNG rig.
Could you just remind us how much you guys spent in R&amp;D on that? And then have you -- what are you expecting for the future as far as rolling that product out into other -- if you could sell that into other applications? The R&amp;D I don't have the best number but it's in the order of $20 million.
That may not be accurate but just to give you an order of magnitude.
We believe that the demonstration of the solution in this project may open up additional applications for -- in LNG gasification plant.
It is true that the low share gas prices in the United States have delayed a plant for LNG gasification plants in the United States.
But in other locations in the world there are still potential for that application.
I believe it's smaller than we saw before the discovery of shale gas but still a substantial business opportunity if not larger.
Your next question is from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale.
LLC</strong> A couple of follow-up questions.
First on North Brawley.
It did look like you were pretty effective at managing costs sequentially.
How much of that is due to reduced costs on the pump replacement versus sort of other things? And any way to think through what it's going to take even at 26 megawatts to get to breakeven? I think pump replacement is clearly a -- was a factor.
We did a lot of work in the first quarter.
It's not only true for Brawley it's actually true across our fleet.
So there was a lot of work that done in the first quarter when rates are typically lower and loss generation due to maintenance is not that important.
And therefore we're able to maximize generation across our fleet in the second quarter and we hope that that would be true for the third quarter as well.
So this is a general comment also true for Brawley.
A lot of the well field work was already done.
We see some improvement in pumps.
We expect this improvement to continue.
It's -- and I think that that would bring us to -- and I'm not sure whether the breakeven would be at 26 megawatt or not but I'm fairly confident that  we will not see the same drag on EBITDA coming out of Brawley that we have had in 2010 or that were currently in the quarter the first quarter of 2011.
Where exactly would that be? It's hard to tell.
But since we know how to operate 15-megawatt plants efficiently and 10-megawatt plant efficiently and we have our whole fleet of old [ph] units that are 4 to 5.5 megawatts and each of them is operated efficiently there's really no reason nor to find a break-even point at any form of generation.
Of course this is not the outcome that we would like with a 50-megawatt facility and we would like to get there but it has a balance point so -- or it could -- or we could find the balance point actually at any generation level if you'd like.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Real quick.
Any update on the process of  a loan guarantee? We've seen a lot of the environmental assessment documents are out there that look that was getting pretty close to completion on the 3 Nevada projects.
I was wondering if you could just sort of walk us through what steps are left before you can potentially close that.
Well very close.
But the timing is short.
We believe that we will close it.
We are in the final documentation preparation.
The process is that 30 days before funding can occur final documents have to be submitted to the review of OMB and other government entities.
We believe that we can achieve the 30-day period to -- in time for closing.
But it is close.
LLC</strong> Is the deadline September 1 or September 30? 30 September 30.
LLC</strong> So the documents need to get to OMB by the end of September -- by the end of August? By the end of August right.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Well we'll keep our fingers crossed.
You know Dan as you say -- and you say we keep our fingers crossed.
I think it's important to mention that the market is available today for consultant financing the geothermal play with DOE loan guarantee program.
But of course it's not be substantially higher.
We are not pursuing it because still the DOE cover is more attractive.
But the market is available.
I think it's important to understand it.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you have a solid backstop in case the DOE doesn't go through? Yes.
LLC</strong> Real quick.
You guys put out a release earlier this week about some evaporative cooling that you've put in place at a Steamboat.
I was wondering if you can quantify for us maybe what sort of opportunity that created there and how you see that playing out i.e.
where else could you put it in your system? And/or does this give you opportunities in terms of product sales? So I think that in the press release we -- I think it would quantify that.
Hopefully I'm not off but there's about 160 megawatt of existing capacity in our fleet that could benefit from that evaporative cooling or enhanced air cooling heat.
And I think that around 60 actually probably 90 megawatt of additional construction that -- in our current plans that we know that is being built in areas where such enhanced air cooling would work well.
The impact is -- could be very dramatic.
But it's a little more complicated than that.
It is very -- the advantage of this system is that it allows the air-cooled facilities not to disrupt the hot hours of the day end of summer where typical utilities have what they call the summer peak periods.
So 6 -- I'm sorry 12 to 6 12 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
And in an air-cooled geothermal facility the output can drop to 50% or 60% of the nominal capacity at that time and we can recover between 50% and 70% of that loss.
So very substantial.
Now if the turret is a flat turret then it's only additional megawatt-hours.
It's very nice but it's not dramatic.
If you get a time-of-use type of adjustment then these additional megawatt-hours are very cost effective.
And it's really explained that we've added 25% to our output at that place.
So we've added 4 megawatt Galena1's generation at that time.
This is as if we have added a 4-megawatt area is what it will take really to the plant.
This is the equivalent.
So it's -- where time-of-use is applied or where the utility is open to open up the PPA's rate to reflect the fact that they get this boost during those hours this is very substantial.
The first step is of course to prove the technology and we feel that we have done a lot in terms of proving the technology.
And the second step would be to find commercial agreements that would allow both the offtaker and Ormat to benefit from these boosts during the hours where energy is the most sought after.
LLC</strong> And I'm sorry just the last piece on that is how meaningful is the incremental CapEx to put this place either as a retrofit or on a new build relative to traditional air cooling? Not very expensive at all.
There are design issues.
There are a lot of design issues but this is an easy retrofit and in most cases could go into an old facility just like it is implemented in their construction.
And then much more attractive solution from a CapEx perspective and building water-cooled facility.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Clegg with Mizuho.
Are you considering asset sales as part of your liquidity plans to fund growth? And if you are can could you talk about how you would do your assets  as which ones are core versus noncore? We are not.
We don't think we have liquidity issues.
We think that the market is open for construction loans and we don't see any need.
Okay that's very clear.
And then there's obviously been a lot of press reports about your discussions with third parties to buy a 20% stake in Ormat Industries.
Can you run through the potential options available to you given the debt maturity schedule that you face there and what sort implications it could have for board compositions things like that? Well the potential is there to extend a loan and there's even a possibility to extend a loan.
I'm not sure we will pursue this but the possibility exists.
And then in the -- and the other problem [ph]  Is how to sell stakes some of these stakes in the company.
Some of these stakes would be sold to a new control between 20% as was described in the  press or a lower number whichever.
This would mean that certainly placement of some of the direct shares especially in the parent company in Ormat Industries by representatives of the potential buyer.
It's still too early to say what will happen but these are the alternatives.
Okay.
And then if I just made one follow-up on Jersey Valley.
If you could talk about how much of a operational -- how much sequential pressure did you see in terms of operating profit in the second quarter as a result of the issues at Jersey Valley? And is that something that you expect to continue in 3Q? Would it be larger in 3Q? No we don't -- I mean it's -- the impact of Jersey Valley is minimal on EBITDA.
It's a very -- it's a modern facility air-cooled facility.
It was designed to run unattended.
Simple well field operation.
And therefore no substantial cost.
Of course we would like to see profit out of it.
And to get to profit we need to bring our capacity up.
But it's not an issue.
It runs on its own.
Your next question is from the line of Peter Christiansen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is Peter in for Steve Milunovich.
I was wondering if you can elaborate as to the situation -- what's in Nevada PUC? It looks like it denied or did not approve Dixie Meadow (sic) [Meadows] PPA.
And whether that is something that's more structural or technical? And does that increase any risk for some of the projects or 16 other projects that you have in Nevada? I think that it is true that the Dixie PPA was not approved at that time.
But really it's -- that the PUC did not approve any of the PPAs.
So what happened there is not an Ormat NV Energy issue it's more the mechanics of NV Energy and the PUC.
And I think that this was -- that -- or we hope that everybody can identify Dixie Meadows is a good PPA that would work well for the state and all the parties involved.
But really at this point it's only Dixie Meadow's PPA that is affected by that and we don't see this affecting all of our other PPAs.
And as for the improvement in the fleet across-the-board it looks like availability on a year-over-year basis maybe 200 basis points.
Should we expect that incremental improvement to be fairly consistent for the next 2 quarters on a year-over-year basis? As far as we can tell today we have high expectations for the third quarter and for the fourth quarter.
The issues with availability is that it is -- it typically hurts you when a big piece of equipment unexpectedly breaks down.
And that's a -- and therefore it's hard to forecast.
So our expectation is for good results through the rest of the year.
But obviously things can happen.
What I can answer on a more global -- from a more perspective to our fleet we didn't start off with a lot of older units and small units that are potential breakdown and are hard to compete.
And over the years we have modernized a lot of our fleet a lot of the equipment that had been brought online a lot of the additional megawatt-hours off on new equipment that has a much longer much better availability if you'd like.
And so I think that part of this is doing the right maintenance at the right time.
Part of this is having good equipment or better equipment installed that we have been doing.
And part of this is just enjoying some good fortune having no tropical storms or having the tropical storms hit somewhere else and not one of our facilities.
And the same with well volcanic eruptions and so on.
So a little bit of everything.
Great.
And then finally Dita I was wondering if you could just elaborate a bit more on some of the -- characterize some of the of the issues with the amendments as they pertain to Sarulla that are holding up the process.
Is it financing related timing-related or possibly new questions about the actual rate? They're all financing-related.
The rate was -- a bank rate was agreed in April of last year.
So the rate was -- I mean it was -- during the year of Sarulla negotiation the rate used to be an issue but it was finalized last year.
So no it's not the rate.
It is one what we call bankability.
Financing issues which result from the requirement of JBIC the Japanese export bank that is intended for the financing of the project to include its security package for the financing mainly because of the financial weakness of the resource owner.
Initially when we signed this agreement the resource owner was Pertamina the Indonesian oil and gas company.
During the process Pertamina assigned the ownership of the counterparty to the [indiscernible] agreement  to a subsidiary which is called PGE and the creditworthiness of that subsidiary doesn't satisfy JBIC without additional enhanced security.
And the issues are over this enhanced security that JBIC is  requesting and until now we were not able to get.
Your next question is from the line of Dilip Warrier with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I was wondering if you could provide us with a sort of sense or outlook on GAAP income taxes.
It looks like there's a pretty big swing factor in terms of you posting positive or negative EPS.
The consolation of the -- the taxes is according to APB 28.
And I think these 2 quarters are not a very representative because the net impact of the 2 quarters is a small loss in the first half of the year.
So any results of the effective tax rate on a small result is not material.
We anticipated and it's all in the first quarter 10-Q that we anticipate a tax benefit during the year.
And taking that into account and adding the discretionary item that we had in the first quarter resulting from new legislation in tax legislation in foreign countries brought out -- it up to a tax expense in Q1 and a tax benefit in Q2.
I believe you should assume for the rest of the year a very low tax rate on our results.
But it depends on the actual results that we'll have in the next 2 quarters.
Now it's done based on projections which can change.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And you're still expecting full year EPS profitability yes? EPS? Yes sure.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just one more question here.
So the product gross margin has again been kind of lumpy and I was just wondering if the long-term guidance still is at low 20% kind of range? Yes yes yes you can assume it for the long run.
You take you into account this year we had the energy projects which do not have any associated costs.
So I believe that in the long run you could still deal be with that number.
I think it's reasonable.
Your next question is from the line of JinMing Liu with Ardour Capital.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
My first question is related to your -- the Spain LNG project.
Before you were expecting the year the full shipment of $30 million to be recognized in the first half this year.
But somehow this got pushed back.
Can you clarify that? Yes.
The structure of the contract is one that we have on our scope which is building the facility but the facility is built in an existing terminal which basically hurts some of the scope of work or substantial amount of the scope on the customer for the plant.
And for various reasons the customer has -- did not complete all of the items that he needed to complete.
And therefore the plant could not be started up.
So the payment -- as Joseph described the payment that we have received to date is the one that reflects the fact that we have done everything that was in our powers to do.
But the plant is not running yet fully constructed but not running.
And the balance for the payment will be made once the customer is ready to complete or once the customer has completed all that he is supposed to do which of course is not in our control.
LLC</strong> Okay.
My second question is really to the -- your Sarulla project.
I noticed that recently the World Bank awarded some loan to some of your partners over there for other geothermal projects.
Whether that actually will have -- my question is whether that will have any implication on your projects over there.
Certainly not directly.
The World Bank has awarded a credit to PLN to the utility in Indonesia for different projects that the utility owns.
But certainly if the utility will encourage to threaten the -- they will take over the project because they have access to a capital like the World Bank capital.
But not a direct relationship to our project.
Your next question is from the line of Elaine Kwei with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just real quick on the product side.
Excluding the LNG revenue there it looks like margins would have still been around the 40% level and I was just wondering how we should think about this going forward in relation to the $225 million of backlog that you have.
Is this sort of a new run rate going forward? Or were there some other sort of one-time items in there? A little before there are fluctuations in the gross margin from quarter-to-quarter because of the mix of the orders and the -- for profitability of each of  them.
I think that in the long run -- and you shouldn't take a quarter as an example.
On the long run you should expect what I've said before over 20% gross margin on the long run.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Barnett with MorningStar.
Just 2 quick questions.
I don't think I heard clearly on the maturity value issue with the offtaker.
You haven't mentioned something about the extension but I just missed it.
I was wondering if you could clarify that point.
Yes we need to -- there was a contractual commercial operation date.
Obviously we can't meet that without resolving the injection well issue.
And therefore we need to agree with our offtaker on extending that date.
And since the issues are really -- were not within our control we're not responsible for all the money that they will spend there.
We think that we can find a way with our offtaker to make this as light [ph] as possible.
Do you think that you'd be able to maybe finalize that extension in the next quarter or 2? Or is that going to be a longer process? Moreonever this can be a quick process yes.
Okay.
And one more quick question on your projects under construction for the Wide Rose formally DH Wells.
The capacity has -- the range has shrunk a little bit and now 15 to 20.
And I was just wondering what was driving that if you've just encountered sort of a different resource than you're expecting or...
Yes the -- as we mentioned we have identified a very prolific shallow low-temperature resource.
And that could Phase 2 everything that -- all the studies that we have done so far this can be a very nice project economically viable and so on.
However if you produce low-temperature fluids it's takes a much higher flow rate for any megawatt that you're trying to produce.
And therefore exceeding 15 or 20 megawatts would mean a very very large well field development.
And based on our experience in other places we would like to stay away from developing such a large well field in one phase.
And therefore the first phase if we do stick to the low-temperature resource the first phase would be a smaller phase.
As we mentioned we are still continuing the exploration.
We know that there is hotter temperature at depth.
If we can identify a large enough reservoir at the higher temperature then again we would develop a project that produces about the same amount of fluid at the first phase.
But because it's a hotter fluid we -- it could be -- the kick -- the range can go back up and it could be a bigger plant.
Your next question is from the line of Ben Kallo with Baird.
I know that construction loans like you said Dita are available.
But have you guys had any -- have you guys had to curtail any development or exploration because of your liquidity situation? And how do you look at that going forward where you place your money as you're doing your exploration and your initial drilling out there? The answer Ben is no we did not have to curtail development because of low liquidity.
The delays that you are seeing in the CapEx numbers to the end of the year are mainly what is called the -- a sage-grouse permitting.
This is the main reason that -- I don't know if you have heard it from other companies that if you can't solve that in the recent years the environmental agencies whoever they are are very sensitive to the large leaking valve [ph] and they involve a lot of difficulties in development in areas where -- that are the habitat of the sage-grouse and most of projects have been sage-grouse habitat and that's the reason for the delay.
And we do -- we do not think that we will have any difficulty.
Once we have the fundamentals of the projects for commencing the projects in place which means thermics and resource these are the 2 things that are delaying geothermal development in the case of Ormat I don't think we'll have any difficulties to get a construction loan.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Clegg with Mizuho.
Again on North Brawley should we expect to see any more spending on pumps or remediation during the year? What I'm trying to understand I guess is how you get the facility about 33 megawatts without spending more in the near term.
And then if you could say how much you spent on pumps if at all this quarter.
The answer is that to get a facility above 33 megawatts we would have to put in more CapEx.
And I think we described in the previous quarter it's really drilling more production wells or drilling more injection wells depending on how we end up developing the balance of the field.
So there will be an impact in the capital program but you would not see this in the EBITDA.
And of course the impact in depreciation is spread over a longer period of time.
So I think that this is the answer to your first question that the -- the answer on pumps there is a steady consumption of pumps in all of our pump -- geothermal projects.
And so we should expect this and we should expect this to continue and affect Brawley just like it affects Steamboat or Mammoth or Heber.
The challenge that we have in Brawley is that we really want to get our pumps closer to a 2-year lifespan 1.5- to 2-year lifespan which is what we've see in similar projects in the Imperial Valley.
And this would have -- this would both increase availability of the well field and reduce costs.
And we don't see why this cannot be accomplished.
It's a matter of designing the pumps or the pump assembly a little better or in a more -- in a way that is more adapted to the conditions of the Brawley resource.
And I think it will get there over time and over time is not a very distant future but something that will happen in the next few quarters.
Okay.
But that additional CapEx on Brawley is in your CapEx guidance as in the presentation? Yes correct.
Okay great.
Our next question is from the line of Peter Christiansen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I was just wondering what capitalized interest was for the quarter and how you perceive that going for the remainder of the year.
It was $2.9 million in this quarter.
And going forward it depends on the CapEx.
It will increase until we place in service and get it in the screw line and -- in terms of our CapEx for 2012.
But it will increase during this year.
Your next question is from the line of Timothy Arcuri with Citi.
I just wanted to ask with regard to Jersey Valley if there is a -- I guess what is the process? Does it have to be a reapplication to the PUC for the PPA here? Or what's the process there? Maybe if you could give any flavor as to what the outlook is for PPA prices.
For the PPA of Jersey Valley? Or just in general for PPA prices.
Are they steady? Going lower? Going higher? I don't see how this relates to Jersey Valley.
I think that PPA price is really something that if you'd like it's very infrequent in the sense that I think that the current -- the RFP the last RFP that was issued by NV Energy is probably a year old.
So there's not a great data point or not too many data points around this.
But this does not affect Jersey Valley.
Okay.
And maybe if I could just ask one more question on -- follow-up on Dixie Meadows.
If could you have any -- what was the -- if you could give any color on the reasoning why the PUC didn't approve the PPA? The PUC did not approve any of that PPAs that were in NV Energy's program.
It did not specifically address -- there's not a lot to learn about our PPA from that.
And I think that it's really not our place to comment on what happened between NV Energy and the PUC.
There are -- we're not really -- well we're an affected party but we're not a party to that discussion.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Q&amp;A portion of today's conference call.
I'll turn the floor back over to management for any further comments.
No comments but just thank you for the useful and interesting questions.
And we look forward to continue the dialogue with you all.
Thank you.
Thank you all for your participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Julianne and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Ormat Technologies Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rob Fink of KCSA Strategic Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Julianne.
Hosting the call today are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph Tenne Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objective and expectations for future operations are based on management's current estimates and projections of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ material from these projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see risk factors as described in the annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28 2011.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures as defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the SEC such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of Ormat Technologies believes that adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurement that both management and investors benefit from referring to this non-GAAP financial measure in assessing Ormat Technologies' liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparisons to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Event and Presentations link that is found in the Investor Relations tab.
With that all said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Rob and good morning everybody and thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our third quarter 2011 results and outlook for the near future.
It was a very strong quarter and we increased revenues improved our gross margins in both Electricity and Product segment and maintained a very strong backlog.
The quarterly adjusted EBITDA was $46.7 million.
In addition we successfully enhanced our access to cash with new financing from a 20-year 80% BOE guaranteed loan under the program designed for commercially proven projects that provides appropriate funding for our multiphase approach to development.
The nominal interest on the part of the loan that was funded earlier this week is an exceptionally low 4.687% and this will reduce our interest rate over the long term.
This quarter we had a low interest rate lock transactions we have entered into in anticipation of the BOE loan to mitigate the interest volatility in the 10-year treasury rate.
The interest rate would have been 6.22% had we created the loss on the interest lock as a hedge.
Still it's very attractive interest rates for the projects under construction.
With that said I would like now to turn the call to Joseph who will provide a financial review followed by Yoram that will provide an update on our operational progress.
And as usual following my remarks we will open the call up for Q&amp;A.
Joseph please.
Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Beginning at Slide 5 total revenues for the quarter ended September 30 2011 were $110.8 million a 9.2% increase over revenues of $101.5 million in the third quarter of 2010.
In our Electricity segment on Slide 6 revenues for the quarter were $86.8 million a 4.1% increase over revenues of $83.4 million in the same quarter last year.
The increase in Electricity revenues is due to higher energy rate at the Puna and Amatitlan plants such increase was partially offset by a 3% decrease in generation due to major maintenance activity in some of our power plants.
In the Product segment on next slide revenues for the quarter were $24 million an increase over revenues of $18.1 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The increase in product revenues reflects the new customer order that we secured in the second quarter of 2011.
Moving to Slide 8.
The company combined gross margin for this quarter was 32.3% compared to 24.8% for the first quarter of 2010.
The Electricity segment's gross margin was 33.3% this quarter compared to 26.2% in the third quarter last year.
Excluding North Brawley the Electricity segment gross margin would have been 39.1%.
In the Product segment gross margin was 28.7% compared to 18.5% in the third quarter last year.
This increase is due to higher revenues the mix of products sold and margins associated with all customer orders.
Moving to Slide 9.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $23.9 million compared to $11 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The increase was principally due to an $11.6 million loss from an interest rate lock transaction related to the BOE loan guarantee debt and which was not accounted for as a hedge transaction.
As Dita mentioned this interest lock transactions resulted in the loss in the current quarter rather than over the 20-year term of the loan.
Now moving on to Slide 10.
Net income for the quarter was $1 million or $0.02 per share basic and diluted compared to a net income of $32.4 million or $0.71 per share basic and diluted for the same period in 2010.
In addition to the loss from the interest rate transactions I've previously mentioned 2010 third quarter net income included a $36.9 million gain from the acquisition of a controlling interest in the Mammoth Complex.
As shown in the following slide Slide 11 adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2011 was $46.7 million compared to $78.8 million in the same quarter of 2010 a net cash provided by operating activities was $59 million compared to $20.7 million last year.
Adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2010 included the company's share in the interest and taxes depreciation and amortization related to unconsolidated interests in the Mammoth Complex in California in the third quarter of 2010.
The reconciliation of GAAP net cash provided by operating activities to adjusted EBITDA as well as additional cash flow information is set forth in Slide 25.
Moving to the next slide.
Cash cash equivalents and marketable securities as of September 30 2011 were $80.3 million down from $82.8 million as of December 31 2010.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the 9 months.
Our liquidity came from the issuance of senior unsecured bonds proceeds from the sale of Class B membership earnings of OPC to JPMorgan and cash derived from operating [indiscernible].
Our long-term debt at the end of the third quarter of 2011 and the repayments scheduled are presented in Slide 13 of the presentation.
In accordance with the company's debt covenants on November 2 2011 Ormat's Board of Directors decided not to declare a quarterly dividend in the third quarter of 2011 because it has incurred a loss of $16.4 million from the interest rate lock transactions.
And as a result net income for the 9 months ended September 30 2011 was approximately $300 000.
The Board of Directors will continue to trust the company's cumulative net income to determine on a quarterly basis whether the company may distribute a dividend and remain in compliance with its debt covenants.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Yoram for an operational update.
Thank you Joseph and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 15.
You have seen earlier we had good results from our Electricity segment.
Generation was lower this quarter mostly due to short-term maintenance events but the revenues from the higher-rate contracts increased and the overall cost to operate was reduced resulting in a substantially higher gross margin.
There were no major events in North Brawley during this quarter and we continue the practice of selective operation of production well.
While this resulted in lower revenues it also reduced cash operating costs by $2.5 million resulting in a better EBITDA.
In parallel we continue to work on improvement programs to the major cost areas of this project production pump life chemical usage and production injection balancing.
In Jersey Valley we received the permit to drill an additional injection well which has been recently completed.
We will wait for the long-term results to assess the contribution from this well and determine targets for additional wells.
We're monitoring the progress of the Global Settlement of the SO4 contracts of Heber or main side Mammoth which is expected to become effective later this month.
The Global Settlement requires us to amend the SO4 contracts to reflect the pricing option based on a short run of what it cost methodology with certain applied modifiers until December 2014 and thereafter converts to a mandatory short run of what it cost methodology pricing.
This makes both our revenues from these PPAs to greater fluctuation and may adversely affect our revenues under these PPAs.
Our expectation is that the new pricing which will be based in large part on future natural gas prices will reduce our revenues in 2012 by approximately $9.5 million and in 2013 by approximately $6.5 million.
It's not possible at this point to estimate the impact on revenues beyond 2013.
For an update on our future growth please turn to Slide 16.
In the table you can see the status and expected completion schedule for each project under construction.
Puna Enhancement has been completed and we are ready to deliver part to the grid as soon as the PPA is approved by the PUC in Hawaii.
Construction is in its' final stage in Tuscarora and we're in the commissioning phase of the plant.
In McGinness Hills we are progressing with the power plant construction and with the field development.
Field development also continued in CD4 and in Wild Rose.
In the Olkaria III expansion we successfully drilled one production well and are now completing a second.
The Carson Lake project in Nevada received their approval of the BLM for the required environmental impact study.
We're developing a new project schedule to determine if the project will still meet the ITC deadline.
On Slide 17 you can see the detailed list of the projects under development.
In Sarulla the consortium proceeds with the discussions on the contractual amendments required for the project bankability.
We're in various stages of construction of 7 projects that are expected to be completed by the end of 2013 and will contribute approximately 145 megawatts to our portfolio.
Turning to Slide 18.
In addition to the projects under construction and development we now have 35 prospects in early exploration or activities yet to begin.
As was recently announced the Chilean Committee of Geothermal Energy Analysis recommended to the Chilean Ministry of Energy to award 5 exploration concessions to Ormat.
When this process is completed our total number of prospects in Chile will be 6.
Let us now turn to Slide 19 for an update on the Product Segment.
Since the beginning of the year we signed new international contracts for the supply of geothermal power plants and other power generating units.
As of the end of this quarter we have a backlog of approximately $200 million that will support strong Product segment revenues through 2012.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Dita.
Thank you Yoram.
In my remarks I would like to review recent financing comment on our capital position and then conclude with revenue guidance for 2011 before opening the call for questions.
And I'll start with Slide 21.
As mentioned in my opening remarks we've finalized the loan agreements for up to $350 million under the U.S Department of Energy's 1705 Loan Guarantee Program to finance 3 projects in Nevada and we received a $310 million commitment form OPIC to refinance and expand the Olkaria complex in Kenya.
The BOE guarantee of the 20-year loan for up to $350 million of financing from John Hancock Life insurance provides us several refinancings to support the development of Jersey Valley Tuscarora and McGinness Hills.
It is the portfolio's financing like we have done in several locations in the past.
But this time it is both a construction and a term loan.
The innovative part of this development and construction financing is the ability to finance 3 power plants in 2 phases each.
The expected generating capacity of all 3 power plants in both phases is up 213 megawatts.
The capacity of the first phase is expected to be approximately 60 megawatts and capacity of the second phase will be determined following the feasibility assessment of the geothermal resource which will be performed following completion of the first phase of each facility.
This 2-phased approach allows us to manage risks and by including the second phase in [indiscernible] financing to better control long-term interest rates.
We also signed a commitment letter with OPIC for up to $310 million to refinance and expand the Olkaria III complex located in Kenya under the terms of the commitment.
The loan will be comprised of refinancing tranche of up to $85 million to repay the existing loan and fund production costs a construction loan tranche of up $265 million to finance the construction of an additional 36 megawatts expansion currently underway and a $60 million standard facility to finance an additional optional 60 megawatt capacity expansion that is exercised by us harboring [ph]  will bring the total capacity of the company to approximately 100 megawatts.
These financings together with the expected ITC cash grant will provide us with sufficient cash to support our capital expenditure program for the end of 2012.
We can see this in the sources [ph]  and uses of our capital requirements for 2011 on Slide 22.
So the remainder of 2011 we plan to invest approximately $83 million in projects currently under construction avail of an additional $25 million for development exploration and other uses as being seen on the slide.
The funding of these programs will come from cash on hand at the end of the third quarter cash from operations annual corporate lines of credit projects data under the BOE loan guarantee and loan and cash grant.
Turning to Slide 23 you can see our revenue forecast for 2011.
We continue to expect the Electricity segment revenues to be between $315 million and $325 million.
However we are updating our forecast for the Product segment to be at the higher end of the previously announced range with revenues of approximately $100 million in 2011.
In closing we make significant focus in the third quarter of 2011.
Our existing portfolio benefited from improved operating efficiency new orders are increasing Product segment revenues and new financing strengthened our balance sheet and access to cash.
We thank you for your support.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Paul Clegg with Mizuho.
Research Division</strong> On the SO4 contracts your warning of a headwind there...
[Technical Difficulty] Paul's line has disconnected.
Your next question is from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think I'll probably follow up where Paul's question left off.
On the SO4 contracts the potential step down the one thing you didn't address there is what are you doing to mitigate that particularly as it relates to any negotiations on contract extensions et cetera.
I mean the number is -- I guess I'm just wondering the numbers you put out is based on the assumption that you don't renegotiate or extend the contracts I assume? That's correct yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is that something that's under discussion? Is that a possibility? And given the rates that are embedded in the decline you put out there how does that compare to the type of rates that could be acquired in a negotiation? So I think that the way to look at this Dan is that this is really -- that's the low case in any analysis.
Obviously this is what is currently in the short-run of what it cost formula with the capacity payment and the other options in that recipe that is part of the Global Settlement what is in there is below market in our opinion for renewable power.
And so I think that the loan -- always there's a downside and there's an upside to a somewhat volatile contract.
And I think that what we would do is continue and monitor the forecast if you'd lock a forward strip on gas and decide whether these are contracts that we want to keep or which contracts we would like to keep.
They are -- it is 3 facilities but actually it's a multitude of contracts.
And each of them behave differently depending on the type of facility the age of the facility.
And we're certainly looking at this but since nothing was signed at this point then we're providing this just as a benchmark to show that this is -- it's not nice but it's not dramatic and certainly as a company we can live with it.
LLC Research Division</strong> But you are pursuing other alternatives because you do believe these are below market? And worst-case scenario if you're stuck with this until the expiration and then they would move to hopefully a more market-based price? Or more of what you believe it's worth? Yes that's correct.
Our duty is to maximize value.
So we're certainly looking at this.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Real briefly just on your discussion of output.
I guess I'm a little bit confused because it sounds like you were talking about your output being down year-over-year in the third quarter but at the same time your costs were also lower.
And I guess I was just assuming you could square that.
And does it relate just to the specific facilities that were down or if you could just explain that a little bit? Yes.
Our output is just slightly down I think.
In terms of total capacity it's about 3% below what it was in 2010.
So within -- not a huge difference.
But really what we have is in our mix theres's such a multitude of PPA prices that sometimes you can get ahead in one PPA but it's almost meaningless compared to the improvement elsewhere.
And I think that that's the story on revenue is really around this.
We had good performance out of the high-value contracts.
And some of the hit that we took was not over maintenance or other issues was really in contracts that are not as significant.
And of course we were able to reduce costs which is always a completely different battle.
So we reduced operating costs and so the total provides a nice picture both on the revenue side and on the cost side to give a good EBITDA a better EBITDA.
A substantially better EBITDA.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly on the revenue line you noted year-over-year revenue per megawatt hour was up was that a mix shift or was that also related to higher contract pricing? It sounded like Puna and Amatitlan which I didn't realize had a floating-rate component.
Amatitlan doesn't really have a floating rate component.
It's a different spot so the top purchase agreement is the flow but we have no right to fail in the market as well.
So we sold a little bit in the market and this is what created the higher rate with Amatitlan.
Puna is clearly a floating rate again with the flow but the flow is so far off we don't even mention it anymore.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is that something you'll be able to take advantage of on Amatitlan in the future? Was that just due to better output or is that sort of a seasonal issue? No.
No.
No.
We will be -- as long as the market price are higher than our flow we will be able to take advantage of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I guess I missed it it sounded like you had a brief comment on Sarulla.
Is there anything new to report there or is it still -- you're in the same position of negotiating the security part of the debt agreement? We are still in the same position.
Of course there is the dynamic of the negotiations but nothing new to report.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Clegg with Mizuho.
Research Division</strong> On the revenue guidance you had a pretty strong quarter on the Electricity side.
And you've actually I think each quarter this year been up in that segment versus last year and so it looks like you're tracking towards the upper end of guidance.
So why not raise guidance for the year? We don't think we'll exceed the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess when I look at it though sort of tracking towards the upper end in the past you've kind of tightened up at the bottom.
Is there something that we should expect in the fourth quarter that would put you incrementally behind or flat with last year? No.
But when we look at our -- I mean what we have changed during the year from the beginning of the year is really the way we operated Brawley.
And we operated Brawley at a lower revenue rate but a substantially lower cost rate.
Yoram is probably the better person to explain it than I am.
And this is why on the revenue side we don't expect any improvement over the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then actually on that issue of North Brawley when could we expect to start  -- congratulations first of all on the very good improvements on the cost structure there.
It looks like you're getting pretty close to cash flow breakeven.
But when can you start to see the revenues step up again? And then is the run rate for the cost side this quarter a good run rate or do you see the need to do pump replacements and other items short term that could step up expenses there over the next few quarters? A little hard I think I'll answer first with the second part and then I'll move to the first question.
What we did is -- and I think when we described it in our last earning call what we did is operate the wells that are what we call the high-grade wells the one that produced a relatively higher portion of power from them because the wells are not identical.
And while operating these wells to the pump lines because the pump costs the same whether it's in a highly productive well or in a less productive well.
So this allows to generate more power with less cost if you would like.
Also it's important to remember that the rates for the third quarter are better than the fourth quarter and any other quarter of the year so this also makes the margin a little better.
But really what we have done is not an isolated activity it is part of the program to get to a reasonable pump life and we feel that we're making a progress there.
And we will see the ramp up of generation will be gradual as we get more comfortable in the pump lines.
I'll just use illustrated figures but once we're confident that we have the 9-month average life for a pump there's a group of wells that's now become accretive and we will restart them.
And as soon as we move to 12 months there's another group that will become accretive and we'll start producing from and then there's the wells that we will produce only once we get to say 15 months.
And prior to drilling this is the ramp up that is expected and this will bring us to -- it can bring us to the demonstrated capacity of 33 35 megawatt.
Beyond that more than that would require drilling and this is part of the well field studies that we're doing.
As soon as we have good conclusions we will target new wells and drill them and hopefully produce from them and they will be -- hope for our target would be to have better wells.
So wells that follow more of the ones that are currently operated rather than ones that we are not operating at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful color.
And if I may just one final one can you give any sense on how much of your product backlog is recognizable over the next year? And if you could just talk generally about the level of activity that you're seeing in the Product Segment to rebuild that pipeline? No out of the $200 million backlog that we have at the end of the third quarter and between the fourth quarter next year we recognize most of it.
Research Division</strong> And then the level of activity in the Product Segment that you're seeing in the market generally? That's a much more difficult question.
Because as you know there is a lot of contradictability in the timing of the queue in new orders.
In the same way as the difference between 2009 and 2010 we have 2009 was a very good year in the Product Segment 2010 was lower.
And now we are -- we see a pickup we may see such a phenomena in the future and we may not.
Very hard to predict.
Your next question is from the line of Ben Kallo with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> My first question's on Brawley on the EBITDA.
There's the discussion of moving towards EBITDA positive for Brawley.
And I just kind of wanted to get a timeframe around that Yoram or at least breakeven maybe? So we promised 2 quarters ago not to give forward looking statements on Brawley.
I don't know how I'm trying to figure how to [indiscernible].
But I think I mean all that I can say is that we're moving closer all the time And I think that you can see this in our cost structure.
We're not very far off and I wish that you put a guess and I hope that I can beat your guess in terms of timing.
But beyond that there's not a lot that I can say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I look at your gross margin first on the Electricity side to me it looks like looking at my model here it's the best that we've seen in 2 years since Q3 '09 and that's really even with the drag of Brawley.
I'm just trying to understand is it all the Puna and Amatitlan strength causing that or is there some other factor? How do I break down that strength coming from Puna and Amatitlan? Could you give me a percentage of where this strip [ph]  is coming from? I think Dan that actually we went quickly through the list of our plants and all of our plants performed well.
And it really goes to show what a strong company we are operationally and that we really know this part of the business and we do it well.
Sometimes things happen that are outside of our control sometimes there are things that we don't know but operational efficiency is what -- such a big part of our team is about.
And it's adding new wells it's modifying wells.
It starts with the resource and goes through O&amp;M and we had good performance really overall.
Now there are 2 plants that have enjoyed higher rates and that's great.
But beyond that operational cost are -- were down almost across the board.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I remember correctly there's a lag between oil prices or diesel prices and electricity prices at Puna.
So are we seeing the peak of oil prices over the last 12 months really hitting this quarter? And should we expect it to climb down or do we see strength continuing on for the next couple of quarters in Puna? The Hawaiian electricity -- Hawaii PUC has slightly modified the formula to which they are determining the [indiscernible]  cost in the last 2 years.
So the relationship with oil prices is a little weaker than it was 2 years ago and before.
But I think that we might see a reduction in the current level prices but we don't expect it to be big.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 more.
On the revenue side again at someone's earlier question to get to even top end of your guidance I have to have about a $7 million step down in Electricity revenue quarter-over-quarter and I'm just wondering why the revenue would be stepping down? Because the sales quarter is enjoying from the higher rates in December for a number of full contracts which is the California contract.
Those California contracts that have a time of use elements and these are the standard SO4 at standard Brawley.
So the third quarter revenues are higher than the entire year.
And at the same level of activity the fourth quarter revenues are lower.
Research Division</strong> And then on the product gross margin it's pretty strong this quarter.
And then obviously with the strength in sales next quarter how do I think about margin? I know you guide to 20% 22% typically as a historic rate but in the years where we're seeing high product margin we've seen gross margins much higher than that.
So is that how we should think about it? This year we're seeing higher amounts in the Product Segment because of the LNG project that we recognized revenues in the second quarter I believe with no cost associated because it was part of R&amp;D before.
So this is one of the reasons for year-over-year higher margins.
The third quarter margin is more volume and mix related.
So the higher...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then so looking forward to 2012...
With higher volume we can expect slightly higher gross margin.
And then when the volume goes back to $100 million a year then it will go down again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question on the dividend front.
Were you actually up against hitting a covenant if you issued a dividend? Is that what caused you not to issue the dividend? Yes.
The covenant is not a secret.
The covenant of the dividend -- elected to the dividend is 35% of net income.
And if we were to distribute the dividend we would exceed 35% of net income.
Our dividend policy is 20% of net income our covenant is 35% of net income and with the treasury rate low we would have not made the debt covenant of 35%.
Our next question is from the line of Elaine Kwei with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you just remind us where we're at in terms of the current level of production at Jersey Valley and what the criteria would be for commercial operation? And is there any pending deadlines under the PPA there? Jersey is operating at around 5 megawatts at this time.
And theoretically yes there are pending deadlines on the PPA but we believe that the reason that Jersey is not producing at the higher rate is the force majeure because the damage that was done by previous drilling not geothermal drilling as it was unreclaimed is really something that we did not know of and was not in our control.
And I think that there's interest on both -- certainly on our side but also on the side of the utility to be patient and let us work through this area or this problem by developing other areas that were not affected by mining activity.
And hopefully this will not be an issue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any kind of -- is that something that you anticipate will take 6 months or 2 years or even longer? Or any kind of timeframe on that? So we have drilled one new injection well in the new area.
We did a short-term test and we will move into a long-term test.
If the results of the long-term tests are in line with what we expected and what we saw in the short-term test this would certainly bring our generation up substantially.
And we will continue and develop in that area additional wells.
The delay was because of the time that it took us to permit this area.
This is an area that was not previously permitted.
We have now caught up with that activity.
And so based on results we could move fairly quickly.
And I would say it's not 2 years.
Now if the results are negative I want to see what we do.
But if they are positive it will not take 2 years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you still intend to eventually get to the original stated production capacity there? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then do you have any view on the timing of the PUC approval for the Puna Enhancement? Is that something that's before the end of year or is that a more extended process there? We hope that it's not that extended process but it's not something that -- we are not participants in the process itself so we can't tell.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just earlier Yoram I just want to make sure I understood your comments on North Brawley it sounds like with your current activity there you can get to a 33-megawatt to 35-megawatt level but getting beyond that will require new well drilling was that -- did I understand that correctly? Yes.
We have demonstrated this March we have demonstrated in the test capacity of a little over 33-megawatt.
It was a fairly warm day so prior to that we're actually running at about 35 megawatts.
So if you look at the existing wells both injection and production what can they do? They can do about 35-megawatt.
Anything beyond that would require some work-over of the wells or some modification of the wells or drilling additional wells.
There's nothing magic about 33 megawatt it's just that this is a number that we've already demonstrated so that part is less questionable.
Our intent would be to of course move beyond that on that facility.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there ever a point that would be reached where it would make more sense not to drill additional wells or would you just continue drilling until you got to that 50-megawatt level? Yes.
There is a doomsday scenario where it's not worth continuing to work on that facility.
We don't intend to reach that position we hope that we don't.
But forgive me if I'm becoming a little too technical but the point that we were trying -- I was trying to make is that not all wells are the same.
There's a very big diversity among the wells currently serviced call it 33 megawatt.
Each of them makes sense if they were operating for 3 years between pump replacements all of them will make a lot of sense.
Until we reach that point then some of them do make sense some of them don't make sense and that's actually -- that's also the trigger for drilling new wells.
Just to give a rough number and not a precise number but a 380-degree well could be justified typically even if the pump only lasted a month in it.
A 300-degree well would require a 3-year lifetime in order to be justified.
And so if as we further our understanding of the well field and our expectation to find one temperature one form of fluid at a certain area or a different form of fluid at a certain area this would also indicate whether it's reasonable at the current operating cost and especially chemical cost and pump life expectancy whether we should drill in that location of the field or not.
And so it is a dynamic process that is based on -- any decision is really based on the current state of the equipment.
And based on this that would be one of the reasons to continue and spend money or wait with the additional expenditures until we have resolved the pumps.
And there is -- at the risk of saying something that we already said we view the pump issue as something that is a short- to medium-term problem and ultimately will be solved because it has been solved in other areas.
And it's just a matter of coming up with the right solution.
In the meantime we don't want to spend money too soon or lose money on frequent pump replacement and this drives our strategy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just last one.
So between North Brawley and Jersey Valley it sounds like if there is additional drilling or additional wells that would make sense then would that require additional financing on your part? Or is that something that could be financed out of existing funds at [ph] free project? No.
The level of the investment of such that we can finance this from our own resources we don't need additional financing.
Don't forget that Brawley is not financed.
Brawley is current on our balance sheet and signal [ph] and certainly once we point it to a certain level of performance it will be bolted between [ph] financed in the future.
But those improvements are delevering of normal operating profit.
They may be higher.
Your next question is from the line of JinMing Liu with Ardour Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered just one for me.
The $130 million supply in the EPC contract in New Zealand can you give us in terms of timing of that contract and also whether the EPC part of that contract will have some negative impact on your product margin? The timing is I think we think received the contract in June and the typical delivery 22 to 24 months.
So the majority of the revenues will be recognized until the end of 2012 with some carryover to 2014.
[indiscernible] LLC Research Division</strong> How about the EPC part of that contract? It's all together.
It's supply and construction.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you will not take say in terms of revenue rec how initially you will not take a percentage of completion out there you go out at true self--what's the term? All the revenue altogether? No.
No.
Based on completion we recognize revenue on most of our EPC contracts and most of our supply contracts.
We recognize the revenue based on progress.
Your next question is from the line of Tom Daniels with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your Product segment backlog.
If I think about you guys executing on that over the next 5 quarters it would imply about $165 million in revenue in 2012.
Last time you did that it was at a gross margin of around 29.5%.
Is there any reason we shouldn't think you'll be able to achieve a similar gross margin on the products in 2012? Some reason.
And the reason is that in 2009 in addition to the volume we also had the benefit of declining commodity prices.
I don't know if we are today in the same economic situation.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it may be slightly lower.
And then as you guys execute on that product backlog is there any upfront or back-end loaded? Should we think of it as kind of a pretty even execution over the next 5 quarters? No.
It's typically income recognition of the project is how do you call it? [indiscernible] An S-scale [ph].
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I missed that.
What was it? A typical profile of income recognition in the project is an S-scale [ph] and not a straight line.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On your Electricity gross margins do you guys feel with the operational improvements you've kind of reached a higher run rate here moving forward? And then maybe comment on how the SO4 contract reduction will impact gross margin on Electricity? I'm sorry I didn't get your question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The Electricity grew its margin 33.3% adjusted from North Brawley 39.1% operational improvements.
Is this a new run rate for Electricity gross margin? And then can you comment on the gross margin considering the SO4 contracts and how does the $9.4 million reduction in revenues will that have a negative impact on gross margin as you move forward? It would clearly have a negative impact on gross margin because it's a reduction in revenue for a similar level of cost.
So unless there are some operational efficiencies it will have an impact on gross margin.
But it's not -- our intent is not to stay in this situation for long.
And so I think -- I mean all of this will happen in 2012 or at the second quarter of 2012 and this is not our intent to be in this situation.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the operating expense side you guys went down sequentially.
Is there anything in there specifically that happened this quarter? Or is this kind of a newer run rate for you? I think that it's -- in principle part of this is really the fruit of our labor.
And a lot of this is work in Brawley and other locations.
Whenever this is done by design and by effort then it's a lasting effect.
But some of it is circumstances.
There was a big outage not related to us of course in Southern California in the beginning of September that took the whole Southern California grid down.
Such an outage could cause damage to equipment.
And then it's certainly not expected not controlled and this has a temporary impact.
But a lot of this is really effort that was done and real saving.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question can you talk about a little bit about your income taxes and how you expect those maybe on a dollar amount to kind of move going forward? It's kind of been all over the map.
It's a very complicated question and the answer is even more than that.
There are several factors that impact our tax calculation especially on a quarterly basis when you use the average tax rate for the year.
And what is happening is that we have a big IPC amount which impacts substantially our income tax expense benefit when you have a relatively low pretax income.
And as always it also will be a kind of catch up but because that's the way that you calculate the taxes under cap.
So we expect for the whole year -- we expect a tax benefit and not a tax expense because of [indiscernible] tell you how it will look by year end.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going into 2012 you guys don't expect to be paying taxes you still expect a credit correct? We are not expecting to pay taxes in the States but we would pay taxes in some of the other locations because in some others [indiscernible]  we don't pay taxes.
In other locations we have in Kenya we have auxiliary depreciation but we have tax exempts.
And in the States we would probably have the pretaxes because we have provision on [ph] basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understood.
When it washes all out at the corporate level do you guys expect to be paying taxes or getting a tax credit? In 2012? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
We are expecting to pay taxes in some locations and have credit in others and not paying in others and have tax benefits.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
At a corporate level overall when it washes out? It depends on where are you.
Overall? In 2012? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I don't think we give guidance on taxes for 2012.
Not at this stage.
I can talk about 2011.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Barnett with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions I think I may have heard something incorrectly.
But with Carson Lake even on your prior calls you had already anticipated you wouldn't be qualifying for the ITC and it still says that in the presentation deck.
I was wondering if there was any acceleration the timing that led that to be again kind of a possibility? At this point we keep it out of the 2013 bracket because it is late.
It's potentially possible but we're not convinced that it is and therefore we keep it out.
If we change our mind we will share this with you and everybody else.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So your expectations hadn't changed then? Okay.
And then just a couple of quick questions on the PPAs is there anything specifically holding up the Puna PPA for the enhancement or is that just another timing issue? We are not aware of a reason why the PPA should not be approved by the PUC but it hasn't been approved yet.
Nothing has been shared with us so we can't give an intelligent answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I saw you had received the permit to continue drilling for Jersey Valley.
Have you dealt with the PPA extension issue at that plant yet or is that still in progress? We are in contact with the utility and we're keeping them appraised of the situation.
And there's frequent communication with them of course.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is the force majeure issue going to need to be resolved before you modify the PPA? No.
The PPA does not need to be modified.
The issue we have with the utility is that both we and them expected to get commercial power by now.
And because of the force majeure impact we cannot provide the amount of commercial par that we expected.
And this is where we need to work hard and they need to understand us and hopefully when there's will on both sides we will work towards a resolution.
Your next question is from the line of Tim Arcuri with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering to what extent any of the exchanges or talk of change in ownership at Ormat's parent level have any implications for Ormat Technologies? Sure.
It has no implication for Ormat Technologies.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Milunovich with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Peter in for Steve.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Quick one with the outage in California I mean utilization was pretty low for the quarter compared to other previous 3Qs were there any other unscheduled maintenance work during the quarter? And could there be some that could creep into the fourth quarter? I'm sorry what do you mean about the outage in California or the utilization what do you mean by that? Research Division</strong> Well utilization on the aggregate level was pretty low and comparative to 3Q last year and I think you talked about some maintenance behind that.
And I think a previous caller mentioned some outage in California was there any unscheduled maintenance during the quarter? And is there a potential for some that could be in Q4? No.
I think what I mentioned was that there was a big blackout in the Southern California grid that took everybody down.
And that actually it was just an example of how something that is outside of the plant could actually result in damage.
Fortunately for us -- a hard shutdown of a power plant is often times not only the geothermal part but it often times results in some damages because it is a shock and this is what happens when the grid disappears.
For us it was for most of the Southern California facilities it was just a few hours and they were back online without big damages.
We had a little more damage in Heber but nothing dramatic.
I think that if you look at generation it's a little -- it's lower by 3%.
3% is not a huge number it's timing of major maintenance.
So there was nothing really dramatically in the third quarter and we don't know of anything dramatic in the fourth quarter.
It's not so much of a trend that 3% change it is just if you'd like it sort of a ripple or a wave on a general sideline.
And since we didn't put any substantial amount of capacity online between the Q3 2010 and Q3 2011 then that's about the number.
Research Division</strong> That's good color.
And I want to follow up a little bit on some of Elaine's questions earlier regarding the ultimate output of Brawley.
As it relates to the DOE funding that you've received are there any mandates under that or terms that require you to reach a certain output? So we did not get DOE funding for Brawley.
Although we got for Brawley was the ITC cash grant.
The ITC cash grant is driven by investment not by performance.
Of course the owner has to continue and operate the plant for a certain period of time.
That's certainly our intent so generation is not an issue when it comes to any recapture from Brawley.
But certainly it's an issue for us and we are working to get generation and especially revenues or I should say especially EBITDA higher.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the conference back over to Dita for any further remarks.
Thank you all for the good questions.
Maybe one clarification that I'm not sure I answered properly and I'll take this opportunity to emphasize.
Our dividend policy the modest dividend policy the thought behind this is to provide some equilibrium between need of shareholder for some return of sale -- some cash return on their investment.
But the major benefit of the investor is in the improvement of the company in the share price et cetera.
So I think that even though we had to discontinue dividend distributions this quarter or maybe next quarter I don't think it makes a major change in the value of the investment in Ormat.
And we would like to thank you all for your continued interest and hopefully a joint successful for all of us.
Thank you.
Thank you all for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ormat Technologies Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rob Fink of KCSA Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you and thank you everybody for joining us today.
Hosting the call today are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President Chief Operating Officer; Joseph Tenne Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi VP of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements related to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management's current estimates and projection of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from these projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see risk factors as described in the annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28 2011.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures as defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the Securities and Exchange Commission such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of Ormat Technology believes that adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurements for both management and investors' benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing Ormat Technologies' liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparisons to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Event and Presentations link that's found in the Investor Relations tab.
With that said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Rob and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our fourth quarter and full year 2011 results and outlook for the near future.
2011 was highlighted by increased revenue and increase in operating cash flow steady growth in total generation and an exceptionally strong performance in the product segment.
Our 2011 net income was negatively impacted by a noncash tax-related valuation allowance of $61.5 million which were recorded against the company's U.S.
deferred tax assets.
Realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent on generating sufficient taxable income in the U.S.
prior to the expiration of the tax losses and credit.
Although valuation allowances recorded against these deferred tax assets no economic losses appeared in the underlying net operating loss carryforwards and other tax credits remain available to reduce future U.S.
taxes to the extent income is generated.
We made operational improvements and enhancements in several plans and we are continuing to move forward with our activities related to our organic growth.
Let me turn the call over to Joseph for a review of the financial.
Yoram will review our operations and following my remarks we will open the call up for Q&amp;A.
Joseph please.
Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Beginning in Slide 5 total revenues for the full year 2011 were $437 million a 17.1% increase over revenues of $373.2 million in 2010.
Total cost of revenue increased by 8.3% compared to last year.
In our electricity segment on Slide 6 revenues for the full year were $323.8 million an 11% increase over revenues of $291.8 million in 2010.
The increase in electricity revenue is due to higher variable energy rate of our Amatitlan and Puna PPA and increased in electricity generation of some of our parks.
In the product segment on the next slide revenues for the full year were $113.2 million an increase of 39% over revenues of $81.4 million in 2010.
The increase in product revenues reflects the new customer orders that were secured in the first half of 2011.
Moving to Slide 8.
The company's combined gross margins for the full year was 26.8% versus 20.8% in 2010.
The electricity segment gross margin was 24.6% for the full year versus just 17% in 2010.
Excluding North Brawley the electricity gross margin would have been 34.4% compared to 26.8% in 2010.
In the product segment gross margin for the full year was 32.8% versus 34.6% last year.
The decrease is due to the mix of products sold and margins associated with our customer orders.
Operating income for the full year 2011 increased 172% from $23.6 million in 2010 to $64 million this year.
Moving to Slide 9 interest expense full year was $69.5 million compared to $40.5 million in 2010.
The increase was principally due to $16.4 million loss from an interest rate lock transaction related to our DOE loan guarantee that were consummated in September of 2011 and the issuance of senior unsecured loans in August 2010 and February 2011.
Moving to Slide 10.
In the fourth quarter and full year 2011 we recorded a valuation allowance in the amount of approximately $61.5 million against our U.S.
deferred tax asset which include net operating tax losses carryforwards which we call NOL and unrealized -- and unutilized tax credit mainly PTC but also ITC.
As of December 31 2011 we have U.S.
NOLs in the amount of approximately $350 million and unutilized tax credit which can be used over 20 years of approximately $60 million.
The related deferred tax assets total approximately $193 million.
Realization of this operating loss in tax credit is dependent on generating sufficient taxable income in the U.S.
prior to expiration of the NOL and the tax credit which is between 2021 and 2032.
After performing a routine year-end analysis to confirm our ability to realize deferred tax assets it was determined that non-cash tax-related valuation allowance of $61.5 million against the U.S.
deferred tax assets as of December 31 2011 is required.
We can use the deferred tax assets in the future if we can establish sufficient evidence of our ability to generate taxable income in future years which may reduce the valuation allowance resulting in income tax benefit or reduction in income tax provision that will appear in our consolidated statement of operations.
Now moving to Slide 11.
The net loss for the full year of 2011 was $42.7 million or $0.95 per share basic and diluted mainly due to the $61.5 million of valuation allowance excluding the impacts of the valuation allowance the company would have recorded full year net income of $18.8 million compared to a net income of $37.2 million or $0.82 per share basic and diluted for 2010.
Please note that 2010 net income included a $22.4 million aftertax gain from the acquisition of the controlling interest in the Mammoth complex in California.
Now I would like to go over a few quarterly financial highlights beginning with Slide 12.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 total revenues were $123.7 million compared to $92.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Revenues in the electricity segment increased 5.5% to $77.6 million up from $73.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Revenues in the product segment were $46.2 million an increase of 139.4% compared to $19.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Now on Slide 13.
Operating income in the fourth quarter 2011 was $17.3 million compared to $4.2 million last year.
Net loss for the quarter was $43 million or $0.95 per share basic and diluted compared to net income of $4.5 million or $0.10 per share basic and diluted in the fourth quarter of 2010.
As shown in the following slide Slide 14 adjusted EBITDA for full year 2011 was $166.7 million compared to $164.3 million in 2010.
The 2010 number includes $36.9 million of gained from the acquisition of the controlling interest in the Mammoth complex in California.
2011 EBITDA does not have any special or nonoperational item.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $45.1 million compared to $29.4 million in the same quarter of 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA includes consolidated EBITDA and the company's shares and the interest taxes depreciation amortization related to the company's unconsolidated 50% interest in the Mammoth complex for the previous -- from January 1 2010 to August 1 2010 the date we acquired the remaining 50% interest in such complex.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $32.3 million compared to $21.8 million respectively in the quarter.
And $132.7 million in the full year 2011 compared to $101.4 million in 2010.
The reconciliation of GAAP net cash provided by operating activities to adjusted EBITDA as well as additional cash flow information is set forth in Slide 35.
Moving up -- moving on to the next slide cash cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31 2011 was $118.4 million up from $82.8 million as of December 31 2010.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the 12-month period.
Our liquidity came from the issuance of senior unsecured bonds proceeds from the sale of Class B membership units of OPC to JPMorgan issuance of the OFC-2 senior secured notes 80% guarantee by the DOE and cash derived from operating activities.
Our long-term debt at the end of 2011 and the payment schedule are presented in Slide 16 of the presentation.
In accordance with the company's debt covenants on February 22 2012 Ormat's Board of Directors decided not to declare a quarterly dividend for the fourth quarter of 2011.
However the company expects to pay a dividend of $0.04 per share in the next 3 quarters.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Yoram for any operational updates.
Thank you Joseph and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 18.
The total generation for 2011 was 3.9 million megawatt hour.
This represents an increase of 4.1% from 2010 an approximately 57% increase in total generation over the past 5 years.
Steady growth in total generation and the decrease in the O&amp;M expenses excluding depreciation are a result of improved operational performance enhancement of existing plants and completion of new projects.
Moving to Slide 20.
During the quarter we have made improvement to the injection capacity of the Jersey Valley plant and it is currently operating at about 9 megawatts.
We plan to continue work on the injection and hope to increase generation further during this year.
In North Brawley we continue to work on the geological interpretation of this field and on improvement to the production pump assembly.
Based on the geological interpretation we successfully completed one production well in the fourth quarter and successfully tested a second production well which was completed early this year.
We believe that once connected to the plant the second well will allow the plant to become EBITDA positive on an annual basis.
And based on how successful it will be we will use our new tools to target the third well.
As for the production pumps we have made substantial progress in the second half of the year and increased the average pump life at least 90%.
This together with successful solid control measures will allow the -- will provide substantial reduction in the operating expenses in the future.
The 10-K that will be filed next week will have updates of the total generated capacity figures as you can see on Slide 20.
The main changes are the new Tuscarora power plant and the adjustments of the North Brawly and Jersey Valley to our short-term expectations.
We have also made minor changes where recent well field work resulted in increased capacity such as in Olkaria and Brady or the resource cooling requires a downward adjustment.
Moving to Slide 21 as we discussed last month -- disclosed last month the continued decrease in forecast for natural gas prices in 2012 and 2013 and the delay of California's greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program has increased the impact of the transition from a fixed to a variable rate for the energy components of our standard offered number for [ph] contract.
The Global Settlement requires us to amend the contracts to reflect pricing option based on a short-run avoided cost methodology with certain applied modifiers until December 2014 and thereafter convert to a mandatory short-run avoided cost methodology pricing.
We believe that the green power from the existing plant is valuable and our focus on finding a solution would reflect that.
A benchmark for fixed-price under new long-term contracts is the market price reference approved by -- in December by the California's Public Utilities Commission and reflects the long-term of what it cost for the investor-owned utilities in California.
Looking at this slide you can see the approved pricing for contracts to be signed in 2012 for power plants that will start operation in the years 2012 to 2015.
Turning to Slide 22.
Offsetting the impact of the current natural gas prices on our 2012 revenues are additional generation from new projects and our strong product segment pipeline.
I'd like to review some of the recent developments impacting production and new projects.
Our 18-megawatt Tuscarora project was put online in late November and has been selling pre-commercial power since.
In January we performed a test that are required to demonstrate commercial operation and are waiting for the offtaker to accept them.
In Hawaii the PUC approved the PPA for the additional plant and the amendments to the existing PPA and the plant has been generating power since late December.
For an update on our projects under construction please turn to Slide 23.
In our Olkaria expansion 2 production wells were completed last year and a third was recently completed.
We believe that the wells are capable of delivering 75% of the required production flow for the expansion and we are already benefiting from the increased capacity using the operating plant.
We're continuing to drill additional wells and are manufacturing and purchasing equipment for the new power plant.
In the McGinness Hills we recently completed the drilling of the last production well and are in very advanced stages of construction.
We expect completion in third quarter of 2012.
In Wild Rose 3 wells have been drilled and we are continuing with drilling activity.
Late last year we signed a PPA for 10 megawatts of solar photovoltaic power plant at Heber.
We began construction in the fourth quarter and expect commercial operation within 18 months.
There hasn't been much progress in Carson Lake and CD4 where permitting has been slowing down resource development and it's putting a 2013 completion at risk.
In December 2011 we terminated the Carson Lake PPA and joint operating agreement with NV Energy which will give us the flexibility to adjust the commercial turns to the new project configuration and a new project timeline.
We're currently working on coming to terms on a new PPA for the Heber complex which may allow us to generate an additional 6 megawatt there.
The additional output is not included in the table but is part of our CapEx plan.
All in all we are in the construction phase of 7 projects most of these are expected to be completed by the end of 2013 and will add between 144 and 149 megawatts to our portfolio.
On Slide 24 you can see the detailed list of projects under development.
In Sarulla we made progress in the amendments to the joint operating contracts and the energy sales contracts which will reflect the agreed adjusted tariff and other financial conditions.
We also have an agreement in principle with the Indonesian Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and the Ministry of Finance.
The execution of these amendment contracts is expected to occur during the first half of 2012.
The consortium has mandated certain lenders and the selection and the engagement of due diligence consulting is currently underway.
We have reduced our estimates on the size of the current Geyser project based on the resource work that we've done to date.
We may generate an additional 6 megawatts from the Menengai BOT project which the GDC owned by the government of Kenya awarded to us.
The additional output is not included in the table.
We're currently working on the development of as much as 18 ground-mounted and roof-top projects in Israel.
Due to the competitive nature of the solar market we expect that only a portion of them will come to fruition and have not included any of them in our current portfolio.
Turning to Slide 25.
In addition to projects under construction and development we now have 42 prospects and early exploration activity is yet to begin.
We significantly increased our land position in 2011 and now have approximately 675 000 acres.
We continue to work on identifying new prospects while focusing on cost control in this highly prospective phase.
In 2011 we continued to expand our in-house capability to perform well field work and added 3 new rigs which increased our operating fleet to 1 fixed and 8 mobile rigs.
Our fleet is now capable of performing most of the steps from exploration through well field development and O&amp;M with good schedule and cost control.
Turning now to Slide 26 and 27 for an update on the product segment.
2011 was a strong year for the product segment we signed new international and domestic contracts with a supplier of geothermal power plants and other power generating units.
As of February 15 2012 our product backlog is approximately $240 million.
It includes revenue for a period between January 1 and February 15.
This number includes a geothermal supply contract with this -- subject to the customer of finalizing its financing arrangement for the project and an EPC contract with Cyrq for which the revenue will only be recognized upon reasonable assurance of payment by the customer.
On a second project with Cyrq we haven't included it yet as the conditions precedents have not been met.
We also signed with Cyrq a credit agreement under which Ormat will provide financing in an aggregate principal amount of up to $22.7 million.
It will be used to finance the project construction costs under the EPC contract.
I'd now like to turn the call back to Dita.
Thank you Yoram.
In my remarks I would like to review regulation and financing activity of 2011 comment on our capital provision and then conclude with revenue guidance for 2012 before opening the call for questions.
Starting on Slide 29 federal legislation and government-sponsored programs that were available for renewable energy developers positively impacted our business and the terms under which we were able to obtain financing.
While it is unclear if the renewable energy industry's effort to extend the ITC or the PPC will succeed the regulation at the state level in particular the RPS target will continue to create a demand for renewable energy.
In California Senate Bill 2X SB 2X to increase California's RPS to 33% by 2020 was signed in 2011 and it represents one of the most aggressive renewable energy growth in the United States.
The IOUs have been doing targets each year with a requirement of 25% by 2016.
Due to the new 33% target publicly-owned utilities in California must also procure 33% of retail electricity sale from eligible renewable energy resources by 2020 opening up a significant new market of potential offtakers in years ahead.
New facilities do not have interim target we therefore expect the current pressure on PPA prices and availability to be temporary.
Separately California's greenhouse gas cap-and-trade GHG program which was scheduled to become effective on January 1 of this year has been delayed.
It is now anticipated that this program will commence in 2013.
And while disappointed in the delay we believe it represents the nation's most comprehensive GHG program and could sell as a strong example of others to follow.
Turning to Slide 30.
In 2011 we will exit on several reforms to obtain the necessary financing to secure our goal.
In September we finalized the loan agreement of up to $350 million under the U.S.
Department of Energy 1705 Loan Guarantee Program to finance 3 projects in Nevada.
We'll be -- we also received a $310 million commitment from OPIC to refinance and expand the Olkaria projects in Kenya.
We raised in August 2010 and February 2011 $250 million in total for the sale of 7-year senior unsecured bonds.
Also in February we financed a $25 million in tax equity transaction for OPC power plants taken and extended lines of credit both internationally and in the United States.
The DOE guarantee of a 20-year loan provides us several refinancings to support the development of Jersey Valley Tuscarora and McGinness Hills.
The innovative part of this development and consortium financing is the ability to finance 3 power plants in 2 phases each.
The 2-phase approach allows us to manage risks by including the second phase in the OPIC financing to better control long-term financing cost.
The commitment letter with OPIC for up to $310 million was financed in expand Olkaria III complex located in Kenya is currently in documentation phase.
Please turn to Slide 31 and you will see the CapEx requirements for 2012.
In 2012 we plan to invest $192 million for the construction of new projects and an additional $70 million for development of new projects.
We expect to invest $31 million in exploration throughout 2012.
In addition our capital expenditure budget for maintenance CapEx and enhancement for operating power plants is approximately $65 million.
Approximately $7 million to invest in our production facility and the funding of this program will come from cash on hand at the end of 2011 cash from operations unused corporate lines of credit ITC cash grants and project finance debt.
Another capital need is to fund the Cyrq thermal contract until payment by the customer.
On Slide 32 we have provided the snapshot of our debt portfolio.
As you can see we have a good balance between corporate and project finance debt.
The debt-to-EBITDA as well as debt to capital ratio indicated our debt capacity can support our growth plan.
As we look forward to 2012 please turn to Slide 33.
Based on current expectations of actual prices we anticipate our 2012 electricity segment revenue to be between $315 million and $330 million.
From our product segment we currently expect our 2012 revenue to be between $150 million and $165 million.
In closing as we look at the years ahead there is a lot to drive our optimism from the sector in general and for us within the new settlement [ph] sub sector in particular.
California 33% RPS new investors entering the renewable space like MidAmerican recently and projected rebound in natural gas prices which are at their lowest since 2001 due to the pressure from the [indiscernible] and the weak economy.
And Rio +20 driving the international -- prospected to drive the international supporting the -- geothermal.
And for us the progress in construction and development the improvement in Brawley and other operating plants the strong land positions of the future development and the record baseload for the product segment.
We thank you for your support and at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Steve Milunovich of Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Do you have of a thought on what your product margin is likely to be next year? I think previously you've indicated that it's likely to be down from this year but any specific thoughts there? Yes this field the margin moves slightly higher mainly because of the income recognition from the LNG projects or what we call the north projects and the expectation for next year is to go back to our normal margin which is between 20% and 25%.
Research Division</strong> 20% and 25% next year -- or this year.
And where are you seeing...
It's not a guidance for the year it's our normal for this margin.
Research Division</strong> And where are you seeing demand coming from? For products outside kind of New Zealand and looking at other companies' geothermal projects what sort of ramp do you see over the next few years? Unfortunately it is very difficult to predict and we have -- we are continuously struggling with an ability to predict new projects in the product segment.
It's a come-and-go.
It is the life of a project which is finally saying yes or no.
Nevertheless definitely New Zealand we expect to continue to be a market.
Chelsea is a market.
Indonesia may open up.
Didn't open up yet but may open up.
Central and South America is a market.
And to a certain extent maybe also the United States.
Research Division</strong> And then finally any guidance in terms of what North Brawley revenue and gross margin might trend toward this year? We made a promise to ourselves not to give guidance on Brawley.
Yoram just mentioned that we think we are currently EBITDA positive.
Currently meaning from now on we could firm up with guidance on Brawley.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of file questions first of North Brawley rather than giving us guidance can you tell us maybe what the EBITDA contribution was in the fourth quarter so at least we understand how it's trending? Let's just look for the numbers if you have additional questions we'll give you the right number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
I certainly have a few more.
Real quick on the California on the SRAC contracts I appreciate the slide but maybe if you could go into a little bit more detail here and maybe try to help us sketch out the price volume metrics i.e.
could you sort of walk us through how much you see at risk on a megawatt-hour basis and what the sensitivity is to changes in gas prices? Just so we understand that as gas prices move to kind of leverage in your model.
So what is the sensitivity to gas prices? I think on a very rough order of magnitude every dollar and million BTU is about $0.01 a 1 kW hour and we have about -- currently about 140 megawatts that are affected by that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Go ahead.
LLC Research Division</strong> No -- and then can you walk us through the greenhouse gas piece because I know you've excluded that from '12 and I believe from '13.
Can you walk us through how that bakes into the number? You give us some $25 million but it would really help us to get a little bit more granular in terms of this.
It's such a big sensitivity to your earnings power.
So very rough response to this is that the greenhouse component I think is an estimate at that point.
And so our current estimate is that in 2013 it could add under some formulations it could add another about $0.007 per kW hour unless there are additional details -- I'm sorry additional delays in putting this in place.
But these are really -- for us these are really estimates and we really don't know at this time.
Our preferred course of action is really to move away from these contracts recontract them in -- under the current terms which move into energy-only calculations move away from the legacy structure.
And basically use what California PUC views as a long-term fare or reasonable long-term prices as a guideline for our recontracting negotiation.
So how much of this can be accomplished still in 2012 is hard to say.
These are typically long processes.
But we would like to move away from this position and have modern contracts at reasonable and certainly fixed energy rates.
LLC Research Division</strong> Absolutely understood.
To answer your question the impact of Brawley in the fourth quarter was a negative EBITDA of about $4 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> For the year or for the fourth quarter? For the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wait $4 million in EBITDA? Negative $4 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay we may have to double-check that offline because that sounds like it got substantially worse because I thought it was only about $1 million EBITDA loss from the third quarter.
The difference is that -- the biggest difference is really that the rates for the fourth quarter -- fourth and first quarter are substantially lower than the rates in the third quarter so there is -- everything else being equal there is a difference between the 2 but beyond that we have done some work on our wealth that which reduced -- generation increased some of the cost during the fourth quarter so somewhat different.
But as we said we are now -- we have completed that work.
We've completed some of the upgrades to the pump and we're now at the higher-generation level and at the lower cost so we expect that forward to be better.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what generation level is that? We're currently generating about 25 megawatts and this is -- sorry because I mentioned before...
LLC Research Division</strong> 2-5? 25 yes.
And as I mentioned this is before connecting the well that was -- we believe was very successful that we expect to connect shortly.
So we think that we are at the -- we'll move to a next level in terms of sustainable generation at Brawley.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 2 real quick ones first you mentioned the drilling at Wild Rose any indication on the results from the drilling of the wells? Yes I mean there is certainly a well field there and this is why we keep the project as a project-under-construction.
We are planning long-term tests to quantify the size of the reservoir and move to the next stages of field development and ultimately power plant development.
LLC Research Division</strong> And your pump -- sorry you go.
No.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the $192 million of construction new projects include some amount for both Wild Rose and for the Mammoth expansion or no? Mammoth is certainly included.
A portion of the well field work in Wild Rose is certainly included as well.
So the next steps that we contemplate in quantifying the size of the field is certainly included yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But one last one and thanks for giving me all this time Sarulla this is the first time we've seen you guys put a date on paper as to when you expect that execution.
Can you walk us through the process of what's changed there? And then can you remind us again what the potential revenue impact is on the product side should that move forward? Dan Sarulla is mine all to answer.
We are definitely today more optimistic about Sarulla then we were in our last call in November.
On the last call in November if you recall I was really iffy about the chances of this project to move forward.
We are way more optimistic today because we have been able to solve one of the stumbling blocks that was related to one of the bankability issue.
From this supposed date it is still very difficult.
We cannot put a date even though our expectation is that it will happen this year.
"Will happen" means -- what I mean by "will happen" is not closing the financings this will probably be next year but what we think will happen this year is finalized the contract.
Again with all the caution that we have to have so and so in Sarulla the products segment revenue for Sarulla are in the order of $250 million and $300 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> And obviously none of that's in the backlog that you guys disclosed.
Of course.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Driscoll of Capstone Investments.
Research Division</strong> First question is you had mentioned I think in the last call about the opportunity to potentially co-locate some small resource facilities to realize that the opportunities in this field -- the opportunity to be progressing at the rate you had previously forecasted.
Could you maybe address magnitude and potential scale of doing so and what potential ROIs you might receive from those? Or maybe help us see what the incremental of contribution and help us try to plan how it might impact your results going forward.
The easy answer to your question is at this point our first step was the 10-megawatt photovoltaic plant which is really in the area or in the geothermal area of the Heber project.
And if you'd like there is certainly the possibility both in terms of room and other supporting infrastructure there is a possibility of doing the same in our other geothermal power plants in the Imperial Valley.
So certainly in the Brawley area and potentially in the -- or mixed area though it's a little more difficult.
And the plants could be at that size so 10 to 20 megawatts is certainly a reasonable size for such a photovoltaic plant.
However it does require the PPA markets to be open for such additional power.
And return on investment is really in that sense it has -- we have some advantage in some areas over a greenfield solar facility but it is generally in line with what you can expect from a solar facility.
And really like I think most of the other developers we start with our threshold for return from the projects with our estimates on cost and market the power at a rate that would support that or be a little better.
Because the solar projects are relatively low risk the pricing can be somewhat more aggressive.
You don't have the exploration risk and other long-term unknown that you have in geothermal so the pricing can be more aggressive.
Research Division</strong> Helpful.
Of the forecast CapEx requirements can you kind of breakdown maybe this year or next year about what you have to pull through not necessarily construction development and exploration but kind of bracket; what you expect to do in the next 12 versus 24 months? I'm not sure that I'm following the question could you...
Research Division</strong> You forecast your CapEx requirements at $367 million going forward could you kind of break it between 2012 and 2013? $367 million is 2012 it does not include 2013 CapEx...
Research Division</strong> All 2012 okay.
I just wanted to clarify.
And then my last question is the -- if you could just clarify with the SRAC issue the projects that are currently in place versus what you expect to bring online in 2013 all the projects that are coming online will be subject to the same type of changes to the PPAs whether existing versus new that's correct? No.
The rate of the SRAC impact is only on legacy PPAs.
PPAs that were signed I think that the last of them was or -- they're all PPAs from either the mid-80s or very very early in the 90's.
So these are all PPAs that we inherited that were developed under an old regulatory framework.
So nothing of the new capacity is really affected by SRAC other than just a little bit of modifications that we have been contemplating.
So a few megawatts 3 megawatts in Mammoth and -- which I think is really the only ones that were on the list and are affected by that the rest is not affected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- the last question is Jersey Valley I know you don't really want to still break out project by project but Jersey Valley at current run rate is that positive contribution EBITDA currently? Yes it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it has been throughout the year actually.
Your next person comes from the line of JinMing Liu of Ardour Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered just one left in there.
It looks like -- a little bit early but it just looks like you need to refinance actually about $440 million of -- from your line of credit will come to you in 2013 are you -- I mean what's your plan there? The way the table is presented is that if you have a revolving line of credit which is a limited time and those are typically for 2 years when the 2 years is expected to arrive we show it to the repayment.
But our working assumption and our past experience has been that those are renewals and they will just be rolled over for another 2-year period.
So don't take the 2 years of 2013 2014 too seriously with respect with revolving lines of credit.
You're next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett at Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of shorter questions.
I know you've already talked a little bit about the SRAC pricing I know that you're trying to move away from those contracts where -- can you talk maybe some of the obstacles in addition to when existing contracts roll off what might some of the obstacles be to realizing higher price contracts? I think that the biggest obstacle is the fact that the California PUC allows the 3 large investor-owned utilities to stop part of their contracting or buy very little in the current and in the next compliance period.
And therefore -- and clearly when you compare it -- when you combine this with the fact that there is an economic downturn so there is a reduction in load or in consumption of power in most of the Western United States markets and the fact that natural gas is very low this puts I guess a denting effect on recontracting new power when the current contracts allow them to buy the power under a very short term or very favorable cost.
So I think that in many ways for the near term the IOUs are not the best customer.
And we need to either find ways that allow both parties to enjoy from the longer-term prospects of the power because the power is not only available for the duration of the old contracts.
The power will be available for another 20 years and more than that.
So either we can find a way for both the utility and Ormat can enjoy the fact that the power is stable and competitive on a long-term basis or find customers that are not in the same position as our existing customers and do need the power at the moment.
So that's really the balancing act that we need to go through.
Everybody recognizes that our power is very valuable but just like we would like to see higher revenues at the moment some of our customers would like to see lower cost at the moment and we need to find a comfortable common ground.
Research Division</strong> Great.
It's not a huge item relative to the total but for 2012 CapEx there is about $36 million or so in enhancements.
And I know you had mentioned Heber but I'm wondering if there is any other work included in this line that's going to be meaningful or how should we think about that? I think that the biggest part is Puna where we expect to increase capacity both at some standby capacity beyond what we currently have in the well field and also increase the ability to generate power.
But it's really outside of Puna it's really made out of a few little things in each of the plant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last quick question.
I was wondering on Tikitere I know it's not -- it's only been about 6 months but I was wondering what the -- kind of timeline to a regulatory progress in New Zealand on that project might be? Like every regulatory timeline it is hard to predict but we think that before the end of the year we'll start exploration at Tikitere Next question comes from the line of Peter Christiansen of Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Joseph I was wondering can you provide us any visibility on what book taxes could be this year and how that would compare to cash taxes? What the meaning in book taxes? Usually it's difficult to say because it's coming from different jurisdictions.
For example on the product segment which is going to be very good in 2012 most of it is 15% in Israel.
In the U.S.
it's as you know around 38%.
So it's difficult but on the other hand any profitability will enable us to reduce the valuation level.
So it's a very difficult to do so we'll need to do an analysis each quarter to see where we are with the valuation allowances because it's really an ongoing process once you did it.
So it's very difficult to predict.
But probably and I must be very careful about it -- in the U.S.
probably we'll be at the 0% tax.
The rest of the world Guatemala is 0% Israel is 15% Kenya is about 7% and Nicaragua is 25% so you can imagine that we will be as relatively low tax rate from book perspective.
But I can't give you the numbers because...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then selling expenses increased in the quarter should we think of that as increasing with product revenues is that we're the primary source of that growth is? There are 2 common incidents if the product segment is better it goes up but in the last quarter and the last year we had if you recall $1.7 million that we paid in the NV Energy for the Carson Lake termination of the PPA.
That amount is also included there.
So if you eliminate that you can get better picture of going forward as selling and marketing expenses.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry one follow-up question again going back to the SRAC when I look at the range of revenue guidance for the power segment for 2012 can you sort of walk us through of maybe what you're baking in in terms of either the SRAC or the gas prices that's implied by that range? We -- basically this tracks what we have provided in our disclosure 3 or 4 weeks ago.
So I believe that not to be precise but this assumes a $24 million reduction in revenue compared -- from those projects compared to 2011.
So basically we -- as of gas prices 3 weeks ago we have taken the whole impact of that.
GAAP had continued to move but it is moving all the time so we did not recalculate this.
But we haven't assumed an upside on that portion.
So we just used that -- for those projects we have used just that as a fixed point in time.
And then the balance is really other operational issues or potential improvements that could make the picture better.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then so real quick just 2 verification there.
So number one so that does assume that for I guess it's the 7 or 8 months starting after May you're going to have sort of a sub-$3 gas curves embedded in that $24 million.
And number two so the balance of the movement from top to bottom is going to also include things like the timeframe under which the Puna expansion and Tuscarora come up and McGinness startup late in the year et cetera? Yes.
I think I mean it does include where we believe we are in Tuscarora and on Puna and it does include an assumption on when we McGinness starts up yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> But I mean Tuscarora and Puna have already started so I mean assuming a full year or...
Assuming it’s full year in operation in terms of as we mentioned earlier this -- first power is sold under pre-commercial rates so there is -- we have an estimate of what would be the date for moving from pre-commercial to commercial power in each of the projects.
At this time there are no further questions.
Thank you for your participation in today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ormat Technologies First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rob Fink of KCSA Strategic Communications.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you very much.
Hosting the call today are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph Tenne Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management's current estimates and projection of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see risk factors as described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 29 2012.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures as defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the SEC such as EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of Ormat Technology believes that adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurements that both management and investors' benefit from referring to this non-GAAP financial measures in assessing Ormat Technologies' liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparisons to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Event and Presentations link that's found in the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Rob and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation for our first quarter 2012 results and outlook for the near future.
We are very pleased with the financial results of the first quarter which was strong by just about every measure.
Total revenue increased 35% year-over-year to a record quarterly revenue with Electricity and Product segment revenues increasing 5% and 156% respectively.
Our combined gross margin percentage was 30.1% for the quarter almost doubling our gross margin during the same quarter in 2011 and $41.9 million cash flow from operations the highest pure operating cash flow ever.
We believe the numbers are a testament to the prudent approach we have taken to growing our business while also ensuring an effective cost control.
In the Product Segment 2011 was a record year in booking of new orders.
We continue to be awarded new contracts in the beginning of the year.
We recorded record high revenues in Q1 thanks not only to the strength of the Product Segment but to improved results in the Electricity segment as well.
By reducing the operating cost to all the fleet but in particular at North Brawley results improved in all parameters including gross margin operating cash flow net income and EBITDA.
Let me turn the call over to Joseph for a review of the financial.
Yoram will review our operation.
And following my remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Joseph? Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Beginning in Slide 5 total revenues for the first quarter were $132.4 million a 35.3% increase over revenues of $97.8 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Total cost of revenues increased by 11.7% compared to last year.
In our Electricity segment on Slide 6 revenue for the first quarter of 2012 were $82.2 million an increase of 5.1% over revenues of $78.3 million for the same quarter last year.
The increase in Electricity revenues is due to higher variable energy rates of our Puna and Amatitlan PPAs and increased Electricity generation of some of our partners.
In the Product Segment on the next slide revenues for the first quarter increased 156.3% from $19.6 million in the first quarter of 2011 to $50.1 million this year.
The increase in product revenues reflects the new customer orders that we secured in 2011.
Moving to Slide 8.
The company's combined gross margin for the first quarter was 30.1% versus 15.3% in the same quarter last year.
The Electricity segment gross margin was 29.6% for the quarter versus 15.8% in Q1 2011.
Excluding North Brawley the Electricity segment's gross margin would have been 35.8% compared to 30.5% in 2011.
In the Product Segment gross margin for the first quarter was 30.9% versus 13.6% in the same quarter last year.
The increase is due to higher revenues the mix of products sold and different margins in the various sales contracts and it is also due to the revenues from the LNG project with no related cost of revenues.
Moving to Slide 9.
Interest expense for the first quarter was $14.9 million compared to $13.1 million in 2011.
The increase was principally due to the issuance of the OFC 2 Senior Secured Notes in October 2011 and the full quarter impact in 2012 of the senior unsecured bonds issued in February 2011.
Now moving on to Slide 10.
Net income for the quarter was $8 million or $0.17 per share basic and diluted compared to a net loss of $9 million or $0.20 per share basic and diluted for the same quarter in 2011.
As shown in the following slide Slide 11 EBITDA for the first quarter of 2012 was $51.5 million compared to $27.2 million in the same quarter of 2011 and net cash provided by operating activity was $41.9 million compared to $13.1 million a year ago.
The reconciliation of GAAP as well as additional cash flow information is set forth in Slide 27.
Moving to the next slide.
Cash cash equivalents and marketable securities as of March 31 2012 were $100.3 million down from $118.4 million as of December 31 2011.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the 3 months.
Our long-term debt at the end of the first quarter theme of the presentation and on the next slide you can see our dividend policy and recent dividend declaration.
On May 8 2012 Ormat's Board of Directors approved a payment of quarterly dividend of $0.04 per share to send to the company's dividend policy which targets an annual pay off ratio of at least 20% of the company's net income.
The dividend will be paid on May 30 to shareholders of record as of closing of business on May 21.
The company expects to pay a dividend of $0.04 per share in the next 2 quarters.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Yoram for an operational update.
Thank you Joseph and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 16 the total generation in the first quarter 2012 was 1 040 000 megawatt hours.
This represents an increase of 1.2% for the same quarter last year.
The steady growth in total generation and a decrease in O&amp;M expense excluding depreciation are a result of continued improvement in our operational performance enhancement of existing plants and completion of new projects.
On our last earnings call we spent a fair amount of time discussing the impact that the Global Settlement and a decrease in the forecasted natural gas would have on our business in 2012 and 2013.
As a reminder our fixed energy rate under the PPAs of Ormesa Heber and Mammoth converted in the beginning of May to a variable rate that is driven by natural gas.
Natural gas sub-prices and the forecast for future prices have been constantly dropping in the past year and as a result we may have to further reduce our revenue estimate for the year.
While we continue to explore alternatives to offset the reductions in Electricity revenues we do not think that we can do much to reduce the impact of this source of reduction in revenues in 2012 but we do expect some relief in 2013.
Furthermore  operational changes that were successfully implemented in the past 2 years through technical changes capital investment and improvements to our supply chain will lessen the impact of the reduction in rates on the overall results of the company.
Another area where we have continued to make progress is the reduction of operating expenses in North Brawley.
The first quarter continues the trend of reduction in the cost to operate the plant and the increase in the production pump life.
Generation was increased compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 and we expect it to increase further with the addition of our latest producer.
In April we entered into 2 swap contracts with a bank to reduce the fluctuations of revenue from Puna for the period from May 2012 until March 31 2013.
The contracts which do not have upfront cost have monthly settlement whereby the difference between the fixed price and the monthly average price will be settled on a cash basis.
These contracts will not be accounted for as a hedge transaction and will be mark-to-market with the corresponding gains or losses which will be recognized within the Electricity revenues.
For an update on projects under construction please turn to Slide 19.
In the table you can see the status and expected completion schedule for each project under construction.
We are progressing as planned with the construction of the McGinness Hills project in the Olkaria III expansion.
In Mammoth we have not yet received the construction permit and this will delay the execution of the project.
In Wild Rose 3 wells have been drilled and we are continuing with drilling activity.
At Heber Solar construction began in the fourth quarter 2011 and we expect commercial operation in 2013.
In Carson Lake we have recently resumed the drilling activity.
Overall we're in the construction phase of 7 projects that will add between 144  and 149 megawatt to our portfolio.
Four of these projects are expected to be completed by the end of 2013.
On Slide 20 you can see the detailed list of projects under development that we continue to work on.
Turning to Slide 21.
In addition to the projects under construction and development we now have 40 prospects in early exploration or activities yet to begin.
Turning on to Slide 22 for an update on the product segment.
2011 was an exceptionally strong year for the Product Segment and we continue to make progress in the first quarter 2012.
We signed new international and domestic contracts for the supply of geothermal power plants and other power generating units.
As of May 8 2012 our product backlog is at approximately $207 million.
It includes revenue for the period between April 1 and May 8 2012.
In the first quarter we were awarded a build down transfer project -- build-operate-transfer project by the Geothermal Development Company in Kenya and as announced a couple of weeks ago we won a $61.2 million EPC contract.
While this contract is currently under negotiation we have entered into a $9 million interim agreement with the customer until the full EPC contract is signed.
In the backlog we included only $9 million out of the new EPC contract.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Dita.
Thank you Yoram.
In my remarks I would like to comment on the recent transaction involving shares of Ormat Industries the parent of Ormat Technologies.
Review of first quarter include with revenue guidance for 2012 before opening the call up for questions.
In March 2012 FIMI a private equity fund and approximately 10% shareholder in Ormat Industries entered into an agreement to buy close to 12% of Ormat Industries' shares from Bronicki Investment.
As a result of this sale after the closing which is expected by the end of May FIMI and Bronicki Investments each will own about 22.5% of the outstanding shares of Ormat Industries.
I will continue to be the CEO of the company.
Yoram will continue to be President and COO and a representative of FIMI Gillon Beck a senior partner in FIMI will be Chairman of the Board.
We have continued to actively obtain financing to secure our growth.
Most recently in April we will seek a $13.8 million cash bond related to our Puna complex under Section 16 of [indiscernible] of the IRRA [ph].
And earlier in September 2011 we signed a commitment letter with OPIC to ask $310 million to finance and expand the Olkaria III complex located in Kenya.
The negotiation with OPIC are ongoing and we are currently [indiscernible] the documentation.
Please turn to Slide 24 where you will see the CapEx requirements for 2012.
For the remainder of 2012 we plan to invest $146 million in construction of new projects and an additional $34 million for development of new projects.
We expect also to invest $24 million in explorations in 2012.
In addition our capital expenditure budget for maintenance CapEx and enhancement for operating power plants is approximately $63 million.
The enhancement CapEx include investments in Heber Jersey Valley and Tuscarora.
Approximately $5 million are budgeted for investment in our production facility.
The funding of this program will come from cash on hand at the end of the third quarter 2012 cash from operations unused corporate lines of credit ITC cash grants and project finance dates.
Turning to Slide 25 you can see our revenue forecast for 2012.
We currently expect our 2012 product revenue to be $165 million to $175 million.
We are maintaining our Electricity forecast of $315 million to $330 million.
The wider range is due to the uncertainty around natural gas prices.
Before I finish my prepared remarks I would like to announce that we will be hosting an Analyst Day in New York next month on June 13 that will be webcast-ed for the benefit of all shareholders.
I encourage our analysts and investors who are interested in attending to contact us directly or KCSA Strategic Communications our Investor Relations firm for more information.
In closing we made significant progress in the first quarter of 2012 and I'm extremely pleased with our financial results.
Our investing portfolio benefited from improved operating efficiency.
New orders are increasing our Product Segment revenue and we move forward with strong fundamentals in the backlog in excess of $200 million.
I would like to thank you for your support.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Daniel Mannes with Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups.
First and I think you may have gone over this can you tell us what was either the operating loss or EBITDA contribution positive or negative for North Brawley in the quarter? It was still a slightly negative EBITDA number about $1.5 million negative great improvement over previous numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then quickly Tuscarora is that now selling commercially or are you still in start-up there? We are not looking at it operationally the plant is not in start-up mode anymore.
There are some administrative issues that we need to work with our off taker for it to move into the commercial operation phase and we hope that that will not be too long.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any new commentary on Sarulla? We got to ask every quarter right? It's a question for Dita not for me.
No one wants to take it Daniel.
Sarulla is making slow progress but nothing to tell about.
[indiscernible] I hope this still in our lifetime we'll be able to announce it.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean in your text it still is indicative that you were hoping that look like a closing in the second quarter or in the first half of this year.
Does that still hold or are you hinting that may be already be drifting into the latter part? Not the closing but the timing of further contract that will lead to the financial profit [ph].
As we look at the signing of the agreement this year closing about a year later.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Real quick on the California contracts.
I definitely heard Yoram's comments there being difficult to manage 2012.
Can you talk maybe a little bit about the $25 million decline that you noted before.
How has gas prices changed since you gave that data and I don't know if you can also give us any color on 2013 the impact on the GHG credit? Can you just sort of update us on both of those topics? Yes.
So it's a moving target.
Gas has been fluctuating.
I mean the issue is not so much the gas has been fluctuating but our estimate or the forecast on what the futures would be have been fluctuating and I think we did we reran the analysis in mid-April which I think is when gas was at its lowest or close to that.
And the impact at that point was about another $8 million in reduction in revenues in 2012.
Since then gas rebound some.
I think that it recovered by I think 20% increased by 20% from that calculation.
So it's a very -- I mean as a calculation it's easy to do but it's somewhat meaningless.
And therefore we offer a wide range in terms of our revenue estimates.
We anticipate that there would be the adder -- the greenhouse gas adder in 2013 which would be a substantial -- I mean a nice addition to the rate itself.
This is our understanding but that's all that we know.
I mean if you'd like it's an assumption or an estimate at this point.
I don't know.
I don't know whether there is -- there are things that could change.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the $25 million did that get you to the midpoint of '12? And secondly the $25 million for 13 did that include the greenhouse gas adder or not? Yes it is the 2013 assessment included the greenhouse gas adder -- and I'm sorry Dan what was the first question? LLC Research Division</strong> The $25 million for 2012 did that get you to the midpoint of the range or is that the lower end of guidance? I believe that -- you know what Smadar can jump in.
Dan if we look at the natural gas prices that we had when we calculated January impact they are very similar to what we have in the last 2 days.
Maybe today it's at 5% to 6% lower but you know [indiscernible] fluctuations we see it every day and we cannot say that's the bottom but say what it looks now and we see the trends in the last 2 weeks we hope that we will see higher rates and the 25 will be the low end.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question and I'll let someone else jump in.
Your capital expenditures it looks like they've changed a bit.
I think you were $367 million for the year as of 12/31.
You spent about $60 million in the quarter and you're now down to $270 million.
Did you cut out from development spending and maybe replace it elsewhere or can you talk a little bit about maybe a change in your planned spending for this year? Well there are some -- there's nothing that is dramatic but there are some modification like the fact that we haven't got the permits to expand Mammoth at this point.
It's -- obviously we adjust our CapEx plan accordingly.
So I think that this is for the -- really for the most part probably Mammoth is the biggest change besides CapEx that went into that was contemplated in different exploration program and based on priorities and other findings we made modifications to this.
So these are a few million dollars here and there but not a big impact on the program itself.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregg Orrill with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just getting back to the new rate on Ormesa Heber and Mammoth how often is the rate reset? And is there a sensitivity that you might be able to provide to gas prices EBITDA to gas prices? So the rate will be calculated constantly.
It's driven by the short run of what it cost.
I'm sorry Dita you want to...
Thinking about it when we had the earlier dialogue on gas prices we will put there something for the Analyst Day so that we can share with everybody.
I realize that it's something we need to do.
We don't have it handy.
We will do it for the Analyst Day which is in about a month so not a long time to wait.
And we will be able to provide more transparency there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Also on the O&amp;M expenses per megawatt hour down to $35 from $41 in Q1 '11 How much of that related to North Brawley? Brawley had -- probably had a significant impact.
Give me a second.
I can probably give you just a rough indication.
Let's move on then we'll get back.
Yoram do you want to take it? Smadar I think we don't want to give a precise answer but to give just a directional answer Gregg even at our other facilities I think that we had at least a 10% improvement in our operating expenses outside of Brawley.
So in general although Brawley had a big impact we see better performance out of the combined fleet even excluding Brawley.
Research Division</strong> Is that something that we could -- those expense reductions is that for the rest of the fleet? Has that leveled off or are you continuing other initiatives there that could push it down further? Clearly this is what we need to do.
We need to continue and look at ways to operate more efficiently leverage our buying power improve design of equipment that is more troublesome -- or not troublesome but more expensive to operate.
There's always an element there's an element of good fortune and bad luck and this.
When you have a failure of a major piece of equipment.
And it does happen on fleet by car then it does the cost to operate may spike up during that quarter.
So part of what we see is clearly sustainable and is based on improvement in how we do things.
Part of what we see is that we have a very good quarter.
But as our fleet grows the opportunities to combine for permanent leverage our buying power that's very substantial.
Our expansion that is done by if you like areas of influence so expanding into eastern Nevada and pretty soon having 3 power plants operate from that location with shared resources these are all things that would allow.
And of course expanding Olkaria again in the same location.
These are all areas that will drive our overall cost per negota [ph] are down.
And these are all positive trends.
Your next question from the lines of JinMing Liu with Ardour Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> First of all just some follow-up questions on North Brawley.
What was the effective capacity for North Brawley in first quarter and what is your expectation for production for North Brawley in the coming quarters? So we do not provide forecast on future generation.
The ramp-up is something that we have decided we will do very gradually as we find more indications on which wells are better to operate and what are the prudent operating schemes.
So I cannot offer this to you.
The number the average number for the quarter or the number for the quarter was somewhere between 20 and 22 megawatts in terms of average production.
It's a little low because we have connected a new well a newly drilled well later in the quarter.
So the first part was still a little low.
And then as we said on our presentation a little earlier another well that we believe is very successful has just been connected.
So this will drive the generation up and so that we expect better results than the 20 to 22 megawatt that we had in the first quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And regarding the swap contract you entered for the Puna facility.
Should I just for modeling purpose should I use the crude oil price in the first quarter as a benchmark for the future periods? Yes within the limitations of variables but I think that that's good.
And amount of outage adjustments.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got that.
Lastly is -- my question is for the total take projects you have.
Are those projects ready to contribute for revenue sometime beyond 2013? I mean there's the one that is actively in construction which is at Heber.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that's built in California but I'm a little bit [indiscernible] there's 166 megawatts.
So yes the one that is currently in construction we expect to complete in 2013 so we may see some revenue in 2013.
The rest of the projects are not yet in construction and therefore I think that it's prudent to say it will be post-2013.
Although there could be good surprises there because these projects are once you have all the permitting in place all the approvals will be on line very quickly.
That trouble is that we don't -- or not the trouble but the difficulty in forecasting when would they come online is that we don't have all the approvals yet and the visibility on how long it would take to get them is not very good.
But as soon as some of them move into actual construction we will provide a more detailed forecast on when we can see revenue stream.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
Can you provide maybe an update on operations and output at Jersey Valley? There's nothing major to update on Jersey Valley.
We're looking at drilling additional injection.
We're working on the permitting on targeting.
I believe that nothing dramatic happened.
In this quarter and it's all work in preparation.
The plant is running well at lower capacity of course than desired but it's running well.
And as we find more injection we will ramp up production as well.
Research Division</strong> In your revenue guidance for the year is there some flexibility around maybe bringing on some new capacity at that plant or what are you projecting in the guidance as it is today? The impact of Jersey on the revenue is very small.
We have taken a conservative approach when we did the original guidance which is no ramp-up of Jersey at all but it's not substantial.
And I think that that's certainly the way to look at this.
We certainly want the plant to be as close to capacity as possible and we'll work hard to do so but the impact on overall revenue is not huge.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick further question on the solar capacity figures just down a little bit.
Detail on maybe a project that you no longer hope to pursue or how are those moving around? The solar activity needs to be divided in order to understand it into 2 groups.
One is the project that is actually under construction the 10-megawatt project in the Imperial Valley.
This one is moving along and we expect it to be online in 2013.
The other Israeli projects all of them and they are still subject to regulatory approval.
So while some of them are more advanced and some of them are less advanced none of them have full regulatory approval.
So it's more difficult to predict how many of them and when they will be in construction.
Clearly some of them will reach construction phase soon but how many is hard to predict.
At this time there are no further questions.
I now turn the floor over to Dita for closing remarks.
There are not really closing remarks.
We are very happy with the quarter.
We look forward to a very good year and to a continued cooperation with all of you.
Thank you for your interest in the company and bye-bye.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ormat Technologies Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brad Nelson of KCSA Strategic Communications.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Hosting the call today are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph Tenne Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operation and are based on management's current estimates and projections of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see Risk Factors as prescribed in the company's annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 29 2012.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures as defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the SEC such as EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of Ormat Technologies believes that EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurements that both management and investors benefit from referring to through non-GAAP financial measures in assessing Ormat Technologies' liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparison to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Events &amp; Presentations link that's found in the Investor Relations tab.
With that all said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Brad and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our second quarter 2012 results and outlook for the near future.
The second quarter this year was another strong quarter both in the financial result of operation and in the progress of our construction activity.
Compared to the second quarter last year total revenue increased 24% with Electricity and Product segment revenue increasing 5% and 91% respectively.
Operating income increased significantly as a result of organic growth and improved operations.
Both had helped to offset the impacts of low gas prices on our energy rates under the Ormesa Heber and Mammoth SO#4 PPA in California.
In June the McGinness Hills geothermal plant reached full power and met the requirements under the Summit Holdings agreement.
And together with the commercial operation of Tuscarora plant both would present an increase of approximately 9% to our portfolio.
With the completion of McGinness and Tuscarora we have demonstrated the strength of our vertical integrated structure in moving forth from greenfield development to operation.
In the Product segment with the recently signed $61.4 million EPC contract with Enel we were able to maintain an impressive backlog ensuring high level of revenues for 2013.
Let me turn the call over to Joseph for a review of the financials.
Yoram will review operation.
And following my remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Joseph? Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Beginning on Slide 5 total revenues for the second quarter were $129.8 million a 24.1% increase over revenues of $104.6 million in the second quarter of 2011.
In our Electricity segment as you can see on Slide 6 revenues increased 4.7% from $81.2 million in the second quarter of 2011 to $85 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The increase in electricity revenues is due to $4.1 million in revenues from our Tuscarora power plant which commenced commercial operations in January 2012 and which included a $1.3 million retroactive payment for the first quarter of 2012.
Revenue in the second quarter of 2012 also include a $3.8 million net gain from 2 swap contracts with respect to our Puna complex and a put option transaction with respect to our Standard Offer #4 PPA in California that we entered into in the second quarter of 2012.
And $3.5 million net increase in revenues from other power plants.
The increase was offset by a reduction of $7.6 million in revenues from our Standard Offer #4 PPA in California that their energy rate was converted in the beginning of May to viable rate driven by natural gas rates.
In the Product segment on Slide 7 revenues for the second quarter increased 91.4% from $23.4 million in the second quarter of 2011 to $44.8 million this year.
The increase in product revenues reflect the new orders that we secured 2011 and this rise is largely attributed to the $130 million of order we received from Mighty River Power Limited for the Ngatamariki Geothermal Power Plant in New Zealand.
Moving to Slide 8.
The company's combined gross margin for the second quarter was 30.9% compared to 31.7% in the same quarter last year.
The Electricity segment gross margin was 31.8% for the quarter compared to 23.4% in Q2 of 2011.
And the Product segment gross margin for the second quarter was 29% and the 60.5% in the second quarter last year was mainly due to the addition of $7.9 million of revenue in the LNG energy recovery unit in Spain with virtually no associated cost of revenues since the cost had been included in the past in associated development.
Moving to Slide 9.
Operating income for the second quarter increased $6.6 million from $19.4 million to $26 million a new build in the same quarter last year due to higher revenues and lower maintenance costs in most of our power plants and specifically at North Brawley.
Moving to Slide 10.
Interest expense net of calculated interest for the second quarter was $14.3 million compared to $17.4 million in the same quarter in 2011.
The increase was primarily due to a $4 million loss of interest rates lock transaction relating to the U.S.
Department of Energy loan dollars definancing that was recorded in the second quarter of 2011 and which was not accounted for as hedge transaction.
Moving to Slide 11.
Net income for the quarter was $8.7 million or $0.19 per share basic and diluted compared to net income of $8.2 million or $0.18 per share basic and diluted for the same quarter in 2011.
As shown in Slide 12 EBITDA for the second quarter of 2012 was $50.8 million compared to $47.7 million in the same quarter of 2011.
And net cash provided by operating activities was $30.2 million compared to $26.4 million year-to-date.
The reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA as well as additional cash flow information is set forth in Slide 27.
Moving to Slide 13.
Cash cash equivalents and marketable securities as of June 30 2012 was $71.9 million down from $118.4 million as of December 31 2011.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the 3 months.
We're doing the last 6 months.
Our long-term debt at the end of the second quarter of 2012 and the payment schedule are presented in Slide 14 of the presentation.
And on the next slide you can see our dividend policy and the recent dividend declaration.
On August 1 2012 Ormat's Board of Directors approved the payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.04 per share pursuant to the company's dividend policy which targets an annual payout ratio of at least 20% of the company's net income.
The dividend will be paid on August 23 to shareholders of record as of the closing of business on August 14.
The company expects to pay dividend of $0.04 per share in the next quarter.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the floor to Yoram for an operational update.
Thank you Joseph and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 17.
The total generation in the second quarter of 2012 was approximately 994 000 megawatt-hours.
This represents an increase of 3.9% from the same quarter last year a steady growth in total generation and the decreasing O&amp;M expense include appreciation -- I'm sorry exclude depreciation reflect continuous progress made over the past years in improving operation and increasing efficiency at our plants.
And in this quarter the big improvement in Brawley.
As we recently announced the 30-megawatt McGinness Hills power plant met the requirement for commercial operation under the OFC 2 loan agreement and has been operating at full power for almost 2 months.
McGinness sales demonstrates our ability to develop a successful greenfield project that was categorized as a blind system.
A blind system is a system that has no surface manifestation either hot springs or fumaroles.
The power plant also incorporates new technology that provides approximately a 10% increase the broad utilization efficiency.
The plant is selling electricity at a rate that is approximately half of the full energy price of the PPA.
Full energy prices are expected to be paid effectively from the end of June or following NV Energy's approval of the commercial operation date.
NV Energy approved the commercial operation dates for the Tuscarora geothermal power plant.
We are now receiving full energy prices.
And as Joseph mentioned in his remarks we received retroactive payments through January 1.
Another area where we have continued to make progress is reducing operating expenses in North Brawley.
The EBITDA this quarter has been very close to breakeven and we expect the improvement to continue throughout the rest of the year.
For updates on projects under construction please turn to Slide 19.
In the table you can see the status and expected completion schedule for each project under construction.
The Olkaria III expansion is progressing in both field development and plant construction and we expect to have the project online by mid-2013.
Heber Solar construction began in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we expect commercial operation in 2013.
In Wild Rose 3 wells have been drilled and we are continuing the drilling activity.
We currently estimate the generating capacity to be at 16 megawatts and we will update our expectation based on this field development result.
There was no progress on permitting at Mammoth and CD4.
We've already completed about half of the capacity that we plan to bring online before the end of 2013 and it is contributing to our cash flow.
An additional 62 megawatts are expected to be added by 2013 from Wild Rose Heber Solar and Olkaria III expansion.
On Slide 20 you can see the detailed list of projects under development that we continue to work on and a detailed description of our solar photovoltaics projects.
As it became clear that Wister will not be able to meet the PPA milestones we started discussions with the offtaker on a possible cancellation of the PPA.
The results have been -- progress while still slow on Sarulla and the negotiations over the amendments of the JOC ESC contracts.
Turning to Slide 21.
In addition to the projects under construction and development we now have 41 prospects in early exploration work even before McGinness began.
Turning now to Slide 22 for an update on the product segment.
During the second quarter we secured more work in this segment and further increased our backlog.
In July we closed on a $61.4 million EPC contract with Enel Green Power North America.
Under the contract Ormac will supply 2 air-cooled Ormat Energy Converter power plant to Enel's Cove Fort geothermal project in Southern Utah.
As of August 1 2012 our product backlog is approximately $242 million.
It includes revenue for the period between July 1 and August 1 2012 and the Thermo 1 $21 million order which will not be accounted as revenue until the customer secures its financing on the project.
Let me turn the call back to Dita.
Thank you Yoram.
Before anything else I would like to comment on second quarter financing activity our capital provision and conclude with revenue guidance for 2012 before opening the call for questions.
In the second quarter we have received $72.2 million ITC cash grants relating to enhancement of our Puna geothermal complex and to our Jersey Valley and Tuscarora geothermal power plants.
Essential progress was made in the documentation of the OPIC loan to refinance or subordinate the existing Olkaria III loans and to finance the construction of Olkaria III complex expansion.
Please turn to Slide 24 where you will see the CapEx requirement for the remainder of 2012.
We plan to invest a total of $140 million.
$90 million is expected to be invested in construction of new projects and an additional $3 million for development of new projects.
We also expect to invest up to $9 million in exploration and budgeted $34 million for maintenance CapEx and enhancements for operation -- for operating power plant.
And $4 million is expected to be in invested in enhancements to our production facility.
As we can see on the right side of the slide we have sufficient capital resources from OPIC.
Turning to Slide 25 you can see our revenue forecast for 2012.
We maintain our 2012 Product revenue guidance to be between $165 million and $175 million.
We expect the Electricity segment revenue to be between $320 million and $330 million.
In closing we made significant progress in the second quarter of 2012 and achieved core financial results.
Our existing portfolio benefited from improved operating efficiency.
New orders are increasing our Product segment revenue and we move forward with backlog in excess of $240 million equates to the highest backlog it will achieve.
I would like to thank you for your support.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] -- that you have for both Puna and California in the first quarter.
Can you at least give us a rule of thumb on how to think of those going forward? I know they were obviously -- they were pretty supportive in the first quarter but we've seen some movement up in natural gas and oil.
Are these going to be -- are they going to prove to be mark-to-market headwinds potentially in the second quarter or -- sorry in the third quarter and through the balance of the year? It's -- they're different.
The California and Puna are different.
In the case of California we will enjoy upside.
So if gas goes up we will benefit from this.
In the case of Puna yes we have basically that they -- at certain market the time of the hedge and if for some reason oil goes crazy beyond that we will not benefit from it.
LLC Research Division</strong> So could you -- so some of the gains you had in the first quarter or -- sorry in the second quarter those could turn around later in the year potentially? Not on the gas.
And in case of the OEFC -- do you want to...
In case of the oil of course if prices will remain -- the arrow will go up or will not -- or go down -- we can reverse it.
But on the other hand we're getting the cash on a monthly basis it's a monthly supplement.
Yes it can be in fluctuation because of the accounting which mark-to-market against P&amp;L and not against comprehensive -- other comprehensive income.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Real quick a couple of other topics.
On the Product segment given the nice signing on the Enel contract I guess I was kind of surprised you didn't raise guidance for the year because your backlog far swamps what your guidance is for the back half of the year.
Can you talk a little bit about maybe the timing of revenue realization? Or is there some reason you think maybe more of this will be deferred into '13? The answer is that when we gave the guidance we knew about the Enel contract.
We had a $9 million advance released earlier in the year.
So there is the -- some of it is in our planning.
And yes most of the revenue we have built in the Enel contract will be recognized in 2013.
I think that what the analysis should say that 2013 is going to be a strong year in the Product segment as 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then obviously there's still a lot of time to hopefully book more contracts? Segregation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Real quick on the cost structure.
We continue to see really impressive results on the power side in terms of your bringing down the cost of your fleet.
Are we at a level yet that we can sort of carry forward -- understand there's some seasonality that $34 megawatt-hour is that kind of the right ballpark? Or is there potential to even bring that down further? I think that we still -- there's still an impact or a drag from Brawley so we need to see more improvement there.
And there's -- we will see an -- probably an effect of still some of the new plants coming online that have a lower cost basis than the older plants.
So the impact of the future megawatts to come online is something that we should see on the cost side.
On the margin side that's also -- we expect improvement from the projects that are expected to come online.
So that would expand potentially the top line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And 2 last quick ones.
On the Wister on the PPA any opportunity to maybe shift that to the California contracts and replace the SO4? Or would this be sort of a straight termination? Unfortunately not a simple way to swap the 2 no.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the ITC cash grant I noticed just that you've got Jersey Valley Puna and Tuscarora this quarter.
And it sounds like you'll get McGinness soon.
Anything left on North Brawley you can go after? Or will that sort of wrap up the cash credit program? Number one though in the -- we will submit another application for North Brawley for the additional investment that have been made since we received the initial application and we expect the arrival with an ITC cash grant so...
Your next question comes from the line of Jesse Pichel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one.
With McGinness coming online this quarter and the half payments how should we think about margins in the third quarter in the Electricity segment? I'm not sure that we can answer it now.
The margins -- typically third quarter margins were higher than the normal because of the high rate that we were getting during the summer months from the Standard Offer #4 contract.
With the natural gas price pressure they are in the export [ph] for we'd see [ph] -- I don't think that we would see the response that we typically see in the third quarter and it should probably remain similar to the prior quarters.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right good.
And then as far as margins go in that plant is it up to the full utilization and the cost of where you expect them to be going forward? Sorry can you repeat the question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> For the McGinness facility so the plant's up to full utilization and are you at your expected cost currently? Yes McGinness came in on budget.
It is at full utilization.
We are not getting yet the full commercial operation rate but we expect to get it retroactively to July 1.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Driscoll with Capstone Investments.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
Has there been any of the solar initiatives in Israel that have received a full regulatory approval yet? And if not what may or may not be the hindrances and potentially the timing of[indiscernible]? Unfortunately not yet.
We are very close on 3 projects but we are not there yet.
Very close but not there yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other question I just have is the inevitable question about Sarulla.
You mentioned some progress.
Could you maybe give some additional color about what the progress was? Obviously maybe since the Analyst Day if you could just give it your own qualification? Obviously we've been long awaiting this potential addition on the EPC side.
The progress in resolving the issue -- but the main issue -- I think we explained it on the Analyst Day and I'm happy to repeat it which is a solution to the ownership of the power plant's assets viewing the financing forfeit.
There is -- the actual solution to it was not yet found.
There is a willingness to forfeit but how exactly to implement the solution was not yet found.
But we are making progress towards those budget solutions.
The nice terms that we are expecting is the signature of the JOC ESC.
This has not yet happened.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm assuming that you guys had a hard-fought win really to get the PPA rate up.
Any further discussion about modification of that? Or do you really want to put that to rest and really try to sign the agreement? We are not opening up the rates on full year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions here.
With the Wister PPA situation if you do end up having to cancel that what would be your options around that facility? And can you talk about that a little bit? Yes I mean there is -- in a situation like this we can go ahead and try to market it again at the right time.
So provided that there's a way to develop the project there it's just a matter of timing for finding an offtaker.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess we'll just have to wait for that.
And then with the Jersey Valley PPA do you have any comments on where you stand with resolving that? Or is it still too early to say? No not the PPA the performance of the plants you mean right? Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
Sorry.
The PPA is in good form.
There is no issue with the PPA.
The plant is underperforming and we are working towards adding additional injection capacity in order to the bring the performance of the plant up.
We expect a permit for bringing the injection rate in the next couple of weeks.
And we'll see if really the rates starts going up.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Daniels with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I thought maybe you could talk a little bit more about North Brawley? And could you give us what the megawatt output was during the quarter? Yes.
I think that the output was -- the average output in the quarter was 24 megawatts.
And if you recall in previous presentations our efforts are to gradually increase generation but especially control costs and we've been very successful in the quarter in doing so.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Was the cost for that quarter $7.2 million and now $7.5 million in this quarter? Do I have that right? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Or is that just increased depreciation? No.
The depreciation didn't increase much maybe additional CapEx.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So those costs were up a little bit sequentially? But a very very minor level.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now how should that cost trend kind of going forward? Do you expect to keep bringing it down or is the $7.5 million kind of a decent run rate for the next several quarters as you figure everything out? Our expectation is for the cost to again within our control barring unexpected issues we expect the cost to remain at about this level maybe trend a little bit down for this generation capacity.
But the focus would be to increase generation while maintaining this -- roughly these costs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
The contract of Mighty River Power the $130 million contract we saw some dispute I guess between the indigenous the M?ori and the New Zealand government during the quarter.
I just want to make sure that your project with Mighty River is not at risk at all is it? It is not.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now you guys are...
For approximate for saving we don't have any issues of in here about any direct issue related to our projects.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Where do you see the bidding activity for the products? I mean is it kind of strong in any specific geography? Or in general could you kind of speak of the bidding activity? There has never been any project stability in it and there's none today.
Geothermal development is site-specific.
So clearly there is no bidding as typically in Norway or Sweden because there's no geothermal there.
But wherever it is whether it's in New Zealand or Indonesia we cannot predict where or from where orders are going to come.
Turkey probably is in that exact market.
The U.S.
is probably going to slow down after the installation of that existing cash grant.
But it's very hard to identify it geography.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe in the geothermal development and the projects from the development I didn't see a status update.
Is everything pretty similar in Crump Geyser and Wister understanding the PPA situation in Wister? And how is permitting in general? Has it become more difficult just still difficult? How would you guys cost that up? I think that permitting remains difficult because it's very site-- it's both site-specific county-specific and state-specific.
So some areas in Nevada are very easy to permit some areas are more difficult.
But there were no big changes in Nevada.
We did make a lot of progress in working better with the different agencies.
In other locations there's really no big difference.
Just the -- our timelines remain about the same as they were before.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick follow up on North Brawley.
Can you maybe walk us through what your plan is both in terms of drilling and in terms of capacity maybe for the next 6 12 18 months as you ramp it up? Well remember we said we will not disclose plans.
So I'm between a rock and a hard place.
But I would say that really our focus -- immediate focus is do whatever it takes to extend the run life of the pumps.
We have 1 pump now that exceeded 10 000 hours.
And over the first 2 quarters we have seen -- really over the last 4 quarters we have seen an increase in run life of the pumps.
And this is the biggest cost driver also affects availability.
We did -- and this goes back to a presentation in the Analyst Day.
We did -- continued to -- continued interpretation of the 3D seismic survey that we have done in this field and correlated it with geological information.
And based on this we believe that we can either redrill existing wells or drill new wells in locations that are much better and would provide results that were really that we were hoping for in a lot of our drilling activity in 2009 and 2010 but never got.
However it is a long process and we will do it in a -- we will do it very gradually.
So it will be drill well bit based on the new interpretation of the field test it for a good number of months to see that indeed we are getting the results that we were hoping for.
And then drill the next one based on the same theory assuming that the theory proves right.
So on the cost side and increasing run life of equipment we have very detailed plans and it's ongoing.
And we see the benefits from the work that we have done in the past 2 years.
When it comes to expanding the field we will be on purpose very slow in doing so.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then real quick one on the topic going back to the Product sales segment.
I noticed that you are including the Thermo 1 order in backlog.
Are you currently actually providing equipment to Thermo 1? And if so can you just briefly talk about the accounting? And then secondly could you talk at all about the status of Lightning Dock? The Thermo 1 is under construction.
The equipment didn't -- wasn't delivered yet.
It is -- the quarter that you expect it to be online before the end of 2013 and it is under construction.
The other for -- Lightning Dock was not on the list yet to put out to production.
It is the fairest condition to save in the 12 months of savings.
So for this one it is in a firm situation.
The current improvements is -- the simple reason that even I can explain so I don't have to pass the call to Joseph is it is going to be included in inventory if you want or in deposit because we cannot recognize it as revenue as long as we have Glendale under this project.
We have 2 roles we are basically contractor and we are the lender.
Once the project is complete it is expected that financing will not be a problem because the resource is there.
It's just the problem that we are having.
And once there is some sufficient financing then we will recognize a good revenue.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call over to management for any closing remarks.
Not really closing remarks but a big thank you for your useful questions and we hope to continue with positive results in the coming months.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and Gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ormat Technologies Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rob Fink of KCSA Strategic Communications.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Maria and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Hosting the call are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph Tenne Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we'd like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management's current estimates and projection of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see Risk Factors as described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 29 2012.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures as defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the SEC such as adjusted EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of Ormat Technologies believes that adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurements that both management and investors benefit from referring to this non-GAAP financial measure in assessing Ormat Technologies' liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparison to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Events &amp; Presentations link found in the Investor Relations tab.
With that all said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Rob and good morning to everybody.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our third quarter 2012 results and outlook for the near future.
This quarter we continue to see major progress in our generation which increased by 12%.
Total revenue grew 23%.
Cost per megawatt-hour were reduced and operating income excluding impairment charge and loss from hedging deal increased over 4%.
These improvements come from the fundamental of both the Electricity and the Product Segment.
However as we have explained this year was marked by the impact of the low natural gas prices in multiple Californian contracts and this quarter was the first one to reflect the full effect of the lower natural gas prices.
And other indirect results of the weaker natural gas market is the noncash impairment charge related to the OREG 4 project.
Going forward we look for -- we took proactive steps to reduce our revenue exposure to oil and natural gas prices through hedge deals.
In addition we signed 2 new fixed-price PPAs for our Mammoth complex in California to replace 2 Standard Offer #4 PPAs and further reduce our exposure to natural gas prices.
Joseph and Yoram will elaborate on these activities later on the call.
I will now turn the call to Yoram to review our operation and then to Joseph to review the financial.
Following my remarks we will open the call for Q&amp;A.
Yoram? Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 5 total generation for the third quarter of 2012 was approximately 991 000 megawatt-hours which is an increase of 11.7% from the same quarter last year.
The growth in generation this quarter is mainly due to the successful completion of the Tuscarora power plant and the McGinness Hills power plant that has been in commercial operation since July.
Control of operating costs remained a key priority and our specific cost in dollars per megawatt-hour this quarter were 10% lower than in the third quarter of 2011.
The reduction is both the result of targeted action in high maintenance-cost areas of the plants and the addition of higher-efficiency plants to our generation basis.
Moving to Slide 6.
At the macro level the results from the North Brawley -- from North Brawley this quarter remained similar to those of the third quarter of 2011.
We were not successful in reaching a breakeven EBITDA due to increased cost and lower-than-budgeted generation caused by a strong earthquake and work on 2 of our better production wells.
However at a detailed level we continued to see substantial improvement in most of the cost drivers for Brawley with production lines more than doubling compared to 2011 and expectation to see total operating expenses for 2012 at about 67% of 2011 and this is excluding depreciation.
I will now turn to Slide 7.
As Dita mentioned in her opening remarks we believe that the impact of the low natural gas prices will subdue over time.
However we have been proactive in dealing with the effects of the variable rates in our company.
In the short term we have secured a floor for the SO#4 contracts and secured the revenue from Puna using a swap hedge for 2012.
For 2013 we have secured an energy rate of over $40 per megawatt-hour for the Standard Offer #4 contracts in a swap transaction and acquired a hedge for Puna's rates.
These hedging deals require us to perform a mark-to-market adjustment but provide a stable revenue stream.
As for the long term we have signed 2 PPAs outside of the SO#4 structure for 2 of the Mammoth plants and we will continue to look for opportunities to convert the remaining contracts to fixed-rate contracts that are not tied to natural gas pricing.
For an update on the project pipeline please turn to Slide 8.
In the table you can see the status and expected completion schedule for each of the projects that we plan to bring online by the end of 2013.
The Olkaria III extension is progressing in both field development and plant construction and we expect to have the project online by mid-2013.
At Heber Solar construction began in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we expect commercial operation in 2013.
At Wild Rose we are close to completing the drilling [indiscernible] phase for the power plant equipment.
We currently estimate the generating capacity to be 60 megawatts.
Successful completion of these 3 projects will bring our total generating capacity to 648 megawatts by the end of 2013.
In Mammoth we are in the process of modernizing the complex by replacing old units with Ormat-manufactured equipment.
While the project will maintain the current name plate capacity we expect higher availability and lower equipment-related costs.
On Slide 9 you can see the list of projects under various stages of development.
As you can see we plan to develop a fourth phase in Olkaria III complex that will bring the complex's capacity to approximately 100 megawatts.
Due to changes in the fee and tariff under the current regulation and the long permitting process the solar-photovoltaic projects in Israel are currently excluded from our plan.
Turning to Slide 10.
In addition to the projects under construction and development we now have 42 prospects in early exploration or where activity has yet to begin.
Slide 11 provides an update on the Product Segment.
As of November 6 2012 our product backlog is approximately $192 million which ensures high levels of revenue through 2013.
Let me now turn the call to Joe.
Thank you Yoram and good morning everyone.
Beginning on Slide 13 total revenues for the third quarter were $136.1 million a 22.8% increase over the revenues of $110.8 million in the third quarter of 2011.
In our Electricity segment as you can see on Slide 14 revenues decreased 6.2% from $86.8 million in the third quarter of 2011 to $81.5 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The decrease in Electricity revenues resulted from a $9.3 million decrease resulting from the lower natural gas prices impact on the energy rates under our SO4 PPA in California and a net loss of $3.8 million on swap contracts and put transactions on oil prices and natural gas prices.
As previously explained these transactions are mark-to-market at each balance sheet date so actually the loss this quarter eliminates the gain we had recorded from these transactions in the previous quarter.
On an annual basis these fluctuations are eliminated.
As I mentioned in previous calls we are not using hedge accounting for those contracts.
The decrease in revenues was partially offset by $7.8 million in revenues from our Tuscarora and McGinness Hills power plants which commenced commercial operations in January 2012 and July 2012 respectively.
In the Product Segment on Slide 15 revenues for the third quarter more than doubled from $24 million in the third quarter of 2011 to $54.7 million this quarter.
The increase in Product revenue is largely attributed to the progress we made in execution of the Ngatamariki geothermal project in New Zealand that we secured in 2011 and the new contract for the Cove Fort project in Utah we signed in 2012 with Enel.
Moving to Slide 16.
The company's combined gross margin for the third quarter was 23.9% compared to 32.3% in the same quarter last year.
The Electricity Segment's gross margin was 24.5% for the quarter compared to 33.3% in the third quarter of 2011.
The decrease is mainly attributable to the lower revenues from our Standard Offer #4 PPAs.
In the Product Segment gross margin for the third quarter was 23% compared to 28.7% in the same quarter last year.
The decrease in Product's gross margin is mainly attributable to a different product mix and different margins in the various sales contracts.
Moving now to Slide 17.
Operating income for the third quarter was $14.2 million a decrease of $10 million from $24.2 million in the same quarter last year due to the OREG 4 impairment charge and lower gross margin in the Electricity Segment.
Since commissioning the OREG 4 recovered-energy generation power plant -- in the OREG 4 recovered-energy generation power plant the compressor station has operated at lower than historical levels.
As a result the current and projected output for OREG 4 is low and therefore we have to test for recoverability by estimating its future cash flows.
The carrying value of $10.9 million exceeded the estimated undiscounted cash flows and therefore we recognized a noncash pretax impairment charge of $7.3 million.
Underlying operating income which is operating income excluding the impairment charge and excluding the loss on the put and swap transactions amounted to $25.3 million.
Moving to Slide 18.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest for the second quarter was $15.4 million compared to $23.9 million in the same quarter in 2011.
The decrease was primarily due to the $11.6 million loss in the third quarter of 2011 on interest rate-lock transactions relating to the OFC senior secured notes.
The decrease was partially offset by additional interest expense mainly as a result of the issuance of the OFC 2 senior secured notes in October 2011 and higher interest capitalized to projects under construction in 2011.
Moving to Slide 19.
The net loss for the quarter was $0.5 million or $0.01 per share basic and diluted compared to net income of $1 million or $0.02 per share basic and diluted for the same quarter of 2011.
As shown in Slide 20 adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2012 was $48.2 million compared to $46.7 million in the same quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA excludes the impairment loss in respect of the OREG 4 power plant and includes the loss on the put and swap transactions.
For the 9 months adjusted EBITDA grew by approximately 24%.
It was more than $150 million.
The reconciliation of GAAP net cash provided by operating activities to adjusted EBITDA as well as additional cash flow information is set forth in Slide 27.
Moving to Slide 21.
Cash cash equivalents marketable securities and short-term bank deposits as of September 30 2012 were $40.5 million down from $118.4 million as of December 31 2011.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the 3 months.
Our long-term debt at the end of the third quarter of 2012 and the payment schedules are presented in Slide 22 of the presentation.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call back to Dita for closing remarks.
Thank you Joseph.
In my remarks I would like to comment on third quarter financing activities our capital position and conclude with revenue guidance for 2012 before opening the call up for questions.
In the third quarter we received a $47 million ITC cash grant relating to the investment in the McGinness Hills power plant.
This has added to the $72.2 million received earlier in the year.
In addition we signed a $310 million limited-recourse OPIC loan agreement for the Olkaria III complex.
Out of the first draw under the loan that is expected shortly approximately $150 million will be used to [indiscernible] finance corporate loans and therefore replace corporate debt by project financing.
Please turn to Slide 24 where you will see the CapEx requirements for the remainder of 2012.
We plan to invest a total of $70 million.
$48 million is expected to be invested in construction of new projects which will be completed in 2013 and an additional $22 million for development of new projects exploration maintenance CapEx and enhancements for operating power plants and enhancements to the production facility.
As you can see on the right side of the slide we have sufficient capital resources to support our plan.
Turning to Slide 25 which presents our revenue forecast for 2012.
We increase our 2012 Product revenue guidance to between $175 million and $180 million.
We expect Electricity Segment revenue to be approximately $325 million.
And in total approximately $0.5 billion of revenue.
In closing we are pleased with the steady improvement in revenues and operating costs.
While federal support in the renewables sector in the U.S.
is unclear we are confident that the strong fundamentals and successful track record in both segments will enable us to continue with our plans in the global geothermal arena.
I would like to thank you for your support and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Carter Driscoll of Capstone Investments.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was hoping you could elaborate a little bit about the incident that occurred at North Brawley and potentially any impact on the generation equipment whether anything had to be specifically replaced because of that? And then maybe comment on the outlook of reaching EBITDA breakeven? Maybe you could project when you think you may or may not do so? Whether you potentially might have to take an impairment charge similar to the evaluation you did at OREG? And I have a follow-up.
Yes it's Yoram.
It was a fairly strong earthquake in the Brawley area and it just tipped the plants off-line and affected the performance of some of the wells.
It was actually the second of relative strength this year and it is -- all our geothermal plants or all the geothermal power plants don't like to be taken off-line abruptly.
So there's cleanup and repair that needs to happen after that and the recovery takes a few days.
When it happens during the peak season this is damaging and it carries with it more costs.
So nothing dramatic but certainly an upset when it comes to generation and some costs.
In terms of breakeven we think that we are very close.
We're really expecting to be at that point in the third quarter.
There's a good chance for the fourth quarter but fourth quarter has substantially lower rates because of the time of delivery structure of the PPA.
So a hiccup can move us in one way or the other but we're very close.
And if we continue with our -- with really the very good progress that we've made on increasing run life of pumps and the rest of the equipment we think that the project will turn the corner soon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
I was just going to say -- so you think -- absent the earthquake you would have approached breakeven this quarter you believe? Is that correct if I heard you correctly? Yes.
But to me to be perfect or not -- maybe not perfect but to be more precise it's really 3 issues -- or 2 issues.
The one is that we had the earthquake.
The other is that we had to shut down 2 of our better producers during the quarter to do some work on them.
They're back online and they're performing well but we lost substantial generation temporarily from those.
And in a quarter in a high-revenue quarter like the third quarter that was very painful.
So anyway both events are behind us now and we hope that we won't have to repeat neither.
Research Division</strong> And then just my follow-up and I'll get back in the queue.
The Israeli solar projects those no longer are being counted as part of your future potential.
Can you talk about just the permitting becoming too onerous? If you could help us understand why you don't see them contributing to revenue anytime soon that would be helpful.
It's just that I guess the fact between an IPP and the regulators or the state.
The fact is that the state provides very transparent permitting process with a clear start and a clear end and a clear pricing.
The IPP can factor this into his plans.
And unfortunately this has not been the case.
And this happens.
This is not specific to Israel.
It happens in many places.
But this has not been the case.
And so this doesn't mean that the projects will not get built but it means that we cannot say at this time what the timing will be.
And this was really coupled with the fact that there were changes in the feed-in tariff.
And again as a developer we need to know -- we know what the risks -- what are the risks that we're taking but some risks have to be taken off the table to determine that we push ahead with the project and we just can't do this at this time.
So in order not to cloud our reporting we don't want to keep projects that at this point we don't know when we'll build them.
And as soon as we'll have -- hopefully we'll have better predictions at some point we can put some of them or all of them back on our list.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ups.
First on North Brawley Yoram I didn't catch this.
Have you guys restarted the drilling program there to add producers or is that still awaiting permitting? So there are 2 elements.
There's -- in the original North Brawley field we have the ability to drill.
It's not -- we need administrative permits but nothing major.
Drilling in what we used to call the East Brawley project we cannot yet do.
There's still some permitting work or clarification that needs to be done.
But in terms of actual targets we have identified a good target about this time last year so we drilled that well just around -- just somewhere between -- starting in 2011 and completed in 2012.
And this is based on our seismic interpretation of the field.
And we have been going slow in drilling additional wells based on this interpretation because we wanted to monitor the results.
So far we're very happy with the result of the well.
The question that we need to answer to ourselves is whether the well is good in isolation from the rest of the wells or whether the well is actually a net contributor when all the other wells are operating.
And in that sense we're very happy.
Part of the work that we did in the third quarter on that well was just to confirm that it's not competing with other wells.
And based on more -- and as we gather more data we will target additional wells.
As soon as the East Brawley portion opens up for us it certainly will allow us to step up some of the activity again most of it based on geophysical and other geological work that we have done in the last years.
LLC Research Division</strong> So as you talked about breakeven that was really based on the existing wells or was that based on -- including some of these new prospects? The breakeven that we are hoping for is with the plant as it is just improving the cost basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
In your commentary I think you said you're expecting to see almost -- it sounded like a 30% decrease in costs year-over-year from '12 to '13.
Did I catch that? Yes correct 33%.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that was inclusive of D&amp;A or exclusive? Excluding.
Excluding yes.
You meant depreciation? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay great.
Okay.
So that should get you a long way there.
And then if you get the production as well we could get back on -- hopefully we can get back on track to this being a valuable project over time.
That's our hope.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then real quick on the power purchase agreements first of all the $0.04 that you talked about for the 2013 lock on I guess on Heber or Ormesa I'm trying to understand.
Was that inclusive of the GHG benefit or would you get the GHG benefit incremental? Yes it's a little over -- I like to count in dollars but it's a little over $40 and it is inclusive of the GHG benefit with an assumption of $16 a ton.
[indiscernible] But just keep in mind that it excludes the capacity rate so we have additional $20 $21 per megawatt-hour of capacity so that comes to over $60.
LLC Research Division</strong> So that will be a nice step up from what you've been receiving this year -- or somewhat of a step-up from what you've been getting this year.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly can you give us any color on the pricing on the Mammoth contract? Is that at all tied into -- I know you had at one point looked at doing sort of a contract swap with North Brawley or is this a different structure? And can you maybe give us a little more color there? So it's a different structure and they're nicely priced above the average for the company.
So they are modern contracts in terms of structure and pricing.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Could you update us as to whether you've submitted yet the application for a grant from that additional Brawley investment that you've made and maybe some of the timing around that as well as potential timing for the Wild Rose grant application? We had submitted an application for additional grants on additional investment in Brawley.
We have not heard back yet from the Treasury so we don't know.
Wild Rose we have submitted the pre-application that was required by September I believe but the actual application will only be submitted once the construction is complete.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's still TBD for next year? Wild Rose is expected to be completed by the end of 2013 and only then we would submit the ITC cash grant application.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one quick further question.
On the Nevada PPAs with the PUC and then you have 2 of them kind of outstanding are you still negotiating with the utility or are those at the stage where now you're -- those are back in front of regulators? We're not aware of PPAs that are in front of the PUC.
Which ones are you referring to? Research Division</strong> At your 2 projects in Nevada that don't currently have approved PPAs.
Oh.
So I think that on one of them we are negotiating.
We don't have a PPA yet.
This is true.
This is Wild Rose.
And if the other one that you referred to is Carson Lake then we're not in negotiation at this time.
Your next question comes from the line of JinMing Liu of Ardour Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question.
First I have a question about the Thermo 1 project in the backlog of your Equipment segment.
What's the status there? Can you give us an update? The question is how do we record the Thermo 1 project? Since we did not receive any upfront down payment and we are financing this project we do not recognize any revenues until call it stability is reasonably assured.
So it's kind of an inventory.
It's not recorded as revenues yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> But did you finish the project itself or is it still ongoing? No it's still under construction.
LLC Research Division</strong> Oh okay.
Got that.
And next is just about your solar projects.
Do you have any other potentials for solar project in the U.S? Not currently no.
I mean there is the Heber Solar project the 10-megawatt Heber Solar project but no pending projects beyond that.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back for a few more questions.
First I noted that you actually gave some forward look at 2013 CapEx for the projects under construction so I guess that's Heber Solar Wild Rose and Olkaria III.
When you think about 2013 -- and I know it's a little bit early -- it looks from the outside like you'll see a pretty significant reduction in your overall capital spend.
Is that your current expectation as well? The number that appears on the slide is just the CapEx for the projects that are currently under construction and this is the amount of CapEx that will be required in order to complete them.
But you are right that our expectation for 2013 is lower CapEx budget than we have seen in the last few years.
But it's too early to say how much it is.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the follow-on question is to the extent that you are generating free cash flow next year rather than investing more than you produce how do you think through what you might start doing in terms of cash flow generation? Whether that would be used for debt reduction or potentially increasing the dividend or something like that or are we a little early in thinking about that? Yes this is probably a little early in thinking but definitely debt reduction.
And you have to understand that our level of dividend is quite -- dividend distribution is quite limited.
We have covenants that limit the level of dividends that we can distribute.
So debt reduction is probably a better use for excess operating cash flow than dividend.
LLC Research Division</strong> No problem.
Real quick on the Product side.
Obviously we saw a bit of a tick-down in margins from what we've seen in the past.
And we know margins are lumpy but I was just wondering were there any specific projects of different margins that flowed through this quarter? And this may be indicative of a little bit of a different margin structure looking forward? Dan you're talking about the Product Segment right? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I'm talking about Product correct.
I think we have said probably on more than one call that a normal level of gross margin is between 20% and 25%.
It is true that from time to time we have a bump and we are able to exceed a higher margin.
But I think that the normal level is what one should assume on a go-forward basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Real quick on OREG the rationale for the impairment -- was this one of the ones where perhaps the pipe that it's connected to just isn't being utilized that much and there's not sufficient waste gas? Or is this one where it was an issue with the plant? Or is there some other issue that we should be thinking about? No.
It's just that the load through pipeline has been low and without heat we just can't make the power.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last thing because no call should go on without it being asked anything worth discussing on Sarulla this quarter? I was waiting for it.
LLC Research Division</strong> I couldn't let a call go without asking.
There's no news on Sarulla to report.
If my memory serves me right I said on the Analyst Day that I expect Sarulla to get to the signing of the various agreements that will enable us to move to the next phase before the end of the year.
We are still expecting it but as time goes by the end of the year is behind the corner but we are still expecting it.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Driscoll of Capstone Investments.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the regulatory front.
Now that President Obama has been reelected domestically which of the programs you think has been most helpful? I mean it doesn't seem like 1603 has any chance of being revived.
But maybe you could talk about the PTC or your expectations or hopes of which of those programs domestically might aid in continued financing of some of the projects.
Not to sound like a broken record I will repeat my belief that the long-term program the one that was the most effective for the renewable energy industry is the RPS.
It is not a federal program.
It is a state program.
But this was the most effective program and the one which had a long-term visibility.
And the one thing which is very important is the predictability of the long-term feasibility.
Not to say that the 1603 was not beneficial for the industry but we knew from the beginning that it has a limited life that the budget cannot support this incentive for a long period of time and I think it's done a lot for the renewable energy industry.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would like to thank everyone for joining us for today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and Gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ormat Technologies Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brad Nelson of KCSA Strategic Communications.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Hosting the call today are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph Tenne Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operation and are based on management's current estimate and projection of future needs -- future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see Risk Factors as described in Ormat Technologies Inc.
annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 29 2012.
And quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 8 2012.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures as defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the SEC such as adjusted EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of Ormat Technologies believes that adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurement that both the management and investors benefit from referring to this non-GAAP financial measure in assessing Ormat Technologies' liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparison to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Event &amp; Presentation link that's found in the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Brad and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results and outlook for the near future.
2012 was highlighted by increased revenue consistent growth in the total generation and exceptionally strong performance in the product segment.
Starting with Slide 4.
In 2012 we made significant operational improvements to our existing power plants while also bringing new capacity online.
The performance of the new power plants together with the cost reduction in our operating portfolio specifically North Brawley enabled us to maintain margin in our electricity segment despite the impact of the low natural gas prices.
We continue to move forward with our activities to drive organic growth.
In parallel the demand for new geothermal power plants and other power generating units continue to drive significant growth in our product segment.
2012 was a great year for the product segment and we expect the sales order in 2013 to remain strong.
While net income was substantially impacted by the noncash impairment charges of $236.4 million related to the North Brawley and OREG 4 power plants adjusted EBITDA increased 11.5% to $185.8 million and we generated operating cash flow of $93.2 million.
As we discussed on our special conference call a month ago the impairment is noncash and will not impact our operations or put us in violation of any financial covenant with banks or other lenders.
Our business and balance sheet remains sound and our growth prospects strong.
I will now turn the call to Yoram to review our operations and to Joseph to review the financials.
And following my remarks we will open the call for question and answer.
Yoram? Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 6.
The total generation for 2012 was approximately 4.1 million megawatt hours which is an increase of 7.3% from 2011.
The growth in generation this year is mainly to the successful completion of the Tuscarora power plant at the beginning of 2012 and the McGinness Hills power plant that has been in commercial operation since July.
We had notable reduction in cash O&amp;M per megawatt hour mainly due to the improvements in North Brawley but also as a result of continued operational improvements implemented throughout our fleet.
Operating costs in 2012 were similar to 2011 however considering reduction in revenues that resulted from the SRAC pricing and the added expense of bringing new plants online the impact of the improved efficiency on margin going forward is significant.
In Slide 7 you can see we have made substantial progress in reducing operating cost at North Brawley.
And as we reached breakeven EBITDA in the fourth quarter we expect this trend to continue.
Moving to the next slide.
As we previously disclosed the switch to SRAC on our Standard Offer #4 contracts caused a substantial reduction in our 2012 revenues.
However we expect that once the PPAs are replaced or expired we will be able to secure higher rates that reflect long-term pricing as we are doing in the case of Mammoth.
We believe that our exposure to SRAC pricing will reduce overtime in April.
Subject to the approval of SCE we expect to start selling electricity from our Mammoth G3 power plant under a new PPA with long-term pricing.
As for Mammoth G1 we expect to start selling electricity under the new PPA toward the end of 2013.
In both PPAs the pricing is higher by more than 50% of the current pricing.
As part of the early termination of G1 and G3's SO4 contracts we expect to make a termination payment to the current off taker of approximately $10 million that will be expensed in the first quarter of 2013.
For an update on our current generating capacity please turn to Slide 9.
We made a few changes as you can see in the table.
North Brawley has been updated to reflect our decision to operate at 27 megawatt.
The generated capacity of Brady and Steamboat complexes have been reduced to reflect the changes in the resource condition.
The performance of McGinness Hills has been very strong and we updated its capacity to 33 megawatt to reflect that.
For an update on our project pipeline please turn to Slide 10.
We're in varying stages of construction or enhancement.
Some of the projects are fully released for construction.
While Carson Lake and CD4 where we have started construction in the past remain on hold this year.
The Olkaria III Plant 2 construction is progressing.
Field development and plant construction remain on schedule and we expect to have the project online by mid-2013.
The 16 megawatt Olkaria Plant 3 is in an early stage of field development and is expected to come online in 2014.
For both plants the PPA is in place and the financing was secured through the OPIC loan.
We completed the field development for Wild Rose and manufacturing of the power plant equipment is at an advanced stage.
In Mammoth we have shut down the G1 plant and are performing a total modernization of the equipment in preparation for a new PPA.
At Heber Solar we have all permits in place to continue with construction.
In both Heber Solar and Wild Rose we expect to complete construction toward the end of 2013.
Successful completion of these 4 projects will bring our total generating capacity by the end of 2013 to 637 megawatt with an additional 16 megawatts in 2014.
On Slide 11 you can see a list of projects under various stages of development.
The combined generating capacity of these projects is approximately 117 megawatt.
However each of the project's readiness for continued construction and expected economics will determine its actual release date and therefore we are not planning to invest in all of them this year.
While we have been active in the international markets since the mid-90s the U.S.
market is where we have invested most of our efforts in the recent years.
Going forward we have decided to dedicate equal business development efforts to the international and the U.S.
markets taking advantage of the increased interest in renewables in general and geothermal in particular in markets like New Zealand Southeast Asia and East Africa.
In November we announced the acquisition of a late-stage development geothermal project in Honduras.
The Platanares project comprises of the right to a field where exploration work has been conducted in the past and a power purchase agreement for up to 35 megawatt that is already in place.
Upon fulfillment of certain conditions and the closing of the transaction we will become the owner of the project's asset.
Once the well field is fully appraised and the power plant is constructed we will hold the assets under a BOT structure for approximately 15 years.
In Sarulla substantial progress has been made even though we have not reached our goal of full signature of the energy sales contract and the joint operating contract.
The current status is the energy sales contract has been initialed which is great progress but full signature still requires full resolution of tax exposure associated with the transfer of the assets.
In addition as you can see in Slide 12 we now have 41 prospects in early exploration where activity has yet to begin.
Slide 13 provides for an update on the product segment.
As of February 15 2013 our product backlog is approximately $262 million.
Let me turn the call now to Joseph.
Thank you Yoram and good morning everyone.
Before I go through the results I have to emphasize that although we have completed substantially all of our work on the tax provision certain review procedures are still to be completed prior to the filing for our annual report on Form 10-K.
As a result while we believe the results are materially correct certain amounts could be revised when we will file our annual report on Form 10-K.
Beginning on Slide 15 with the results of the year ended December 31 2012.
Total revenues for 2012 were $514.4 million a 17.7% increase over revenues of $437 million in 2011.
In our electricity segment as you can see on Slide 16 revenues increased 1.1% from $323.8 million in 2011 to $327.5 million in 2012.
This increase was primarily due to $23.5 million in revenues from our Tuscarora and McGinness Hills power plants which began commercial operations in January and July 2012 combined with the $3.2 million net increase in revenues from other power plants.
In addition we also booked a net gain of $2.2 million on derivative contracts on oil and natural gas prices.
This increase was offset by a $25.2 million decrease resulting from the impact of low natural gas prices on energy rates in our Standard Offer #4 PPAs in California which in the beginning of May 2012 changed from fixed rate to a variable rate that is subject to the impact of fluctuations in natural gas prices.
In the product segment on Slide 17 revenues for 2012 increased 64 -- 65.1% from $113.2 million in 2011 to $186.9 million in 2012.
The increase in our product segment revenues reflects the increase in new customer orders that we secured in 2011 and 2012 largely attributable to the $130 million order we received from Mighty River Power Limited for the Ngatamariki geothermal field in New Zealand which is expected to be completed in 2013.
Moving to Slide 18.
The company's combined gross margin for the full year was 26.1% compared to 26.8% in 2011.
The electricity segment gross margin was 25.3% for the full year compared to 24.6% in 2011.
In the product segment gross margin for the full year was 27.6% compared to 32.8% in 2011.
The decrease in the product segment -- in the product gross margin is mainly attributable to the exclusion of revenues in the amount of $12.1 million in 2011 compared to only $3 million in 2012 relating to an experimental REG plant and LNG regasification terminals in Spain with virtually no associated cost of revenues since the related cost were included in research and development cost in previous years.
A different -- also a different product mix and different margins in the various sales contracts.
Excluding the impact of the revenues relating to the LNG project the product segment gross margin would have been 26.4% in 2012 compared to 24.7% in 2011.
Moving to Slide 19 operating loss for the full year was $155.1 million compared to operating income of $64 million in 2011.
The operating loss was primarily impacted by the impairment charges taken at the North Brawley and OREG 4 power plants.
Moving to Slide 20.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest for the full year was $64.1 million compared to $69.5 million in 2011.
The decrease was primarily due to $16.4 million loss in 2011 on interest lock transactions relating to the OFC 2 senior secured notes the increase was partially offset by additional interest expense mainly as a result of the full year impact of the OFC 2 senior secured notes and senior unsecured bonds and $1.8 million of cost associated with the early repayment of part of the DEG loan in November 2012.
As you can see in the next slide in 2012 the adjusted interest expense excluding the loss on the interest rate lock transaction in 2011 increased.
This increase reflects the shifting in our debt structure from a revolving corporate debt structure to long term project finance debt with virtually no increase in the debt level.
Moving to Slide 22.
Net loss for the full year was $206.7 million or $4.56 per share compared to $42.7 million or $0.95 per share for 2011.
Now I would like to go over a few quarterly financial highlights beginning with Slide 23.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 total revenues were $116.1 million compared to $123.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Revenues in the electricity segment increased 1.6% to $78.8 million up from $77.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Revenues in the product segment were $37.3 million a decrease of 19.3% compared to $46.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Now on Slide 24.
Operating loss for the fourth quarter of 2012 was $221 million compared to operating income of $17.3 million in the fourth quarter last year.
Net loss for the fourth quarter was $222.9 million or $4.91 per share compared to $43 million or $0.95 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As shown in the following slide Slide 25 adjusted EBITDA for the full year 2012 was $185.8 million compared to $166.7 million in 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA for the electricity segment was $153.7 million and for the product segment $32.1 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2012 was $35.3 million compared to $45.1 million in the same quarter of 2011.
The adjusted EBITDA was impacted by various factors including timing of recognition of product segment revenues reduction in electricity revenues associated with the Standard Offer #4 PPAs and mining tax in the amount of $3.3 million in respect of the years 2008 '09 and '10 that we have appealed.
Adjusted EBITDA excludes the impairment charges in respect of the North Brawley and OREG 4 power plants in the full year and the North Brawley power plant in the quarter.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $30.8 million compared to $34.2 million respectively in the quarter and $93.2 million in the full year 2011 (sic) [2012] compared to $132.7 million in 2011.
Moving to Slide 26.
Cash cash equivalents marketable securities and short term bank deposit at December 31 2012 was $69.6 million down from $118.4 million as of December 31 2011.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the full year of 2012.
Our long-term debt at the end of 2012 and the payment schedules are presented in Slide 27 of the presentation.
In 2012 we distributed interim dividend in aggregate amount of $3.6 million or $0.08 per share.
Although we reported a net loss for the year under the credit agreements the loan agreements and the trust instruments governing the senior unsecured bonds we can distribute interim dividends on the basis of our estimates of our net income for the full year.
Since we incurred a loss for the year 2012 an adjustment of $3.6 million will be made in the next fiscal year in which we will distribute the dividend.
We do not anticipate that the dividend will be paid in the first half of 2013.
We will evaluate resuming dividend distributions based on our dividend policy in the third quarter of 2012 -- 2013 sorry.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like -- before I transfer the call to Dita I would like to refer to the accounting of the ORTP transactions that we closed last month.
In the statement of operations we will recognize income from the sale of the tax benefits based on their utilization by our partner.
The amount of $35.7 million will be allocated between noncontrolling interest and long-term liability in the balance sheet.
The noncontrolling interest component will present the fair value of the 5% interest of our partner on the fleet date.
We will record an interest expense on the liability that will reflect the partner's yield during the period.
We expect that the net amount on the statement of operations will have a positive impact on the bottom line.
And now let me return back the call to Dita.
Dita? Thank you Joseph.
In my remark I will review the general business and regulatory environment financing activity in 2012 comment on our capital position and then conclude with revenue guidance for 2013 before opening the call for questions.
Starting on Slide 29.
Several event that occurred in 2012 are important for the understanding of the business environment of the clean energy industry being drivers pushing the world to a cleaner energy system to mitigate the clear tendency of long term average temperature increase of 3.6 degrees centigrade by 2035.
These drivers include in no special order; the Rio+20 conference covering topics like energy access energy efficiency and renewable energy.
The Doha climate conference in which countries have adopted amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to establish its second commitment period.
The reelection of President Obama that removes uncertainty over the U.S.
commitment to a cleaner energy future and the expectation that if the legislature process will encounter difficulties the EPA will regulate carbon emissions.
The signature on January 2 2013 by President Obama of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 into law.
The act contains an extension and modification of the production tax credit and investment tax credit for projects that start construction prior to January 1 2014.
These projects will be eligible for ITC or PTC when they are placed in service.
The act changes the requirement that must be made to qualify for the PTC or ITC in lieu of PTC.
To qualify for the PTC or ITC including ITC cash grant which was not extended under this law renewable energy facilities must have been placed in service prior to January 1 2014.
The current act modifies this rule so that these facilities will be eligible for the PTC or ITC without regard to when the projects are placed in service so long as construction begins before the end of 2013.
This month the White House issued a call to make the renewable energy regulatory support permanent.
If this happens an element of uncertainty will be removed from plans for future development.
To summarize clean energy is becoming a significant part of the energy mix in many countries and its share is expected to double in the global energy mix in the next decade or 2.
Geothermal energy where available will continue to be the renewable energy of choice due to its baseload capabilities.
Turning now to Slide 30.
In 2012 we were active on several fronts to obtain the necessary financing to fund our continued growth.
We closed on a $310 million loan from OPIC to finance the expansion of our Olkaria III geothermal complex in Kenya.
In November we received disbursement on the first two tranches of those loan amounting to $220 million.
We are in the process of drawing additional $45 million for Plant 2 and have an additional capacity for the construction of the 16-megawatt Plant 3.
We used part of the proceeds drawn in November to pay down corporate lines of credit and part of it will be used to partially prepay DEG loan.
The remaining outstanding DEG loan has been subordinated to the OPIC loan.
The OPIC loan enables us to strengthen our balance sheet by replacing corporate debt with cost-effective long term project finance debt.
Last month we announced that we entered into a tax equity partnership transaction with JPMorgan to monetize tax benefits.
Under the transaction existing power plants under OFC and Orcal were transferred into a new limited liability company ORTP and an interest in it was sold to JPMorgan.
JPMorgan paid approximately $35.7 million and will make additional payments based on the value of PTC generated by the portfolio over time that are expected to be made with until December 31 2016 and sum up to approximately $8.7 million.
This transaction enables us to maximize the use of our available production tax credit and accelerated depreciation that we would not have otherwise been able to utilize either at all or for a long time due to the fact that as a growth company we generate more deductions for tax purposes than we are currently able to utilize.
The transaction has a lot of similarity to our OPC transaction but unlike in the case of OPC no cash is transferred to the partner and flip will occur after 4 to 5 years a much shorter period than in the case of OPC.
Earlier in the year we also received $119 million amount in ITC cash grants relating to McGinness Puna Jersey Valley and Tuscarora geothermal power plants.
While those using solar may be impacted by the expected sequestration of approximately 9% of the ITC cash grant payable after March 2013.
If you could please turn to Slide 31 you will see the CapEx requirement for 2013.
We plan to invest a total of $237 million.
$179 million is expected to be invested in construction of new projects and enhancements and an additional $58 million for development of new projects exploration maintenance CapEx and enhancement to the production facility.
As you can see on the right side of the slide we have sufficient capital resources to support our plan.
Turning to Slide 32 which presents our revenue forecast for 2013.
Our 2013 product revenues are expected to be between $180 million and $190 million.
We expect electricity segment revenues to be between $335 million and $345 million.
This guidance takes into consideration lower revenue in 2013 compared to 2012 in certain projects.
In Puna we assume low revenue of approximately $7 million as a result of lower energy rate for the 25 megawatt contract as the actual energy rate in 2012 was materially higher than the hedged rate under the put contract.
If the actual rate of the 25 megawatt in Puna will be higher we will have an upside in that project.
For Brady and in the Steamboat complex we updated the generating capacity as Yoram explained resulting in lower revenue by approximately $2 million.
Due to the enhancements we are currently conducting in Mammoth and Heber complexes we may have lower generation during the enhancement work and revenues can reduce by approximately $3.5 million.
Our Imperial Valley plants have been subject to grid curtailment due to maintenance work performed by the grid operator.
We expect this to continue into Q2 and have estimated this impact at $2 million.
In closing please turn to Slide 33 which summarizes the main achievements this year in both segments from the increase in product segment revenue and the record backlog in the product segment.
And from the addition of 51 megawatt of new plant to reduction in operating expenses in the electricity segment.
We remain confident that as support for renewable energy continues across the globe Ormat is poised to take advantage of this trend and maintain its leadership position in the geothermal energy.
Before I'll open the call for questions I would like to take a minute and express my or our appreciation to Joseph who is leaving us at the end of next month.
Over the last 8 years Joseph has done a tremendous job as CFO and has been instrumental in Ormat's success.
Thank you Joseph.
And I would like also to welcome Doron Blachar who will officially be joining our team on April 2.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Klein of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> What drove the gross margin at the electricity segment in the fourth quarter? It was substantially lower than the previous quarters of the year and Q4 of 2011.
So I'm just curious what impacted that.
So I think that basically Q4s are weaker than the rest of the quarters.
But specifically we had a few adjustments that were not really related to generation and were made -- and captured and made in the fourth quarter such as the tax audit that was performed.
And although we do not accept the results of the audit we had to capture the cost in the fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So it's mostly some miscellaneous onetime charges that weighed on it in addition to being a weaker quarter.
Correct.
Beyond the seasonality of fourth quarter yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I want to make sure I'm interpreting Slide 7 correctly.
Just to make sure of course you have to recognize that when you look at the fourth quarter in 2011 you still see our Standard Offer #4 plants with their fixed rates rather than the SRAC rates.
And this is if you compared Q4 '12 to Q4 '11 my guess is that this would be a very substantial impact on margin.
LLC</strong> Right.
Okay.
So going forward the expectation in the fourth quarter would be somewhere in between this quarter and the fourth quarter of 2011? Is that the way to look at it? Going forward for fourth quarters yes.
Over time we expect this to get better because we will have new facilities come online.
Really our expectation for Olkaria for instance which are both very good performers -- or expect to be very good performers and also are not affected by varying rates.
So really the -- if you like historically fourth quarters have been -- fourth and first quarters have been weak because of Standard Offer #4 contracts that are mostly -- and so as their impact wanes the variability will change and actually most of our plants benefit from winter month generation because we're able to make more power and therefore have higher rate.
So this over time this will go away but yes with the addition of Olkaria the replacement of the G1 and G3 contracts for Mammoth.
And hopefully elimination of onetime charges then yes we should have a stronger fourth quarter in '13.
LLC</strong> Okay and on Slide 7 where you talk about North Brawley.
I just want to make sure I'm interpreting it correctly.
So you're expecting about an $8.8 million reduction in D&amp;A due to the impairment charge.
So really holding all else equal that's how we get to EBITDA positive in 2013.
Am I thinking about that correctly? It's as simple as just removing? No I think that the EBITDA positive is prior to depreciation.
And this is -- we were positive in the fourth quarter of 2012 based on the work that we have done.
And so our assumption is that this positive trend will continue into '13 and would provide a positive EBITDA out of the plant.
And Joseph? And you'll see yes also the D&amp;A does not impact EBITDA.
It will impact the gross margins but not EBITDA.
LLC</strong> Okay and what was the EBITDA generated in the fourth quarter in North Brawley? It was about it was a slight positive so you can call it a breakeven EBITDA for the fourth quarter.
And we expect -- again expect this improvement to continue.
So if you couple the fact that we expect to be away from the negative EBITDA and the fact that depreciation will be much lower then we can expect a positive margin out of that project.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just sticking with improvement at North Brawley for a second.
The overall improvement to cash O&amp;M and gross margin at the electricity segment going forward I guess realistically what kind of improvement can we expect? Can we expect maybe O&amp;M cost at a $30 per megawatt hour rate gross margin near 30% or is that pretty lofty expectations? For Brawley? LLC</strong> Consolidated company but being driven by improvement at Brawley.
Trying to just really figure out how much of a drag Brawley was and going forward how much improvement to expect at the overall company.
Yes we think that up to 30% or the 30% range is realistic.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a couple of follow-up questions.
First looking at power guidance for '13 Dita at the end you laid out a couple things that you were sort of running into that maybe we haven't thought about before particularly the -- it sounded like the takedown or the enhancements at Mammoth and Heber as well as -- it sounded like you mentioned some grid issues at your Imperial Valley plant.
Can you give us a little bit more color on those 2 issues? And did those crop up at all in the fourth quarter as well? So let's start with the grid.
Yes the grid curtailment has been -- work on Path 42 actually is something that has been around for a while but really affected us in the fourth quarter will affect us or already affected us in the first quarter and we expect this to continue into the second quarter as well and what this really results in is that the grid operator tells us no you can only put so many megawatts on the line at this moment.
So despite the ability of the plans to make more power we cannot generate that power and we cannot get -- we cannot be paid for that power.
And on top of this in the structure of the agreement is actually sometimes grid issues actually cost us money on top of this.
So this is the estimate.
Dita is correcting me that the right term to use is a location adjustment and -- which effects our -- in a way effects our rate.
Our expectation is I mean there is work that is being done on the system.
So this should cure itself but we cannot ignore it for this year.
As for Mammoth and Heber I believe that we have shared with you in the past our plan to modernize both facilities.
Unfortunately the more you modernize the facility the bigger the change it is to the existing facility.
In the case of Mammoth G1 we are taking the facility completely apart and putting it back together with better equipment on the same area.
And so the facility is effectively shut down I think since just before Christmas and we hope to be back online in time for the new PPA.
In the case of Heber we're looking at -- the extent of the modernization is not as high but still substantial.
The modernization is to Heber 1 and so we do -- we did factor in some downtime on the big steam turbine there to get ready for the upgrade which will happen in 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then real quick as we look at your guidance for '13.
The next question I had.
Do you include the potential uplift in rates from the 2 Mammoth contracts? Is that baked into your guidance? Or since you haven't finalized the arrangements with SCE you're leaving that out at this point.
At this point it is in our guidance yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly as it relates to guidance on Puna can you remind us real quick of where your hedges are for '13 and how that compares to I guess realized pricing or whatever the marker was for '12? So within a certain allowance for error I think that the -- if our formula is correct and this is a little difficult or it's not -- there is not a 100% fit between the format that we use and the protection on this gives us a protection at a Brent -- I'm sorry I'll just translate this to what we think it means on rates and this means this gives us a protection at an average rate of $165 a megawatt hour which is lower than the average rate that we had in 2012.
Again if oil goes beyond what we currently have in our protection and the avoided cost will be increased then we can benefit from that.
But if not this is where our protection is.
And this is what we used in our guidance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And if -- but at current levels then I guess would we ballpark $110 million on Brent give or take is that above or below where you're currently hedged at? We are very close.
I don't have the numbers in front of me.
But we're very -- our hedge is I think as of today is giving us a protection.
But starting from the beginning of the year I think that we're very close to being right there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then real quick on your product guidance.
I think you said explicitly you're not including the potential revenue from Thermo in your guidance for '13.
Is that correct? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then real quick just on Thermo can you give me -- give us an update on where that stands since the revenue is kind of contingent on plant completion and refinancing.
Well what I can say is that like always when we build plants to others we're on schedule and provide a quality product.
But specifically on an update on the project you have to ask the owner.
So for us this job is going well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay just one last one.
We were a little bit surprised it looked like both G&amp;A or R&amp;D were up a little bit sequentially in the fourth quarter.
Can you maybe think -- can you maybe give us a little bit of thoughts on how that should play out or was that at all impacted maybe by sales bonuses or anything like that given the strong product performance? Look it's a quarterly number Dan and sometimes the changes in quarter there's nothing material in Q4 that we should report on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I think you should look at the annual number I think and you can see that on an annual basis we are okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Reynolds of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about products.
So in the quarter products were stronger than expected.
What were the moving pieces of that versus what your guidance was? It is more timing than anything else.
When -- because we recognize revenues in the product segment based on progress if certain work was moved from one quarter to another there are more revenues recognized.
And this is what happened this quarter.
It can in the same way happen in the other direction and for the same reason just timing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right that's fair.
And then when we look out to -- for product sector margins in 2013 I think we had talked around previously that margins would settle around the mid-20s range is that still a reasonable expectation? Or something closer to fourth quarter numbers? No we've -- the 25% range is still what we are looking in our margin in the product segment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on the electricity margin back to Michael's question can you quantify the onetime charges and also when we look out to the next couple of quarters as far as margins go when you talk about that 30% gross margin number is that an annual number? Or should we in 2Q 3Q start to look on average to get more towards that 30% level? The 30% is an annual average.
It's lower in the first and fourth quarter maybe slightly higher in the summer quarter as long as we have the Standard Offer #4 contract but it's an annual average.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the quantification of the onetime charges in the quarter? I don't have it in front of me.
I don't know if Smadar Lavi? The $3.3 million of mining tax is about 1% in gross margin so that's the real amount.
Your next question comes from the line of JinMing Liu of Ardour Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> First can you share with us how much of your total capacity that is currently under tax equity financing including your January financing.
And also the original OPC contract? Most of our generating capacity is under tax equity transaction other than OFC 2.
The big asset that are not under a tax equity transaction is OFC 2 and of course Brawley.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got that.
Now this is the U.S.
of course.
None of our international projects are under...
Also Puna Dita.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got that.
Puna and REG plant.
No no Puna has a lease.
But it's not under...
It's not tax equity but it's related to tax dollars.
But also the REG plants but it's not much.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got that.
And also I think I missed that.
How big is the interest expense impact of the January financing will have in this year? Sorry can you restate your question please.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's just I may have missed that part.
How big the interest impact will the January tax equity financing have on the interest expense for 2013? You're now talking about the ORTP transaction? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
It will have a negative impact but on the other hand we will have of course because of the yield of the investors -- but on the other side we will have a benefit from utilizing the tax benefit and that will be a line in the income statement of income from sale of tax benefit.
And since we are not utilizing those benefits and since we are in a situation of valuation allowance that we believe that the impact will be positive.
That's what I said in my words.
So you need to look at the whole picture not only on the interest expense.
The interest expense will increase but on the other hand we paid part of our debt because of that.
So of course the interest rate is much higher on the ORTP transaction than on regular debt corporate or project finance.
But still the total impact as I said will be positive.
Your next question comes from Mark Barnett of Morningstar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> I've been booted from the call a few times so I'm sorry if you already went over and I know it's a small item.
But can you discuss some of the higher revenues at your other existing plants that were outside of the SRAC impact and outside of Brawley what was driving that modest positive improvement? Are you asking which plants are the good contributor? Is that...
Research Division</strong> Yes and sort of what's driving that with those plants? Yes so we have certainly for this year it's the addition of Tuscarora and McGinness that are very good performers with a very nice -- and this is driven by technology I would say the combination of technology and well field where you have a very good ratio of revenue to operating cost.
So certainly good performance out of there.
Strong performance out of Puna but in the case of Puna it's of course given the fact that we had a good strategy on hedging on oil and strong oil prices this drove the variable rate to be a very positive one for us.
So I think that big difference from previous years I would say that these are the 3 that had a big change.
Beyond that we have other good performers in our fleet.
So -- but for them there was nothing new in 2012 compared to previous years.
Research Division</strong> Okay and obviously the motivation for -- you discussed kind of moving towards a more equal split between U.S.
and international development the motivation there is clear.
Is there any chance you can give any detail or color on what that might mean maybe with personnel or potential M&amp;A opportunities similar to the one at the end of last year? I think that in terms of personnel there are -- this is -- we don't see any effect.
Our workforce is very flexible in terms of geography.
It really doesn't matter if you work in Hawaii you work in Kenya for the development side.
Rarely do we actually get to do development work from our home office anyway.
And then I think that the value in our statement is really to tell you what is to come in future years.
Project development is always a lengthy process and there is a long process of screening prospects.
Our growth is typically driven by identifying either very early or greenfield development projects or a late-stage development project not a fully constructed power plant.
So M&amp;A although it is possible is typically less relevant for what we are looking at.
We are looking for fields that are ripe to be turned into power plants and we believe that there are quite a few of them in the world.
It takes time to find the right field and to make sure that this is done in the right market environment.
So again it's a somewhat lengthy process but this is what we are looking at doing in 2013 and going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay and if you don't mind just one more quick question on the Honduras project.
Obviously the closure of the deal is subject to some conditions.
Is that just going to be confirmation on your end of the resource? Or are there some other kind of major conditions there? No the closing of the transaction is subject to more legal and administrative conditions.
They're not resource conditions.
We needed some local Honduran confirmation some publication and especially the rates and things of that kind.
We are optimistic about the resource.
Of course we will do our own exploration but this is after the closing not before the closing.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Real quick on your CapEx needs for '13.
Under the $180 million of construction of new projects and enhancements does that include anything in it for Carson or for Mammoth? And if not sort of what are the gating items for you to either move forward with those or not? You asked Carson and McGinness? LLC Research Division</strong> No Carson and Mammoth or CD4.
Mammoth CD4 the answer is no for both.
Carson is just not a priority.
And CD4 we don't expect the permit to be obtained in time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that also would likely mean neither will end up qualifying for the PTC or at least under the current deadline? Not sure because the law this passed just -- this was signed just in early January enables a PTC for a project whose construction has started prior to 2013 -- when it is placed in service without a time limit of when it has to be placed in service.
Regulations have not been issued yet.
And we are operating under the assumption that start of construction will be defined in the same way as it is defined in the ITC cash grant.
If this is going to be the case and of course we don't know if this is going to be the case but if this is going to be case then both of them are eligible to PTC when they are placed in service.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question I have is we can't have a conference call going without it.
It looked like there was some progress on Sarulla in terms of the initials on the joint operating contract and the energy sale agreement.
I know last year at this time you were pretty optimistic that maybe the contracts would be completed in '12 now we're in sort of early '13.
Are you willing to sort of maybe give us an update in terms of expected timing? Or just given the uncertainty it's maybe better not to.
I will admit that we didn't make the end of '12 for it.
And I will be cautiously optimistic to say that I see it in a matter of weeks and not in a matter of months.
LLC Research Division</strong> So conceivably you could have financial close on this during this year? Oh no it's not no financial close no.
This is the signing of the contract and financial close will be a year later.
So financial close is 2014 not 2013.
We have time for one more question your final question comes from Carter Driscoll of Ascendiant Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question was mostly answered about the PTC effect in Carson Lake and the definition of whether it gets applied to the previous definition in terms of the threshold for CapEx but maybe just unrelatedly is the tear down at Mammoth and rebuild is that possibly subject to the PTC since I guess it's technical coming offline and being rebuilt or no expectation there? We have not finished that analysis.
It's a possibility but we have to do the analysis.
There is a tax rule which describes what a new plant and what's not a new plant.
We have not completed that analysis.
There are good chances that it will.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Just a big thank you to all of you.
And hopefully we'll continue to show progress as we expect this year to be an excellent year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and Gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ormat Technologies First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rob Fink of KCSA Strategic Communications.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Paula.
hosting the call today are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management's current estimates and projection of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see Risk Factors as described in Ormat Technologies' Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 11 2013.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures as defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the SEC such as adjusted EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered an isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of Ormat Technologies believes that adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurements that both management and investors benefit from referring to this non-GAAP financial measure in assessing Ormat Technologies' liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparison to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Event &amp; Presentation link that's found in the Investor Relations section.
With that all said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Rob and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on this rainy day New York for the presentation of our first quarter 2013 results and outlook for the near future.
Before we start the update on the quarter I want to welcome a new member on the Ormat management team.
I'm pleased to introduce Doron Blachar who officially joined Ormat as our CFO on April 2.
Doron has a long track record as a finance professional including significant experience with several U.S.
listed public companies.
Doron will review the financial following you on operational overview.
Let me start with Slide 4 that lists some of the major milestones achieved since the beginning of the year.
And we have a positive impact on our near and longer term future.
Replacement of 2 our Standard Offer #4 contract with higher rate fixed-price RDAs contract and new PPA provide those projects favorable returns the signature of the joint operating contract and the energy sales contract in Sarulla.
The commercial operation of Olkaria Plant 2 which increased our generating capacity to 611 megawatts and the continued flow of new orders in our product segment which brought our backlog to $224 million as of May 7 2013.
I would like to turn the call over to Yoram to expand on these milestones and provide a review of our operations.
Following Yoram Doron will review the financial and I will return for closing remarks before opening the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 6.
The total generation for the first quarter 2013 was approximately 1.08 million-megawatt hours which is an increase of 4.2% from the same quarter last year.
The growth in generation is mainly due to successful completion of McGinness Hills in 2012 a plant and a resource that exceeded our expectations.
Since the beginning of the year we have been very busy in activities that we expect to positively affect the rest of this year.
On the operational side these activities include pre-peak equipment maintenance and well work in a number of plants.
On the project side we have been working on the Olkaria Plant 2 start up; enhancements of 2 facilities Mammoth G1 and Heber 1; continue with the construction of a number of plants and as we have recently disclosed we have accomplished some important milestones on the commercial aspects of new projects.
The increase in our generating capacity was masked by the scheduled maintenance activity that was performed this quarter as well as by some of the unscheduled outages that we have had in some of our power plants.
A big factor that affected us this quarter and will continue to affect us in the second quarter is the congestion in the transmission lines at wheel power from the  Imperial Valley to our customers.
This had an effect on both generation and energy prices.
We expect this event to end this month at least through the peak period.
As Dita mentioned we terminated the old Standar Offer#4 PPAs of G1 and G3 in the Mammoth complex and at the beginning of April started to sell power to Pacific Gas and Electric from the G3 plant.
G3 is expected to sell 12-megawatt on an annual average and we expect to sell an annual average of 6 megawatts from G1 once the enhancement is completed later this year.
For an update on our project pipeline please turn to Slide 7.
We have recently announced the commercial operation of the 36-megawatt plant 2 in the Olkaria complex in Kenya.
The plant 2 commercial we're now working on the 16-megawatt plant 3 that we expect to complete in 2014.
In Wild Rose we're in the midst of site construction.
And as we have recently disclosed just completed a 20-year fixed-price PPA with Southern California Public Power Authority.
In Heber Solar we continue with construction.
As for Heber 1 enhancement we have completed the resource portion of the work and are now in the procurement phase of the major component that will be used in the power block.
Construction of Heber Solar and Wild Rose is expected to be completed in the second half of the year.
On Slide 8 you can see a list of projects in various stages of development.
The cumulative generating capacity of this project is approximately 117 megawatts.
However the readiness for continued construction and expected economics will determine the release of each individual project and we are not planning to invest in all of them this year.
Two additional significant commercial milestones were met in Sarulla.
We signed a joint operating contract and energy sales contract.
The construction is expected to begin after the consortium obtains financing which is expected to take approximately 1 year.
First phase is scheduled to start operation in 2016.
2 additional phases are planned to be completed in stages within 18 months after the first one.
Together with the JOC the consortium also signed an EPC contract in which we are the supplier and expect to recognize revenue of $254 million related to the equipment sale over the construction period.
In addition to our role as a supplier we have a 12.75% equity stake in the project.
Sarulla is expected to obtain construction and term loans under a nonrecourse or a limited recourse financing package of direct loans from the Japan Bank of International Corporation JBIC and the Asian Development Bank ADB as well as loans to be provided by 5 commercial banks which we refer to as MLAs.
The MLAs are expected to be backed by political risk guarantees from JBIC.
Moving to Slide 9.
We have 41 prospects in early explorational ore activity is yet to begin.
Slide 10 provides an update on the product segment.
As of May 7 2013 our product backlog is approximately $224 million.
This backlog includes a Thermo 1 project that was started up last month and is now in full commercial operation.
We will recognize it as revenue once we get paid.
Before I turn the call to Doron I would like to stress the high level of activity in our product segment and the positive effect that Sarulla may have on it for the future years.
Doron? Thank you Yoram and good morning everyone.
Before we begin the financial results of the first quarter of 2013 I would like to take a quick minute to thank the Bronicki the Board and the extended Ormat family for providing me with this opportunity.
Over the last 15 years I've been working in global companies such as Amdocs Teva and Shikun &amp; Binui in senior financing position.
My focus has always been on increasing shareholders value through profitable growth strong control and optimizing the cost of capital.
I'm excited for the opportunity that lie ahead increasing shareholder value is a top priority.
In the days weeks and months ahead I will continue to acquaint myself with all facets of this great company as well as stay active role with the investor effort.
I look forward to meeting all of you in the near future.
Now back to the presentation.
Beginning on Slide 12 with the results for the quarter ended March 31 2013 total revenue for the first quarter declined 8% from $132.4 million in the first quarter of 2012 to $121.7 million this year.
In our Electricity segment as you can see on Slide 13 revenue has declined from $82.2 million in the first quarter of last year to $71.1 million this quarter.
The year-over-year decline was primarily related to the transition to variable asset prices in the Standard Offer #4 PPAs that are tied to the natural gas prices.
Although we see an increase in natural gas prices year-over-year the SRAC is still lower than the fixed-price we had in the first quarter last year.
As a reminder the Standard Offer #4 PPA in California switched from a fixed rate to a valuable rate in May 2012.
At the end of last year we hedged against gas prices.
As you can see we recorded this quarter a loss of $4.6 million.
On a positive note gas prices are higher this year than last year.
And if they remain the same way our financial performance will benefit from the trends in 2014.
Lower rates in Puna and Amatitlan and reduced generation in certain plants also impacted our revenue.
The added generation from the McGinness Hills plant which began commercial operation in July 2012 and higher rates in Tuscarora which started to receive commercial rate in the second quarter of 2012 partially offset the decrease in revenue.
In the product segment on Slide 14 revenues in the first quarter of 2013 increased slightly year-over-year from $50.1 million in the first quarter of 2012 to $50.6 million this year.
Product segment revenue has remained strong as a result of the increase in new customer orders that we secured over the last 2 years.
Moving to Slide 15 the company's combined gross margin for the first quarter was 22.8% compared to 30.1% in the first quarter of 2012.
The electricity segment gross margin was 19.9% for the quarter compared to 29.6% in the same period last year.
In the product segment gross margin for the quarter was 26.8% compared to 30.9% in the same period last year.
The decrease in the product gross margin is mainly attributable to a different product mix and different margin in the various sales contract.
Moving to Slide 16 operating income in the first quarter of 2013 was $8.5 million compared to $25.7 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The decrease was primarily attributable to the reduction in gross margin as the result of the decline in the Electricity segment revenues I just discussed.
Operating income was also impacted by one-time early termination fee of $9 million related to the Mammoth complex contracts replacement.
The fee was included in selling and marketing expense and was allocated to the Electricity segment.
Moving to Slide 17.
Interest expenses.
Net of capitalized interest for the first quarter was $15.9 million compared to $14.9 million in the same period last year.
The $1 million increase is attributable to $0.9 million interest related to the sale of tax benefit $0.7 million decrease related to the interest capitalized to projects partially offset due to a lower interest related to our net debt.
Moving to Slide 18.
Net loss for the quarter was $1.9 million or $0.05 per share compared to net income of $8 million or $0.17 per share in the first quarter last year.
Net income excluding one-time termination fee of $9 million related to the replacement of the Mammoth PPAs and $4.6 million loss related to the oil and gas derivative instruments was $11.6 million or $0.26 per share.
That's shown in the following slide Slide 19.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2013 was $45.8 million compared to $51.5 million in the same period last year.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $18.2 million in the quarter compared to $41.9 million in the same period last year.
In January Ormat closed on the transaction with JPMorgan capital corporation to monetize production tax credit or PPCs associated with certain geothermal plants in California and Nevada.
Under the terms of the deal Ormat transferred the plants into new entity ORTP.
In the return for the tax benefit JPMorgan paid approximately $35.7 million in cash to Ormat at closing and will make additional payments of approximately 25% over the value of the PPC generated by the portfolio over time.
The initial payment and subsequent payments will be treated as cash flow from financing activities.
Accounting wise on the balance sheet we have included the liability associated with the sale of the tax benefit in amount of approximately $30 million and the noncontrolling interest in an amount of $5 million.
The P&amp;L includes interest expense of around $1 million that represents the interest on the liability and a profit from the sale of the tax benefit in the amount of $2 million.
Moving to Slide 20.
Cash and cash equivalents marketable securities and short-term benefit deposits as of March 31 2013 were $60.6 million.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the 3 quarters.
Our long-term debt as of March 31 2013 and the payment schedule are presented in Slide 21 of the presentation.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call back to Dita.
Dita? Thank you Doron.
If you could key please turn to Slide 23 you will see the capital requirements for the remainder of 2013.
We plan to invest a total of $173 million $124 million expected to be invested in projects that are fully released for construction including Mammoth and the Heber enhancement and an additional $49 million for development of new projects exploration maintenance CapEx and enhancement to the production facility.
As you can see on the right side of the slide we have sufficient capital resources to support our investment claim.
Turning to Slide 24 which presents our revenue forecast for 2013 we reaffirmed our 2013 guidance and expect total revenues to be between $515 million to $535 million with electricity revenues between $335 million and $345 million and product segment revenue between $180 million and $190 million.
Looking forward while there are still uncertainties in the regulatory environment in the United States we believe that the regulatory support for new bill in the U.S.
will continue.
A recent example is the MLP a Master Limited Partnership introduced a few weeks ago.
And internationally we are benefiting from our experience capabilities and reputation in all aspects of geothermal development to participate in the geothermal development activities in Latin America Southeast Asia and Africa.
We look forward to keeping you updated on new developments and we achieve additional milestones.
We would like to thank you for your support and at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Dan Mannes at Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-up questions.
First on your mark-to-market on your oil and gas just so I understand it this relates to the mark-to-market for the back 3 quarters for Q2 '3 and '4 and the realized impact of the hedges in the first quarter is not included in that $4.6 million? If you could just clarify that will be helpful.
The $4.6 million represents the remaining cost that will be in the next few quarters.
So Q1 is already the actuals and the mark-to-market actually looks to the expected oil and gas prices for next 9 months compared to the hedge that we did.
And we report accounting wise this expense in the quarter.
So the simple answer if the gas and oil prices hold as we're expected on March 31 there will not be an additional impact on the next quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
So whatever amount that -- whatever loss were incurred on those hedges are included in that $9 million year-over-year variance relative to the SO#4 contracts.
Can you repeat that? LLC Research Division</strong> So whatever portion of those hedges were realized in the first quarters losses would be included in the year-over-year variance that was $9.4 million which was the variance on the SO#4 contracts? Directionally I think you're correct Dan but I think that we need to go over the numbers that we -- I don't if Smadar can clarify this.
I mean I think that what Dan is asking is we basically included -- we included when we say that the difference is about $9 million.
This is actual rates that we got this quarter compared to the same quarter in 2012.
It does not include the hedge loss.
Does not include the hedge loss but does include the proceeds from whatever hedging we have done.
It includes the hedging but in Q1 doesn't include the $4.6 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's exactly what I was asking.
And as it relates to your adjusted EBITDA calculation the $4.6 million is that included in the adjusted EBITDA or excluded? It is not included -- not adjusted for the $4.6 million because it's not a one-time change right? LLC Research Division</strong> Perfect that helps a lot.
Real quick you mentioned Dita at the end on the -- of the MLP bill.
I think this is probably a good forum to maybe talk briefly about where this might fit in for you.
Do you see the potential if this bill passes that some of your assets would be MLP eligible and is that something that could be interesting for you down the road? To be perfectly honest we are still analyzing the impact of the MLP bill but what I can share with you my understanding of it is that it will definitely provide low-cost capital for future development.
Very similar to the tax partnership transactions that we did or releasing transaction that we did before.
There's another way to take advantage of such benefit which we cannot take advantage of.
And as a result of it get lower cost capital than otherwise available.
Is it also an opportunity for the existing assets? This is where we are not 100% clear.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is that because of the project debt? It's the projects -- it's the tax monetization of certain of the assets.
It's the start of this allum play I'm not sure how they can fit within MLP.
We have not done that analysis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then real quick on the operating cost side.
It looks like both R&amp;D cost and your -- and selling and marketing -- I'm sorry -- and G&amp;A look like they're both down sequentially from the fourth quarter.
Anything to read into that? Are we looking at maybe a little bit of a lower overhead during the balance of '13? Yes we are.
We have -- we are talking about efficiencies.
They are not a huge number but here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and the one -- last one.
The selling and marketing Dan is a coincidence.
It's not -- because selling and marketing really depends if we not realized the $9 million of the termination fee there.
The rest of it is depending what kind of products they order you have in a certain quarter and what are the selling and marketing expenses associated with the specific product.
But G&amp;A has been slightly reduced you're right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
So on sales and marketing we always want that number to go higher because that means you're selling -- you're probably building more backlog.
Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then one last one -- just on the Heber and Mammoth repowering.
Are those -- is the work on that mostly done at least on Mammoth? Or -- I know Heber I think was a little bit longer or is there still significant work on those that still needs to be completed? No actually in both cases in Mammoth we have basically removed the old plant and we're now in the process of assembling or installing the new equipment.
So quite a bit of work yet.
And on Heber there are 2 elements to the enhancement.
The first one was developing a new area -- a new resource area so a different resource.
We have drilled 3 wells and that work is completed and the wells are successful.
And some of them are already flowing into the plants.
So this is almost done.
And then the next portion is to redesign the power cycle to match what we believe the long-term properties of the resource will be and there engineering is done but we're in procurement.
And so this is a -- this will take us more than 2013 to complete.
We're thinking about completion sometime in 2014.
So quite a bit of work there.
Your next question comes from Scott Reynolds of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a sense of how the margin especially on the electricity side are looking to trend at the gross margin level for the next few quarters.
Obviously we have some moving pieces with new contracts and different plants coming online.
So I was hoping we could get some color on that.
By blending new plants online the traditional gross margin we certainly may cancel the lower gross margin on the Standard Offer #4 contract.
And if we look into the future.
And we have 2 contracts at Mammoth that will have provisional gross margin we have the Olkaria with a provisional gross margin.
The weight of McGinness Hills that is already reflected this quarter but we continue to contribute.
So we definitely agree a high -- we definitely expect a higher gross margin than -- a slightly higher gross margin that what we have in this quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Could you give us an update on the solar projects? And how that process is progressing.
Also is that -- those should have -- they'll produce somewhat but overall they'll have a lower generating effect on your overall asset base.
So should we expect much of an impact from those? And what are the margins on those projects relative to your current asset base? I think we addressed it in our year end quarter call but the only solar activity in Israel is not going to be -- to provide the results that we initially expected there.
And we may even discontinue this activity.
So we are left with Heber Solar that we are building.
And this is a project that may extend by sales but this is about all that we have in the solar activity.
Your next question comes from Michael Klein of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Can you talk about the performance at North Brawley in the quarter whether or not it was EBITDA positive? And how its financial performance was versus your expectations? It was not EBITDA positive.
First quarter is a lower rates quarter and one where we typically do work in preparation for the high rates in the second and the third quarter.
But no dramatic news in Brawley either not positive not negative.
It is -- as we said we expect this to be for now a 27-megawatt plant this is how we operate it.
Nothing dramatic or exciting there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you're comfortable with where the plant is now and the outlook going forward? Is that correct? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay and can you just talk from a high level what the biggest risks are to bringing these additional plants online by the end of 2013? It seems like you have most of the steps completed at this point but what are the biggest risks to getting the power online? Actually we don't see any substantial risk other than global issues that we cannot control.
We're well away on the work.
The equipment has been manufactured as in mostly on-site permits are and resource work was completed.
So there is really nothing major.
It's all -- it seems to be very very good.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Mark Barnett of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick -- I actually am not able to access the presentation slides so pardon me if this is very clear.
But aside from the time frame that you just gave on the Heber and the Mammoth work are there any other changes that you made to your development timetable during this quarter? For any kind of projects currently...
No no changes from the previous presentation.
Research Division</strong> And a quick question on the grid curtailment.
Is that still something that you had mentioned that might be an issue through the second quarter of this year? Do you have any idea what the rough financial impact of not being able to sell that power might be for the quarter? Or is that the tough number to pin down? You asked about the congestion on transmission? Research Division</strong> Right.
So the cumulative impact in the first quarter was about $2 million a little over $2 million.
We do not expect that -- the same impact in that second quarter.
It would be really in order of magnitude lower probably a few dozen thousand dollars or something in that area.
I don't have a quite estimate but not a substantial number beyond the new factor of it.
And as far as we know now there's no -- during the high load high rate areas -- periods of the year we don't expect any of that to continue.
Not the schedule maintenance at least.
Unscheduled could happen or failure could happen of course anytime.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one last quick question if I may.
I know it's a little bit early and that I think you had mentioned this might take the next year to actually issue the financing and you've mentioned nonrecourse and some limited recourse financing.
Do you have any idea for what the general capital structure might look like is that going to be fairly similar to U.S.
construction? Or might that have a slightly different profile? Our experience from international financing of reported finance is very similar to U.S.
financing.
Typically debt-to-equity ratio of 20% to 30% equity and a similar amount of that.
Maybe in the case of Sarulla because the cost of financing is very long-term the equity ratio maybe slightly lower but it is not known yet and because there is a strong EPC contract the construction financing is to be similar to term financing.
So we don't expect any major difference from what we project other projects.
Your next question comes from Gregg Orrill of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give an update on any additional milestones you're watching for Sarulla? The next major milestone is close of financing which is expected to be as we say the year after filing the contract so April of 2014 that's the major milestone.
Insignificant if you will milestone like signing the actual PPAs or the supply contract we have with the signed terms sheet but we don't have an actual PPA.
But I don't think that those are major milestones for the development.
It's really the work that is to be done.
Your next question comes from JinMing Liu of Ardour Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow up on the transmission congestion problem.
How did that problem affect your average price in the first quarter? And what exactly happened that caused the congestion? So -- I can't give you the calculation on the average price.
The impact was about $2 million.
So I think that you can back calculate this if not we'll see if we can help but if Smadar can answer that after I've finished.
But the causes there are few lines that export power from the Imperial Valley into the California ISO transmission network.
And basically every project is assigned room on one of the lines.
In our case the line is called Path 42.
And this is a line that has been scheduled for maintenance and also for upgrading.
Both activities that are somewhat related but not identical.
And when they do the work and this is really the extent of my knowledge when they do the work they basically limit -- they don't shut down transmission on that line altogether but they limit the amount of power that can be exported on their line and typically it is done in a pro rata way.
So all the projects that export power on the line take -- if they need to take off 100 megawatts of capacity from the line they will prorate each of the projects based on their transmission rights on the line.
And at that point this forces us to reduce generation adapt it to what we're allowed to put on that line.
So basically if you'd like slowdown turn down the plants.
Generally it is not a full outage of the plant it's just -- we're able to -- we are required to reduce it to 85% or 90% of capacity but there were cases where the implications where that we were better off not sending any power on that line.
So does that answer the question? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And -- so the problem is temporary.
It should be resolved before the peak season.
Correct correct.
As far as we know this should have ended either this week or last week.
At this time there are no further questions.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ormat Technologies Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rob Fink of KCSA Strategic Communications.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you and thank you everybody for joining us today.
Hosting the call are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management's current estimates and projections of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see Risk Factors as described in Ormat Technologies' Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 11 2013.
In addition during this call statements may include financial measures as defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the SEC such as EBITDA.
The presentation of financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Management of Ormat believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA may provide meaningful supplemental information regarding liquidity measurement that both management and investors benefit from referring to this non-GAAP financial measure in assessing Ormat's liquidity and when planning and forecasting future periods.
This non-GAAP financial measure may also facilitate management's internal comparison to the company's historical liquidity.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Events &amp; Presentations link that's found in the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Rob.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for the presentation for our second quarter 2013 results and outlook for the near future.
Starting with Slide 4.
We are pleased with our performance this quarter across all areas of our business.
On the electricity side we continue to see the positive impact from the changes that we have made to our greenfield development process and improved operational efficiencies.
On the product side we generated exceptionally strong revenue driven by the extensive work that was done this quarter.
Electricity generation increased by approximately 13% mainly as a result of new capacity that came online at the Olkaria complex in Kenya and McGinness Hills in Nevada.
Moreover the success of the recent development in the equipment design in McGinness Hills and Olkaria III complex allowed us to increase their declared capacity by 6 megawatts bringing our fleet's total generating capacity to 595 megawatts.
In light of our earnings expectations for the remainder of the year the Board of Directors have voted to resume a dividend payment in accordance with the company's dividend policy.
I would like to turn the call over to Doron to review the financial results.
Yoram will then provide a review of our operation and I will return for closing remarks before opening the call for Q&amp;A.
Doron? Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Let me start by providing an overview of our financial result.
During the quarter we sold our stake in the 22 megawatt Momotombo geothermal power plant in Nicaragua.
With the explicit exploration of the concession in our assumption that it is unlikely to extend the concession we concluded that selling our stake maximizes the value of debt.
As a result of the sale in our financial statement the Momotombo operations are extracted from the consolidated figure for the period and from the comparative figures and are included in discontinued operations as required by GAAP.
Starting with Slide 6.
Total revenues for the quarter ended June 30 2013 increased 20.5% from $126.7 million in the second quarter of 2012 to $152.7 million this quarter.
In our electricity segment as you can see on Slide 7 revenues grew 7.1% from $81.9 million in the second quarter of 2012 to $87.7 million this quarter.
This increase was the result of the contribution from our Olkaria III Plant 2 which started commercial operations at the beginning of May 2013 and the McGinness Hills power plant which started commercial operation in July 2012.
The transition into desirable energy rate in some of our California contract that occurred in May 2012 did not have a material impact on our segment revenues year-over-year.
The impact year-over-year is minimal.
However the variable rate is still significantly lower than the fixed rate we had before May 2012.
We were able to mitigate the consequence of this transition mostly by the growth in our other power plants.
In the product segment on Slide 8 revenues in the second quarter of 2013 increased 44.9% year-over-year from $44.8 million in the second quarter of 2012 to $65 million this quarter.
The exceptionally strong revenue this quarter is a result of us making strong progress on a number of contract we signed in previous quarter.
Our backlog as of August 6 stands at approximately $170 million before deduction of revenues recognized in June 30 with approximately $90 million to $100 million for recognition in 2014.
Moving to Slide 9.
The company's combined gross margin for the second quarter was 33% compared to 30.2% in the second quarter of 2012.
The electricity segment gross margin was 33.1% for the quarter compared to 30.9% in the same period last year.
In the product segment gross margin for the second quarter was 32.8% compared to 29.0% in the same period last year.
The interest in the product gross margin is mainly attributable to increase in revenues and different margins in the various sales contracts.
Moving to Slide 10.
Operating income in the second quarter of 2013 was $37.9 million compared to $24.4 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The increase was primarily attributable to the increase of gross margins and revenues in both the electricity and product segment.
Moving to Slide 11.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest for the second quarter was $17.5 million compared to $14.3 million in the same period last year.
The $3.2 million increase is mainly attributable to an increase of $1.3 million in interest expense related to the sale of tax benefits and a $2 million decrease related to interest capitalized to projects.
On Slide 12.
On July 15 2013 we have completed the conversion of the debt facility with OPIC from a floating interest rate to a fixed interest rate.
The conversion applies to both branches of the facility which is being used to finance Olkaria III complex in Kenya.
The average fixed interest rate for the total $233 million outstanding principal amount is 6.31%.
The annual combined average interest rate on our total debt 6.2%.
Moving to Slide 13.
Net income for the quarter was $25.2 million or $0.55 per share compared to a net income of $8.6 million or $0.19 per share in the second quarter last year.
Net income excluding a gain related to oil and gas derivative instruments of $3.6 million in the second quarter of 2013 and $3.8 million in the second quarter of 2012 and excluding a $3.6 million after-tax gain on the sale of Momotombo plant in Nicaragua in the second quarter of 2013 was $18 million compared to $4.8 million or $0.40 per share compared to $0.11 per share.
As shown in the following slide Slide 14 adjusted EBITDA for the quarter -- for the second quarter of 2013 was $69.7 million compared to $50.8 million in the same period last year.
Moving to Slide 15.
Cash cash equivalents and short-term bank deposit as of June 30 2013 were $31.9 million.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the 6 months.
Our long-term debt as of June 30 2013 and the payment schedule are presented in Slide 16 of the presentation.
And as Peter mentioned in the opening remarks on August 6 2013 Ormat's Board of Directors approved the payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.04 per share pursuant to the company's dividend policy which targets an annual payout ratio of at least 20% of the company's net income after satisfying the clawback provision.
The dividend will be paid on August 29 2013 to shareholders of record as of closing of business on August 19 2013.
The company expects to pay a dividend of $0.04 per share in the next quarter.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Yoram for an operational update.
Yoram? Thank you Doron and good morning everyone.
Starting with an update on our project pipeline Slide 18.
In Wild Rose the equipment's fabrication is in advanced stage and site construction is in process.
We expect to complete our work before the end of this year.
At the Mammoth Q1 plant we had removed all of the old equipment and the new equipment is being constructed on site.
There's an expectation that this will also be completed by the end of the year.
Heber Solar is in construction and we believe that the actual time line will be dictated by the interconnection facilities which are done by others and are currently expected around the end of the year.
For 2014 we expect to bring online the 16-megawatt Plant 3 of the Olkaria III complex in Kenya.
The equipment is on its way to the site and the field development continues.
As for the Heber 1 enhancement we're in the procurement phase of the components for the [indiscernible] and expect to complete our work in the first half of 2014.
On Slide 19 you can see the list of projects in various stages of development.
The cumulative generating capacity of these project is approximately 117 megawatts.
As we stated before the readiness for continued construction and expected economics will determine the release of each individual project and we are not planning to invest in all of them this year.
Moving to Slide 20.
We have 41 prospects in early exploration.
Forward activity has yet to begin in the U.S.
Chile Guatemala and New Zealand.
Slide 21 provides for an update on the product segment.
As of August 6 2013 our product backlog is approximately $170 million.
Backlog includes a Thermo 1 project that was successfully completed during the second quarter.
Recognition of revenue from this project is based on the client's payment.
We expect that a portion of the revenue will be recognized this year and the rest is expected in 2014.
Let me turn the call over to Dita.
Thank you Yoram.
If you could please turn to Slide 23.
Our estimated capital needs for the remainder of 2013 includes approximately $106 million for capital expenditures on new projects under development and construction exploration activities operating projects and machinery and equipment as well as $49.5 million for debt repayment.
As you can see on the right side of the slide we have sufficient capital sources to support needs.
Investing in our business to generate additional capacity and impose additional efficiency -- operational efficiency continues to be our top priority.
However the board is closely monitoring recent capital market activity in evaluating all available alternative that may help maximize shareholder value.
Given our current generating capacity and the tax attributes of our business the idea of creating an MLP [indiscernible] or similar structure is something that interests us.
However we are analyzing the potential opportunity further to determine how specifically this type of structure would benefit our shareholders and fit in with our current capital structure and long-term strategy.
While it is still premature for me to comment on this subject any further at this time it is something that we are exploring and will continue to evaluate.
Turning to Slide 24 which presents our revenue forecast for 2013.
For the full year 2013 we update our electricity segment guidance following the sale of the Momotombo project which reduced our expected revenue for 2013 by $11 million.
We expect the electricity segment revenues to be between $325 million and $335 million.
In the product segment we are increasing our guidance to be between $185 million and $195 million.
The total revenue for the full year 2013 is expected to be between $510 million and $530 million.
As we look to the future the outlook for the international market continues to be promising as does the outlook for development in the U.S.
Two recent developments in particular have increased our optimism for the international market.
In June President Obama announced the Power Africa Initiative pursuant to which the United States will invest up to $7 billion in Sub-Saharan Africa over the next 5 years with the aim of doubling access to power.
The program will partner the U.S.
Government with the government of 6 sub-Saharan countries among them are Kenya Ethiopia and Tanzania detailing potential for geothermal energy.
We anticipate much of the program would be focused on expanding generation from renewables.
This initiative followed by the previously announced U.S.-Asia Pacific Comprehensive Partnership for a Sustainable Energy which is committed to increase access to electricity across Asia contributes to that optimism in the international market.
Also in June President Obama outlined an agenda to reduce carbon emissions directing the EPA to complete new pollution standards for both new and existing power plants an initiative that will support continued renewable energy development in the U.S.
At the state level we continue to see government implement legislation to support new [indiscernible] development.
In the last legislative session Nevada passed a series of new laws that are expected to continue to support renewable development in this state by freeing up new capacity from retiring coal plants updating renewable energy credit requirements and restructuring tax abatement for local areas.
We look forward to keeping you updated on new developments as we achieve additional milestones.
I would like to thank you for your support.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Dan Mannes.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a couple of quick questions here.
First of all I guess in the last quarter Yoram had noted you'd seen some transmission constraints down in Southern California.
Can you comment is that something that impacted you at all in the second quarter? And is that mostly abated or was that a continuing problem? The work on the transmission line was completed before summer peak.
So there was some impact on -- I guess some impact in April and a little bit I think the first week of May.
But we -- it was not as substantial as in the first quarter and so the impact on us was very limited.
The work we don't expect that work to happen during the summer peak months.
It may resume during the winter months but we think that we're better equipped to handle this today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Second question on the product side obviously very strong quarter from both the revenue and margin perspective.
Number one how much of that is impacted as you get pretty close to closing down the big New Zealand project? And number two what do you see as the I guess the pipeline of opportunities in terms of filling that backlog back up some more for next year and the following years? I think that in -- I can't provide you with the precise sense here but I think that although the New Zealand project was very very large it's -- if you look at this on a 2-year scale which is roughly the time line for the project it amounts to I don't know somewhere between 1/4 and -- a 1/4 and 1/3 I think of the overall business something like that.
So I think that yes there's -- the New Zealand project had an impact but it's not -- the results are not really driven by that project.
I think that we were -- we had very good success on the product side in the last few years.
And again it's -- we constantly said that we don't expect it to be at the same huge volume as we had in previous years.
But I think that it's a -- we -- there is reason too for optimism that we will be at least at our average if not a little better going forward.
Because in some areas of the world the market is certainly strong and there is a big project that we hope to work on in the not-too-distant future.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mean Sarulla or something different? Yes yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
I don't want to say lastly but I'd probably drop in queue after this.
But Dita first of all thank you very much for commenting on the yield cost [ph] structure.
That's obviously something I think the industry and certainly we've been looking at.
I was wondering and I know this is probably an early stage of evaluation but even at this point are there either any plants or structure that you currently have that would be problematic? Or are there any obvious red flags as to why this might not work for you as you look forward? It's a little premature for me to comment on it Dan because we are still analyzing it.
But from a preliminary look at it the MLP whether their legislation will pass or not pass it is not clear that for a renewable energy company with so much tax credits that we have in any way that really we need the MLP in order to demonstrate if you will sale of the value or not.
But other than that it's just too early to comment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess -- the one question I guess was the international assets.
I know at least in energy structure it was I believe all domestic.
I wasn't sure if there were any constraints you saw on the international side as to these types of vehicles or again is that premature? It's premature but legally there are no constraints.
The next question comes from Mark Barnett.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned obviously the Sarulla project.
And with the progress that's being made up to this point do you expect that that's probably going to be something that shows up more in 2014 or might we begin to see revenues from that project in the second half of this year? No not in the second half of this year.
The schedule -- first of all the project is continuing on schedule and the schedule is to reach financial close in April of 2014.
So revenues will be recognized only after financial close.
Research Division</strong> Great okay.
And then on the generation margins obviously those were very strong.
And despite the fact that you had a decline in your average rate is that just more the inclusion of your new or more efficient projects or is there work that's being done across your fleet to maybe drive some efficiency? The answer -- the drive for efficiency is always a top priority for us and we had some successes in this quarter as well.
But I think that the biggest driver is the fact that our strategy on project development and the type of power plant construction is one that is supposed to provide us with better margins on the new plants and this is actually happening.
As we add capacity in those areas we see the positive influence on the margins.
Research Division</strong> Great.
One last small item I guess.
But I'm curious about the Amatitlan work that's being done.
Will the work over impact capacity going forward in either direction or is this just keep it at current output? This is to maintain the existing output.
[Operator Instructions] And the next question comes from Gregg Orrill.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to the discussion around MLP and other vehicles and your valuations.
Just wondering if there is really a time line that you are looking at in terms of the work that you're doing or is it really determined on external events in the market? Or how are you thinking about that? It's a -- we're still in the analysis phase so it's really premature to determine a time line when you are in the analysis place.
But as you know us once we decide to do something we would do it.
Next question comes from Dan Mannes.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I'm back for more.
One thing I was going to ask on is as it relates to both California and Hawaii what's the current strategy that relates to hedging as you start think about '14 and beyond particularly as we've seen a pullback in natural gas prices? As you know we are hedged till the end of this year.
We are looking in monitoring the oil prices on a regular basis.
And once we start our budgeting process for next year we'll see exactly the photo that we have.
And taking into account obviously the pricing we'll see will determine our hedging policy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess the follow on to that is how much of it does that play into whatever discussions you maybe having at least on I believe it's Eno 1[ph] Of Heber that as a contract rolling off in '15? Any progress there or do we think we'll have to wait a lot closer to the expiration of that contract before we can start talking about replacement? So as far as Heber 1 the -- our offtaker disclosed that they have signed a PPA with us.
I believe that the details were not disclosed.
But for Heber 1 there is a submission at the end of the existing PPA line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay there's -- so you'll be accepting -- you'll be dealing with variable for the next 18 months and with hedges [indiscernible] again? Yes.
Heber 1 will be affected by whatever happens to Asrac [ph] until the end of its contract in 2015.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the last question on the CapEx side.
You guys -- Dita gave us an update on the CapEx schedule.
It looks like actually your construction of new projects it looks like it's down a bit more than we thought.
At the end of the first quarter you expect to spend about $124 million through the balance of the year.
Now you're only looking to spend $67 million till the end of June and I don't think you spent $60 million during the second quarter.
So I was wondering if you kind of change your schedule in terms of construction is something either moved to '14 or sort of come out? No.
No we didn't say -- certainly we didn't change in the last quarter.
It's the same program.
I don't have the math in my head to comment on it but I don't think there is a reduction.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess the one thing I would add on there is as it relates to Mammoth I think you've gotten pretty close to getting your permits on Mammoth.
I wasn't sure if you were -- if you had a change in schedule on that project? No I mean the portion of Mammoth that is under construction right now is the enhancement of G1 and G3.
We still don't have the permit for the CD4.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sorry I thought there was some pretty significant progress on the EIS on CD4.
There is progress but not enough.
This presentation has now finished.
Please check back shortly for the archive.
Hello ladies and gentlemen and thank you for waiting.
Welcome to the Ormat Technologies third quarter earnings call.
[Operator Instructions] Without further ado it is my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Robert Fink.
Mr.
Fink the floor is yours.
Thank you and thank you all for joining us today.
Hosting the call are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operation and are based on management's current estimates and projections of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see Risk Factors as described in the Ormat Technologies annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 11 2013.
In addition during the call we will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and management's reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slide posted on our website.
Because these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP it should not be considered in isolation from our financial statement prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR Events &amp; Presentations link that's found in the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Rob.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for the presentation for our third quarter 2013 results and outlook for the near future.
Starting with Slide 4.
We are very happy to report another quarter with good results.
In the electricity segments we continued our ongoing effort to improve operational efficiency and investment return by optimizing existing plants adding [indiscernible] incremental new capacity.
The operational improvement along with the full contribution of the 36-megawatt Olkaria III Plant 2 resulted in an increase in the total gross margin by 75 basis points to 30.4% as well as an increase of approximately 25% in the adjusted EBITDA for the quarter.
This continuous improvement is also reflected in the 9 months adjusted EBITDA with an increase of $25.2 million over the same period last year.
In the product segment we successfully completed the world's largest binary geothermal plant the 100 megawatt Ngatamariki in New Zealand and turned it over to our customer.
As Doron will discuss later in the call the results of the project exceeded expectation.
Looking ahead we have a number of positive developments on the horizon and we bring new capacity online replaced legacy PPAs with no favorable agreements and secure new contracts in our product segment.
I would like to turn the call over to Doron to review the financial results.
Yoram will then provide a review of our operations and I would like -- will return for closing remarks before opening the call for Q&amp;A.
Doron? Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Let me start by providing an overview of our financial results for the quarter ended September 30 2013.
Starting with Slide 7.
Total revenues for the quarter reached $130.7 million.
In our electricity segment as you can see on Slide 8 revenues grew 14.7% to $89 million this quarter primarily due to the Olkaria III Plant 2 contribution which started commercial operations at the beginning of May 2013.
During the quarter we continue to take actions to mitigate the impact of natural gas prices on our electricity segment through our hedging activity and entered into swap transaction at the fixed average price of 4.07 medium BTU throughout 2014.
In the product segment on Slide 9 revenues in the quarter decreased 23.6% year-over-year to $41.8 million.
The decrease was primarily due to the completion of the Ngatamariki geothermal project in New Zealand earlier this year.
Moving to Slide 10.
The company's combined gross margin for the third quarter was 30.4% compared to 22.9% in the third quarter of 2012.
In the product segment gross margin for the third quarter was $12.1 million or 29% compared to $12.6 million or 23% in the same period last year.
The increase in the product gross margin is mainly attributable to different margins in the various sales contracts [ph].
In the electricity segment gross margin for the third quarter was $27.6 million or 31.1% compared to $17.7 million or 22.8% in the same period last year.
The increase in the gross margin is mainly due to the successful development and design implemented in the new capacity brought online.
Moving to Slide 11.
Operating income in the third quarter was $29.8 million compared to $12.1 million in the third quarter last year.
The increase was primarily attributable to the increase in gross margin in electricity segment and the $7.3 million impairment that was recognized in the third quarter of 2012.
Moving to Slide 12.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest for the third quarter was $18.5 million compared to $15.4 million in the same period last year.
The $3.1 million increase is mainly attributable to an increase of $1.9 million in interest expense related to the sale of tax benefits and $0.7 million decrease related to the interest capitalized to projects.
Moving to Slide 13.
Net income attributable to the company's stockholders for the third quarter was $13 million or $0.28 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $0.6 million or $0.01 per share in the third quarter of last year.
Net income attributable to the company's stockholders excluding a net loss related to oil and gas derivative instruments of $0.3 million in the third quarter of 2013 and a loss of $3.7 million in the third quarter of last year or $13.3 million compared to $3.1 million or $0.29 per diluted share compared to $0.07 per share.
As shown in the following slide Slide 14 adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter 2013 was $60.3 million compared to $48.2 million in the same period last year an increase of approximately 25% period-over-period.
Moving to Slide 15.
Cash cash equivalents and short-term bank deposit as of September 30 was $35.4 million.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the past 9 months.
Our long-term debt as of September 30 2013 and the payment schedule are presented in Slide 16 of the presentation.
The average cost of debt stands at 6%.
On November 5 2013 Ormat's Board of Directors approved the payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.04 per share pursuant to the company's dividend policy which targets an annual payout ratio of at least 20% of the company's net income.
The dividend will be paid on December 4 2013 to shareholders of record as of closing of business on November 20 2013.
This concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Yoram for an operational update.
Yoram? Thank you Doron and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 18 the total generation for the third quarter of 2013 was approximately 986 000 megawatt hours which is an increase of 5% from the same quarter last year.
The growth in this generation is mainly due to the commercial operation of Plant 2 in Olkaria.
An update on our project pipeline is on Slide 9 (sic) [Slide 19].
We continue to make good headway in our organic growth.
In the Don Campbell plant which was formerly called Wild Rose project we have completed [indiscernible] are in the final stages of construction.
As a reminder we've signed 10-year PPA with the Southern California Public Power Authority at the rate of $99 per megawatt hour.
This project is expected to come online by the end of 2013.
In Heber Solar we have installed and begun testing the solar modules.
Also in this project we have already signed a 20-year PPA with the Imperial Irrigation District and expect to begin commercial operation by the end of 2013 subject to the availability of interconnection facilities.
At Olkaria we have completed field development for the 16-megawatt Plant 3 and started to start construction and expect to commence commercial operation in the first half of 2014.
We're in the process of modernizing the facilities of Mammoth and Heber.
At Mammoth we are replacing all the units of G1.
And at Heber we have added new wells and are replacing some equipment.
We expect completion of work at Mammoth by the end of 2013 and at Heber in the first half of 2014.
We've recently signed a new 10-year PPA for Heber 1.
In their contract which is set to start in December 2015 we'll add $7 million in EBITDA in 2016 compared to 2013 and further reduces our exposure to natural gas prices.
On Slide 20 we present the list of projects in various stages of development.
As you can see we've completed the exploration work in the McGinness Hills site and expect to add a 30-megawatt power plant to the existing facility.
In Sarulla the consortium signed a $229 million agreement for the field development of the project.
Limited notice to proceed was issued ahead of the financial close.
Cumulative generating capacity of these projects is approximately 147 megawatts.
As we stated before the readiness for continued construction and expected economics will determine the release of each individual project and we are not planning to invest in all of them this year.
We recently won an award to negotiate an energy conversion agreement for a 30-megawatt project in Kenya as part of the GDC's activity to accelerate the development of geothermal in the country.
GDC is a Kenyan company owned by the government.
We are a leading partner with 51% interest in the JV that won the award.
Finally we entered into a joint development agreement with eBay to develop a 5-megawatt REG power plant which will supply cleaner electricity to eBay's new data center in Salt Lake City.
This project is an example of how companies can reach for sustainability goals in a way that's economical and beneficial to their underlying operation.
We plan to provide more details on this project as we continue the development.
Moving to Slide 21.
We have 39 prospects in early exploration where activity is yet to begin in the United States Chile Guatemala New Zealand and Indonesia.
Slide 22 provides an update on the product segment.
As of November 5 2013 our product backlog is approximately $173 million of which we expect to recognize more than a $120 million in 2014.
Both numbers exclude the supply contract for the Sarulla project.
In September we completed the world's largest binary geothermal plant the 100-megawatt Ngatamariki plant in New Zealand under $142 million EPC contract.
The completion of the plant in less than 24 months from the award with generation at 104% of its designed output is a further testament to our execution capability and the suitability of our technology to large geothermal facilities.
And we look forward to providing the same level of results on additional projects in the future.
Let me now turn the call over to Dita.
Thank you Yoram.
If you could please turn to Slide 24 our estimated capital need for the remainder of 2013 include approximately $51 million for capital expenditure of a new project under development of construction exploration activities maintenance CapEx for operating projects and machinery and equipment as well as $31 million for the debt repayment.
While our 2014 budget is in the process yet we estimate our capital expenditure needs in 2014 to be approximately $150 million.
As you can see on the right side of the slide we have additional total of capital to support needs.
Turning to Slide 25 in which we outline our revenue outlook for 2013.
We were able 2014 guidance and expect total revenues to be between $525 million to $535 million with electricity segment revenue to be approximately $330 million and product segment revenue to be between $195 million and $205 million.
As we've discussed on prior previous earnings calls we've been evaluating the viability of adopting a yield cost-type [ph] structure as a way to generate additional shareholder value.
At this point we have not yet concluded our position on our structure.
We continue focusing on creating shareholder value by striving to achieve further operational efficiencies investing in enhancements to our existing plants while seeking new development opportunity globally and securing contracts in our product segment.
Like in the past we are doing this while reducing our cost of capital by taking advantage of various low-interest loans and tax incentives offered by governments and other organizations.
We look forward to keeping you updated on new developments as we achieve additional milestones.
Before I open the call for questions I would like to refer to the announcement last night of my personal plans to retire for my position as CEO of the company with an age of 72 at the end of June next year.
I will remain a [indiscernible] director of the company.
At the same time Yoram will receive being the president and CEO of the company and will become the chairman of Ormat Technologies.
In this capacity he will continue to contribute from his knowledge and experience to ensure the continued success of the company.
A sales committee for the new CEO [indiscernible] this is notable by a -- but just wanted to mention it because we decided to do a very orderly.
Thank you for your confidence and I'm now opening the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from JinMing Liu.
LLC Research Division</strong> First about the operational -- operation.
Can you give us some updates about the use to be a troubled power plant like North Brawley and Jersey Valley? There are no special updates on Brawley.
And as far Jersey Valley I believe that we have reported in our previous earnings calls that we have greatly improved the operation level at that project and it's operating very well at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's not Brawley provide positive EBITDA during the first quarter did it? No.
But as we have I believe disclosed in the past for the project is now it is it has a very little effect on the company and our investments and effort in this power plant are really measured by what would be as a potential contribution to the company.
So we don't expect to provide a lot of updates on North Brawley on a go forward basis where it is now it's just expected to run.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you comment on the market potential for the REG projects like the one you just announced with eBay how big the market could be and what kind of benefit you can realize from that? Our -- I mean there are 2 elements there.
The potential is fairly substantial in North America.
It's -- if you like the mathematical potential is in the hundreds many many hundreds of megawatt range.
The trouble is in most places this is not recognized as renewable energy and does not fall into the RPS.
So actually developing projects is a -- it's a competition and it's a question of whether you can develop a relatively small project that sells.
If you like the equivalent of brown power despite the fact that this is not brown power.
And so the way that we look at the REG market is that there are a number of nice opportunities.
It could nicely complement our activity in North America.
But it cannot be a huge market it's just a very nice adder [ph].
And since we use the same infrastructure and designing the equipment constructing the sites and also operating the sites some of these projects could actually have a very very nice contribution to our EBITDA and to our bottom line.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Dan Manis.
LLC Research Division</strong> First of all Dita I think your pending retirement deserves more than just a mention.
Congratulations.
I know it's been a long time with company that you built from scratch to $1 billion-plus enterprise.
So congratulations and then hopefully you're going to look for maybe a little bit of relaxation in retirement.
Thanks.
Actually she'll work on the workover rigs.
No rest for her.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just a couple of questions -- and I know we still have 8 more months but I wanted to get that in.
A couple questions on the business.
First of all I think you mentioned maybe some wins during the fourth quarter -- during the third quarter on the product side.
Anything material or just more small orders on the geothermal side and if you could point us to the geography that will be helpful as well.
It's not only on the geothermal side mainly.
The geography is not in the United States.
There's nothing coming from the United States but from the rest of the world.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
So that was the first thing.
The second thing is it sounds like so you're now hedge for 2014.
Can you give us a frame of reference given where your hedges are would you -- where you expect your existing -- where you expect it to price out relative to '13? Do you expect that to be up or down for the plants that have the SO4 contracts? It's slightly up.
In 2013 we hedged based on $4 MMBTU and '14 it's 4.07.
It's slightly up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then still with some volatility on the greenhouse gas credits? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any hedges put in for putting on the oil side for '14? Yes.
We also hedged the total to the oil prices.
Again it's slightly better numbers than in 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Real quick on your '14 CapEx budget the $150 million can you talk at all about what's included there beyond the Olkaria III Plant 3? Is there was -- because it doesn't like you've committed yet any of the other projects sort of that you're pursuing.
Is that sort of just holding place or have you already identified where that money is going? It's -- first of all the budget is not approved yet so I prefer to disclose in more details once we have an approved budget.
But we did get some requests from some of you to give an outlook for the next year to enable you to do some estimate and it is the first time that we are doing it without an approved budget.
I think one new project that is -- that was just announced by Yoram is the McGinness Phase II which is under development.
Nothing yet in construction currently and under a development.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on McGinness II from a development process how far you are along in terms of proving the incremental resource number one? And number two given the work now will that qualify for the PTC? There is some improvements.
I mean there is no [indiscernible] -- the McGinness II first phase is operating very well and it certainly provide more than the minimum exploration support that we need to release the project.
McGinness II is part of the OFC 2 financing package.
So with financing we all saw -- we know where it's going to come.
It's going to be eligible under the law to PTC or ITC credit but not to an ITC Phase 1.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then real quick.
You mentioned on Kenya this sounded like a little bit different.
This is under GDC's program.
Is this one where you would just build own operate the plant itself and they're taking the well field so this might look a little bit different or is it premature to talk about what you're doing in Kenya there? No.
They [indiscernible] is they design the wall then it's exactly what you said.
It's very similar to the Philippine projects that we have been there in the '90s.
This is actually where we started this in IPP with the projects where the resource [indiscernible] was not ours and only the [indiscernible] was ours.
And this is a similar structure.
The GDC is going to own the resource supply the resource segment there in the tape and we will generate the electricity and sell it to KPLC.
But it's in the work.
We don't have the contract yet just to be clear.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
And again this is one you would own; this isn't a product sale? It's one that we will own and a joint venture where we will be a 51% owner.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Gregg Orrill.
Research Division</strong> Dita congratulations on a great career and your transition going forward.
I look forward to seeing you soon.
In terms of the discussion around Yuleco [ph] you said you're still I guess evaluating.
What are the things that you're -- what is your thought process there and things you're trying to do and evaluating in terms of the market et cetera in terms of going forward? When the evaluation is around 2 things.
Number one and it's wholly the most important one is what -- is it going to be accretive or dilutive to shareholders? And the analysis is not done.
The analysis is assuming or depending on the size of the possibility and we don't know yet what would be the right size or the feasible size of fielco [ph] in our circumstances.
And the fact that we -- part of our portfolio is international and part of our portfolio is domestic part of our portfolio is tax equity and [indiscernible].
And so all this makes the analysis quite complicated.
Research Division</strong> Is there a timeline you feel that you're looking at to get your arms around it? No.
We're not under any pressure.
So we cannot really tell you when we will have a decision.
[Operator Instructions] It appears we have no further questions at this time.
So thank you.
Thank you for your participation and we look forward to the next call in February.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your line at this time.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for waiting.
Welcome to the Ormat Q4 Year End 2013 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions and comments following the presentation.
Without further ado it is my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Robert Fink.
Mr.
Fink the floor is yours.
Thank you West and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Hosting the call from Ormat are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company’s plans objectives and expectations for future operation and are based on management’s current estimates projections future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please visit Risk Factors as described in Ormat Technologies’ Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 11 2013.
In addition during the call we will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly compared GAAP measures and management’s reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slide posted on our website ormat.com.
Because these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP they should not be considered in isolation from our financial statement prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company’s website ormat.com under the IR Events &amp; Presentations link that’s found in the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Thank you Rob and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results and outlook for the near future.
Slide 4 presents the highlight for the year.
Doron will go into the numbers in detail in a minute.
I would like to provide an overview of what has been an exciting and productive year from a business and operational point of view.
During 2013 we successfully completed nine power plants with approximately 270 megawatt of gross generating capacity.
The plants which we completed for our customers and for our own portfolio significantly contributed to the growth of the geothermal industry.
These accomplishments the overall performance in both our Products and Electricity Segments resulted in record revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
We successfully reduced our exposure to natural gas prices by securing three fixed-price long-term PPAs in California and continued our business development efforts to expand our operations globally.
Our achievements reflect Ormat’s expertise in developing and managing projects that will deliver strong earnings growth and drive value to shareholders.
Our success in recent years in answering the demand for electricity with a geothermal product that is both competitive in rate and superior in its attribute to most of our other alternatives is a testament to the important role that geothermal has in addressing the energy needs of the countries that have such a recourse while providing us with the consult that the demand for this energy will remain strong across the globe and allow us to benefit from our position in this market.
With that said I would like to turn the call over to Doron to review the financial results.
Yoram will then provide a review of our operations and I will return for closing remarks before opening the call for Q&amp;A.
Doron? Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Let me start by providing an overview of our financial results for the year ended December 31 2013.
Starting with Slide 6.
Total revenues for 2013 were $533.2 million a 6.3% increase of revenue of $501 million in 2012.
In our electricity segment as you can see on Slide 7 revenue grew 4.7% to $329.7 million in 2013 from $314.9 million in 2012.
The increase was primarily due to the new capacity coming online.
In line with our policy since 2012 we continue to take actions to mitigate the impact of natural gas prices on our Electricity Segment through our hedging activities.
For 2014 we entered into the relative transaction at a fixed average price of $4.07 per MMbtu.
It is important to note that the hedging transaction that we do eliminates the economic impact of changes to prices of natural gas in a specific month.
If we lose on the hedge contract we are compensated from the revenue that we get on the Electricity Segment and vice versa.
Both parts are recorded in the electricity revenue.
However due to the accounting guidelines we are required to mark-to market our forward hedge and this brings volatility into the reported period.
When we internally analyze our result we exclude the impact of the mark-to-market.
Let me demonstrate the impact of the mark-to-market adjustments on the 2013 annual revenue.
As a result of our hedging transaction that we entered in 2013 for 2014 we recorded a $2.8 million loss on mark-to-market adjustment in 2013 compared with a $2.3 million mark-to-market gain related to transaction we entered in 2012 for 2013 that were recorded in 2013.
Excluding this mark-to-market adjustment electricity revenue increased 6.4% year-over-year.
In the Product Segment on Slide 8 product’s revenue rose 8.9% year-over-year to a record of $203.5 million.
The increase reflects the growth in new customer orders that we secured in 2012 and 2013.
Moving to Slide 9 the company combined gross margin for 2013 was 30% compared to 25.7% in 2012.
In the Product Segment gross margins for 2013 were $62.9 million or 30.9% compared to $51.5 million or 27.6% in 2012.
The increase in the product gross margin is mainly attributable to the different product mix and margin in the various sales contracts.
The gross margin for 2013 is higher than the typical level for this segment and we do not expect gross margin to remain in such levels in 2014.
In the Electricity Segment gross margin for 2013 was $96.9 million or 29.4% compared to $77.5 million or 24.6% in 2012.
The increase in the electricity gross margin is mainly due to the higher margin the new power plants contribute to our fleet performance.
Moving to Slide 10 operating income in 2013 was $97 million compared to an operating loss of $159.9 million in the same period last year.
The 2012 result included a non-cash impairment charge of $236.4 million taken at the North Brawley and Olkaria IV geothermal plant.
If we exclude it from the result operating income grew from $76.5 million to $97 million which represent a 26.8% increase.
Operating income attributable to our Electricity Segment in 2013 was $54.3 million compared to an operating loss of $190 million in 2012.
Excluding the impairment charge the operating income increased 17% from $46.4 million to $54.3 million.
Operating income attributable to our product segments increased 41.9% to $42.7 million in 2013.
Moving to Slide 11 interest expense net of capitalized interest for 2013 was $73.8 million compared to $54.1 million in 2012.
The $9.7 million drive is mainly attributable to an increase of $6.9 million in interest expense related to the sale of tax benefits and $4.4 million decrease related to the interest capitalized to projects.
Moving to Slide 12 net income attributable to the Company’s stockholders for 2013 was $41.2 million or $0.91 per share compared to a net loss of $213 million or $4.69 per share in 2012.
The interest was primarily related to the non-cash impairment charge as I mentioned before.
Now I would like to go over a few quarterly financial highlights beginning with Slide 13.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 total revenues were $130.9 million compared to $113.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Revenues in the electricity segment increased 11.4% to $84.7 million up from $76.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Revenues in the product segment were $46.2 million an increase of 23.9% compared to $37.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Now on Slide 14 operating income in the fourth quarter 2013 was $21.6 million compared to an operating loss of $220.9 million last year.
Net income attributable to the Company’s stockholders for the fourth quarter was $8.2 million or $0.18 per share compared to a net loss of $229 million or $5.04 per share diluted in the fourth quarter of 2012.
As shown in Slide 15 adjusted EBITDA for 2013 was $227.1 million compared to $185.7 million in the same period last year which represents 22.3% increase.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2013 was $51.4 million as compared to $35.2 million in the same quarter last quarter which represent 45.8% increase.
Net cash provided by operating activities were $54.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to $27.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $86.8 million in 2013 compared with $89.5 million in 2012.
Moving to Slide 16 cash cash equivalents as of December 31 2013 were $57.4 million the accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the past year.
Our long-term debt as of December 31 2013 in the payment schedule are presented in Slide 17 of the presentation.
The average cost of this the company stands at 6.1%.
On February 25 2014 Ormat’s Board of Directors approve a payment of quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share which is in addition to the payment of $0.08 per share paid in 2013.
The dividend will be paid on March 27 2014 to shareholders of record as of closing of business day on March 30 2014.
The dividend payment was resumed in Q2 of 2013 after satisfying the clawback provision resulted from 2012 dividend payment in compliance with the requirement of the covenants in our financing documents.
We expect to pay quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share for the first three quarters of 2014.
That concludes my financial overview I would like now to turn the call to Yoram for an operational update.
Yoram? Thank you Doron and good morning everyone.
Starting with Slide 19.
2013 was a very successful year for the operational and development teams of Ormat.
In our O&amp;M portfolio we completed three new power plants Olkaria II and III Don A.
Campbell and the refurbishment of Mammoth G1.
All moved from end of construction to electricity sales at full power in less than a month and all matter exceeded their contractual generation target.
The plants in Kenya and in U.S.
added 70 megawatt net of new capacity.
At McGinness Hills success of the resource development and the equipment design allowed us to increase declared capacity to 38 megawatt.
The well field and power plant enhancement were we conducted in Jersey Valley brought the plant to its design generating capacity.
From a business standpoint we amended the PPA at McGinness Hills allowing us to develop the second phase.
We amended the PPA at Zunil and Guatemala and replaced SO#4 contracts with fixed price contracts for Mammoth G1 G3 and sign a new PPA for Heber 1 which will become effective in December 2015 and will affect the electricity revenues from 2016 onward.
We also completed the acquisition of Platanares in Honduras so allowing us to release Phase 1 for drilling activity.
We completed most of the work on the 10 megawatt Heber solar project but are still waiting for the interconnection facilities to be completed.
However we are considering the option of the selling the product to completion.
Moving to Slide 20 the total generation for 2013 was approximately 4.3 million megawatt hours which is an increase of 7.9% from last year.
The growth in generation is mainly due to the contribution from Olkaria III Plant 2 McGinness Hills Tuscarora and Jersey Valley.
Continuous improvements in our power plants have allowed us to reduce our operating expenses excluding depreciation from $37 a megawatt hour to $36.
For an update on our current generation capacity please turn to Slide 21.
We made a few changes as you can see in the table.
The generating capacity of Brady and Steamboat complex has been reduced to reflect the changes in the resource conditions.
The performance of McGinness Hills and Olkaria has been very strong and we have updated their capacity to reflect this.
Moving to Slide 22 in 2014 we plan to invest approximately $150 million in new projects and develop and construction.
The main element of this investment plan are the second phase of McGinness Hills in Nevada and the Platanares project in Honduras.
The Menangai project in Kenya as well as additional projects in the U.S.
and in the rest of the world that are currently under exploration where we expect them to start the development process during the year.
As stated previously the readiness for continued construction and expected economics will determine the release of each project.
In McGinness Hills Phase 2 field development is underway to support the 30 megawatt project which is expected to be completed in mid-2015.
In Platanares we plan to begin phase development at the project and start drilling wells early in 2014.
The first 18 megawatt phase is expected to be completed in 2016.
The Menangai project in Kenya is an energy conversion agreement whereby GDC the Kenyan government entity responsible for the development of the new geothermal resources in Kenya will develop the geothermal field and we will covert the resource – I am sorry we will convert the resource to electricity and sell the part to KPLC while paying GDC a resource fee.
The joint venture of Ormat and two additional parties in which Ormat will own 51% was awarded at 30 to 35 megawatt project and we are currently negotiating the project agreements.
In Sarulla the consortium has started preliminary testing and development activities at the site and some basic infrastructure work.
The three major contracts have been signed the supply contract for the Ormat equipment a drilling contract with the third-party and an EPC with the third-party.
Financing for the project is progressing well and expected to be signed in the first half of 2014.
Summarize our budget includes new projects in late stage development projects that we will contribute to our organic growth.
The projects that we anticipate working on this year may add between 120 and 150 megawatt in the years 2015 to 2017.
However for all of this to materialize we will need to be successful in the development work and invested additional capital beyond 2014.
Besides the investment in organic growth some of the investment that is planned for the existing plants could lead to additional growth.
In addition we will continue to look for acquisition opportunities in the U.S.
and globally.
We expect that the continuous nature of our project development activity will allow a number of the U.S.
project that are in our capital plan to benefit from the extension of the PTC in the coming years.
We have 38 prospects in early exploration where activity is yet to begin in the U.S.
Chile Guatemala New Zealand and Indonesia.
In addition to adding capacity we will continue to seek technical and commercial opportunities to improve existing plants.
Examples are the PPA restructuring of the Standard Offer No.
4 contracts at Mammoth and Heber and the recent amendment to resume PPA.
Beside the 15 year extension in Zunil the amendment which gives us the right to operate Zunil well field will allow us to increase the revenue from the plant mostly through enhancement of the ageing geothermal field.
Slide 23 provides for an update on the product segment.
As Dita stated we had an outstanding performance in the product segment in 2013.
The strong order flow resulted in a record revenue of $203.5 million but we are equally proud of our ability to provide our customers with our best-in-class solutions.
To recap some of our achievements one is the successful completion of the world’s largest single side binary geothermal power plant and Ngatamariki plant in New Zealand.
The successful collaboration with Enel Green Power North America at the Cove Fort Geothermal Power Plant Project in Utah.
The Norske Skog plant in New Zealand and the successful repowering of Cyrq’s Thermo I plant in Utah.
The projects that we provided our customers with was very diverse in terms of operating conditions and ordinary specification ranging from low-to-high entropy.
From simple great integration to once where the system operator has the most stringent demands and from operators who prefer simplicity to those require the ability to operate in island mode.
To the best of our knowledge we are able to cater to our customers’ needs fully and all of them were able to meet or exceed their contractual commitments.
Most of the projects that we completed in 2013 were also executed rapidly and in several other instances we are able to increase the design generation capacity.
In the process we not only helped our customers but help to bolster the image of our industry with viable and credible projects that will generate clean power for many years to come.
We continue to see strong drivers that we believe may further strengthen our backlog which we currently stand at $165 million excluding the $254 million Sarulla contract.
Let me turn the call over to Dita.
Thank you Yoram.
Starting with Slide 25 looking at the global energy landscape.
We continue to see countries around the world recognizing the benefits of using geothermal to meet the growing demand.
Multinational organizations and nongovernmental organizations are continuing to offer incentives to lower the cost of capital as these various entities look to increase the reliance on renewable energy.
In the United States interesting geothermal energy remained strong for numerous reasons including legislative support of renewable portfolio standout call in nuclear base load energy retirement and increasingly awareness of the positive value of geothermal characteristics is compelled to intermittent renewable technology.
We believe encouraging environment will continue to drive growth in both segments.
As we discussed in previous earnings call we’ve been evaluating along with our Board of Directors the viability of adopting the yield cost-type structure.
We’ve determined that based on our portfolio size aiming suspension pace as well as the cost of shaping another public company utilizing the public [indiscernible] is not a viable solution at this time.
We determine other vehicle such as practical realization of private equity transaction as a way to generate additional shareholder value.
If you could please turn Slide 26 you’ll see our CapEx requirement for 2014.
We plan to invest a total of $130 million in capital expenditure for new projects under construction and enhancement.
In addition $99 million is budgeted for development exploration activities maintenance capital for operating projects and investments in machinery and equipment as well as an $88.4 million for debt repayment.
The funding of this program will come from cash on hand at the end of 2013 unused corporate lines of credit expected cash from operation expected ITC cash Campbell and from an expected financing of McGinness Hills Phase 2 which is covered under the existing financing structure OFC 2 senior secured note.
Turning to Slide 27 we outlined our revenue outlook for 2014.
For the full year 2014 we expect electricity segment revenues to be between $370 million and $380 million.
And product segment revenue to be between $170 million and $180 million.
The product segment guidance includes $36 million from the solar projects which are subject to financial close.
Based on our current projection we anticipate that the product segment revenue in the second quarter will be weaker compared to the other quarters due to the expected timing of when we will recognize the revenues.
Let me add a few words on the recent decision to hire Mr.
Isaac Angel is the next CEO of Ormat.
Mr.
Angel will join on April 1 and begin the process of transitioning into the role of CEO effective to life of 2014.
Our decision was made following a methodical search process for a candidate who could meet as closely as possible the profile that was defined for CEO of our company.
We are confident that Issac is the right choice.
His proven track record of building a growing technology company his previous experience running a public company and his understanding of capital markets make him a well suited candidate to lead the Company to higher levels of performance in the coming years.
Issac is a quick learner and we are confident that with the continued support of Yoram as an active Chairman make sales at the broad level and our experienced management team he will very quickly learn the specifics of the geothermal industry.
In the coming months you will of course have the opportunity to meet him personally.
As this is my last year-end earning call let me share with you a short summary of almost 10 years since our IPO we have more than doubled our operating portfolio from 300 megawatt to 626 megawatt.
Our revenues and adjusted EBITDA also doubled and our market cap increased 2.5 times from $480 million to $1.2 billion.
We deepened our vertical integration but creating a drilling company and more importantly we have substantially improved the way we explore new resources reduce the cost of early exploration and increase the number of prospects for future development.
The lesson learned on Greenfield development we believe in the notable improvement in our operational performance.
During 2012 and 2013 all of our projects were opened line well on time on budget and actually above the design performance level.
On the technology side we increased the turbine size and efficiencies allowing for cost effective power generation in our planes and for our customers.
Overall we have strengthened our position as the leader in the geothermal development arena.
I’m proud to pass the baton knowing that the company and its devoted employees and management are ready to reach new heights.
With that I would like to thank you for your support and at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator.
(Operator Instructions) First question is from Mark Barnett.
Mark the floor is yours.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi.
Let me start Dita by saying congratulations and well deserved break for you.
I have a couple of questions about some of the items you mentioned in the slides today.
And the first would be are you still on schedule for completing the Heber work at the end of midyear this year?  Yes.
Okay.
And you mentioned when the Platanares project either before – I missed your full sentence but you mentioned that you might be motivated to sell that before it’s fully brought online.
Is there anything in particular that is motivating that? This was Heber Solar and not Plantanares.
My bad.
Okay.
So then could you also maybe talk about the circumstances around your desire to sell that project?  I think that we’re looking at what would provide the best return from that investment and given the fact that it is non-core for us the solar part we may actually have a better way to realize the value from that by selling the project.
If not we can certainly run it.
Okay.
And then just one more question on California.
The last Analyst Day you had walked through some potential changes in California’s renewable compensation that particularly would benefit geothermal.
I mean outside of SO#4 contracts that you’ve renegotiated.
Is there anything in particular that we should be watching for on this front for your projects in that state? I think that if you look at California and this is certainly beyond Ormat but if you look at California the broader aspects of California is renewable energy policy.
You see that there is a growing concern about the cost of integration of the intermittent power whether it’s wind or solar and there are more thoughts about providing if you’d like a premium to geothermal power that is part of this solution and not part of the intermittency problem.
And of course this is far beyond Ormat.
We are following the process and we provide and we intervene in the process where we can but the discussion is of course beyond us.
But I think that as we look into the RPS compliance period 3 I think that there are reasons to believe that geothermal will get preferential treatment because it should.
Solar is much more expensive to the state as a state than just the cost of putting it online at the plant’s gate so to speak.
Understood.
Okay.
Well thanks for your comments and again congratulations Dita.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from Dan Mannes.
Dan the floor is yours.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
A nice quarter.
Thank you.
Sure.
And obviously my congratulations again to Dita.
I do have a couple of quick follow-up questions here.
First of all as it relates to your development pipeline you talked about a potential for 120 to 150 megawatts.
You kind of call out about 77 megawatts worth.
I guess my question is for the difference between the two the projects that you’re working on that you haven’t specifically named.
Given the timeline between 2015 and 2017 and knowing how long permitting is and PPA windows I guess I’m just trying to figure out how advanced those projects are for them to be able to make that window and be online in that timeframe? So I’ll give you an indirect answer.
They are quite advanced when it comes to development but they are not at the point that we’re comfortable releasing more details about them.
So clearly we have done resource work.
Clearly we have done permitting work site acquisition work on transmission all of this and this is why we are fairly comfortable that there is a substantial horizon beyond the projects that were named but none of those were released and typically our practice is to release that information once the PPA is signed.
This has been our past practice and we will probably adhere to that.
Okay.
And conceivably could any of these be projects which you’d already worked on for a while and then maybe put on the shelf? I’m thinking something like the CD-4 expansion or something like that.
I think that you make a very compelling argument.
Fair enough.
Building on the discussion on California you mentioned the next phase of the RPS.
I guess I was wondering given what we’re seeing now just currently given volatile natural gas prices the shutdown of San Onofre the drought conditions impacting Hydro.
Is that helping you at all as you think about maybe the existing SRAC contracts and maybe being able to re-contract those? Has there been any movement there or is that still in a bit of a lull?  So this is what I will say is pure speculation on my part.
So all the Safe Harbor has to be doubled on that.
But I would say that – I mean the interesting part about regulation is how large the inertia is and sometimes the writing is on the wall but it takes a lot of time for everybody to realize what the writing says or how it relates to this.
And so I think that many people say that natural gas the low natural gas prices were not necessarily something that could stay.
Nobody knows what natural gas sale prices would be.
But I think that as we see just the volatility in this quarter and the very high prices of natural gas I think should provide some reason for some off takers to try and hedge their expenses really with California moving more and more towards gas with shutting down of coal plants and of course the nuclear plant.
Then I think that there should be some regulators and some utilities that would say well what happened between 2006 and 2008 with high natural gas prices was not a one-off incident.
Here we saw it again in the beginning of 2014.
So it makes a lot of sense to sign a contract PPA with a geothermal operator that provides the same quality of power if not better than a natural gas plant at the fixed rate.
So I think all these things would provide a movement.
Would we be able to use it to our advantage? I think that it’s very likely.
When? I don’t know.
So it’s really a very high level statement.
I think that these are important evidence in clarifying that natural gas burning power plants are maybe cleaner than other alternatives but it’s not as cheap as people would say based on 2012 gas prices and I think that this could be good for us.
Got it.
One if you’ll indulge me one more on the product side.
You talk about margins maybe normalizing a bit.
But I look over the last – I think since 2008 you’ve been consistently at 28% and higher on an annual basis.
And that’s with a changing mix of business some years more EPC some years more product.
And that’s also an environment where we’re seeing competition lifting up a bit.
So I guess I’m trying to understand have you guys gotten maybe more efficient on the productivity side? Has something changed in the business because it doesn’t seem like you sustained a much higher margin level for a couple of years now even though you keep kind of telling us it’s not going to stay here? What I could say on productivity side is that certainly we got better with experience and although we’re a very experienced company we get more experience every year.
And so sometimes when it relates to a lower margin at the end of a project because of our mistake so I think that we have learned from situations like this.
Certainly we were fortunate not to see the huge spike in commodity prices that was seen between 2006 and 2008 that makes it very hard whether it was on our internal projects or an external project.
It makes it very hard on the constructor side makes it very hard to do that.
So I think that we certainly got better in some areas.
Dita I don’t know if you want…  And just to the volume the fake that we have such a high volume of production in 2010 to 2013 contributed to the higher margin even though maybe that each specific project didn’t have on its own a higher margin.
But to summarize the high volume is specific mix of product I mean that’s the most important element.
And some learning some efficiency our management efficiency all contributed to it.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from Gregg Orril.
Gregg the floor is yours.
Inc.</strong> Thanks very much.
You didn’t touch on the Puna contracting.
Maybe you could give us an update there kind of what’s baked in and the hedge profile? What question specifically do you have on the Puna contracting? Inc.</strong> How hedged are you in 2014 and 2015 and what’s the commodity price that’s related there? On 2014 we are fully hedged on the oil.
We have a forward contract that they fully hedges us in pricing that is a little bit higher than 2013.
2015 is little bit further down the road.
So would have been hedged year 2010 and 2015 but we are monitoring with lead pricing and if we do find a good opportunity to hedge into 2015 either for Puna or for the natural gas prices then we might take advantage of this opportunity.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for the update.
The next question comes from JinMing Liu.
JinMing the floor is yours.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
First thanks Dita for all your hard work these years.
Thanks No problem.
So my first I just want to follow-up with the previous question.
What exactly are your hedging positions right now for both natural gas and the crude oil you are hedging? For the natural gas we are hedged for the entire 2014 based on $4.07 per MMBtu and it compared to 2013 we hedge it $4 and it’s actually as we recognize revenue on a month by month the revenues that we recognize either through the hedge or through the actual numbers is stated at $4.07 and on the whole number of where hedged at $125 which is a bit higher than also bit higher than 2010 and since 2013 for the entire year.
Okay.
Thanks for the clarification.
Regarding your Sarulla project you didn’t put that into your backlog in your guidance for the whole year.
You put $36 million of revenue in there.
So just want to clarify are you very confident that the project will go forward this year?  To the extent that any project is confident and the answer is yes the financing for the Sarulla project is progressing very well and I think we are at the final stages of documentation.
This of course doesn’t mean that we will not have crisis before we get to closing but we are confident that Sarulla will get to closing in first half of 2014.
And as a result of it we are confident that a portion of the revenues will be recognized this year.
Okay.
Got that thanks a lot.
(Operator Instructions) Next question comes from Ella Fried.
Ella the floor is yours.
Hi hello I also would like to congratulate Dita and thank her for her very hard and productive work.
I only have one question left and it is regarding the debt level that we should expect in the end of 2014 before the new megawatt are coming online.
Should we expect to an increase in the current level of debt especially if possible sale of Heber solar doesn’t come out? All right.
If you refer to be the slide of the sources in uses.
I’m sorry I meant the net debt – I meant the net debt.
Well.
I think we’ve provided guidance for the numbers we are going to pay $84 million of debt during the year.
We are planning to add McGinness Hills into the OFC 2 financing I think those are the main elements.
So it seems that the level is expected to be somewhat higher than presently before the new megawatts are coming online am I right or? Well somewhat higher.
If we are generating on average I don’t know $100 million or $120 million of case from the operations per year.
And if you are planning to invest this year about $205 million in CapEx then there is going to be some encouraging debt but not a substantial increase.
Okay thank you very much.
And thank you again for your contribution to the company.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Dan Mannes.
Dan the floor is yours.
Thanks sorry I had one follow-up.
I wanted to ask you did take a write-down on some unsuccessful drilling in the quarter.
Could you comment; number one on either what project or what area that is? And number two how you embed that or done into your adjusted EBITDA? It’s one project in Utah and one project in Oregon I don’t think we have spoken too much about these projects.
Because it was done in an early stage and it’s one of the things that we fight ourselves that we are now able to invest less in project until we determine if it is a go or no go.
It was not a – taken out in adjusted EBITDA.
We can think about it.
Because I was going to ask about that.
Normally if you are going to do an adjusted EBITDA number you kind of exclude some of those non-recurring issues and obviously it was embedded into your CapEx and prior periods.
But just wanted to make sure that was clear.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) At this time there are no further questions.
Thank you all for listening and we look forward to meet you again in May.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect your line at this time.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Ormat Technologies' First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode (Operator Instructions).
Please note this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Brad Nelson of KCSA Strategic Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
Hosting the call today are Dita Bronicki Chief Executive Officer; Yoram Bronicki President and Chief Operating Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company’s plans objectives and expectations for future operation and are based on management’s current estimates and projections future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please visit risk factors as described in Ormat Technologies’ Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28 2014.
In addition during the call we will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and management’s reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slide posted on our website.
Because these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP they should not be considered in isolation from our financial statement prepared in accordance with GAAP principles.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company’s website at ormat.com under the IR Events &amp; Presentations link that’s found in the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Dita.
Dita the call is yours.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our first quarter 2014 results and outlook for the near future.
In addition to the team that is hosting this call we also have with us today Isaac Angel who joined Ormat on April 1 and will be succeeding me as CEO when I retire on July 1.
Let’s turn to the presentation.
Slide 4 and 5 present the financial and operational highlights for the quarter.
Doron will go into the numbers in detail in a minute.
We are pleased with the strong financial and operational results for the first quarter.
In the electricity segment we’ve continued to focus on a multi stage approach to development.
The Olkaria III complex in Kenya which had a significant contribution to this quarter results provide a perfect example of the benefit of this approach.
In February we completed plan III at the complex three month ahead of schedule building the total capacity of Olkaria III to 110 megawatt.
The staged approach helped us minimize delays and maximize the efficiency by making sure we completely understand the resources we are developing.
The product segment continue to be robust in terms of revenue and in terms of margin and with the expected closing of the solar financing in the next month.
The performance of the product segment will gain an important base for the next three years.
With that said I would like to turn the call over to Doron to review the financial results.
Yoram will then provide a review for operation and I will return for closing remarks before opening the calls for Q&amp;A Doron? Thank you Dita and good morning everyone.
Let me provide an overview of our financial results for first quarter of 2014.
Starting with Slide 7 -- total revenues for the first quarter of 2014 were $142.4 million a 19.8% increase of revenue of $108.9 million in the first quarter of last year.
In our electricity segment as you can see on Slide 8 revenue grew 38.8% to $94.8 million in first quarter of 2014 over $68.3 million in first quarter of 2013.
The increase was primarily due to the new capacity coming online and then increase in generation from our existing portfolio.
In addition energy under the Standard Offer number 4 contract and under the new contract signed for Zunil in Mammoth G1 and G3 were higher this quarter compare to 2013.
As it is being our policy since 2012 we continue to take action to mitigate the impact of natural gas prices on our Electricity Segment through our hedging activity.
We have entered into relative transaction different actually with a fixed price of $4.07 per MMbtu for the year 2014 to use our exposure the fluctuation in natural gas prices through December 31 2014.
We entered into a hedge contract with $4.95 per MMbtu from the period from January 1 2015 until March 31 2015.
As a result of our hedging activities for the first quarter we recorded a net loss on derivatives transaction on oil and natural gas prices of $2.4 million compare to $4.6 million during the same period in 2013.
The first quarter in 2014 the loss was compensated with higher revenue in amount of $2.2 million of the higher natural gas prices compare to the hedge price.
Excluding hedging adjustment electricity revenues increase 73.3% year-over-year.
In the product segment on Slide 9 revenue for the first quarter of 2014 was $47.6 million.
The 5.9% decrease year-over-year was primarily due to a reduction in new customer orders in 2013 in total revenue acquisition.
Moving to Slide 10 the company’s combined growth margin for the first quarter of 2014 was 37.5% compare to 22.5% in the first quarter of 2013.
In the electricity segment gross margin for the first quarter of 2014 were $37.8 million or 39.8% compare to $13.2 million or 19.3% in the first quarter of 2013.
There are few reasons for the significant improvement in the gross margin this quarter as it was mainly to build revenues for those of the costs of revenue [Indiscernible].
In the product segment gross margin for the first quarter 2014 we find $15.7 million or a 32.9% compared to $13.6 million or 26.8% in the first quarter of 2013.
The increase in the product gross margin is mainly attributable to the different product mix and margin into various sales on track that we have.
Moving to Slide 11 operating income in the first quarter of 2014 was $42.6 million or 29.9% of revenue compared to operating income of $7.7 million or 6.5% of revenue in the same period of last year.
The increase was primarily due to the growth in the electricity segment gross margin as well as a $9 million of early termination fees that’s almost same in the first quarter of 2013.
Operating income attributable for electricity segment for the first quarter of 2014 was $30.9 million compare to an operating loss of $1.7 million for the first quarter of 2017.
Operating income attributable for our product segment for the first quarter of 2014 was $11.7 million compare to a $9 million for the first quarter of 2013.
Moving to Slide 12 interest expense net of capitalized interest for the first quarter of 2014 with $20.5 million compare to $15.9 million for the first quarter of 2013 this interest was primarily due to the two new loan were perceive for OPIC in 2013.
Moving to Slide 13 net income attributable for the company stockholder for the first quarter of 2014 with $21.6 million or $0.07 per diluted share compare to a net loss of $5 million attributable to the company’s stockholder for the first quarter of 2013.
On March 26 2014 we signed an agreement with RET Holdings to sell the Heber Solar project in California for $35.25 million.
We have seen the first payment of $15 million with the remainder expected to be paid in the second quarter of 2014 probably to fulfillment of certain milestone.
Due to certain contingency on the sales agreement we defer the pre-tax gain for approximately $7.5 million until fulfillment of the condition subsequent which is expected in the second quarter of 2014.
As shown on slide 14 adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2014 was $70.6 million compare to $45.7 million for the first quarter of 2013 representing a 54.4% interest.
Net cash provided by operating activities or $68.1 million for the first quarter of 2014 compare to $18.2 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Moving to Slide 15 cash and cash equivalents as of March 31 2014 was $47.9 million that company slides [Indiscernible] report.
Our long-term debt as of March 31 2014 in the payment schedule are presented in Slide 16 of the presentation.
The average cost of this stands at 6.1%.
On May 8 2014 Ormat’s Board of Directors approved a payment of quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share.
The dividend will be paid on May 13 2014 to shareholders of record as of May 21 2014.
We still pay quarterly of $0.05 per share for the next two quarters 2014.
That concludes my financial overview I would like now to turn the call to Yoram for an operational update.
Yoram? Thank you Doron and good morning everyone.
Moving to Slide 18 the total generation for the first quarter of 2014 was approximately 1.2 million megawatt hours which is an increase 15.5% from last year.
The growth in generation as a result of expansion program of 2012 and 2013 and specifically the contributions of Plants 2 and 3 in Olkaria and the Don A.
Campbell Plant in Nevada.
As Doron mentioned the electricity segment had direct revenue and very high gross margin.
The growth in the margin was mainly due to the addition of the new facilities that were described earlier; however the margin also benefited from a reduction in our specific operating cost from $35 to $30 megawatts hour.
Part of this reduction is lasting and is driven by the addition of the modern plants with the specific characteristics of their well fields and plant design that provide the marginal generation at a lower cost.
Another part of the reduction in cost this quarter is driven by timing and we expect higher operating expenses in the second quarter of this year.
Moving to Slide 19 in the yearend earning call we discussed our future growth plans.
As a summary our budget includes new projects and late stage development projects that should support our growth and may add between 120 and 150 megawatts.
Here is an update on more advanced projects.
The work that was completed in McGinness Hills in Phase 2 include the developing all the required Zunil production capacity equipment manufacturing and the start of civil work.
The new power plant is expected to come on by mid 2015.
In Honduras we’re getting ready for drilling and we’ll spot our first well towards the end of the second quarter.
In our operating plants we currently had two significant improvement projects.
The Heber 1 upgrade project will enable the CapEx to maintain 92 megawatts and support the extended contract what we signed earlier this year actually it’s late last year.
This is substantial improvement of the plant that was constructed in 1985 that includes the modernized turbine the modern generator the modern control system the addition of new wells in the conversion of some of the old well.
To allow for this substantial upgrade the Heber 1 Plant went through scheduled shutdown in late March and the work on the power block and balance of plant has been progressing.
At the time of this call all the major pieces of equipment have been installed and we’re in the process of commissioning the different subsystems with the completion target of no later than June 1st.
Anticipated net impact of this project on our second quarter revenue compared to the second quarter of 2013 net income is about $1.8 million reduction.
And this has been incorporated in our revenue guidance for 2014.
Another ongoing project is refurbishment of G3 Plant at the Mammoth complex in California replacing all the units with Ormat manufactured equipment to optimize the operations of the complex.
We expect to complete the refurbishment in 2015 and do not expect it to have any impact on revenue in 2014.
On March 28 2014 the Sarulla consortium of which we hold a 12.75% stake secured $1.17 billion in project financing for the 330 megawatt project in Indonesia.
Closing is expected in the second quarter of 2014 at which point the consortium will begin construction.
The first phase is expected to third operation in 2016.
The remaining two phases are scheduled to be in commercial operation within 18 months of first phase.
As a reminder we’ll supply our Ormat energy convertors to the power plant and we’ll add the $254 million supply contract to our product segment backlog once notice to proceed is issued.
We expect to recognize revenue from the project over the course of the next three to four years starting in the fourth quarter of 2014.
We have 35 prospects in early exploration where activity is yet to begin in the U.S.
Chile Guatemala New Zealand and Indonesia.
In addition to adding capacity we will continue to seek technical and commercial opportunities to improve existing plants.
Slide 20 provides for an update on the product segment.
Our backlog remains substantial at the $120.4 million excluding the $254 million Sarulla supply contract.
Let me turn the call over to Dita.
Thank you Yoram.
If you could please turn to Slide 22 you will see our updated CapEx requirement for the remainder of the 2014.
We plan to invest the total of $97 million in capital expenditure a new project under constructions or enhancement.
An addition $93 million is budgeted for development exploration activities maintenance capital for operating projects and investments in machinery and equipment as well as $68.1 million for debt repayment.
The funding of this program will come from cash on hand at the end of third quarter of 2014 expected cash from operation annual corporate line of credits and from an expected financing of the McGinness Hills Phase 2 project which is covered under the existing financing structure for OFC 2 senior secured note benefitting from the deal from long guarantee program.
Turning to Slide 23 we outlined our revenue outlook for 2014.
For the full year 2014 we equate our electricity segment revenue to be between $370 million and $380 million.
And product segment revenue to be between $170 million and $180 million.
The product segment guidance includes $36 million from the solar projects which are subject to the financial close.
As we guided in the year-end earning call we expect product revenue to decrease beyond the second quarter before strengthening towards the end of the year.
The expected release of the solar supply contract letter this quarter than the financial closing of the projects will occur will garner a continued strong product segment not only in 2014 but also in the next three years.
The first quarter was a very strong quarter while we expect second quarter as a whole to be relative quick quarter our expectation are that 2014 as a whole is going to be stronger than 2013 mainly as a result of the new power plants in the electricity segment which has better power prices and lower operating costs.
And also due to the product segment as explained earlier.
Before opening up the call for questions let me finalize the general business environment we are in.
Renewable energy or clear clean environment.
A huge change that appeals since the IPO for Ormat and also since Ormat started to build geothermal power plant.
Total investment in renewable energy which was minimal 10 years ago go to an annual number or hovered in $91.2 million in 2013.
And so our debt price is out at the short of $5 million Btu.
Renewable is 5% or 6% of the U.S.
power market; renewable is 70% of all new capacity coming online in the United States.
Stock market yield is projected for renewable energy company until solved solutions are developed the all of geothermal while a small participant in the development of our Zunil is important as it is very low and cancel as integration cost mitigation.
Ormat is well position to continue to grow in this positive and encouraging business environment.
With that I would like to thank you for your support and at this time the call is open for questions.
Operator.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Dan Mannes of Avondale.
Please go ahead.
So a couple of follow-up questions just for the quarter end (ph).
And my apologies I missed the first couple of minutes.
But can you may be walk -- can Doron go back over comments as it relates to number one the hedging activity for 2015? And secondly as it relates to the first quarter energy because my understanding was your hedges were sort of return swaps so I would had thought you would have had a bigger lost in the first quarter given how much natural gas prices went up.
So can you maybe walk back through those two items for me? Sure Dan.
Regarding 2015 we hedge a Q1 for natural gas prices with hedging four line define compare to the 47 we could have this year.
And it’s a process that we keep on doing looking forward and trying to find the right timing tool to hedge.
And regarding the first quarter we actually mark-to-market on our hedging contracts so we mark-to-market at the end of December and Q1 we have the net impact of the hedge actually was a loss of $2.4 million and will compensated with $2.2 million this regards from the higher prices.
And this is the mix between the natural gas and the oil on the natural gas practice that we had a little bit higher loss and on the oil we’ve got some money back.
The net impact was 2.2 revenue that we got -- additional revenue in a loss of 2.4 on the hedging.
Right so basically since natural gas prices started moving up late last year you’re saying a lot of hedge impact actually the fourth quarter of last year rather than this year? Yes last year we had hedges about $2.5 million in Q4.
Okay got it.
So that was already anticipated somewhat in the swap that makes sense.
Looking really quickly on the development side can you give us any update on some of the non-named development projects like CD-4 and Carson we just seem some headlines that looks like there maybe some challenges as relates to water for CD-4 and I wasn’t sure that was long that went down? The CD-4 is an air-cool project so there is no water consumption and we just need to go through the permitting the process.
The opposing party is the Water Board.
In our mind there is no reason for opposition so I guess it’s -- what we need is ridiculous and slow process of consensus building and making sure that everybody understands that our projects do not have any impact on freshwater and on the water table in general.
So its part -- I mean this is why permitting takes sometime takes longer.
You need to work with people educate them and since fundamentally we help environment.
We think that fundamentally we’ll prevail.
Okay and last thing and I probably should have asked this first is a margin on the electric side in the quarter was very strong I think this probably the strongest first quarter we’ve seen maybe this strongest quarter we’ve seen on from a margin perspective.
I know you’ve discussed a little bit about how some of that due to timing of outages but as you look over the course of the year how good an indicator is this where margins could fall out on a full year basis? So I think the part it is that we have the little more visibility into it of course is generation things maybe happen but our understanding of our wells field is fairly good and also the expectation for what ambient temperature will do.
So I think for us really and this what we try to stress that the big part of the story here is the fact that we’ve -- all our work -- say Dita’s work to push our growth resulted in additional plants and our sales are real.
This is many more megawatt hours that we sold and actually under a good contract.
So I think that top line on sales this is here to stay is very real.
There is another maybe another element to this that is worth stressing and this is that is historically -- I mean our plan is to always make more power in the first quarter.
But our historical the legacy contracts mostly the California contract really favorite generation in the summer.
So generation was always high in revenue was not necessarily that high in the fourth and first quarter but as we move away from the California contract as they are less of -- have small share in our overall generation.
And most of our other contracts are ones that favor generation.
We do see strengthening of the margins in the fourth and first quarter where the generation is high because of lower ambient temperatures and I think that’s also Mr.
Nadav is better person to quantify this in detail.
But I think that is you think about what change in Ormat between past and present its additional capacity good contracts and actually contracts that favor more generation that this disparity is gone.
Now when it comes to cost again some the fact that we have bigger portion of our fleet our plants that have easier well fields to operator this benign chemistry high productivity wells all this translate into lower specific cost.
And there is it’s always good to be fortunate so there some expenses that may not take place at all that we’re scheduled for first quarter or some that move from first to second quarter.
But I think that there are very real fundamentals that should cause us and you to be optimistic about the company going forward.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
But let me be the golden person here.
The [indiscernible] of the first quarter is most indicative.
I think it’s important.
It’s high but it sounds like the trend is clearly to improvement relatively as we’ve seen in the past maybe just not to this level.
Q1 basically is higher but we do see on continuing to comparing to last year improve the gross margin recently.
Okay and my last question here.
You did mention obviously some shifting of the outage timing can you maybe talk about which plants and was this discretionary decision given the high price of energy during the first quarter or was this already preplanned? Actually in terms of the outages there wasn’t any shifting because it takes -- it requires so much planning that it’s not a -- we typically do not move it just for other reasons but it’s for instance we have an estimate on how many pumps we will have to replace in all of our the 100 in some production was that we have.
So we typically have a plan and budget that is based on experience but we rarely pull a pump out of the well unless we need to do this.
So based on the condition monitoring of wells that was done in the first quarter we did not feel that we needed to do any well work.
That was pushed into the future quarter.
But since the statistic says that we need to go through some many pumps in a year than the fact you haven’t done much in the first quarter -- we’d directionally tell you that you’ll do more in the next quarter.
So timing issues are of that nature it’s typically we didn’t have to spend the money at the moment but it doesn’t mean that money won’t get spend.
(Operator Instructions) I’m showing no further questions at this time.
This will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
And hopefully we’re closing this now but thank you for the opportunity to say goodbye because this is my last call.
Thank you for your support.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Ormat Technologies Q2 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Rob Fink of KCSA Strategic Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
Hosting the call are Isaac Angel Chief Executive Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to the current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management's current estimates projections future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see risk factors as described in Ormat Technologies annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28 2014.
In addition during the call we will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and management's reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slide posted on our website.
Before (sic) these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP they should not be considered in isolation from our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the IR news and events link that is found on the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Isaac.
Isaac the call is yours.
Thank you Rob.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our second quarter 2014 results and outlook for the near future.
I'm excited to be speaking with you today as the CEO for Ormat a position I officially assumed on July 1 following the close of the second quarter.
I've been only -- been a member of Ormat Group for a few months but it's already apparent to me that I'm surrounded by an exceptional group of dedicated employees with a deep knowledge of the geothermal industry.
The strong and accomplished Board of Directors with extensive experience and industry expertise will continue to be an asset to the company and a resource for management going forward.
With that said I would like to start the call with a review of the quarter and half year operation summary.
Then I will turn the call over to Doron to review the financial results.
I will finish with the business updates before opening the call for Q&amp;A.
Starting with Slide 5.
We are pleased with the results for the second quarter which reflect the continued success of our business and contributed to strong financial results in the first half of 2014.
Total generation for the second quarter of 2014 was approximately 1 million megawatt hours which is a decrease of 2.2% from the last year.
The decline in generation is primarily the result of scheduled shutdown due to enhancements at Heber complex lower generation at direct facilities due to lower load in the gas pipeline and uncontrolled well flow at North Brawley.
On the other hand the generation of Mammoth complex and a multiplant power plant was higher in the second quarter this year compared to the same period last year as a result of enhancements be completed.
Moving to Slide 6.
We currently have 2 projects that have been fully released for construction: McGinness Hills Phase 2 which is expected to come online by Q1 2015 and Mammoth G3 which is expected to be refurbished by 2015.
In addition construction work has started in Sarulla project in Indonesia following the financial closing.
During the quarter we completed our scheduled refurbishment of Heber 1 and we are assessing the contribution of the resource and the new equipment to the complex.
Additionally we have 35 prospects in various stages of exploration or where activity has yet to begin in the U.S.
Chile Guatemala New Zealand and Indonesia.
In addition to adding capacity we will continue to seek technical and commercial opportunities to improve existing plans.
Slide 7 provides an update on the product segment.
Our backlog reached a record of $376 million which includes $254 million of the Sarulla supply contract a new contract signed during the second quarter.
As a reminder now that the notice to proceed has been issued we expect to recognize revenue from the project over the course of the next 3 to 4 years starting in this quarter of 2014.
If you could please now turn to Slide 8 you will see our updated CapEx requirement for the remainder of 2014.
We plan to invest a total of $62 million in capital expenditures on new projects under construction or enhancement.
An additional $49 million is budgeted for development exploration activities and capital maintenance for operating projects and investments in machinery and equipment as well as $41.7 million for debt repayment.
The funding of this program will come from cash on hand at the end of the second quarter of 2014 expected cash from operations unused corporate lines of credit and from expected financing of McGinness Hills Phase 2 which is covered under the existing financing structure for OFC 2 senior secured notes benefiting from the DOE loan guarantee program.
Now I'd like to turn the call to Doron to review the financial results of the quarter.
Doron? Thank you Isaac and good morning everyone.
Let me provide an overview of our financial results for the second quarter of 2014.
Starting with Slide 10 total revenue for the second quarter of 2014 were $127.6 million a 16.4% decrease over revenues of $152.7 million in the second quarter of last year.
In our electricity segment as you can see on Slide 11 revenue grew 4.5% to $91.7 million in the second quarter of 2014 over $87.7 million in the second quarter of 2013.
The increase was primarily due to new capacity coming online from Olkaria III complex in Kenya and Don Campbell plant in Nevada that was somewhat offset by the 2-month shutdown of Heber 1 as part of the scheduled refurbishment project.
Based on our policy we continue to take actions to mitigate the impact of natural gas and oil prices on our electricity segment throughout -- through our hedging activity.
We have entered into derivative transaction at a fixed price of $4.07 per MMBtu to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in natural gas prices through December 31 2014 and $4.95 per MMBtu for the period from January 1 2015 until 31st of March 2015.
As a result of our hedging activity for the second quarter of 2014 we recorded a net loss on derivative transactions on oil and natural gas prices of $0.3 million compared to a net gain of $3.6 million during the same period in 2013.
Excluding hedging adjustments electricity revenue increased 9.3% year-over-year.
In the product segment on Slide 12 revenue for the second quarter of 2014 was $35.9 million.
As guided performance of the segment this quarter was reason primarily due to timing of revenue recognition timing of release of notice to proceed of certain projects and different product mix.
We expect the second half of 2014 to be stronger than the first half of this year with a strong fourth quarter.
Moving to slides 13 and 14.
The company's combined gross margin for the second quarter of 2014 was 31.3% and the first half gross margin grew to 34.6%.
In the electricity segment gross margin for the second quarter of 2014 was $24.4 million or 26.6% compared to $29.1 million or 33.1% in the second quarter of 2013.
The expected decrease was primarily due to the loss of revenue during the scheduled enhancement at the Heber complex and higher cost related to an uncontrolled well flow in North Brawley.
Electricity gross margin in the first half of 2014 grew to 33.3%.
In the product segment gross margin for the second quarter of 2014 was $15.6 million or 43.4% compared to $21.3 million or 32.8% in the second quarter of last year.
The increase in product gross margin percentage is mainly attributable to different product mix and margin in various sales contracts and to a $2.5 million reimbursement of cost out of which $1.5 million related to the cost of goods for the Sarulla project that we received following the financing of the project which we recorded in previous periods.
Moving to Slide 15.
Operating income in the second quarter of 2014 was $22.3 million or 17.5% of revenue compared to operating income of $37.9 million or 24.8% of revenue in the same period last year.
The decrease was primarily due to the reduction in both electricity and product segment gross margin and an $8.1 million write-off of an unsuccessful exploration activity related to the Wister exploration site in California.
Excluding the write-off of the Wister project operating margin was 23.9% of revenue.
Operating income attributable to our electricity segment for the second quarter and first half of 2014 were $9.5 million and $40.4 million respectively compared to $22.6 million and $21.3 million for the second and first half of last year.
Operating income attributable to our product segment for the second quarter and first half of 2014 was $12.8 million and $24.5 million respectively compared to $15.2 million and $24.2 million for the second quarter and first half of 2013.
Moving to Slide 16.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest for the second quarter of 2014 was $22.1 million compared to $17.5 million for the second quarter of 2013.
This increase was primarily due to a new loan Ormat received from OPIC in 2013 the conversion of OPIC interest loans from floating interest rate to fixed interest rate and the decrease related to the interest capitalized to our projects.
Moving to slide 17.
Net income attributable to the company's stockholders for the second quarter of 2014 was $9.1 million or $0.20 per diluted share.
Excluding the write-off of the Wister segment net income reached $17.1 -- $17.2 million or $0.37 per diluted share.
For the 6 months ended June 30 2014 the company reported a net income attributable to the company shareholders of $30.7 million or $0.67 per share compared to $20.1 million or $0.44 per share for the 6 months ended June 30 2013 an increase of 52.3%.
On March 26 2014 we signed an agreement with RET Holding to sell the Heber Solar project in California for $35.25 million.
We received the first payment of $15 million in the first quarter of 2014 with the remainder of the process this quarter.
In the second quarter of 2014 we recorded a pretax gain of approximately $7.6 million.
As shown in slide 18 adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2014 was $59.7 million compared to $69.7 million for the second quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA for the 6 months ended June 30 2014 was $130.3 million compared to $115.5 million for the 6 months ended June 30 2013 an increase of 12.9%.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $103.6 million in the 6 months ended June 30 2014 compared to $20 million in the 6 months ended June 30 2013.
Moving to Slide 19.
Cash equivalents as of June 30 2014 were $80.1 million.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the quarter.
Our long-term debt as of June 30 2014 and the payment schedule are presented in Slide 20 of the presentation.
The average cost of debt stands at 6%.
Moving to slide 21.
In the project finance front in the Sarulla consortium in which we hold 12.75% stake we recently closed a $1.17 billion project finance for the world's largest geothermal project with major banks including Japan Bank for International Cooperation and the Asian Development Bank.
We expect to finance the McGinness Phase 2 project under the OFC 2 senior secured note that we issued under the DOE loan guarantee program.
We expect proceeds of $140 million in the second half of 2014.
On August 5 2014 Ormat's Board of Directors approved the payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share pursuant to the company's dividend policy.
This dividend will be paid on August 28 2014 to shareholders of record as of closing of business on August 19 2014.
This concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Isaac for business update.
Isaac? Turning to slide 23 we outlined our revenue outlook for 2014.
For the full year 2014 we reiterate our electricity segment revenues to be between $370 million and $380 million and product segment revenues to be between $170 million and $180 million.
As we guided on the previous 2 calls we expect the second half of 2014 to be stronger than the first half.
With the release of the Sarulla contract we have a robust product backlog that will carry us not only through the several -- through the next several quarters but the next few years.
In the electricity segment we expect generation to trend higher as we complete scheduled enhancements at some of our plants.
Moving to slide 24.
In addition to the internal prospect and improvements plan there are several domestic legislative development that will further support renewable energy development.
On the federal level there is currently a bill in the U.S.
Senate that will extend the ITC and PTC for an additional 2 years covering plants that begin construction by December 31 2015.
Additionally about 1 year ago President Barack Obama announced a new National Climate Action Plan and recently the EPA under Obama's plan released the Clean Power Plan proposal which for the first time cuts carbon pollution from the existing power plants in the United States.
The Clean Power Plan will be implemented through a state-federal partnership under which states identify a path for using either current or new electricity production and pollution control policies to meet the goals of the proposed program including cutting carbon emission from the power sector by 30% nationwide below 2005 levels by 2030.
On the state level in May California State Senate approved the proposed geothermal legislations Senate Bill 1139.
The bill if enacted will require retail sellers to increase their geothermal-powered electricity use by a combined total of 500 megawatts by 2024.
This development demonstrates the recognition of the geothermal baseload benefit to the state grid and will support our expansion plan.
This important development create a well-established platform for growth.
And as a vertically integrated industry leader we are well positioned to take advantage of strong industry tailwinds.
According to the Geothermal Energy Association's annual report about 500 megawatts of installed power came in line in 2013 of which Ormat is responsible for more than 50%.
The increase in 2013 is the largest increase in absolute terms since 1997 bringing the total installed global capacity to just over 12 000 megawatts.
Domestically California Nevada and Utah the 3 states in the U.S.
with the most robust geothermal resources are ripe for continued development of the significant untapped potential.
Meanwhile local and national governments throughout the world are recognizing the benefit of this clean renewable energy.
They are offering incentives to foster its development many of which have been discussed on previous calls.
Today Ormat remains not only the world's largest pure-play geothermal power producer but the only one that is vertically integrated.
Our engineering technological advancement and operational superiority has allowed us to grow and develop projects of increasing complexity such as Don Campbell project for which the company was just awarded the GEA Honors 2014 for developing a new innovative technology uses low-temperature ORC cycle.
In the coming months I plan to go on the road and meet the investment community while focusing on Ormat 2014 world plan and strategy plans in the future.
With that I would like to thank you for your support.
And at this time the call is open for questions.
Operator can you please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Dan Mannes of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back through and talk a little bit about the margins and cost structure in your power business.
Obviously you were pretty clear that last quarter it was maybe an aberration that margins were very high.
But I guess this was a little bit worse than we were expecting.
Could you maybe walk us through maybe some of the cost increases that were incurred from the first quarter to the second quarter with maybe some particular attention to North Brawley? Okay.
We had as you know we had an uncontrolled flow in North Brawley during the quarter which cost us about $3.3 million reducing $1 million we got from the insurance it's about $2.2 million.
And we also lost about $1 million of income from the power plant itself.
Furthermore there were some operational expenses that moved from as we said on our Q1 conference call that were moved from Q1 to Q2.
And end-to-end they lowered or decreased our operational margins in Q2.
But if you look at combined 6 months we are on 33% which are the numbers that are much more representative than the Q2 numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just digging a little deeper when you talk about the expenses that shifted are you including also any operating costs of Heber? Or are you just talking about sort of annual expenses this year Q2 instead of Q1? Dan I'm relating mainly to annual regular expenses of maintenance that shifted as you know.
And I learned to know during the last 3 months that in a project company unfortunately the power plants are not behaving on quarterly basis and they excuse themself for that.
LLC Research Division</strong> But was there -- can you talk maybe about any operating costs that were incurred at Heber in the quarter? Or was most of the costs at Heber both lost revenue as well as CapEx? Dan it's Doron.
The cost actually that shifted between Q1 to Q2 doesn't relate specifically to Heber.
These are mainly well field cost that expected them to be in Q1.
They didn't happen in Q1 some of them happened in Q2.
So Q1 looked a little bit better than what was expected; in Q2 the opposite.
But I think as Isaac said looking at the 6 months' numbers you can see actually that the numbers are getting back to normal.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on North Brawley you mentioned the uncontrolled flow.
Was that remedied during the quarter? Can you talk about any root cause analysis? Or is that maybe an ongoing issue that we'll have to see in future quarters? No we expect that it's a one-time event and there was a full remedy during the quarter.
The well is back on operation already and let's keep our fingers crossed that it's not going to happen again in Brawley or elsewhere.
But as you understand when you are running so many power plants sometimes it's cost of doing business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a couple other quick ones and then I'll jump back in queue.
It looked like -- outside of Sarulla it looks like maybe you had another maybe $50 million of new business in the quarter on the product side.
Obviously it sounds like some nice wins.
Anything material you can point to in that group or just a lot of small ones or? If -- I assume you're referring to the backlog so the backlog last quarter was about $120 million and this quarter it's $376 million.
Actually if you take -- if you split it between Sarulla $254 million you get to about $122 million.
So actually we were able to sign new contracts in the same amount of money that we recognized revenue for the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
I was just wondering if there was anything material or notable in what you saw in your...
We will be on the road after this conference call during September and we will certainly give you much more color on the upcoming product contracts and the ones that we've signed and so on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just let me close out one last question.
You did take the write-down on Wister this quarter.
I think you've been talking about terminating the PPA on Wister for a period of time.
Can you talk about maybe what brought it to the conclusion now? Because I mean frankly I think you've kind of been a little bit cautioned on the timing of Wister for some time.
Why take the write-down now versus in a prior period? Or wait on it given maybe an improving environment in California in terms of geothermal demand? Look when we have these exploration sites there is various work that is done some of it is drilling wells and others.
And others are analyzing models and statistics and information that we get constantly on our exploration sites.
And it's a question of one our exploration team the resource team comes to the conclusion that they don't see between all of our sites that this site has the right priority or the ability to come to a full-blown power plant.
And if we write it off or not there are some accounting thresholds that we need to meet.
But it's a process that we keep.
We keep analyzing exploration sites until we get to a decision.
It's not a binary decision every quarter.
And we have a very capable exploration team that -- they have a mandate to explore each and every site that we have.
And if their conclusion is that we will not be able to pick up this site and go ahead with it and we don't have a choice but to take it off.
LLC Research Division</strong> Makes sense to me.
Our next question comes from Gregg Orrill of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on Sarulla.
Just if there's anything you could help us with in terms of the products revenue being realized sort of the timing of that and what milestones might be the triggering factors if it's not obvious? It's Doron.
In the Sarulla project as we said we got notice to proceed in Q2.
Again based on the accounting guidelines and our policy we need to reach some threshold in order to start recognizing revenue.
We expect to reach this threshold in Q3 and recognize a relatively small amount of revenue from Sarulla.
And going forward starting from Q3 but much stronger in Q4 we will recognize revenue percentage of completion.
So Q4 is expected to be higher than Q3 and to start with the normal pace going forward.
For Sarulla as we said earlier we expect in the range of $35 million of revenue from Sarulla.
This is obviously an estimated number since it's based on the number of hours that we will do and the procurement that we build but we do expect to recognize revenue already starting in Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just switching gears.
Isaac I know you mentioned you're going to do some investor outreach balance of the year but any additional thoughts on repositioning the company if at all? And -- just interested in your initial impressions.
I'm here only 4.5 weeks and -- but I was here before 3 months in a listening mode.
And we are sitting on strategy right now with the new management that's come in place which consists of Ormat employees obviously.
That is sitting on strategy.
But now the upcoming weeks our main focus is enhancing our existing assets.
We are specifically and I may use the frame sitting on 3 specific assets that we want to enhance fast and we are planning to do that.
And later on it will be some growth strategy.
And I will again as I said Doron and myself will be on the road during the upcoming months and we'll give you much more details on a bit of shifting of strategy in this aspect.
Our next question comes from JinMing Liu of Ardour Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> First is on the -- just a quick question on North Brawley.
So what is the financial situation of that facility? Is that running at EBITDA positive right now or you're still losing money? It's Doron.
The plant was expected to do this year somewhat positive EBITDA.
However with the uncontrolled flow that we had which actually had on one hand an additional cost that we expect to receive most of them back from the insurance but also have the reduced revenue.
So we assume that this year it will have a negative EBITDA.
LLC Research Division</strong> But if we exclude all this one-time thing the power plant itself should be running at the EBITDA positive right? Our position that excluding this event it should have been slightly positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good to hear.
Switch to Sarulla project.
What kind of product margins we should expect? Is that in the low 20% or much higher like in what we achieved in the second quarter? In the Sarulla project you should assume somewhere in the high 20s similar to our regular contract.
Usually what we try to do in the project we will start with a range of between 25% to 30% having some contingencies.
And as we move ahead with the project assuming we are able to manage the contingency we will sometimes see margins going up.
Not always but sometimes.
So as a basic strategical project somewhere between 25% to 30%.
Jim this is Isaac.
You should realize that it pretty much depends on the product mix that we have in a certain quarter.
Because if we can get synergies from the other projects obviously we will have a bit more margin and if we don't have synergies in a certain period or quarter then those synergies not existing it will be a bit lower.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Ormat Technologies Inc.
Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask question.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Brad Nelson of KCSA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Hosting the call today are Isaac Angel Chief Executive Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the Company's plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management's current estimates and projections future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see risk factors as described in Ormat Technologies' annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28 2014.
In addition during the call we will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and management's reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slide deck posted on Ormat's Web-site.
Because these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP they should not be considered in isolation from our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the Company's Web-site at ormat.com under the Investor Relations tab or by downloading Ormat's Investor Relations App at Apple's App Store or Google Play.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Isaac.
Isaac the call is yours.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our third quarter 2014 results and outlook for the near future.
I'd like to start the call with an overview of the quarter and then I will turn the call over to Doron to review our financial results and finish with the business updates before opening the call for Q&amp;A.
Starting with Slide 5 I'm extremely pleased with the third quarter results.
Ormat's strong execution during third quarter enabled the Company to deliver exceptional results and underscore its reputation as a leader in the geothermal industry.
Our focus on expanding and optimizing our power plants combined with the new capacity that came on line in 2013 drove increased generation and revenues and improved our margins and EBITDA.
The ongoing enhancements to our power plants will enable us to continue these positive trends going forward.
We also continue to explore different ways to unlock shareholders' value.
On October 29 we announced that Ormat is considering a corporate reorganization whereby Ormat Technologies would acquire the shares of its parent entity Ormat Industries.
This transaction would eliminate Ormat Industries' majority stake in Ormat Technologies significantly increase liquidity and simplify the corporate structure.
A special committee of independent directors along with the legal and financial advisors is working diligently to assess the feasibility of such transaction.
We will be sure to update you as appropriate.
Moving to Slide 6 the continued success of our business contributed to strong operational results in the third quarter.
Total generation for the third quarter of 2014 was over 1 million megawatt hours which reflects a 5.3% increase from last year.
The increase in generation is mainly due to commencement of commercial operations of Plant 3 in Olkaria Kenya and Don Campbell Nevada.
The enhancements we completed last year in Mammoth California and Amatitlan Guatemala contributed to generation growth as well.
The increase was offset mainly due to the lower load in the pipelines providing the heat to our REG power plants.
Following the Hurricane Iselle that hit the Hawaiian Big Island in August this year we had to temporarily shut down our Puna power plant.
As a result one of the production wells did not yet fully recover and the plant lost approximately 7 megawatts.
We expect the power plant to regain the loss in generation in the second half of 2015 but we are also taking immediate actions to try and revive the well and regain the lost power much sooner.
Moving to Slide 7 for an update on the projects that are fully released for construction in McGinness Hills Nevada we have PPA and financing in place for Phase 2.
With field development in an advanced process and equipment on its way to the site we expect to bring this project online in the first quarter of 2015.
In Mammoth California we are currently assessing a refurbishment program in which we will replace all the units with new equipment manufactured by Ormat.
We expect to complete the refurbishment within 2015.
In addition construction work has started in Sarulla Project in Indonesia following the closing of the financing.
Field development as well as initial construction has started and the OEC units that we are supplying to the project are in early stages of production.
We recently announced the signing of a key agreement related to the 35 MW Menangai Geothermal Project in Kenya.
Together with our Project Company partners we will operate this project on a build-own-operate basis for 25 years and sell the electricity under a 25 year PPA with KPLC.
GDC which is wholly owned by the government of Kenya will develop the geothermal resource and supply the steam for conversion to electricity and maintain the geothermal field throughout the terms of the agreement.
This unique model will enable us to bring the project online faster than in typical greenfield development.
We expect to start construction when financing is secured.
Additionally we have 35 prospects in various stages of exploration or where activity has yet to begin in the U.S.
Chile Guatemala New Zealand and Indonesia.
In parallel to our organic growth efforts we continue to seek technical solutions and commercial opportunities to improve our existing plants.
Slide 8 provides an update on the Product Segment.
Yesterday we announced that we signed a $22.3 million EPC contract with the Utah Associated Municipal Power Systems for a REG project anticipated to be online during the second half of 2016.
This new REG project will generate power using otherwise wasted heat from the Veyo natural gas compressor station located along the Kern River pipeline.
Our backlog as of November 1 remained strong at approximately $363 million which includes the Sarulla supply contract and new contracts secured.
If you could please now turn to Slide 9 you will see our updated CapEx requirement for the remainder of 2014.
We plan to invest a total of $23 million in capital expenditures on new projects under construction or enhancement and additional $32 million are budgeted for development exploration CapEx for existing plants and investments in machinery and equipment.
$31 million is budgeted for debt repayment.
Now I would like to turn the call to Doron to review the financial results of the quarter.
Doron? Thank you Isaac and good morning everyone.
Let me provide an overview of our financial results for the third quarter of 2014.
Starting on Slide 11 total revenue for the third quarter of 2014 were $140 million a 7.3% increase over revenues of $130 million in the third quarter of 2013.
In our Electricity Segment as you can see on Slide 12 revenues grew 15.2% to $102 million in the third quarter of 2014 over $89 million in the third quarter of 2013.
The increase was mainly due to new capacity coming online from Olkaria complex in Kenya and Don Campbell plant in Nevada.
Based on our policy we continued to manage our economic exposure to natural gas and oil prices in our Electricity Segment through hedging activity.
As a result of our hedging activity we recorded in the Electricity revenue a net gain on derivative contracts on oil and natural gas prices of $4 million in the third quarter of 2014 compared to a net loss of $0.3 million in the corresponding period in 2013.
In the Product Segment on Slide 13 revenues for the third quarter 2014 were $37.7 million.
The decrease this quarter was mainly due to the timing of revenue [inaudible].
That said with the addition of the Sarulla Project we expect revenues to grow again in the fourth quarter.
Moving to slides 14 and 15 the Company's combined gross margin increased from 30.4% to 39.6% in the third quarter of 2014.
In the Electricity Segment gross margin for the third quarter of 2014 increased to $40.8 million or 39.8% from $27.6 million or 31.1% in the third quarter of 2013.
The increase was mainly from new power plants that came online with higher efficiency and higher average rate for the power flow.
Gross margin in the Electricity Segment were also impacted by the $4 million gain realized from derivative contracts during the quarter.
Electricity gross margin in the first nine months of 2014 grew to 35.6%.
In the Product Segment gross margin for the third quarter of 2014 was $14.7 million or 38.9% compared to $12.1 million or 29% in the third quarter of 2013.
The increase in the Product gross margin percentage is mainly attributable to the different product mix and margins in the various sales contracts.
Moving to Slide 16 operating income increased 47% to $43.8 million in the third quarter of 2014 from $29.8 million in the same period last year.
The increase was mainly due to the increase in gross margin in both our Electricity and Product segments during the quarter.
Operating income attributable to our Electricity Segment for the third quarter of 2014 was $32.4 million compared to $20.7 million for the third quarter last year.
Operating income attributable to our Product Segment for the third quarter of 2014 was $11.4 million compared to $9.1 million for the third quarter of 2013.
Moving to Slide 17 interest expense net of capitalized interest for the third quarter of 2014 was $22.5 million compared to $18.5 million for the third quarter of 2013.
This increase was due to an increase in interest expense related to drawdown under long-term loans for McGinness Phase 2 and Olkaria Plant 3 which replaced revolving corporate lines of credit with lower interest rate.
The increase was also related to $1.1 million prepayment premium and write-off of financing expenses.
Moving to Slide 18 net income attributable to the Company stockholders for the third quarter of 2014 increased 27.5% to $16.5 million or $0.36 per diluted share compared to $13 million or $0.28 per share.
The increase was mainly attributable to a $14 million increase in operating income partially offset by a $4.2 million decrease in foreign currency translation and transaction gains mainly due to forward contracts that we entered to hedge our exposure to the shekel which were not accounted for in hedge transaction.
As shown in Slide 19 adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2014 increased 14.9% to $69.2 million compared to $60.3 million for the third quarter of 2013.
Net cash provided by operating activities in the nine months ended September 30 2014 was $178.8 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the nine months ended September 30 2014 increased by 13.6% to approximately $200 million from $175.7 million in the nine months ended September 30 2013.
Moving to Slide 20 cash and cash equivalents as of September 30 2014 was $42.5 million.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the first nine months of the year.
Our long-term debt as of September 30 2014 and the payment schedule are presented in Slide 21 of the presentation.
The average cost of debt stand at 6%.
As you can see our capital structure has strengthened with a healthy balance between non-recourse debt to full recourse debt at 67% and 33% respectively.
Moving to Slide 22 on the project finance front on September 30 2014 we repaid in full the outstanding amount of approximately $30 million loan with EIG formerly known as TCW.
The $42 million loan was signed in 2009 to refinance Ormat investment in the 20 MW Amatitlan geothermal power plant located in Guatemala.
The loan was scheduled to mature on June 15 2016 and carried a 9.83% interest rate.
This repayment resulted in a one-time charge to interest expense of approximately $1.1 million.
We are negotiating now a new financing agreement with improved terms.
In McGinness Phase 2 we recently closed a $140 million loan to finance its construction.
The loan which matures in December 2032 carries a 4.61% coupon with principal paid quarterly.
The OFC 2 notes which includes loans for the Tuscarora Jersey Valley and McGinness Hills complexes are rated BBB by Standard &amp; Poor's.
On November 5 2014 Ormat Board of Directors approved the payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share pursuant to the Company's dividend policy.
The dividend will be paid on December 4 2014 to shareholders of record as of the closing of business on November 20 2014.
This concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Isaac for business update.
Isaac? Thank you very much Doron.
Turning to Slide 24 we outline our revenue outlook for 2014.
For the full year of 2014 we are raising the low end of our guidance and narrowing the range.
We now expect total revenues to be between $550 million and $560 billion with Electricity revenues ranging from $375 million to $380 million and our Product Segment revenues to be between $175 million and $180 million.
Moving to Slide 25 in addition to our internal plans there are several domestic legislative developments that will further support renewable energy development.
In California Governor Brown signed into a law Assembly Bill 2363 on September 26 2014.
The law requires the CPUC to adopt a methodology by December 31 2015 to determine the cost of integrating an eligible renewable energy resource when evaluating a renewable energy tender.
Solar and wind energy are classified an intermittent renewables and require additional generation to be available as a backup.
The costs of a backup generation are referred to as integration costs and are necessary element of integrating intermittent renewable resources into the grid.
When taking into consideration the higher integration costs of intermittent renewables like wind and solar geothermal is in many cases more attractive.
This new law is expected to increase the competitiveness of geothermal power in California IOU's procurement process.
In Hawaii the Hawaii Electric Light Company submitted a long-term energy plan to the HPUC that includes a target goal of generating 92% of its electricity from renewables by the year 2030.
About 40% of Hawaii's electricity was generated by renewable resources in 2013 with more than half of that coming from our Puna complex.
Geothermal can certainly play a significant role in meeting HELCO's vision to deliver cost-effective clean reliable energy to its customers.
The regulatory environment continues to be supportive for geothermal initiatives which will benefit Ormat's prospects going forward.
We continue to implement new initiatives that will enhance efficiency and position the Company for accelerated growth.
During the quarter we made a number of organizational structure changes to streamline the decision-making process and reduce overhead.
We are moving toward more structured management team that is focused on driving efficiencies optimizing EBITDA and expanding the Company's global footprint over the near-term while we continue to reassess and develop the Company's medium and long-term strategy.
With that said I would like to thank you for your support and at this time the call is open for questions.
Operator?  (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Dan Mannes from Avondale Partners.
So first question is on your recent commentary about potential corporate restructuring.
Just wanted to understand first of all have you guys already ironed out any concerns about tax treatment? And secondly have you – and I know it's up to the special committee but is there any reason to believe that the consideration from Ormat Technologies to Ormat Industries would be materially different than the value of the underlying shares i.e.
is there anything at Ormat Industries that would be purchased other than kind of the ownership stake? To answer your last question it's going to be the holding company which has only few assets such as the 60% of the Ormat Technologies and few land positions where the factory is located.
On your first question the whole thing is basically managed by the special committee of the Board with the management not being involved in the negotiations on the numbers and frankly speaking I don't even know the ratio as we speak now.
And in terms of the tax considerations have those already been worked out or is that still up in the air? This is part of the general discussions between the special committees and trying to get all the relevant approvals needed for this transaction potential transaction.
Okay that's fair.
Second I wanted to ask real quick about the recent order for REG units in Utah.
This is a nice sized win.
First can you comment on how many megawatts this relates to and secondly can you discuss other opportunities for new REG units particularly given a lot of new natural gas pipelines are at least proposed for construction in the U.S.
over the next couple of years? The megawatt numbers is a number it's a 9 megawatt power plant and we are very encouraged on the new upcoming pipelines and we are building actually more today than a few months ago on this particular product.
So you are ramping up for potential demand or you already manufactured more product? We are not manufacturing yet more product but our REG units are doing better and on the other hand we know that there is an upcoming demand there will be an upcoming demand on the new pipeline.
Great.
Two more quick ones and then I'll leave off for someone else.
You can take your time.
I know but there may be other callers.
On Puna you mentioned the well decline due to the weather event.
Can you remind us when that occurred first of all? And then secondly can you also give us an update on hedging activity at Puna for '15? Okay.
As you'll probably remember few months ago the hurricane hit the Big Island in Hawaii.
During the disaster over there we had to shut down the – emergency shut down the power plant for a few days.
During the shutdown one of our wells – after the shutdown one of our wells didn't revive and since then we are trying to revive the well.
We have plans that this will be done at most by the second half of 2015.
And the other thing that we made sure that this thing will not happen if the plant will be hit the second time by the hurricane and we will shut it down we changed the mode of our operation in Hawaii to make sure that we will not have to shut down the wells.
On the hedging question Doron? Regarding the hedging as of today on the oil pricing we are hedged till the end of this year.
We don't have currently any forward contracts or any other hedge positions on oil prices for next year.
Thank you.
The question was on Mammoth.
I think you mentioned you're planning a refurbishment of the entire plant.
I was wondering if you could give us a little more color because I believe you already refurbished the first unit and then secondly if this refurbishment has any implications on the CD4 expansion which I'm pretty sure is on hold.
Dan the first plant as you know is already refurbished and operating.
We plan to refurbish Plant 3 and we are in middle of a reassessment.
We might very well refurbish first Plant 2 before we do Plant 3 and that's the delay.
And I believe by the end of this year we will decide either to go ahead with G3 or start G2.
Most probably we will refurbish G2 before G3.
Great.
And then just finally you mentioned streamlining decisions efficiency maybe can you give us any concrete examples of things you are doing internally to improve things and/or give us any guidepost on what this could mean financially whether from a cost savings perspective or anything like that or just any more help there in terms of your vision on how things are going to change in the near intermediate term would be helpful? Dan what we are doing is that we are assessing each and every asset that we have by means of power plants and trying to understand what's the actual generation and income and what is the potential generation and income and trying to mitigate the gap between the two by means of efficiency operation enhancements and also adding sometimes other means of green energy to mitigate the gap.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate all the color.
Our next question comes from JinMing Liu with Ardour Capital.
I just have one question.
You mentioned the legislation in California which could be very positive for geothermal but my understanding is most of your current capacity is under long-term fixed-price PPA.
So can you educate us what kind of potential financial benefit you may have from this legislation in California? We were referring mainly for the future plants and not necessarily on our existing assets.
You realize that on our future RFPs there is a high value on the fact that California actually signed – the Governor signed on the bill.
Okay so basically in the future when you renew your PPA or expand your capacity you will have much better price than your current $80-ish per megawatt hour going rate? Yes you are right Jin.
Okay got that.
Okay thanks.
(Operator Instructions) There are no further questions.
Thank you very much.
The Q&amp;A session has now concluded.
This conference has completed.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for waiting.
Welcome to the Ormat Fourth Quarter Year End 2014 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on listen-only mode.
And the floor will be open for your questions and comments following the presentation.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Stanlis of MS/Hayden - IR.
Mr.
Stanlis you may begin your conference.
Thank you Zelda.
Hosting the call today are Isaac Angel Chief Executive Officer; and Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning I would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the Company’s plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management’s current estimates and projections for future results and trends.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see the risk factors as described in Ormat Technologies’ annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28 2014.
In addition during the call we will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and management reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slides posted on the Company’s website.
Because these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP they should not be considered in isolation from the Company’s financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the Company’s website at ormat.com under the IR Events &amp; Presentations link that if found on the Investor Relations tab.
With that said I would like to turn the call over to Isaac Angel.
Isaac the call is yours.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results and outlook for the near future.
On the slides four and five we identify the highlights for what has been a busy productive and a successful year.
We continue to deliver strong financial performance year-over-year with record revenues.
48% increase in operating income; 31% increase in net income robust adjusted EBITDA of $272.7 million.
Doron will give into the numbers -- will go into the numbers in detail in a minute.
During 2014 we took meaningful steps to increase shareholders’ value as well as giving the Company the resources to expand and improve its operations.
I’m excited with the progress we made last year.
And today we have a wider range of continuities -- to continue this progress in 2015 and beyond.
I will elaborate on the progress we made on our plans for the future and Doron will review the financial results.
Doron? Thank you Isaac and good morning everyone.
Let me start by providing an overview of our financial results for the year end December 31 2014.
Starting with slide seven total revenue for the 2014 were $559.5 million a 4.9% increase over revenues of $533 million in 2013.
In our Electricity segment as you can see on slide eight revenue grew 15.9% to $382.3 million in 2014 from $329.7 million in 2013.
The increase was primarily due to the new capacity coming on line at the Olkaria complex in Kenya as well as the commencement of Don Campbell power plant in Nevada.
In 2014 we managed our economic exposure to natural gas and oil prices in our Electricity segment through hedging activities.
As a result of such activities we recorded in the Electricity revenue a net gain on derivative contracts on oil and natural gas prices of $5.7 million in the 2014 compared to a net loss of $5 million in 2013.
In the product segment on slide nine product revenues were $177.2 million in line with our guidance expectations compared to $203.5 million in 2013.
The decrease is due timing of revenue recognition and different product mix.
Moving to slide 10 the Company combined gross margin for 2014 increased to $203.7 million or 36.4% compared to $160.8 million or 30% in 2013.
In the Electricity segment gross margin for 2014 increased to $135.7 million or 35.5% compared to $96.9 million or 29.4% in 2013.
This increase was mainly due to the higher margin that new power plants contributed as well as the impact of mark-to-market related to the derivative contracts.
In the Product segment gross margin for 2014 was $68.1 million or 38.4% compared to $62.9 million or 30.9% in 2013.
The increase in the Product gross margin percentage is mainly attributable to the different product mix and margins in the various sales contracts.
Specifically in 2014 the product mix was comprised of relatively high of supply contract versus 2013.
The gross margin for 2014 is higher than the typical level for this segment and we do not expect it to remain at these levels in 2015.
Moving to slide 11 operating income increased 48% to $143.5 million compared to $97 million in 2013.
Operating income attributable to our Electricity segment in 2014 was $90.4 million compared to $54.3 million in 2013.
Operating income attributable to our Product segment increased to $53.1 million compared to $42.7 million in 2013.
The increase was mainly due to the improvement in our Electricity segment gross margin and due to one-time early termination fee of $11.6 million included in 2013 selling and marketing expenses.
This increase was partially offset due to a $15.4 million write-off of unsuccessful exploration activity in 2014 compared to $4.1 million in 2013.
The write-off represents $8.1 million exploration and development cost related to the Wister site in California and $7.3 million exploration cost related to the Mount Spurr prospect in Alaska out of which $3.5 million account for land cost.
After conducting exploratory drilling those sites management concluded that the geothermal resource as well as the commercial environment would not support commercial operations at the foreseeable future.
Moving to slide 12 interest expense net of capitalized interest for 2014 was $84.7 million compared to $73.8 million last year.
This increase is mainly due to the conversion in OPIC interest loans to fixed interest long-term rate and due to a $4.4 million decrease in interest capitalized to projects.
Moving to slide 13 net income attributable to the Company stockholders for 2014 increased 31.4% to $54.2 million or $1.18 per share compared to $41.2 million or $0.91 per share in 2013.
Net income attributable to the Company’s shareholders excluding the $15.4 million write-off of unsuccessful exploration activities was $69.6 million or $1.51 per share in 2014.
Now I would like to go over a few quarterly financial highlights beginning with slide 14.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 total revenues increased 14% to $149.2 million compared to $130.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Revenues in the Electricity segment increased 10.1% to $93.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 up from $84.7 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Revenues in the product segment were $56 million an increase of 21.2% compared to $46.2 million in the fourth quarter 2013.
Now on slide 15 operating income in the fourth quarter of 2014 increased 61% to $34.8 million compared to $21.6 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Net income attributable to the Company stockholders for the fourth quarter was $7 million or $0.15 per share compared to $8.2 million or $0.18 per share in the fourth quarter of last year.
The net income of the fourth quarter was impacted by a $7.3 million write-off of unsuccessful exploration activities and approximately $4 million increase in income tax mainly due to the impact of the devaluation of the shekel against the dollar and its impact on the tax expense in Israel.
Please move to slide 16 on adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2014 was $272.7 million compared to $241 million in the same period last year which represents a 13.1% increase.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $68.3 million as compared to $62.2 million in the same quarter last year which represents a 9.9% increase.
We reviewed our adjusted EBITDA calculation as well as compared it to other Companies and we decided to revise our definition to a more representative adjusted EBITDA.
We believe adjusted EBITDA is useful to investor because it is frequently used by security analysts investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in our industry.
We understand that investors use adjusted EBITDA among other things to assess our period-to-period operating performance and to gain insight into the manner in which management analyzes operating performance.
Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as net income before interest taxes depreciation and amortization adjusted for termination fees impairment of long lived assets write-off of unsuccessful exploration activities any mark-to-market gains or losses from accounting for derivative mergers and acquisition transaction cost stock-based compensation gain from extinguishment of liabilities and gain on sale of subsidiaries and property plant and equipment.
On slide 17 you can see the reconciliation of the last 12 quarters of the adjusted EBITDA as currently defined and calculated.
Moving to slide 18 cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 2014 was $40.2 million.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during 2014.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $213.2 million in 2014 compared to $86.7 million in 2013.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities was $35.5 million compared $54.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our long-term debt as of December 31 2014 and payment schedule are presented on slide 19 of the presentation.
The average cost of debt for the Company stands at 6.1%.
On February 24 2015 Ormat’s Board of Directors approved a payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share for the fourth quarter.
The dividend will be paid on March 27 2015 to shareholders of record as of the closing of business on March 16 2015.
In addition the company expects to pay quarterly dividends of $0.06 per share in the next three quarters.
This concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Isaac for an operational and business update.
Isaac? Thank you very much Doron.
Starting with slide 21 during 2014 we focused on the commencement of Plant 3 of Olkaria complex and construction of the McGinness Hills Phase 2 power plant.
In addition we began construction in Don Campbell Phase 2 project.
In early February 2014 we announced that we successfully completed construction and reached commercial operation of Plant 3 in the Olkaria complex in Kenya.
With Plant 3 on line the complex’s total generation capacity has increased to 110 megawatts.
In December we amended the existing PPA with KPLC paving the way for the expansion of the complex with an additional 24 megawatts.
Early this year we announced that the second phase of McGinness Hills power plant in Nevada has begun commercial operations.
Since February 1 2015 the complex sells electricity under the amended PPA with envy energy at a new energy rate of $85.6 per megawatt with 1% annual escalation through December 2032.
The second phase broke ground on March 2014 following resource confirmation and excellent performance of the first phase which had been operational since June 2012.
Implementing our phase development approach enabled us to bring on line the second phase rapidly as well as to take advantage from economies of scale.
We expect the complex will further improve our financial performance.
The total generation for 2014 was approximately 4.4 million megawatt hours which is an increase of 4.6% from the last year.
The growth in generation is mainly due to contribution of Don Campbell power plant in Nevada; Olkaria Plant 3 in Kenya and Amatitlan in Guatemala.
In Puna following the hurricane Iselle that hit the Hawaiian Big Island in August 2014 we were required to temporarily shut down our power plant.
As a result one of the production wells did not fully recover and the plant lost approximately 5 megawatts.
We started to drill a new production well and convert one of the drill wells into an injection well.
We expect to restore the generation capacity to 38 megawatts by mid-2015.
Our current generation capacity increased nearly 650 megawatts as you can see in slide 22.
We made few adjustments to reflect the updated status of generation capacity.
We increased Don Campbell to 19 megawatts and added 34 megawatts McGinness Hills complex.
At the Steamboat complex Jersey Valley and North Brawley power plants we adjusted to generating capacity to better reflect the actual generations of these plants.
We also provided the average capacity factor for each operation area.
Few of our plants are operating at the lower capacity factor.
The enhancements we are performing are expected to provide an upside and increased capacity factor for several power plants.
Moving to slide 23 in 2015 we plan to invest in new projects under development and construction as listed in the slide.
In addition our CapEx plan includes investment in global projects that are currently under advance exploration.
And we expect them to start the development process during the year.
In Don Campbell field development and construction of 19 megawatt second phase has begun.
Additionally the PPA for this project is under approval process with the off-taker.
We expect to complete the project in the first quarter of 2016.
Northleaf our new joint venture investor will purchase approximately 40% interest in the project and it will be added to the existing joint venture when it’s completed and tested.
This validates our expectation that this relationship will represent a long-term agreement.
In Olkaria we expect to increase the generation capacity of the complex by 24 megawatts bringing the complex’s total capacity to 134 megawatts.
The full plant is expected to come on line in the second half of 2016.
And with regard to Sarulla the consortium is continuing the testing and development activities at the site.
The first phase is expected to commence operation in 2016 and the remaining two phases of operations are scheduled to commence within 18 months thereafter.
In Platanares we plan to continue field development of the project.
Once the well field is validated we will determine the expected capacity and begin construction of the first phase anticipated to be approximately 18 megawatts and to reach commercial operation in 2017.
In Kenya we signed key agreements related to 35 megawatts Menangai project.
Together with our project company partners we will operate this project on a built on operate basis for 25 years and sell the electricity under a 25-year PPA with KPLC.
GDC which is wholly owned by the government of Kenya will develop the geothermal resource supply the steam for conversion to electricity and maintain the geothermal field throughout the term of the agreement.
We expect to start construction when financing is secured.
To summarize the project that we plan to work on this year may add between 90 megawatts to 115 megawatts in the years 2016 and 2017.
Besides the investment in new projects as I just described we are also enhancing some of our existing power plants.
We expect that these enhancements will improve our EBITDA margins going forward.
Moving to slide 24 we have 32 prospects in early exploration or where activity has yet to begin in the U.S.
Chile Guatemala and New Zealand.
Slide 25 provides for an update on the Product segment.
Our revenue from the Product segment was within our 2014 guidance range of $170 million to $180 million.
We have secured $41 million in new orders in the fourth quarter positioning our product backlog as of February 16 2015 at approximately $326 million.
Let me continue my review of business update on slide 26.
We recently announced the completion of share exchange transaction to acquire our parent company.
This step created a streamline corporate structure and increased liquidity for our shareholders.
We also listed our shares on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.
These accomplishments should help us attract institutional investors and diversify our investor base.
We also announced the milestone agreement with Northleaf Capital Partners under which Ormat will contribute certain geothermal and record energy generation power plants into newly established holding company.
And Northleaf will acquire approximately 40% of equity interest in the joint venture.
Ormat will continue to consolidate in the joint venture and its assets and will continued to provide day-to-day management operations and maintenance control over the projects.
This transaction will raise approximately $175 million for Ormat at the compelling valuation.
The purchase price implies a total transaction value of $438 million.
Moving to slide 27 global demand for renewable energy remains strong.
In the United States interest in the geothermal energy remains strong for numerous reasons including legislative support of renewable portfolio standard; coal and nuclear based energy retirement; and increasing awareness of positive value of geothermal characteristic as compared to intermediate renewable energy.
In California Governor Jerry Brown announced on January 5th that he would like to raise the renewables portfolio standard target to 50% by 2030 from its current goal of getting 33% of its electricity generation from renewable resources by 2020.
The legislature responded by introducing Assembly Bill 197.
The bill will require the California Public Utilities Commission to evaluate the cost effectiveness of renewable energy sources not only in regards to their upfront cost but also for their ability to benefit by grids implementing intermittent solar and wind or by providing baseload electricity generation that could benefit geothermal energy which has the advantage of generating baseload power.
In addition the Hawaii Electric Light Company submitted a long-term energy plan to the Hawaii PUC that includes the target goal of generating 92% of this electricity from renewable energy sources by the year 2030.
We see similar initiatives in other areas as well and trust that encouraging environment will continue to drive growth in both of our segments.
If you could please turn to slide 28 you will see our CapEx requirement for 2015.
We plan to invest a total of $153 million in capital expenditures on new projects under construction and enhancements.
An additional $96 million is budgeted for development exploration activities maintenance capital for operating projects and invest in machinery and equipment.
In addition $92 million will be required for debt repayment.
Turning to slide 29 we outline our revenue outlook for 2015.
For the full year 2015 we expect Electricity segment revenues to be between $380 million and $390 million and the Product segment revenues to be between $180 million and $190 million which sum up to total revenues of between $560 million and $580 million.
In addition as we continue to make operational progress and monetize our assets we felt it was an appropriate time to provide adjusted EBITDA guidance.
For 2015 we expect to generate adjusted EBITDA of between $280 million and $290 million.
With that said I’d like to thank you for your support.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator? Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
First question comes from Dan Mannes with Avondale.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Dan.
First of all thank you very much for the adjusted EBITDA guidance I think it’s something we’ve all been looking for a while and I think it’s a nice step.
But unfortunately that also means we have a whole bunch of questions about it.
So I wanted to first start off can you talk at all about your hedge position for 2015 as it relates to natural gas and oil and maybe help build up the revenue guidance on power in relation to any hedges you may have? Yes Dan it’s Doron.
Regarding the hedge activities today we have hedge for first quarter -- natural gas hedge for the first quarter of 2015 at the price of 495.
[ph] This is the only hedge that we have to-date for oil and natural gas.
And obviously as you allude to the reduction in the price has had an impact on our revenue guidance which assumes the December pricing of oil and natural gas.
So as we look at year-over-year so for instance or 2014 your power revenue was $380 million; for 2015 you’re giving us a range of $380 million to $ 390 million.
You have some pretty substantial headwinds on the natural gas side and on the crude side at Puna.
So maybe could you just help us other than the inclusion of McGinness anything else we should be thinking about that maybe helpful on the power side this year? Basically the reduction in the oil prices and natural gas prices are the reason that you don’t see a higher increase due to the McGinness contract plant going into operation.
If you take the 2015 generation number and try to calculate it based on the pricing of 2014 to get apples-to-apples comparison the impact is roughly $20 million on the revenue.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then similarly as you look at the EBITDA number your adjusted EBITDA was 272 for 2014.
You did back out the benefit of the hedges in 2014.
So this is apples-to-apples assuming no benefit from the hedges in 2015.
Can you maybe talk to us about where the upside is coming from year-over-year when revenue is kind of flattish on the power side? And then on product you’re telling us that well revenue side your margins will probably be lower.
So can you point to us what’s driving the year-over-year EBITDA growth? First of all in the adjusted EBITDA we are not neutralizing the hedging.
What we did there we’re only neutralizing the mark-to-market effect actually having an apples-to-apples calculation.
Accounting-wise we need to mark-to-market but economic-wise obviously the hedge impacts the relevant period.
So by excluding the mark-to-market we actually give the right impact for the hedging activity that we do.
So you’re including the cash benefit of the hedges in the quarter that it impacts but not the mark-to-market impact.
Yes.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
And additional upside that we see within the EBITDA that helps actually cover first of all the McGinness Hills plant that Phase 2 coming on line has a relatively nice EBITDA compared to other power plant that we have which is second phase.
It’s based on the existing operations that we have.
So that compensates for quite a lot of the impact or more than the total impact of the hedge.
And in addition we see additional upside in the power plants that we’re operating today some cost reduction activities that we took.
And that obviously impacts more the EBITDA line than the revenue line.
So it’s fair to assume that we should see better gross margins at the power business year-over-year? Yes.
That’s the key driver.
Anything below the gross profit line that maybe benefiting? Do we expect to see a reduction in either G&amp;A or S&amp;M? S&amp;M is basically subject to the product sales and product revenue.
It’s recognized the sales commission used [ph] over time; that’s the biggest element and sales people.
And so this should be in line with our product revenue.
And on the G&amp;A the saving and cost reduction initiatives are also impacting the G&amp;A of course.
But we don’t have a specific number to give out.
Okay.
And then as we think about the Northleaf transaction which -- first of all could you give us an update on when you expect that to close? And then two how we think about the impact of the Northleaf transaction on your adjusted EBITDA calculation? Regarding closing we don’t have any update.
We said we expect it to close in Q1; this is still our expectation.
We don’t have any insight to accelerate it or delay it today.
We are working obviously on all the closing conditions that we have and the regular ones and we still expect it in Q1.
Since the transaction hasn’t closed yet so what you see here is 100% EBITDA of all of our power plants.
In the future since we are consolidating the calculation of the EBITDA will come to 100%.
But obviously part of that will go to Northleaf.
Got it.
So on the other side we should probably think about your enterprise values and as we’ll probably need to gross that up for Northleaf’s investment.
If you would go through the enterprise value then we would have allocated to us maybe lower EBITDA but on the other hand there is going to be additional cash on the balance sheet.
So the net debt is going to be much lower.
Got it.
And then real quick on Don Campbell that seems to have come together very very quickly.
Can you talk at all about number one the PPA; is it similar to the current one which I believe is with SCPPA or LADWP? And then two will this qualify for the production tax credit i.e.
did it get the 5% in service by the end of 2014 -- or the 5% construction? Regarding the PPA once it’s going to be finalized and approved we’ll be able to share with the market all the information.
This is power plant that is construction.
We are in the final stages of approving the PPA.
So we cannot yet share this with the market.
But obviously the PPA takes into account the Phase 2 project.
And the Phase 2 projects the risk and the cost are lower than Phase 1 project.
Don Campbell based on our understanding does qualify for the PPC.
We do have the 5% investment in 2013 2014 and in addition we can also do the continuous construction close.
So we expect it to be entitled to PPC.
Great.
This is Isaac Dan.
And you’re right we are accelerating.
Don Campbell is going very fast and the same goes for other power plants we are building.
Obviously it affects our bottom-line.
I think one of the things we are seeing is the phased approach.
Obviously the first greenfield does take a while but these expansions I mean you look at McGinness you look at Olkaria or you look at Don Campbell they are coming on a lot quicker.
And financially they do seem to be impacting the bottom-line more meaningfully than maybe power plants that you’d added in the past? You’re right.
And that’s the plan going forward.
And then the last follow-up I have is on Hawaii.
You mentioned the long-term plan there.
I think there was some news in Hawaii that they finally selected someone to provide 25 megawatts on the Big Island and it’s you.
Can you maybe give us any color on what your plans are in Hawaii and whether it’s going to be an expansion of Puna or something else? It’s not going to be an expansion of Puna no doubt on that.
But it’s too early to say what is going to be done there.
The first part of your question is right we were selected.
But it happened only two days ago.
So we really have to sit down and plan ahead and then we will come up with more information in what’s happening.
I hope that on our March 31st meeting that I hope to see you there we will have more color on that.
I apologize.
I do have one last one.
Any update on CD4 and how that’s going? And maybe -- because that’s not on your list of projects but it’s a pretty advanced development.
We are working behind the scene over there but nothing that we can report as of today.
Again in the upcoming calls I hope to give you more color on that.
Sounds good.
Thanks a lot guys.
And thanks for the EBITDA guidance.
Thank you very much Dan.
The next question comes from JinMing Liu with Ardour Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Thank you Jin.
First off regarding your Product segment.
How much revenue you recognized from the Sarulla project in 2014 and how much you put into your guidance for 2015 from that project? We don’t do the speeches about specific projects because the status of project over the life of a project changes due to either priorities in the manufacturing that we may achieve from one project to another to an internal project.
Regarding 2014 since we did give the guidance of $35 million that we are recognizing in Sarulla we recognized a little bit more than that about $38 million.
And going forward you can see this as an ongoing project.
It’s a very large project.
It has another three years until we finish all the manufacturing and deliveries.
So all-in-all roughly a linear spread maybe a little bit higher the beginning of period is the right spread.
Okay understand.
Regarding your Phase 2 of the Don Campbell project you mentioned you sale that 40% of interest to Northleaf.
Will that transaction be based on the similar multiples as you did is that the case? The Phase 2 transaction has different characteristic than the current transaction.
Obviously it’s a project that is still in construction.
We don’t have any history of operation to show.
So it’s not -- so there is an agreed that is based on the timing of the project and the cost of the project.
And once Campbell Phase 2 goes on line we will be able to share with you.
Okay got that.
Lastly regarding your Puna facility how much will the cost be to fix up the facility? Jin we are not giving guide on these numbers.
So frankly I cannot tell you the number.
Sorry about it.
Okay got that.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions].
The next question comes from Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
I also thank you for the EBITDA guidance.
I appreciate that and you went through a lot of detail on that already.
A couple of bigger picture questions maybe.
You mentioned specifically obviously the new RPS target and Bill 197 in California.
And the RPS is fairly straight forward.
But can you discuss a little bit how you think 197 might actually play out in terms of benefit for more baseload resources like geothermal? I think if you look at California on the bill and other there is basic understanding into the regulator of the advantages and benefits of geothermal.
And the more they understand the fact that the geothermal is the baseload it is reliable; then we’ll see this embedded into the bill in California.
And we expect this to support our future growth and the need for geothermal energy in the future.
Okay.
I know it’s still early days on that so it’s hard to really detail it.
Are there any further tweaks to programs or existing policies or new proposals outside of these two items in California that will impact your either existing or future plants that are on your radar? None which are determined as we speak now.
But we are working very diligently at the capital and in Nevada and in California for local teams.
And I hope there are few things that we will be able to talk to you about on our March meeting.
Okay I appreciate that.
Last question from me.
You have a fairly full play for development and then near term at the moment.
I am just curious other operators maybe are a little bit less capitalized or less experienced.
Does anything out there present an M&amp;A opportunity that could be attractive or are you looking fully internally at this point? Mark I will relate to it very lengthily in our next meeting but just a bit of information.
We are planning some step-up functions to M&amp;As.
So we’re not only looking on internal growth and we have the financial abilities to do so.
And you probably know there are prospects in the market as we speak.
So we are looking around to find synergic M&amp;As for us.
But at this stage it’s only opportunistic.
And as I said before we are restructuring the Company also to build an M&amp;A team that we work on that.
But at this stage it’s only on opportunistic stages.
But we are not out ruling it at all.
Okay great.
Thanks for the color.
I appreciate it.
Thank you very much Mark.
Have a nice day.
The next question comes from Ella Fried with Leumi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and good afternoon to those in Israel.
In order to understand the allocation of EBITDA to Ormat and to Northleaf could maybe examine the allocation in terms of EBITDA of 2014 as if it were already year with a JV? Hi Ella.
Thanks for the questions drawn.
The allocation basically what -- Northleaf are going to invest up to 40% or approximately 40% in Puna Campbell in the oil.
So they’re going to be allocated 40% of the EBITDA of these specific power plants.
When we announced the transaction we said it was roughly at 100% with about $40 million.
So their part should be 16%.
But obviously there is no commitment so if the part and they do better then they will get higher EBITDA and if they do low they will get lower EBITDA.
So in terms of 2014 if it was -- if the JV already existed we would be looking at EBITDA of around 250 am I right.
It would be -- looking at 272 minus 16 EBITDA but obviously when you go to this calculation you need to look at the enterprise value because… Yes the adjustment was the oil price but in general that would be the numbers more or less.
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
And another question about the write-off the geothermal assets that are not going to be developed how many allocations are we talking? The majority of the number relates to two allocations.
It was Wister in California that was written off in Q2 and Mount Spurr in Alaska that was written off in Q4 this year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And congratulations on the results.
Thank you very much.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I’d now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Isaac Angel for any closing remarks.
Guys thank you very much for your ongoing support.
And thank you very much for being with us this morning.
And I’d like to remind you that we are holding an investment conference on March 31st in New York.
And we will be more than glad to see you all there.
And have a nice day.
Thank you very much.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Ormat Technologies First Quarter Earnings Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Stanlis of Hayden/MS IR.
Please go ahead Thank you Tanya.
Hosting the call today are Isaac Angel Chief Executive Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before we begin we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company’s plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management’s current estimates and projections for future results and trends.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see the risk factors as described in Ormat Technologies’ annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition during the call the company will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and management reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slides posted on the company’s website.
Because these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP they should not be considered in isolation from the financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company’s website at ormat.com under the IR Events &amp; Presentations link that’s found on the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would like to turn the call over to Isaac Angel.
Isaac the call is yours.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our first quarter 2015 results.
Starting with slide four the first quarter was a solid quarter with some expected headwinds in which we progressed with our expansion plan and began executing our initiative to set the stage for our next growth phase.
Just a few weeks ago we conducted a successful Analysts Day in New York and discussed our multi-year plan designated to elevate Ormat from a leading geothermal company to a recognized global leader in the larger renewable energy industry.
This ambitious plan involves extending our geographical read and expanding our technology to capture a larger portion of high temperature geothermal market with our proven binary system as well as with third party steam technology.
Over the long-term we are focusing on growing our customer base around the world.
Moving to slide five our financial results as expected were affected by lower commodity prices one-time expenses related to the restructuring transaction as well as normal quarterly fluctuations in revenue recognition for our product segment.
While these factors collectively resulted in lower quarterly revenues and net income we reiterating our revenue and adjusted-EBITDA guidance for the full year.
This morning we announced a new $98.8 million EPC contract for geothermal project in Chile.
This contract is our first products win in the emerging Chilean market and it’s evidence of our continued focus on expanding our geographic reach.
I’ll provide some additional remarks regarding our progress after Doron reviews the financial results.
Doron? Thank you Isaac and good morning everyone.
Let me start by providing an overview of our financial results for the quarter end March 31 2015.
Starting with slide seven total revenues for the first quarter of 2015 were $120.2 million compared to $142.4 million in the first quarter of 2014 with 75% of it coming from the Electricity segment in 2015.
In our Electricity segment as you can see on slide eight revenues were $90 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared with $94.8 million in the first quarter last year.
The decrease was mainly due to the lower energy rates resulting from lower oil and natural gas prices of $6.6 million and lower generation at Puna power plant of $3.1 million as a result of last summer’s hurricane.
The decrease was partially offset by the February 2015 commencement of the McGuinness Hills Phase 2 Power Plant in Nevada adding $3.6 million of revenue and by a reduction in net loss on derivative contracts on oil and natural gas prices year-over-year.
In the Product segment on slide nine revenues were $30.3 million compared to $47.6 million in the first quarter of 2014.
As you already know our product segment is characterized by fluctuations in quarterly revenues.
The decrease in the first quarter is primarily due to the timing of revenue recognition and specifically this quarter due to the allocation of manufacturing resource to expedite the construction of the Don Campbell Phase 2 project in order to commence commercial operation towards the end of 2015 three months earlier than anticipated.
As planned we remain on schedule with our contract with third-party customers and on track with our fully year guidance.
We expect revenues in the second half of the year to be strong.
Moving to slide ten the company combined gross margin for the first quarter was 36.6% compared to 37.5% in the first quarter of last year.
In the Electricity segment gross margin was 38.2% compared to 39.8% last year and in the Product segment gross margin was 31.9% compared to 32.9% in the prior year quarter.
Moving to slide 11 first quarter operating income was $29.9 million compared to $42.6 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The decrease in operating income was primarily due to the decline in revenue and a one-time expense of $3.4 million related to the restructuring transaction.
Operating income attributable to our Electricity segment in the first quarter of 2015 was $24 million compared to $30.9 million in prior year’s quarter.
Operating income attributable to our Product segment was $5.9 million compared to $11.7 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Moving to slide 12 interest expense net of capitalized interest for the first quarter of 2015 was $17.8 million compared to $20.5 million last year.
This decrease was primarily due to the lower interest expense as a result of debt repayment partially offset by increase in interest expense related to a new loan to finance the construction of McGinness Hills Phase 2 project from August 2014.
Moving to slide 13 net income attributable to the company stockholders for the first quarter of 2015 was $10 million or $0.21 per basic and diluted share compared to $21.6 million or $0.47 per basic and diluted share in the first quarter of 2014.
Please move to slide 14 adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2015 was $65.3 million compared to $73.4 million in the same quarter last year.
Turning to slide 15 cash and cash equivalents as of March 31 2015 were $7.7 million.
We generated $83.1 million in cash from operating activities.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the quarter.
Our long-term debt as of March 31 2015 and the payment schedule are presented in slide 16 of the presentation.
The average cost of debt for the company stands at 6.1%.
On May 6 2015 Ormat Board of Directors approved payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share for the first quarter.
The dividend will be paid on May 27 2015 to shareholders of record as of closing of business on May 19 2015.
In addition the company expects to pay quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share in each of the next two quarters.
That concludes my financial overview I would like now to turn the call to Isaac for an operational and business update.
Isaac.
Thank you Doron.
Starting with slide 18 for an update on operations in February the second phase of our McGinness Hills geothermal power plant in Nevada began commercial operation.
This complex has an annual generation capacity of 72 megawatts and sells its electricity under a power purchase agreement with NV Energy.
In Heber 1 enhancement we intend to drill an additional well in 2015 and perform upgrade to surface equipment following which we expect capacity of the complex to reach 92 megawatts with higher capacity sector in current performance.
Our portfolio generation in the first quarter were similar to the first quarter 2014 mainly due to lot lower generation as expected in Puna.
As part of management’s new operational approach we are focused on profit optimization and while it may translate to reduction in generation in some plants we expect the profitability will continue to improve as it has been.
Moving to slide 19 in March we signed a 20 year agreement with Southern California public power authority for the 19 megawatt second phase of our Don Campbell project in Nevada.
As Doron just mentioned we now expect this phase to come online by the end of 2015 approximately three months ahead of schedule.
In Olkaria we are on schedule with the construction of the 24 megawatt plant in Kenya the 4 plant is expected to bring the complex generation capacity to 134 megawatts in the second half of 2016.
And with regard to Sarulla Indonesia the consortium is continuing field development at the site.
The first phase is expected to commence operation in 2016 and the remaining two phases are scheduled to commence within 18 months thereafter.
The projects I just described as well as additional projects under various stages of development are expected to add between 90 to 115 megawatt by the end of 2017.
Besides the investment in new projects we are continuing our exploration and business development activities to support future growth.
If you could please turn to slide 20 you’ll see our CapEx requirement for the remainder of 2016.
We plan to invest a total of $112 million in capital expenditures on new projects under construction and enhancement.
An additional $39 million are budgeted for development and exploration activities maintenance capital for operating projects and investment in machinery and equipment.
In addition $61 million will be required for debt repayment.
Slide 21 provides an update on the Product segment.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the call we have secured a new $98.8 million contract positioning our product backlog as of May 6 2015 at a record of $387 million.
This robust backlog will support our financials in the next two to three years.
Let me continue my review of business update on slide 22.
Last week we closed the equity transaction with Northleaf Capital Partners under which Ormat contributes certain geothermal [ph] unrecovered energy generation power plant into a newly established holding company.
And Northleaf acquired just 6.75% equity interest in the joint venture for a purchase price of $162.3 million.
Ormat will continue to consolidate the entity and its assets as well as provide day-to-day management operations and maintenance control over the project.
The purchase price and the percentage interest acquired by Northleaf were adjusted based on the Canadian dollar versus US dollars exchange rate and were affected by the devaluation of the Canadian dollar against the U.S.
dollar.
The purchase price implies an aggregate transaction value of approximately $442 million.
Moving to slide 23 for a regulation update.
Global demand for renewable energy remains strong as awareness increases for the positive value of geothermal as compared to intermittent renewable technology.
More and more leaders and policy makers are raising the standards for renewables.
In January of this year California Governor Jerry Brown announced that he would like to raise the renewables portfolio standard target to 50% by 2030 from its current goal of 33% by 2020.
In March House and Senate Committees in Hawaii unanimously approved legislation to raise the state’s renewable portfolio standard from 40% by 2030 to 100% by 2040.
The State has excellent wind solar geothermal biomass hydropower and Ocean energy resources to transform the Island’s fuel mix to clean energy.
We are also seeing similar initiatives in other parts of the world as well.
At the Fifth African Geothermal Conference this past October Tanzanian’s Vice President called up African nation and their partners to use the potential of geothermal in the region as a catalyst for achieving the continent’s economy social environmental development aspirations.
The leaders in the region clearly understand that sustainable and affordable energy supply is essential to realizing economic and social development especially renewable energies such as geothermal present a viable option towards that specification of generation mix and thereby increasing power supply and liability.
The equivalent -- the acknowledgement of the renewables benefit in the regulation support as well as energy shortage in many of the developing countries creates opportunities for Ormat.
The multi-year plan that was presented back at the analyst day is based on this trend and opportunity.
For those of you that were unable to attend our Analyst Day you can review that webcast on our website.
In my opening remarks I mentioned that the main tenets of our plan this plan is new for us and it’s a several moving part and a long-term view and we recognized that investors are eager to understand the underlying metrics and tracked to evaluate that progress.
We are committed to providing meaningful tools to help investors track our progress as we actively implement our plan.
I am confident that we will be able to capitalize on the opportunities before us and believe Ormat is uniquely position to succeed in the evolving renewable market energy -- renewable energy market.
Turning to slide 24 we reiterate our 2015 revenue guidance despite the current oil and natural gas prices which translate with $26.6 million reduction in revenues compared to last year.
We expect the electricity segment’s revenues to be between $380 million and $390 million and product segment revenues to be between $180 million and $190 million or total revenues of between $560 million and $580 million.
We also reiterate our adjusted EBITDA guidance of $280 million to $290 million for the full year which is also impacted of course by current oil and natural gas prices.
We expect Northleaf’s portion of the 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance to be approximately $ 14 million.
This concludes our remarks for today.
Thank you for your continued support.
Operator? We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question comes from Dan Mannes from Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Hi Dan.
A couple of questions here first on the Chilean award number one that is included in the guidance number in the backlog number and can you provide the name of the developer of the project? At this time Dan it is obviously as we have said it is in Chile it is with the Chilean development company but we cannot really disclose the name of the holding company as we are not allowed to at this stage.
And it is in the better of the 387.
Got it.
Given the fact that it is going to start working this year any thoughts on that maybe providing some upside to the guidance or to the opportunity for product sales in ’15? At this stage we are reiterating our number and we are not expecting any upside coming from this project.
As you probably understand we are working on it for few months already.
Understood.
The second question is I look at your CapEx guidance for the balance of the year I think it was roughly a $150 million.
When you gave CapEx guidance for the full year I think you said it was right around 250 and you only spent 40 in the first quarter.
So I am wondering were there either some projects that were deferred or alternatively have things come in cheaper than expected? It is a combination but more the first one to some tenders in the U.S.
that were delayed from NV Energy and some projects that have been delayed for couple of weeks/months so this delayed some of the CapEx for next year.
Okay.
On the Northleaf transaction now that’s closed can you maybe talk a little bit how the accounting is going to work and as you think about adjusted EBITDA are you going to include the outflows to them in your adjusted EBITDA will that be excluded.
I just want to make sure we are thinking about it correctly as it relates to your guidance.
From the accounting standpoint since we are consolidating that subsidiary all of the numbers are going to be included 100% within our number.
Northleaf is going to have income related to non-controlling shareholder.
That is going to be there the line where you will see the part that Northleaf is entitled to.
Thirdly our guidance the 280 to 290 looks that they want 100% of the company and what we said the relevant part for Northleaf is about $14 million of that.
So the 280-290 does not exclude the $14 million the roughly $14 million annually that will go out to Northleaf? Yeah that’s right.
Okay.
But I just -- not to quibble but for of the tax equity transactions you do include that that is included in your adjusted EBITDA.
So it seems like that you are treating the two a little bit differently? Dan what we have done this quarter in order to be fully transparent we gave out the specific number that relates to Northleaf as we go through the end of the quarter and do all the accounting when we look into it but we thought it’s important you will know the number the 100% the Northleaf number in order for you to do your valuation either way.
Understood.
I just wanted that clarification.
And then lastly I know you just had your Analyst Day recently and I know it’s probably little bit early just wonder if there is any update that’s worth discussing in terms of some of the non-geothermal initiatives anything you can give us in terms of what you are doing for instance in solar? We have lots of initiatives on all subjects we discussed during the Analyst Day but nothing that we can come up and say is concluded and we are very optimistic on our new initiatives on geographical expansion as we just mentioned on Chilean thing and also on technology and customer base but nothing that we talk about right now.
Understood we’ll look forward to updates in future quarters.
Thank you.
Thank you very much Dan.
Our next question comes from Mark Barnett from Morningstar Equity Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Mark.
For me today just a couple of more general questions obviously the moves in Hawaii are very supportive move.
I am just wondering what you think if you could talk about the potential on Island for further geothermal development in terms of maybe size of the addressable resource? We just won a tender of 25 megawatts which is additional to our existing power plant in Puna.
We are negotiating with HELCO [ph] the final steps of this tender and as we are in Hawaii for many years and the advantages of geothermal are well known in the Island I think geothermal will be a larger part of the upcoming green energy.
We cannot predict what’s going to be exact megawatts at the end of the day but we are very optimistic regarding Hawaii.
So there is likely fairly long runway there even if the projects are smaller in size like the 25 megawatt.
They are small but we are building in stages so it’s our strategy to build 25 another 25 and then another one.
Right okay and I know you weren’t able to disclose your partner in the Chilean project but more generally speaking could you just give us an update on the remuneration structure for geothermal? And then whether the bulk of the resource there is at that higher end of the heat spectrum or whether there is some lower heat potential there as well? At this stage it’s very difficult to predict we know that the resources there; we are not carrying the risk of the exploration we are only the EPC supplier and our product are chosen obviously we competed with [indiscernible] solution providers and others but in general we are very happy with the win because it’s comparatively high temperature and still the partner chose us our binary solution and not somebody else and as you understand from the amount it’s a fairly big power plant.
Right okay.
And just maybe I was mistaken but you were also maybe undergoing some exploration on your own in Chile or did I misinterpret? No we are we have our own exploration in Chile but this one is not the case.
This is completely different site which is explored by our partner and we are not carrying any exploration liabilities in this particular site.
Okay.
I understand that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
The next question comes from JinMing Liu from Ardour Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Jin.
Yeah.
First question about your cost for your Electricity segment that $55.6 million was the lowest number in three-four years on a quarterly basis.
So anything specific that happened during the quarter today did you improve the cost at some of your more troublesome power [indiscernible] most probably or it’s just the seasonal thing happened there? Jin yeah as you know and we discuss this issue lengthily last year actually we are working very diligently on cost reduction and sometime it’s even coming on the expense of generation but at the end of the day you see our bottom line is improving as we are becoming more cost effective on each and every power plant.
We have a very precise plan to work on each and every power plant and as we speak we are starting to see the result of this plan.
Okay.
Just for my understanding how much was the Puna issue contribution to the cost reduction during the quarter? In Puna we have a generation issue which started last summer with the hurricane.
We actually announced that we are going to solve this issue on the second half of 2015 which we intend to do so and it’s lower by $3 million comparing to last year and as I said we expect to be back online on full production during the second part of this year.
Okay.
Good.
Switch to your backlog numbers can you provide us a breakout between EPC contracts and just pure equipment sale for just for your backlog numbers? First of all all our backlog relates to our product sale.
Right.
As you mentioned in part of them we also provide EPC but we never gave this breakdown between the products and the EPC products.
But what you’re asking is something that we should think about and maybe we can -- let me think about it and maybe we can break it for you sometime next call.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
Lastly regarding the Northleaf transaction just one or two question there all for the future dividends pay or payable to Northleaf whether those payments will be in the Canadian dollar or US dollar? The transaction in the US dollar and we’ll operate in US dollar.
The only impact for the Canadian dollar was the funding or the investment of Northleaf going forward there’s no impact of Canadian dollars on our results or dividend or any other parameter.
Okay.
So there is no currency risk associated with that.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Ella Fried from Leumi.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Could you give us an update on the impact on the technology diversification plans that you’re having on the company’s CapEx in the next two years? As I said during the conference call it is an ongoing process and we are working on the technology diversification very diligently as I’ve said.
But we don’t have a cumulative CapEx number that we can provide as of now.
I am expecting that before the end of this year we will come with and as I said also the original -- we didn’t provide you yet an update by means of numbers and results on this issue.
Yeah.
I know.
And we intend to do so within the next few months and we’ll provide you more color numbers results on CapEx.
And if I can add prior to any additional or initiatives on new project that will go over the last couple of years we have the CapEx of further around the $200 million mark a little bit above little bit below.
Going forward this year and then going forward this is a relative number this year.
It seems relevant going forward.
Thank you.
And another question.
Can you give us maybe some rough estimate about the profitability level of the product segment in the next three quarters till the end of 2015? We gave you our estimations for the whole year.
The guidance actually is we are reiterating the numbers.
So if you take $30 million out of the number it gives you the remaining of the year concerning the product.
As you probably know we are far from being flat during the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Isaac Angel for any closing remarks.
I like to thank you very much for joining us this morning and for your ongoing support and see you in our tours during -- with the investors or the next Q2 call.
Thank you very much and have a nice day.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Ormat Technologies Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jeff Stanlis MS/Hayden IR.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Hosting the call today are Isaac Angel Chief Executive Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; as well as Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company’s plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management’s current estimates and projections future results or trends.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see the risk factors as described in Ormat Technologies’ annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
In addition during the call we will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and management reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slides posted on the company’s website.
Because these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP they should not be considered in isolation from the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company’s website at www.ormat.com under the Events &amp; Presentations link that’s found on the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would like to turn the call over to Isaac Angel.
Isaac the call is yours.
Thank you very much Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our second quarter 2015 results.
I’ll start with slide number four.
The second quarter was a strong quarter in which we delivered both revenue and profit growth.
Similar to the first quarter this year oil and natural gas prices had a material impact in our electricity segment.
However the new capacity that came online along with the improved efficiency of our operating portfolio mitigated this impact and supported good results in the segment.
This is a direct outcome of the enhancements and improvements we are implementing throughout the entire value chain.
This quarter we also had a progress with our expansion plan and began executing our initiatives to set the stage for our next growth phase.
As we have stated our multiyear plan is designed to elevate Ormat from a leading geothermal company to a recognized global leader in the larger renewable energy industry.
I’d like now to turn the call over to Doron to discuss our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Isaac and good morning everyone.
Let me start by providing an overview of our financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2015.
Starting with slide six total revenue for the second quarter of 2015 were $140.5 million compared to $127.6 million in the second quarter of 2014 with 65% of revenue coming from the electricity segment.
In our electricity segment as you can see on slide seven revenues were $90.9 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared with $91.7 million in the second quarter of last year.
The slight decrease was mainly due to lower energy rates resulting from lower oil and natural gas prices that amounted to approximately $9 million.
Additionally we had lower generation at Puna power plant due to the well field maintenance that was required as a result of last summer hurricane.
The decrease was partially offset by the contribution from the second phase of McGinness Hills in Nevada.
McGinness Hills was also the main driver for the 12.4% increase in our generation project.
Following our risk management policy we recently entered into the derivative transaction to reduce 50% of our exposure to fluctuations in natural gas prices at a fixed price of $3 to MMbtu until December 31 2015.
In the product segment on slide eight revenues were $49.6 million compared to $35.9 million in the second quarter of 2014 which represented a 38% increase.
As many of you already know our product segment is characterized by fluctuations in quarterly revenue.
In the first quarter we accelerated the construction of the Don Campbell Phase 2 project in order to commence commercial operation by the end of 2015 and in the second quarter we focused on delivering against our backlog to third party.
We remain on schedule with our contract with third party customer and on track with our full year guidance.
Moving to slide nine the company combined gross margin for the second quarter was 36.1% compared to 31.3% in the second quarter of 2014.
In the product segment gross margin was 45.2% compared to 43.4% in the prior year’s quarter.
I would like to emphasize that the product segment gross margin vary between the quarter and should be analyzed on a yearly basis.
In the electricity segment gross margin was 31.2% compared to 26.6% last year.
As Isaac mentioned in this opening remarks this is mainly a result of increasing efficiency that is translated to higher margins despite the significant impact of the lower oil and natural gas prices on our revenue.
Moving to slide 10 second quarter operating income was $38.6 million compared to $22.3 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Excluding an $8.1 million write off in the second quarter of last year we had an increase of 27% in operating income.
Operating income attributable to our electricity segment for the second quarter of 2015 was $20.9 million compared to $9.5 million for the second quarter of last year.
Operating income attributable for our product segment was $17.7 million compared to $12.8 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Moving to slide 11 interest expense net of capital interest for the second quarter of 2015 was $18.9 million compared to $22.1 million last year.
This decrease was primarily due to lower interest expense as a result of debt payments partially offset by an increase in interest expense related to a new loan we took in August 2014 to finance the construction of the second phase of McGinness Hills power plant.
Moving to slide 12 net income attributable to the company’s stockholders for the second quarter of 2015 was $14.4 million or $0.28 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $9.1 million or $0.20 per share basic and diluted for the second quarter of 2014.
The net income includes $1.7 million related to loss from extinguishment of liability resulted from the partial repurchase of OFC Senior Secured Notes as well as $0.4 million expense associated with due diligence related to a potential M&amp;A transaction we weren’t delivering [ph].
After the evaluation we made a decision not to pursue the transaction.
Although this transaction did come to fruition it demonstrates our intention to identify appropriate and accretive acquisition opportunities.
Those expenses are adjusted to our EBITDA.
Please move to slide 13.
Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $67.8 million compared to $61.8 million in the same quarter last year.
Turning to slide 14 cash and cash equivalents as of June 30 2015 was $137.7 million.
We generated $112.7 million in cash from operating activities.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the first half of 2015.
Our long-term debt as of June 30 2015 and the payment schedule are presented on slide 15 of the presentation.
The average cost of debt for the company stands at 6.07%.
Turning to slide 16 for financing update during the quarter we repurchased certain portion of OFC Senior Secured Note of $30.6 million.
The repurchase of the OFC loan would save the company in annual interest expense of approximately $2.5 million over the next three years.
On Friday we closed a 12 year limited recourse term loan in the principal amount of $42 million to refinance 20 megawatt of Amatitlan power plant in Guatemala.
Under the agreement with Banco Industrial Guatemala’s largest bank and its affiliate Westrust Bank Ormat has the flexibility to expand the Amatitlan power plant to which financing to be provided either via equity additional debt from Banco Industrial or from other lenders.
Funding of this loan is expected shortly.
This agreement replaces the senior secured project loan from EIG global formally PCW which Ormat signed in May 2009 and prepaid full in September 2014 from corporate funds.
On August 03 2015 Ormat Board of Directors approved payment of the quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share for the second quarter.
The dividend will be paid on September 02 2015 to shareholders of record as of closing of business on August 18 2015.
In addition the company expects to pay quarterly dividends of $0.06 per share in the next quarter.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Isaac for an operational and business update.
Isaac? Thank you Doron.
Starting with slide 18 for an update on operations our portfolio generation in the second quarter increased by 12.4% from 1 million megawatt hours to 1.2 megawatt hours in the second quarter 2015.
This increase is mainly due to contribution of McGinness Hills complex.
The generation increase was offset by lower generation in the Puna plant in Hawaii due to well field maintenance related to last year’s hurricane.
Moving to slide 19 to other projects we are on track with the construction of Don Campbell Phase 2 in Nevada and are expecting it online towards the end of this year.
In Olkaria Kenya we are on schedule with the construction of the 24 megawatt expansion.
The fourth plant is expected to bring the complex generation capacity to 134 megawatts and the commercial operation is expected in the second half of 2016.
And with regards to Sarulla Indonesia engineering procurement and construction are in progress and infrastructure work has been completed.
The construction has successfully drilled part of the plant production wells and drilling of additional production and injection wells is underway.
The first phase is expected to commence operation in the second half of 2016 and the remaining two phases are scheduled to commence within 18 months thereafter.
The projects I just described as well as additional projects on the various stages of development are expected to add between 90 and 115 megawatts by the end of 2017.
Besides the investments in new projects we are continuing our exploration and business development activities to support further growth.
If you could please turn to slide 20 you will see our CapEx requirements for the remainder of 2015.
We plan to invest a total of $50 million in capital expenditures or new projects under construction and enhancements.
An additional $29 million are budgeted for development and exploration activities maintenance capital for projects and investments in machinery and equipment.
In addition $37 million will be required for debt repayment.
Turning to slide 21 for an update on Product segment in May we signed approximately $100 million EPC contract for a geothermal project in Chile.
Our backlog as of August 03 stands at $347.5 million and it will support our revenues in the next two to three years.
Moving to slide 22 for a regulatory update we continue to see strong demand for renewable energy.
Moreover jurisdictions around the world are increasingly seeing the positive value of geothermal as a stable based-out renewable technology and legislation being considered in many countries.
We believe that these initiatives will boost long-term demand.
The market opportunity in the U.S.
was further reinforced yesterday when President Obama announced the U.S.
Environment Protection Agency’s final Clean Power Plan.
The plan will catch U.S.
carbon pollution from the power sector by 870 million tons or 32% below 2005 levels in 2030.
While power plants are responsible for approximately one-third of all carbon dioxide emissions in the United States there were no nation limits on carbon pollution until today.
The plan is expect to drive more aggressive investment in clean energy technologies placing a significant emphasize on the renewable energy resources aimed at cutting wasted energy improving efficiency and reducing pollution.
Under the plan states are required identify tax forward [ph] using either current or new electricity production and pollution control policies to meet the goals of the program.
The compliance period begins in 2022 which gives states and utilities seven years for planning and early implementation.
We expect that this plan will benefit renewable resource developers and will further support our initiatives to pursue our multiyear plan.
Another encouraging development in the United States two weeks ago the Senate tax-writing committee passed a bill extending the PTC for geothermal projects that will being construction by 2016 and commencing operation by 2018.
The legislation needs to pass the House and the full Senate to become a law.
If passes we anticipate a number of projects to benefit from this legislation.
The acknowledgement of renewable benefit and regulation support as well as the energy shortage in many of the developing countries create opportunities for Ormat.
In my opening remarks I mentioned ongoing effort to evaluate and implement our multiyear plan.
This plan has several moving parts and a long-term view and we will share more details in the upcoming calls.
I’m confident that we will be able to capitalize on the opportunities before us and believe Ormat is uniquely positioned to succeed in the evolving renewable market.
Turning to slide 23 we reiterate our 2015 revenue guidance.
Oil and gas prices remain a reducing factor in our electricity revenues and we expect its annual impact to increase and be approximately $28.6 million.
We expect the electricity segment revenues to be between $380 million and $390 million and product segment revenues to be between $180 million and $190 million for that total revenues of between $560 million and $580 million.
We reiterate our adjusted EBITDA guidance of $280 million to $290 million for the full year.
We expect Northleaf’s portion of the 2015 annual adjusted EBITDA guidance to be approximately $14 million.
And that concludes our remarks for today.
Thank you for your continued support and now the questions operator if you please.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Paul Coster of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks very much for taking my questions.
So the first one really relates to oil and gas prices.
All of your electricity contracts did they have some sensitivity to oil and gas prices perhaps you can give us some color around that and also on a go forward basis the new PPAs that get signed are they also expressing sensitivity to oil and gas? Paul first of all thanks for participating in the call.
In all our new PAAs they don’t have any connection to oil and gas prices we have three old contracts actually that they are – two of them are linked to the gas prices and one of them in Hawaii Puna is linked to the oil price.
One of these gas price linked contract is going away at the end of this year which means about one-third of our exposure is going – more or less is going away by the end of this year and we will remain with two more – two years? We will have two years and then we will remain only with one of them for a long time to come.
On a go forward basis new PPAs will not include a sensitivity to gas and oil is that correct statement? That’s correct.
Okay.
And then my follow-up question obviously you are delivering against a backlog here and the backlog is still pretty healthy but it’s coming down.
I imagine though you’ve got a lot of stuff in your late state pipeline.
Can you give us any color regarding the components of the late state pipeline? Is it all sort of the traditional Ormat business or are you starting to see a broader side of renewables in that portfolio can you give us some sense of what the geographies might be and what kind of timeline before we see it start to enter sort of the contractual state? Paul as you mentioned before we have a very healthy pipeline.
We just added $100 million to the power plant a quarter ago which is a contract we signed in Chile for EPC and we should also remember that we have a serious amount of a pipeline – in the pipeline of Sarulla project that it will be running with us until 2018 which – and we don’t expect every month or every quarter to sign $100 million or $200 million deal.
On the other hand we have small deals that are adding to the pipeline which will be probably joining us before the end of this year.
But from the product sales point of view the company is concentrating today mainly in few countries in South America Africa and Far East.
We are expecting – we have – as you mentioned before we have a few deals on that is – that are close to fruition.
We don’t know if they are going to hit sometime in Q3 Q4 or next year in any case we feel very comfortable from the backlog point of view looking forward two to three years.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question will come from Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Dan.
Hi Dan thank you for joining.
Of course.
The first question for Isaac you talked a lot about it’s a regulatory backdrop but I want to talk about what’s going on real time.
I mean we’ve seen a number of Power Purchase Agreements signed in Texas and California and Nevada that’s in very very low prices for solar.
I was wondering if you could talk at all about geothermals competitiveness in this kind of environment number one.
And number two maybe cross reference that with some of your initiatives as it relates to direct to consumer sales.
Because I guess what I’m trying to figure out with the outlook is for new plants in that kind of environment? Dan as you know we will not – we don’t have the liberty to talk about PPAs which are under discussion or preparation or at the final stage we only announce them after they are signed.
But obviously we are aware of those low price solar PPAs that were signed in the last few weeks but regardless – you know that there is a huge advantage between an intermediate power which is affecting the grid and on the other hand base load power which is adding to the stability of the grid.
There is still more than certain appetite for geothermal PPAs that we are working on and that the most I can say at this stage.
I am not worried on the immediate stage in the state.
The case can change in the upcoming years but that’s why the company has changed not changed but added focus in going elsewhere we changed the whole structure of our sales and marketing team with focusing on counties which is outside of the U.S.
which is the appetite for geothermal is not necessarily driven against solar prices but are driven because of other reasons which are availability of the resource access to the resource and frankly lack of energy and other political reasons even in some countries that are driving these requests and those markets in one hand are pushing our product sales and in other end are pushing our ability to build our own power plants and we have new concessions in new African countries that we got and I think overall looking I am very optimistic in the future.
So if I can just briefly summarize and make sure I understand.
So from your perspective even in spite of how well solar may be going there is still enough of in advantage for being base load that you can get a relative premium price that makes it attractive to continue to develop both U.S.
and abroad right now.
Yes it is absolutely true at least in the immediate years in the U.S.
Okay.
And then two other quick questions.
Has to be true within the next five years.
That we don’t know.
In your project development you obviously gave us an update on both OREG 3 as well as Campbell 2 can you may be give us any update on what’s going on at [indiscernible] I know those are kind of the next two projects that you have identified there I think we still have hopefully coming online in 2017.
[indiscernible] is still at the lender stage which means we went beyond certain stages in the process and we have located lenders and we are working to finalize contracts with them and it’s a go project at this stage.
And [indiscernible]? And [indiscernible] we are in exploration phase and we have successfully went few exploration phases but we didn’t finish yet and unfortunately I cannot say it is a go project yet.
I am very optimistic and positive but will let you guys know in due time.
Okay.
And then lastly just on the product side we looked at the margins in the quarter obviously very strong we know they’re lumpy can you just confirm was there anything unique in this quarter I don’t know if you had a project closing out or something that happened that maybe help margins out? Yes we have few projects in this quarter and the upcoming few quarters which I don’t want to mention name because of obvious reasons which are more profitable than the others.
As Doron mentioned this profitability will not be able to be maintained in the long term of yield but it will be a – that we can maybe run in this rate a few quarters and then it will be on the regular basis.
I think – it is Doron and if I may add.
I think that when you look at the product segment the best way to look at the margin is to look at the 12 month trailing and see over the last four quarters and then 12 months back and then move back a few quarters still you can get probably a much more standardized margins in just looking into one quarter or swiftly of just 12 months trailing for the quarter.
Understood.
Great we will take a look at that.
Thanks guys.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from JinMing Liu of Ardour Capital please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Thanks for joining.
No problem.
First of all regarding [indiscernible] the EPA clean par announced yesterday my understanding is that that could well be ultimately enforced by each individual state paving the locations of your facilities do you kind of lead by the user demand for energy within those space or do you have the ability to export power to other states that are in need of the energy? It is very individual to a state.
There are states that we are – we have the ability to export such as between Nevada and California but on the other hand there are other states that – the import of power from other states and then you have to look at it on state by state basis.
As a matter of fact we have today a few contracts which are interstate as we speak.
Okay got that.
Switch to the Northleaf transaction it looks like to me a portion of the proceed was allocated to our equity so what was it that [indiscernible] investments? It’s Doron the way the location of the cash was that it is split between two parts both of them in the equity one is the non-controlling interest that represents the equity part of what they acquire and there was an additional paid in capital increase that represents basically the theoretical profit that Ormat has from this transaction.
Today according to U.S.
GAAP unless you sell control you cannot recognize the revenue from selling equity.
You put it into additional paid in capital.
Oh I see.
I see that’s why – okay I got that.
I understand those two will add.
Lastly regarding the cost of electricity in the second quarter is increase slightly against a first quarter even I back out the benefit from the first quarter.
How much was the start-up cost regarding about – from the McGinness Hills second phase? Give us one second please.
Okay.
You were talking on dollar basis or negative power base? Just dollar.
On dollar basis.
Right.
Do we give dollar number basis.
We don’t usually… We don’t disclose the dollar number per power plant basis unfortunately.
But obviously you can expect the second phase in a power plant has the relatively lower additional cost compared to the revenue yields.
Most of the existing man power so the additional cost is lower that the new power plant.
But JinMing I want to mention here something that you should be aware of the fact that since the last three quarters we are basically concentrating on each and every power plant and trying to effect the profitability of those power plants and not necessarily and sometimes even reducing the generated output on the gains increasing profitability.
We have few power plants the generation was simply cut by the fact that we stopped very old steam turbine which effectively were not profitable.
So you can see now few power plants that the generation went down but the profitability went up seriously and if you look at our profitability of the electricity segment it is going on quarter on quarter basis.
So just comparing the total generation quarter after quarter is not necessarily only the addition of the new power plant but sometimes there is also reduction of some megawatt hours comparing to the quarter before.
Okay got that.
All right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Ella Fried of Leumi.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
I also have three questions two of them are follow-up questions.
The first one is to Dan’s question your plans to expand in the solar business.
Additional tax I didn’t quite get it additional tax in terms of expanding in U.S.
or outside the U.S.
and then how do you view all the recent developments in addition to what you mentioned regarding the base load.
First of all I want to clarify something.
We are not abandoning to geothermal in becoming a solar developer.
That was… Yes.
It’s clear.
And the idea was that wherever its possible we will be able also to offer a solar solution which we are doing.
That mainly relating to C&amp;I customers which are enterprise customers which are looking for a comprehensive solution to their electricity problem if we may call it.
And when we are offering them a solution this solution may also include a solar plant and we have a pipeline of those types of offer that we are working on in the U.S.
but mainly outside of the U.S.
And as I said before we will not become a solar developer out of the blue that was not the intention.
So it’s more using the existing infrastructure and adding solar megawatts and then other forms of energy that are available at the location.
Yes and also we are working very diligently which is not easy thing to do so add solar complimentary power into our existing facility it is something that we are working on for a long time now and not very successfully so far but I am optimistic we all realize that from the logical point of view it works unfortunately from the PPA and PUC point of view it’s a difficult thing to do but we are – I am personally very optimistic yet and we are working on it diligently and that was the idea with the solar.
Okay.
Thank you.
That sounds very interesting.
About your exposure to natural gas I just didn’t catch it.
In terms of megawatts how many megawatts will be left exposed to natural gas in the end of 2015? We have today about 140 megawatts that are exposed to natural gas prices out of the almost 650 that we have.
Out of this 140 about a third is ending the relationship together we have – we signed already a contract in Heber [indiscernible] at the end of this year.
So in 2016 we see about 100 megawatts only tied to natural gas pricing.
We have also – when we signed the Heber contracts we said that - will increase EBITDA about $8 million adjusted changing price.
And out of the 100 megawatt that are left we have about half of that 50 megawatt.
The contract ends at the end of 2017 and the rest is further down the road.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the last question you mentioned that North Brawley incurred some expenses does it mean that it’s not – is it breakeven operationally or is it breakeven EBITDA wise or does it incur some more expenses? North Brawley as illustrated on slide 7 had higher cost in Q2 of last year.
This quarter it had lower cost.
The plant is still not profitable and then we are working very hard and diligently to bring it to be profitable.
And Again we made lots of changes in North Brawley.
When I arrived to Ormat a bit more than a year ago this is one of the challenges we took as new management and I am certain that we will be able to overcome this challenge and bring this plant to be profitable.
As I said we did lots of changes in North Brawley during the last two quarters.
Okay.
Thank you.
And one more question to Doron income tax provision went up about $1 million approximately.
Is there an explanation? I think it basically relates to the higher profit that we have before income tax as a percentage wise I think we went down a little bit.
And in addition according to U.S.
GAAP the tax provision is done on forecasted basis basically looking at the entire year we do it but it went up and profit also went up entirely.
Okay.
Thank you.
And congratulations on great results.
Thank you.
Thank you very much and thanks for joining.
And ladies and gentlemen at this time we will conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the call back to management for any closing remarks.
Good morning again ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you very much for your ongoing support and we will be probably seeing you during the quarter on our road shows.
Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day and welcome to the Ormat Technologies Inc.
third quarter 2015 earnings conference call and webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions].
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jeff Stanlis with Hayden MS IR.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Hosting the call today are Isaac Angel Chief Executive Officer Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we would like to remind you that information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company's plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management's current estimates and projections future results or trends.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties please see risk factors as described in Ormat Technologies' annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
In addition during the call we will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and management reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slides posted on the company's website.
Because these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP they should not be considered in isolation from the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that a slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company's website at ormat.com under the Events &amp; Presentations link that's found on the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I would now like to turn the call over to Isaac Angel.
Isaac the call is yours.
Thank you very much Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our third quarter 2015 results.
The third quarter was a very strong quarter for us with record total revenue and adjusted EBITDA driven from the solid performance of both segments.
The electricity segment delivered double-digit growth in generation and solid margins despite headwinds related to oil and natural gas prices reflecting our focus on profitable growth from existing operations.
We also continued to improve construction lead time and brought online the second phase of Don Campbell plant in Nevada six months earlier than planned.
And now we expect earlier completion of plant four in Olkaria Kenya.
In our efforts to promote our strategic initiatives we achieved a significant milestone by signing a strategic collaboration agreement with Toshiba the world's leading supplier of geothermal steam turbine.
Through this relationship we will explore and develop strategic opportunities that will enable us to approach and capture a larger portion of the global geothermal market.
I will elaborate on this milestone and other business development in closing remarks.
I would like to turn the call over to Doron to discuss our financial results for the quarter.
Doron? Thank you Isaac and good morning everyone.
Let me start by providing an overview of our financial results for the third quarter ended September 30 2015.
Starting with slide six.
Total revenue for the third quarter of 2015 were $162.9 million up 16.1% compared to $140.2 million in the third quarter of 2014.
60% of the revenue came from the electricity segment.
In our electricity segment as you can see on slide seven revenues were $97.2 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared with $102.5 million last year.
The decrease was mainly due to lower energy rates resulting from lower oil and natural gas prices and a reduction in net gain on derivative contracts.
The decrease was partially offset by the contribution from the McGinness Hills Phase 2 power plant and the phase two of our Don Campbell both in Nevada.
These two expansions coming online were also the main driver for the 10% generation growth compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Based on our policy we will manage our economic exposure to natural gas and oil prices in our electricity segment through hedging activities in May went up into derivative transaction until we get 50% of our exposure fluctuation in natural gas prices as fixed price is $3 three per MMbtu until December 31 2015.
As a result of the hedging activity we recorded a net gain of $0.4 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to $4 million gain in the third quarter of 2014.
In the product segment on slide eight revenues was $65.6 million compared to $37.7 million in the third quarter of 2014 which represents a 73.9% increase.
As many of you already know our product segment is characterized by fluctuations in quarterly revenue.
This segment delivered a strong quarter that was benefited from new contracts including the EPC contract related the geothermal project in Chile as well as the progress with the solar project in Indonesia.
Moving to slide nine.
The company's combined gross margin for the third quarter was 36.4% compared to 39.6% in the third quarter of 2014 and similarly on a sequential basically for the gross margin generated in the second quarter of 2015.
In the product segment gross margin was 36% compared to 38.9% in the prior year quarter.
In the electricity segment gross margin was 36.8% compared to 39.8% last year.
The margin in the electricity segment was significantly impacted by approximately $6 million reduction in oil and natural gas prices as well as a $3.6 million net gain from hedging activity compared the third quarter of 2014.
Excluding these effects gross margin increased from 33.2% last quarter to 36.5% this quarter.
This reflects the enhancements implemented in our power plants and the improved efficiency of our operating portfolio along with the new capacity that came online.
Moving to slide 10.
Third quarter operating income was $46.5 million compared to $43.8 million in the third quarter of 2014.
Operating income attributable to our electricity segment for the third quarter of 2015 was $28.3 million compared to $32.4 million for the third quarter of last year.
Operating income attributable to our product segment was $18.1 million compared to $11.4 million in the third quarter of 2014.
Moving to slide 11.
Interest expense net of capitalized interest for the third quarter of 2015 was $17.7 million compared to $22.5 million last year.
This decrease was primarily due to the lower interest expense as a result of debt payment and decrease in interest expense related to the sale of tax benefits.
The decrease was partially offset by an increase in interest expense related to a new loan to finance the construction of McGinness Hills Phase 2 project from August 2014.
Moving to slide 12.
Net income attributable to the company's stockholders for the first quarter of 2015 was $72.1 million or $1.41 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2015 compared to $16.5 million or $0.36 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2014.
The net income includes $48.7 million deferred tax asset and related expenses relating to an investment deduction for our Olkaria 3 power plant in Kenya.
In September Kenya's Income Tax Act was amended thus leading to certain provisions of the recently adopted Finance Act.
These amendments retain the enhanced investment deduction of 150% and extend the period for deduction of tax losses from five years to 10 years.
Previously we had a valuation allowance reducing our deferred tax asset in Kenya as the utilization portion of the tax losses was not probable within the original five years carry forward period.
As a result of the change in legislation and the expected continued profitability during the extended carry forward period we expect that we will be able to fully utilize the carry forward tax losses within the 10 years period and as such will release the valuation allowance of the additional 50% investment deduction for Olkaria 3 power plant in Kenya resulting in a $48.7 million of tax benefit and related expenses in the third quarter of 2015.
Excluding the deferred tax asset and related expenses net income attributable to the company's shareholders was $23.4 million or $0.46 per diluted share compared to $16.5 million or $0.36 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2014.
Please move to slide 13.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2015 reached a quarterly record of $79 million an increase of 14.3% compared to $69.1 million in the same quarter last year.
Adjusted EBITDA for the nine months ended September 30 2015 was $212 million compared to $204 million in the nine months ended September 30 2014.
Turning to slide 14.
Cash and cash equivalents as of September 30 2015 was $171.5 million.
We generated $120 million in cash from operating activities.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the quarter.
Our long-term debt as of September 30 2015 and the payment schedule are presented on slide 15 of the presentation.
The average cost of debt for the company stands at 6.06% and the net debt amounts to approximately $710 million.
On November 3 2015 Ormat's Board of Directors approved payment of the quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share for the third quarter.
The dividend will be paid on December 2 2015 to shareholders of record as of closing of business on November 18 2015.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Isaac for an operational and business update.
Isaac? Thank you very much Doron.
Starting with slide 17 for an update on operations.
Generation in third quarter was 1.1 million megawatt-hours compared to 1 million megawatt-hours in the third quarter 2014 which represent 10% increase mainly due to the contribution of McGinness complex and also reflecting an initial contribution of our Don Campbell Phase 2.
Moving to slide 18.
We continued our efforts to grow our electricity portfolio.
During the quarter our Don Campbell Phase 2 began commercial operation doubling the generating capacity of the complex to 38 megawatts.
I am very proud of our execution on this project.
We brought this phase online six months ahead of schedule and just 10 months after we broke ground and less than two years after commencing operation of Phase 1.
Campbell will sell its power under a 20-year power purchase agreement with the Southern California Public Power Authority who will resell the entire output of this plant to the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power.
Northleaf Capital Partners our joint venture investor will purchase 36.75% equity interest in the project which will be added to the existing ORPD joint venture upon completion of certain debts in accordance to the terms of the agreement.
Moving to slide 19 for an update on projects under construction.
As I mentioned we continue to improve construction lead time and expect an earlier completion of the 24 megawatt project in Olkaria Kenya.
The project was initially expected in the second half of 2016 and currently planned to be completed in the first quarter of 2016.
In Sarulla Indonesia the engineering procurement and construction under the EPC contract with Hyundai are in progress.
The infrastructure work has been substantially completed and major equipment including Ormat partial OEC and Toshiba steam turbine arrived in the country.
The drilling of production injection wells are also in progress in all three phases.
However the project company is experiencing delays in drilling and EPC milestones as well as the cost overruns mainly in the field development of second and third phases of the project.
All the scheduled milestones on the Ormat supply agreement were achieved and manufacturing work is progressing as planned.
The first phase of operation is expected to commence towards the end of 2016 and remaining two phases of operations are scheduled to commence within 18 months thereafter.
The project I just described as well as additional projects including the Menengai in Kenya and Platanares in Honduras are under various stages of development and expected to add between 70 to 95 megawatts by the end of 2017.
Besides the investment in new projects we are continuing our exploration and business development activities to support future growth.
If you could please turn to slide 20 you will see our CapEx requirements for the reminder of 2015.
We plan to invest a total of approximately $9 million in capital expenditures on new projects under construction and enhancement.
An additional approximately $9 million are budgeted for exploration activities development of new projects and maintenance capital for operating projects.
In addition $31 million will be required for debt repayment.
Turning to slide 21 for an update on product segment.
Our backlog as of November 3 stands at approximately $282 million.
Our backlog together with the new contract that we expect to sign will support our financials in the next two three years.
Moving to slide 22 for a business update.
The strategic plan that we laid out on our Analyst Day and in previous calls included several parts.
In the near term we had two main objectives.
First to focus our efforts on profitable growth by enhancing existing operations.
And second to continue diversification of technologies by deepening the geothermal penetration.
As you can see in slide 22 we have dramatically reduced the operational cost per megawatt hour.
The actions we have taken to improve efficiencies are reflected in the solid margin and in the adjusted EBITDA and we will continue to focus our efforts on profitable growth.
The second objective includes diversification of technologies by marketing our binary technology to a wider range of resources as we did in Chile EPC contract as well as to further expand the high temperature market by offering a wider range of optimal solutions including wind turbine.
And as I mentioned in my opening remarks we achieved a significant milestone by signing the strategic collaboration agreement with Toshiba.
Moving to slide 23.
This agreement was announced after the third quarter but has been in development for many months as we work together on different projects.
This collaboration will leverage Toshiba's 49 years of expertise in flash systems and Ormat's many years of expertise in binary systems to offer an efficient solution that combines the two technologies and meets the technological needs of many geothermal projects around the world.
By working together we expect to approach and capture a larger portion of the geothermal market.
To further our strategic long-term goals Ormat continues to proactively seek M&amp;A opportunities in our existing business lines as well as in the solar power generation and energy storage businesses.
Moving to slide 24 for regulatory update.
Legislation that will benefit our industry is occurring at the global and regional levels.
In early October California Governor Jerry Brown signed a new law which expanded on its existing renewable portfolio standard or RPF policy.
The new law requires that utilities procure 50% of their electricity from renewables by 2030.
Already the state mandated that utilities procure 33% of their electricity from renewables by 2020.
This law serves as a significant incentive for utilities in California to seek a long-term power purchase agreement with renewable energy providers.
California joined Hawaii which earlier this year increased its renewable requirement to reach 100%by 2040.
As California and Hawaii see the economic and environmental benefits of these of arrangements we believe other states will follow boosting demand for clean and renewable energy.
Turning to slide 25.
We increased and narrowed the range of our 2015 total revenue guidance and increased adjusted EBITDA guidance.
We expect total revenue of between $570 million and $585 million through the composition to be more heavily weighted towards our product segment.
We anticipate stronger performance for our product segment and expect revenue to be between $195 million and $205 million.
For the electricity segment we expect revenues to be between $375 million and $380 million.
The electricity segment revenue guidance assumes the continued impact of lower oil and natural gas prices which translates to approximately $28 million reduction in revenues compared to last year.
We expect 2015 adjusted EBITDA guidance of $282 million to $292 million for the full year which is also impacted by current oil and natural gas prices.
We expect annual adjusted EBITDA attributable to minority interest to be approximately $13 million.
In summary I am very pleased by our year-to-date progress and we believe we are well positioned to achieve our long-term goals.
Today Ormat is a leader in the geothermal energy sector with a uniquely differentiated business model which creates a compelling competitive advantage.
As we are looking forward we expect Ormat to leverage its capabilities to explore growth opportunities and become a leader in the broader renewable energy sector.
This concludes our remarks for today.
Thank you for continued support.
Operator please? [Operator Instructions].
Our first question will come from Paul Coster of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
I have a couple of questions actually.
The first one is regarding Toshiba partnership.
Can you talk just a little bit about the incentives and how much skin in the game you have got in that partnership? When I say skin in the game I mean have you allocated any capital or resources to partnership? And in terms of incentives penalties as well as rewards on successful go-to-market? Hi Paul.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I will try to elaborate on the contract itself.
Contract calls for a partnership which Toshiba and we are basically joining in go-to-market strategy.
And by doing so the both companies we are going to the whole market of geothermal regardless temperature of the resources which means if Toshiba which are providing steam turbine for the higher temperatures they have a project that calls for a bottoming unit Ormat will be the preferred partner to provide this unit.
On the other hand on the project that we are approaching which has a higher temperature and calls for as a steam solution then we will use Toshiba solution as the steam turbine and then we will add out solution as a bottoming which means that now we have complete solution to the market to provide a better and efficient solution for the customers and obviously a more profitable one for the long-term.
How do you get compensated? What's the incentive here if you sell for instance Toshiba solutions? The idea is not that we are becoming a agent of Toshiba because the fact that we are building a solution is to include our hardware in a solution and their hardware in a solution.
It's basically providing a much profitable solution.
Don't forget also that Ormat is an EPC company providing an end-to-end solution to the customer and part of the solution can easily be a steam turbine.
It was done before by Ormat using different providers and this time the end solution is being tailored to be more efficient and not something that will be done on sporadic basis.
Okay.
So another question I had is the backlog has come down several quarters in a row now from a very elevated level but you have talked of your pipeline and now you have got new partners to go after new business.
At what point do you think the backlog starts to rebuild? Thank you.
Paul we are working very diligently on few large projects.
As you know the company we are working on large projects and those are not coming in on 10 and 15 deals a year.
We have large single projects that we are working on and it's a timing issue.
At the end of the day I am very optimistic with our product segment future.
And another thing that you should keep in mind that the we had re-signed year-and-a-half or two years ago a $256 million project in Sarulla and two quarters ago a $100 million project in Chile and several small projects here and there.
And the company is working as we speak on additional projects by ourselves and with our partners and I am very optimistic that the backlog will pickup again.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much Paul.
The next question will come from Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Dan.
So I guess the first thing I want to ask about is given the current natural gas price environment number one are you considering at all any further hedging for next year? Or given the absolute low level prices you don't view significantly more risk as it relates to things getting worse? Hi Dan it's Doron.
We are hedging usually our contracts at the beginning of the year with our budget.
And then obviously as we get closer to the end of the year to finalize our budget for next year we will have to see the pricing and the pricing are extremely low.
And then we will have to take decision if they can continue to go lower we want to hedge it and take out this risk.
It's important however to remember that once the full exposure to natural gas goes away in beginning of January the Heber contract that was signed a few years ago which was an SO contract it becomes a fixed-price contract so the impact of natural gas going forward is going to be reduced by $0.01.
And if you look at the longer term we have a Ormessa which is another one-third contract ends at the end of 2017 and we are optimistic that we will be able to finalize a contract and with an offtaker that will fix the price going forward as well.
Excuse me.
I wan to add one thing.
Another thing that I think is keep in mind is we are trying to beef up our electricity segment faster than before.
And as more and more megawatts which are in fixed-price coming on line and the percentage wise the effect of the gas prices is going away regardless one should just as Doron mentioned on the one third beginning of next year and another one-third next year.
So we are working on it to minimize the risk that we have on the gas prices.
And as you probably know the gas and oil prices are surprising us all all over again.
Understood how that exposure reduces.
I guess the follow-up there as it relates to the Ormesa contract which you are in negotiations on.
With pricing continuing to slip are you getting any pushback as to the fixed-price level for that contract? Because I think you started negotiating that contract many many months ago.
Is the reset firm or is that still under negotiation in terms of the pricing you will ultimately get? Let's I can positively say that I am very optimistic that this is set to a fixed price already and we are in the final stages of finalizing.
Understood.
I guess the secondary question is site given the current low price does that have any impact on your development activities and the price of negotiating PPAs? And the secondary part here is competing products against solar and wind are also we are seeing a much lower price from those products as well on the current environment.
Is that impacting you on the development side? Look we should be and it's naïve to say that the solar prices are not having an impact on geothermal prices.
But on the other hand the new RPS is giving us some backwind and there are still utilities in the U.S.
that are looking for geothermal solution in reasonable prices.
As it stands today we are negotiating more than several PPA and I am happy with their prices as they stand today.
Okay.
If we can follow up on the development side great progress on Campbell it sounds like Olkaria 3 also you are executing very well in bringing these plants on time earlier than expected.
I guess the second part of that was Platanares and Menengai we haven't really heard much about either of those two projects in a couple of quarters.
What's the current confidence level on those two projects or other unnamed projects getting by the end of 2017? Just because we see very little capital spend on those and you haven't really given us much in terms of our progress reports? Okay.
As you probably know Dan we usually report on projects which starts EPC but in this particular case as you are asking on the Menengai project we are already in the financing process which is a very advanced process in the project.
GDC already finalized their part.
And we are beyond the development projects at the end of the development project on Platanares.
And beyond that we have the Tungsten project which is also developing more than well.
And so we have three projects that they are at a phase that we might come up with announcements with them.
Beyond that don't forget that we are doing lots of efforts outside of the U.S.
such as Menengai and others and we developed a lot by building the infrastructure in some countries such as Indonesia Kenya Tanzania and Ethiopia and we are doing in my opinion a huge progress there.
So I am very very optimistic if I am looking at our BD efforts.
You are right on the CapEx investment this quarter but again as I said at the beginning it's a timing issue.
So there are no setbacks or no more at least in none of those projects that I have just mentioned and they are actually progressing more than well.
That's great color.
The last question I will ask you is as it relates to solar and to a lesser extent batteries.
You talked a lot about that during your strategic plan at your annual meeting with our shareholders or with investors.
Can you maybe give us an update on what your development plans are in the solar industry? Is this primarily direct development? Have you morphed and are looking more at M&amp;A? Just talk to us about where and what you are doing these days.
One thing I could tell you Dan and I also mentioned in your conference we are not going to be a solar developer tomorrow.
That's not the intention.
It was never the intention.
And the intention is that we will be basically going into projects which they have also solar solutions in the enterprises which is as you just said more M&amp;A and project specific that are looking on blended solution which also have a solar solution in it.
And it was never the intention that suddenly we are going to become a solar development company.
Beyond that on the solar solutions we are looking for M&amp;A and we are progressing well but you realize that this management is in power exactly year-and-a-half and in this year-and-a-half we did lots of restructuring and our first priority was to concentrate on our existing assets and enhancing which we are doing and it's basically on our gross margin and EBITDA.
And this program will it's a long process and it will take at least another year to come up with more and more enhanced power plants and I am very optimistic that we will be able to add lots of megawatts to our existing power plants specifically lots of profitability to our existing power plants.
And it's a big ship.
It takes time to turn the ship and most certainly on new initiatives which requires a change of the DNA in recruiting new people which we are doing but specifically on the store side I am very optimistic that we will come up with an initial view that will initiate this path and we are almost there.
That's good color.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Mark Barnett of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
Good morning.
Good morning Mark.
Maybe not morning for you but -- It's very morning for us Mark.
We are in Reno.
Okay.
You are right.
All right well good morning again.
First question you had spoken too it a little bit but I am just curious as to what in particular drove the impressive speed with the completion of the Campbell plant? Six months is obviously a pretty significant acceleration.
So maybe if you could talk about that a little bit? And then the flipside you had mentioned I had lost the call for a minute the delay in drilling I believe at the Sarulla project.
If you could maybe address maybe the technical issue that's holding that project up at the moment? Okay.
And here is related to your first question.
As we started to restructure our focus was and still is to look into profitability and in order to do that we had to work on cost issue restructuring of our EPC department and working diligently in a bit different manner how to expedite each and every process that we are doing which we successful did and as you just mentioned Don Campbell come online six months earlier and our Olkaria plant will be coming online again almost six months earlier than planned which we all realize that every day that this thing starts to operate it's a lot of profitability for the company.
And this we already achieved.
But again it's a working process.
Those processes are changing with time and we are becoming more and more efficient everyday that passes I am very proud of our EPC department that really succeeded to work miracles in both projects and now we are expecting to the same also in the upcoming projects.
On the Sarulla project we had to divide it in two parts.
In one part we are a product supplier and we had a contract to supply Hyundai which is the EPC provider of Sarulla project the hardware.
And on this part we are on progress we are on time we are delivering and getting paid and everything is okay.
On the other side if you look at the project itself which we are an equity partner small equity partner of 12.75% we are not running the show.
The show is run by a larger equity partner and as any other geothermal project which we all know and the market recognizes there are issues.
There are issues of drilling there are issues in civil work there are issues in what we report as well or is that there are some issues which are delaying the progress of the project and they are being delayed for months.
It doesn't have any effect as of now to our supply agreement and we expect that the partners with the help of us and others will overcome this hurdle and at the end of the day the project will be running.
The first phase I am expecting that the first phase will be pretty much on time.
And the second and third phases will be a bit delayed but we should all remember that it's the biggest geothermal project in the worth of 300 megawatt and those delays and issues were expected on day one.
But as we want to be as transparent as we can we just simply report them.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
I know it's obviously a very complex process.
Just the last question and maybe tough to answer at this point but with the new RPS signing in California obviously you talked a little bit about economics of competing technologies a little bit earlier.
When do you think at this point we will see the utility RFPs go out for looking for evidence of your competitiveness in the next round of PPAs signed? Mark it's a very good question.
But we are asking the same question actually here.
But to be serious we don't expect in Nevada to new RFP coming for example for next two or three years.
On the other hand there are certain RFPs running in California.
And we are in PPA negotiations with some utilities based on the new RPS already not necessarily through an RFP process.
And don't forget there are other states in the U.S.
that are also looking into geothermal and we are expanding our reach beyond California Nevada and Hawaii.
But most importantly as we announced about a year ago we increased our reach elsewhere which is outside of the U.S.
which as we have announced in Chile in the fast expansion in Kenya.
We are approaching Indonesia very heavily.
And we are going into Ethiopia very heavily.
So at this time basically with the announcement in California it is getting rosier but if you look six months ago it was a bit darker than today.
So the fact that we are trying to diversify our market and reach and not go ahead only in the U.S.
but also elsewhere is basically opening up a lot of opportunities.
And we expect to increase the growth rate on BD within the upcoming years.
Okay.
Thanks very much for those comments.
And that if you listening just congratulations to Dita as well a very long and precious career.
Thanks guys.
We certainly join you on the congratulations.
Thank you very much Mark.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Isaac Angel for his closing remarks.
Thank you very much for your ongoing support and actually I have two things to share with you.
The first is that we are very optimistic and we are very pleased with our results and I think that the changes taking place and we can see the light at the end of the tunnel and it's not a train coming to us.
That's the first thing.
The second thing is more personal and I want to really Dita which is one of the captains of this industry has been with the industry and the company for the last 50 years.
No doubt that the geothermal industry in the world and Ormat would have never been the same without Dita and Lucien.
And we would like to wish them a very bright retirement and thank you very much for what you did for the industry and for the company.
And with that thank you very much.
The conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to the Ormat Technologies’ Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rob Fink of Hayden IR.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Hosting the call are Isaac Angel Chief Executive Officer; Doron Blachar Chief Financial Officer; and Smadar Lavi Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations.
Before beginning we’d like to remind you that the information provided during this call may contain forward-looking statements relating to current expectations estimates forecasts and projections about future events that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements generally relate to the company’s plans objectives and expectations for future operations and are based on management’s current estimates and projections of future results or trends.
Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of risks and uncertainties please see Risk Factors as described in Ormat Technologies’ Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
In addition during the call we will present non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and management reasons for presenting such information is set forth in the press release that was issued last night as well as in the slides posted on our website.
Because these measures are not calculated in accordance with U.S.
GAAP they should not be considered in isolation from the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Before I turn the call over to management I would like to remind everyone that the slide presentation accompanying this call may be accessed on the company’s website at ormat.com under the Events &amp; Presentations link that’s found on the Investor Relations tab.
With all that said I’d now like to turn the call over to Isaac.
Isaac the call is yours.
Thank you very much Rob and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for the presentation of our fourth quarter and full-year 2015 results and our outlook for 2016.
Starting with Slide 4 this was a very strong conclusion to a very good year for Ormat.
Our product segment outperformed our expectations growing 23% for the year.
Balancing headwinds related to the commodity prices with segment revenue in our Electricity segment.
Our Electricity segment delivered 8.6% growth in generation that will support our future revenues growth.
Despite challenges related to commodity prices we maintained solid margin levels.
This performance peaks to both our balanced business model and our methodical efforts to improve operational efficiency improve profit margins and diversify revenue.
Our strong financial performance was only a small part of our achievements.
In 2015 we took meaningful steps to increase shareholder value by completing the Northleaf and restructuring transactions building our strategy and starting to implement it.
We continue to enhance all aspects of Ormat’s value chain to improve our performance as well as to progress with near and long-term strategic initiatives in our core geothermal business and in new activities to continue and provide long-term and sustainable growth.
I will elaborate on the progress we have made and our plans for the future after Doron will review the financial results.
Doron? Thank you Isaac and good morning everyone.
Let me start by providing an overview of our financial results for the full-year ended December 31 2015.
Starting with Slide 7 total revenues for 2015 were $594.6 million up 6.3% compared to $559.5 million in 2014.
The increase was driven by increased revenues in our Product segment of 23.4% compared to 2014 and was partially offset by 1.7% decrease in our Electricity segment which represented 63.2% of total revenues.
In our Electricity segment as you can see on Slide 8 revenues were $375.9 million in 2015 compared with $382.3 million last year.
The decrease in this segment was mainly due to a $30 million reduction in the revenues generated in the power plants that are tied to oil and natural gas prices as well as lower revenues in Puna power plant having lower generation as a result of last year [indiscernible].
The decrease was offset mainly by additional revenues generated by the second phase of McGinness Hills and Don Campbell power plant in Nevada which commenced operation in February and September 2015 respectively.
In the Product segment on Slide 9 full-year revenues were $218.7 million compared to $177.2 million in 2014 which represented 23.4% increase.
This increase was primarily due to the increased backlog we had at the beginning of the year and commencing revenue recognition on the new contracts as we signed early in the year.
Moving to Slide 10 the Company’s combined gross margins for 2015 was 36.7% compared to 36.4% in 2014.
In the Product segment gross margin was 38.8% compared to 38.4% in the prior year.
The increase was driven primarily by a shift in product mix and different margin in the various sales contracts for 2015 and improvements made in our – at our Ormat Manufacturing Facility.
In the Electricity segment gross margin was 35.5% similar to 2014.
Despite the $30 million decrease in our annual revenues as a result of lower natural gas and oil prices we were able to maintain the same margin due to the operational improvements we conducted in our power plant as well as the addition of the second phase power plant in McGinness Hills and Don Campbell that came online in 2015 and in which we benefited from the economical scale.
In 2015 40% of our electricity revenues were tied to oil and natural gas prices.
In February we held our exposure to natural gas for 2016.
In the past we use forward contracts to hedge our revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
This year in light of the low natural gas and oil prices we decided to hedge on natural gas exposure by setting coal option.
This hedging strategy together with a transition to a fixed price PPA for Heber 1 power plant significantly reduces our exposure and we believe revenue and adjusted EBITDA in 2016 will be less vulnerable than in 2015.
Moving to Slide 11 2015 full-year operating income was $164.1 million compared to $143.5 million in 2014.
Operating income attributable to our Electricity segment for 2015 was $99.3 million compared to $90.4 million for 2014.
Operating income attributable to our Product segment was $64.7 million compared to $53.1 million in 2014.
Moving to Slide 12 interest expense net of capitalized interest for 2015 was $72.6 million compared to $84.7 million in 2014 a 14.3% decrease year-over-year.
This decrease was primarily due to lower interest expense as a result of principal payment of long-term debt and the revolving credit line with bank a decrease in interest related to the sale of tax benefits and a slight increase related to interest capitalized to project.
The decrease was partially offsets by an increase in interest expense related to a loan received to finance the construction of the second phase of the McGinness Hills power plant.
Moving to Slide 13 net income attributable to the Company’s stockholders for 2015 was $119.6 million or $2.43 per diluted share compared to $54.2 million or $1.18 per diluted share for 2014.
The net income includes approximately $48.7 million non-recurring and non-cash income tax benefit and related expenses recorded in the third quarter of 2015 relating to new tax law in Kenya which extended the period of utilizing investment deductions from five years to ten years for our Olkaria 3 power plant in Kenya.
Excluding the non-recurring income tax benefit and related expense net income attributable to the company’s shareholders was $70.9 million or $1.44 per diluted share compared to $54.2 million or $1.18 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2014.
Now I’d like to go over a few quarterly financial highlights beginning with Slide 14.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 total revenues increased 14.6% to $171.1 million compared to $149.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Revenues in the Electricity segment increased 4.8% to $97.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 up from $93.3 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Revenues in the Product segment was $73.3 million an increase of 31% compared to $56 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Now on Slide 15; operating income for the fourth quarter of 2015 increased to $49.1 million compared to $34.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 representing 41.1% increase.
Net income attributable to the company’s stockholders for the fourth quarter of 2015 were $23 million or $0.46 per diluted share compared to $7 million or $0.15 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Please turn to Slide 16 on adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 was $291.3 million compared to $272.7 million in the same period last year which represents a 6.8% increase.
This increase was despite $22 million reduction in our annual adjusted EBITDA as a result of lower natural gas and oil prices.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $79.1 million compared to $68.3 million in the same quarter last year which represents a 15.8% increase.
Reconciliation of the EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA is described on the appendix slide.
Turning to Slide 17 cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 2015 was $185.9 million.
We generated $190 million in cash from operating activities and invested $152.5 million in CapEx.
The accompanying slide breaks down the use of cash during the year.
Our long-term debt as of December 31 2015 and the payment schedules are presented in Slide 18 of the presentation.
The average cost of debt for the company stands at 5.9%.
I would also like to mention that Ormat’s equity passed for the first time the $1 billion mark [ph] in which $1.08 billion.
On February 23 2016 Ormat’s Board of Directors approved the payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share for the first quarter.
The dividend will be paid on March 29 2016 to shareholders of record as of the closing business on March 15 2016.
In addition the Company expects to pay a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in the next three quarters.
That concludes my financial overview.
I would like now to turn the call to Isaac for an operational and business update.
Isaac? Thank you very much Doron starting with Slide 20 for an update on operations.
As I mentioned in my opening remarks this was a very good year for Ormat and I would like to elaborate on some of the achievements being accomplished.
We have discussed few times in 2015 the joint venture with Northleaf Partners through which we monetize the portion of our portfolio and provided the company with additional capital for expansion.
The partnership has progressed exactly as we hoped it would and we expect to add the second phase of Don Campbell power plant with the joint venture in the first half of 2016.
We also successfully completed the share exchange transaction with our former parent entity Ormat Industries.
The net result of this transaction increase the public float of our stock from approximately 40% to approximately 76% of our total shares outstanding which helped to expand and improve our liquidity.
This transaction also streamlined and simplified Ormat’s corporate structure.
With these two milestones serving as a foundation we share with the market a new multi-year strategic plan for long-term sustainable growth at an Analyst Day in March in New York.
This plan involved facility optimization to maximize profitability geographic expansion and market expansion involving Ormat transitioning from a leader in geothermal energy to a global leader in renewable energy.
During the year we have refined and started to implement a number of the elements of the new plant and pleased to report that we made significant steps to gain each of these components of our strategy.
Moving to Slide 21; we made improvements in all aspects of our value chain with using manufacturing lead-time improving management control and procurement.
This process translates into a significant improvement in gross margin and adjusted EBITDA margin if [indiscernible] on the Electricity segment on Slide 22 generation in 2015 was 4.8 million megawatt hour compared to 4.5 million megawatt hour in 2014 which represents 8.6% increase primarily as a result of the second phase of Don Campbell and McGinness power plants that commenced operation in 2015.
We have made planned level adjustments designed to optimize our electricity generation including the elimination of older or less efficient components with the goal of improving profitability.
This progress is evident in the financial results we are reporting today.
We see improvement in the adjusted EBITDA per megawatt with the similar levels in 2015 compared to 2014 despite commodity impact on revenues.
We see a significant reduction in O&amp;M cost and we see a reduction in CapEx per megawatt from a range of $4.5 million to $5 million per megawatt to a range of $4 million to $4.5 million per megawatt.
We believe that new capacity that was recently added from Olkaria power plant in Kenya should further improve operation margins which will in turn drive higher levels of adjusted EBITDA and profitability.
Turning to Slide 23 we also made progress in our geographic expansion goals as evidenced by the recent announcement the signing of binding Memorandum of Understanding to acquire gradually 85% of geothermal power plant in the Island of Guadeloupe.
As we stated at the Analyst Day growth through M&amp;A is a key part of our overall strategy.
Our strong balance sheet positions Ormat well to execute additional strategic execution – acquisitions.
As it relates to our goal of expanding our technological and geographical base in the geothermal market we announced the milestone collaboration with Toshiba.
For nearly five decades Ormat is focused on and maintain a leadership position with low to medium to the geothermal projects.
Toshiba is the recognized leader in the higher-end of the technology.
Together Ormat and Toshiba are well positioned to bid on and win product contracts as well as potential projects based on the combined technologies of these two leaders.
Already we are seeing expansion of opportunities related to this collaboration.
Finally looking this market expansion to new activities we are evaluating several solar PV projects outside the U.S.
as well as storage projects in the U.S.
Turning to Slide 24 to an operation update.
Our current generation capacity increased to nearly 700 megawatts.
We made a few adjustments to reflect the updated status of our generating capacity.
We increased McGinness Hills and Don Campbell complexes generating capacity to 83 megawatts and 41 megawatts respectively to reflect the enhanced performance of these plants.
The generation capacity of Ormesa complex was reduced to 42 megawatts mainly to a permanent shutdown of one of the steam turbines and some of the old OECs not that we optimized plant performance.
Turning to Slide 25; we’ve continued to expand our portfolio of geothermal plants.
In January we’ll reach commercial operation of Plant 4 in Olkaria III complex in Kenya.
This expansion increased the complex total generation capacity by 29 megawatts to 139 megawatts.
Together with the McGinness Hills and Don Campbell second phase in the last 12 months we commenced commercial operation of three new power plants in an aggregate capacity of over 90 megawatts.
All three plants were constructed and start operation well ahead of planned schedule and will contribute to 2016 revenues.
We will not have been achieved – we will not have been able to achieve this if we don’t have an in-house products division.
Again reinforcing the importance are vertically integrated and well balanced business model.
Moving to Slide 26 for an update on projects under construction.
We plan to add 160 megawatts to 190 megawatts by the end of 2018 by bringing new plants online expanding existing plants as well as adding capacity from a recent acquisition.
As part of this expansion plan we recently announced the commencement of construction of the Platanares geothermal project in Honduras.
In December 2015 we concluded the drilling activity as well as extensive tests that support our decision to construct a 35 megawatt project which is larger than initially estimated.
The project expects to reach commercial operation by the end of 2017.
We also initiated development of efforts in two projects in Nevada: Tungsten Mountain and Dixie Meadows are each expected to generate 25 megawatts to 35 megawatts once they come online in 2017 or 2018.
We have drilled several exploration wells both sides.
And while drilling activities ongoing we are making progress towards securing PPAs.
We believe that these projects may qualify for the production tax credit.
In Sarulla Indonesia engineering and procurement for the first phase is completed while in progress for the other two phases.
The construction for the first phase is in progress.
The infrastructure work has been substantially completed.
The major equipment including Ormat’s OECs and Toshiba’s steam turbine for the first phase have arrived to the country larger portion already at the site.
The drilling of production injection wells is also in-progress for all three phases but currently the project company is experiencing some delays mainly in the meeting some of the drilling milestones as well as few EPC milestones.
It should also be noted that project is facing some cost overruns resulting mainly from drilling.
The consortium members are examining the significance of these cost overruns and their potential implications for the project’s budgets as well as for the financing of the project since the cost overruns and drillings delays may impact the project’s ability to drove on the debt financing and force additional equity investment by the consortium members.
All contracting milestones under Ormat supply agreement were achieved and the manufacturing work is currently progressing as planned.
The first phase of operation is expected to commence towards the end of 2016.
And the remaining two phases of operations are scheduled to commence within 18 months thereafter.
We also expect to close the acquisition of Bouillante Geothermal Power Plant in Guadeloupe Island by May 2016 which will be immediately accretive to Ormat’s EPS.
The projects are just described as well as additional projects including Menangai in Kenya are under various stages of development and expected to support our expansion by the end of 2018.
Besides the investment in new projects we are continuing our exploration and business development activities to support future growth.
If you could please turn to Slide 27 you’d see that our CapEx requirement for 2016 is approximately $264 million.
We plan to invest a total of approximately $83 million in capital expenditures on new projects under construction and enhancements and additionally approximately $101 million are budgeted for exploration activities.
Development of new project is investment in new activities that reflects expenditure under the new strategic plan and maintenance CapEx for operating projects.
In addition $63 million will be required for debt repayment.
Turning to Slide 28 for an update on our Product segment.
Our backlog as of February 23 2016 stands approximately $256 million.
Our backlog together with the new contract that we expect to sign will support our financials.
Moving to Slide 29 for a regulatory update.
Increasingly government and private sectors are taking actions to fight climate change and move towards to low carbon resilient and sustainable future.
We have seen this in the United States as key states set long-term goals established minimum requirements and create incentives for the use of renewable energy.
As we have previously noted in October California expended on its existing renewable portfolio standard or RPS policy.
The new low requires that utilities procure 50% of their electricity from renewables by 2030 an increase of 33% required by 2020.
Hawaii is an even more aggressive low requiring that 100% of its energy come from renewables by 2045.
And in December the United States Congress agreed to grant extension to the tax credit for geothermal energy as part of the broader production tax credit program.
While these programs within the United States are encouraging in December we also saw action on a global level.
In December 2015 195 countries signed a historic agreement at the Paris Climate Change Conference held in Paris.
For the first time all countries committed to setting nationally climate targets and reporting on their progress.
We believe that submission of national targets in five years cycles signal to investment within technology innovators that the world will demand increased use of renewable energy in the decades to come.
This comes after a group of 20 countries including the U.S.
U.K.
France China and India pledged to double their budget for renewable energy technology over the next five years as part of a separate initiatives called mission innovation.
World leaders are clearly increasing the focus on renewable energy.
Geothermal is based on the energy is uniquely positioned to benefit from this trend and Ormat is focused on remaining a global leader in this space.
Turning to Slide 30 for our 2016 guidance.
In 2016 we expect total revenue to be between $620 million and $640 million.
We expect revenue in our Electricity segment to be between $410 million and $420 million.
The Electricity segment revenue guidance assumes current oil and natural gas crisis.
For the Product segment we expect revenues to be between $210 million and $220 million.
We expect 2016 adjusted EBITDA from $300 million to $310 million.
This estimate includes approximately $9 million of expected income related to tax equity transactions compared to $25 million in 2015.
Excluding this demand the expected increase in adjusted EBITDA should reflect an operational growth of between 9% to 13%.
We expect annual adjusted EBITDA attributable to minority’s interest to be approximately $17 million.
This amount assumes the inclusion of the second phase of Don Campbell power plant in the joint venture with Northleaf.
In summary 2015 was a very good year for Ormat and I’m excited about our future.
The significant declines in the price of oil and natural gas have impacted many industries and we are not immune while we cannot predict what will happen in the commodity markets during 2016.
We can state with growing confidence that the demand for renewable energy is growing.
Volatility of fossil fuels only contributes to this demand.
This creates an environment where leaders like Ormat can grow and expand their market share.
It is truly an exciting time to be a part of this great company and I’m optimistic about the future of Ormat into geothermal industry in general.
This concludes our remarks for today and I thank you very much for your ongoing and continued support.
Operator? Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Paul Coster of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Coster you may proceed.
Sorry I had my mute on there.
Thank you very much for taking my questions.
Congratulations on concluding an excellent year.
So looking forward I wonder if perhaps you can take us through your sort of cash outlook for the year it looks to me like you’ll be using in excess of $100 million of your cash balance unless you tap into new sources of finance.
So perhaps you can talk us through that please? Hi Paul thank you.
This is Doron.
Basically when we look we do need – we do have an increased capital plan and increased gross plan.
As the PTCs were extended we are planning to do one or two tax equity transactions.
And in addition to that some of the projects that we are constructing like in Honduras or one of the two projects in Nevada that we’re now finishing the exploration phase in Tungsten and Dixie we will do project finance for them.
So the construction will be financed with the specific loan program.
Okay.
So you’re not going to be – you don’t anticipate tapping the debt or equity markets this year? No to the extent no – unless we will increase our accelerated growth which is expected.
Right.
Can you – you talked to us a little bit about the Toshiba partnership? You alluded to sort of benefiting you already.
What is the nature of the benefit you’re seeing? Hi Paul.
This is Isaac.
I think it’s one of the best things happened during the last year.
In the last six months we have exposure to much more projects than we did in the past because of the fact that both companies are approaching a high-end low-end and middle-end of the projects together.
Actually we have even a win which I cannot speak about it as of now but we will talk about it in the very near future.
And I’m very very optimistic that this collaboration will bring in 2016 more and more projects specifically in other countries mainly in Europe and Southeast Asia.
Okay.
My last question is looking at your anticipated deployment activity it looks to me like revenues and I assume EBITDA should accelerate a little bit in 2017 just eyeballing the megawatts that come online.
Is that a reasonable assumption to make? It was a short answer and unfortunately I have a long – it was a short question and I have a long answer.
As you realize with the year passing through and we have $256 million contract in Sarulla which will be ending in sometime during 2017.
We have to accelerate our Product segment but you realize that it will be difficult to staying the same growth in Product segments with this project ending.
But on the other hand realizing that and we announced it on March in New York the company is making tremendous efforts to accelerate the Electricity segment and we believe we will continue – we will sustain growth but not necessarily it will be divided in the same percentage between products and electricity looking forward.
On the other hand I should say we’re not giving any outlook for 2017 or 2018 and the only outlook that we’re giving is in 2016.
But in general if you look within the next five years we are expecting a step-up function in our Electricity segment and the company is doing tremendous efforts and as part of the accelerated CapEx that you’re seeing to build more and more power plants internally and also externally.
Very good thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dan Mannes of Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and also congratulations on a strong quarter and a strong year.
Thank you very much Dan.
A couple of follow-ups.
First the acquisition in Guadeloupe – first congratulations on getting an acquisition done.
Can you give us a little bit more color maybe on the structure of the PPA they’re number one.
And number two is this – the closing of this transaction included in your guidance for 2016 or not.
Hi Dan.
It’s Doron.
For the second part yes.
The guidance includes the acquisition of Guadeloupe response.
The first part basically the PPA in Guadeloupe has a capacity payment and has an energy payment.
We cannot – we still don’t own the assets at closing haven’t happened.
So we cannot discuss too much in details because we still don’t own the power plant but there is a capacity and an energy payment that grows up – goes up as the generation goes up.
Okay.
And maybe could you walk through the structure of the purchase does it face – you’re going to own all – 85% of all 15 megawatts this year or you own a piece of that and then it grow – then there are multiple payments to them? Could you maybe just walk us through how that works? We’re going to own upon closing 80% of the facility and then the investment – the acquisition and the investment structure says that in the next two years from the closing.
Recently Ormat will increase its capital investments to the company and by putting in more cash into the company; the percentages will go up and will reach once all the cash is invested to 85% ownership by Ormat.
Since we are going to have 80% on closing.
We will consolidate obviously the company.
We are the controlling shareholders.
And our people actually have been there already and analyzing the projects to see how we can expand it sooner rather than later.
Got it.
A real quick one on Tungsten and Dixie Meadows it’s great to see you guys are finding some more drilling success.
Can you talk at all about the PPA market for those plants the last several Nevada plants you’ve sold into California.
Alternatively is this an opportunity to perhaps get a commercial PPA? If you could talk to us about the PPA environment that would be helpful? Dan do you know as I know that the PPA environment in the U.S.
is a bit suffering in the last few years.
On the other hand Ormat was – we successfully achieved few PPAs in the last year or so.
And even though I cannot talk on the details but I’m optimistic that our future growth in the Electricity segment will come both from the U.S.
and from the other countries.
And I’m very optimistic that we will be able to gain PPAs for these two power plants and more in the U.S.
Okay.
But unfortunately I’m not in a position to talk about terms numbers and so on.
I really hope that this will be an outline very soon.
Okay.
Olkaria 3 with the completion of the most recent phase can you maybe help us to understand the new agreement you have and your ability to expand this and also is this included in the some portion – is another leg of Olkaria 3 included in the 160 megawatts to 190 megawatts that that you’ve laid out through 2018? Well no – first of all no doubt that Olkaria is one of our most successful prospects.
And there is an opportunity to increase Olkaria to the third phase as we already have assigned PPA.
I don’t know if we disclosed it but it is 400 megawatts which 29 of them are already consumed.
And there is a possibility to increase it to Olkaria 5 but it is not in the numbers that mentioned in the 180 megawatts – sorry 160 megawatts to 190 megawatts.
I would like maybe just to add a little bit color.
In the 160 megawatts to 190 megawatts obviously we have projects that are not finalized or have final PPAs and finish exploration.
These are projects that are in the process.
And at the end of the day we don’t know exactly all the projects that will come in.
We have seen today this next phase is not in the numbers but exploration and resources tend to change over time.
And so we might see that there is additional result and may be an addition to increase it or not so it’s not in the initial estimate but it can obviously come in if that is something that will go out or whatever.
Dan I will reiterate what I just said to Paul before.
We are working very very diligently to make this step up function as I talked about it in our meeting last year and I think that this will fuel the growth of Ormat in the next upcoming five years or more.
And it will come both from the U.S.
as I said and elsewhere specifically from African countries and Southeast Asia.
On that note one of the major geothermal owners in Southeast Asia at least through some trade publications is reportedly considering selling and this will be a very major asset that could be a step change in terms of your output if you pursed it.
Is that – without discussing a particular M&amp;A opportunity how serious are you on M&amp;A at this point and would you consider kind of assets of that time – type of scope and scale? Dan it’s very very premature way.
We got the same teaser yesterday and we are looking into it.
Don’t forget that we are talking about an asset of over maybe $2 billion.
So it’s something that we should certainly look into but it’s very early to talk about it seriously.
Okay.
And then my final question as you look at the Product segment we’ve been really impressed with the way you’ve been able to maintain margins last year a lot of that you guys have done internally in terms of improving operations.
Historically you’ve kind of managed expectations as it relates to product margins maybe a little bit lower than what you put up the last year.
Can you maybe help us out a little bit in terms of how to think about sequential margins in the Product segment for 2016 and beyond? And secondarily as you mentioned your backlog of 260 most of that’s going to go out the door in 2016.
It sounds like you have pretty high confidence you’re about to bring in some more material backlog in the fairly near-term? On the margin sides we are confident that we will be able to keep somehow the margins on the levels that we are.
It might deviate a bit depending on the product mix that in the countries that we are operating in.
On the second thing as I said before it will be very difficult to maintain the same levels of product going forward when you lose or not lose – losing is not the right word when you finish successfully a $256 million projects.
On the other hand we are bringing in new products – product constructs.
But as I said before I’m not really worried because our strategy that calls for increasing rapidly the growth in the electricity demand will basically fuel the growth of the Company as a total and not necessarily we will be able to keep – to maintain the same ratio as we have today which is pretty high as you have noticed in the last year.
So I’m optimistic for the future but not necessary in the same ratio in numbers.
And to conclude I believe that the profitability is sustainable.
Sounds good.
Thanks so much for all the color.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Ella Fried of Leumi.
Please go ahead.
Hey I also like to congratulate you on the result.
I have two questions.
First is regarding the Toshiba Corporation what do you say that it is already reflected in the Product segment or do you see it affecting the product segment beyond Sarulla? Hi Ella.
Thanks for your congrats.
And first of all it’s not reflected in 2015 numbers but it is reflected in 2016 and the backlog as it stands now still not a very substantial number but we expect that this number will grow looking forward.
And to the second part it’s pretty much the same answer as I gave to Dan and Paul before on the mix of Electricity and the products looking forward.
Thank you.
And the second question is regarding your hedge for the next year.
Could you elaborate basically or maybe give some numbers regarding this hedge? Basically what we did – basically in light of the very low oil and natural gas prices and since we have exposure to this commodity and we’ve decided to sell a call option basically it hedges Ormat on the downside not 100% on the downside but it hedges Ormat up to a certain point on the downside and generates additional EBITDA to the company.
The main idea of this hedge is to hedge the budget which is the basis for the guidance.
So we can keep it.
So it’s a bit of different structure than a simple forward and standard forward has a selling of a call and buying a put so we actually exercised half of the forward selling at call only.
So you had there like most of the cash flow of Puna? Puna on the oil and on the gas Ormesa and the left part of Heber that is still on – on the gas part.
Okay.
Well thank you and again very impressive results.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible].
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning or good evening.
Also congratulations on your great 2015 results.
Two questions.
First of all with 2015 ahead are you planning any divestments of power plants like you did or joint ventures like you did with Northleaf.
And the second question is what’s going to happen in 2018 when the contract for Ormesa has come to expire? Okay Daniel for us it’s good morning as we are in Reno.
And for the first part we are happy with our partnership with Northleaf and we are pooling in the second part of Don Campbell to the joint venture.
We don’t have current partnerships plan in any other power plants and if [indiscernible] obviously we will notify the market on that.
And on Ormesa 2018 I wouldn’t be worried about it.
We are working on it since last year and I’m optimistic that we will be able to resign PPA which will not be linked to the gas prices in Ormesa.
And how many CapEx would be necessary in order to keep the reserve or to keep it going? There is no CapEx required at this stage.
We made lots of modifications in Ormesa.
Last year we shutdown a steam turbine part of the older equipment re-change the structure of the operations.
And at the end of the day even though we decreased the output of the power plant we increased seriously the profitability.
And there is – at this stage there is no serious CapEx – any serious CapEx requirement over there.
And Ormesa will serve our growth 2018 and onwards.
And again – it will again decrease our exposure to natural gas prices by another one-thirds.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.