Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to introduce your host Mr.
Gabe Togneri of PG&amp;E.
Thank you and have a good conference.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri.
Thanks Josh.
Good morning and we appreciate you joining us.
Our primary speakers today will be Chris Johns President of Pacific Gas and Electric Company; and Kent Harvey Senior Vice President and CFO of PG&amp;E Corporation.
You'll also hear from Lee Cox our Interim Chairman CEO and President of the Corporation.
Other members of the management team are here and will participate in the Q&amp;A.
I'll remind you our remarks in the Q&amp;A that follows include forward-looking statements based on assumptions and expectations that reflect the information currently available to management.
Actual results may differ materially from current expectations.
Important factors that may affect our results are described in the reports that we filed with the SEC including the risk factors and other factors that are in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and our Form 10-Q reports.
We encourage you to read them.
We'll be filing our 10-Q report for the quarter later today.
The earnings release we issued this morning is available on our website along with the supplemental earnings tables and including the Regulation G reconciliations.
You will want to have that supplemental information available to refer to as we go through the results for the quarter.
And now I'll turn the call over to Chris Johns.
Thanks Gabe and good morning everybody.
Now I don't usually open up our call.
So it's appropriate to acknowledge the transition that we're in right now.
As Peter Darbee stated when he announced his retirement this change gives the company an opportunity to move forward in facing some of our challenges.
Obviously a key step in that direction will be naming a new CEO.
So with us this morning to offer his thoughts on that is Lee Cox.
Lee has been a key member of the board at PG&amp;E since 1996 and he's been our Lead Director since 2004.
As Gabe mentioned Lee is our Interim Chairman CEO and President and we're fortunate to have Lee's experience in this interim role.
So with that I'll turn it over to Lee.
Okay.
Well thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
I know the team has a lot to cover this morning so I'm going to be very brief.
Let me just expand now for a moment on a comment Chris made about a CEO retirement being a chance to move forward.
I want all of you to know that the board and our employees deeply understand and feel in every way how the events of the last year have affected the company.
And right now we're all very focused on doing whatever it takes to fix our problems and then also to regain the public trust.
A lot of projects are already underway to do that.
The new CEO we're seeking will be someone who can lead our teams to finish the operations turnaround that has really already started.
And we also want someone who can personally engage with our many stakeholders and gain their support.
So to that end the search process is moving along well.
The search committee is pleased with the quality of candidates and we're on track to name the new CEO in the coming weeks.
But in the meantime in the coming days you'll be hearing some announcements about what we're doing to resolve our problems and to regain the confidence of our stakeholders.
Now Chris and Kent are going to be delivering some tough news this morning and I want you to know that the board believes that they and their teams will be able to solve our problems and then go on to improve operational and financial performance in the future.
So here it goes back to Chris to discuss company operations.
Great.
Thanks Lee.
I'm disappointed by our first quarter results and our announcement today that we are revising our guidance.
As a management team we're accountable for the overall performance of our company.
And as President I'm accountable for the operational and financial performance of the company and to assure the necessary changes are made for PG&amp;E to become the leading utility that our management team aspires for it to be.
This morning Kent and I will address the recent developments leading to the revised outlook for the year as well as our plans moving forward.
You can be confident that we are challenging our leadership team to deliver better results.
My remarks begin as they did last quarter with an update on activities and plans relating to the gas transmission system and pipeline safety.
I will also discuss our nuclear operations in light of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami and the winter storms we faced this quarter.
The issues we're dealing with as a result of the San Bruno accident will have a lasting impact on PG&amp;E and across the industry.
We continue to help the families and communities affected by this tragedy.
We have funded a trust for the city of San Bruno so we can effectively and efficiently continue with the healing and rebuilding process.
The entire San Bruno community remains in our thoughts and in our prayers.
This management team is fully committed to PG&amp;E emerging from this experience both as a better company and as the national standard bearer for safety and operational excellence.
We have several years of hard work ahead and we are taking the actions needed to achieve that goal.
We continue to fully cooperate with the various regulatory proceedings and investigations concerning gas pipeline matters.
The National Transportation Safety Board held 3 days of fact-finding hearings in March and we expect the NTSB to issue a final report sometime this fall.
The California Public Utilities Commission is overseeing its own investigation while also participating in the NTSB process.
And as part of their emission the CPUC appointed an independent review panel to look into PG&amp;E and the commission policies and practices for managing the gas transmission system.
We expect that the panel will provide its report to the CPUC sometime later this month.
At the end of February the commission issued an Order Instituting Investigation or an OII to examine PG&amp;E's pipeline record-keeping practices.
On April 18 we responded to an initial set of questions posed in that OII.
And this included a discussion of pipeline document retention practices.
We're going to have to file other responses in the OII during May and June including documents relating to pipeline maintenance procedures and practices dating back to the 1950s.
Because the OII will likely take into account the findings from the final NTSB report we don't expect the investigation to conclude until late 2011 or even into 2012.
In February the CPUC also issued an Order Instituting Rulemaking or an OIR which covers all California pipeline operators.
We support the OIR and the CPUC's intent to establish new standards for pipeline construction maintenance and safety.
Responding to a directive that was part of the OIR process in March we provided the CPUC with information on pressure test records and engineering specifications for our transmission pipelines in the more populated areas of our service territory.
The process of collecting scanning and indexing more than 1 million hard copy record that I mentioned in our last earnings call was a huge part of that effort.
We are continuing to work with the CPUC to determine the method that they would like to see deployed for validating the maximum allowable operating pressures or the MAOPs for the pipelines in California under these new standards.
Although earlier last month we stipulated to an agreement regarding our plans for calculating MAOP on much of our pipeline the CPUC is still considering the appropriate method for validation.
So in the meantime we continue to gather documentation such as original as-built drawings in order to enhance our flexibility to provide the evidence that the CPUC requires for MAOP validation.
As you can imagine this is a substantial increase in the scope of work we expected to be doing this year and it's one of the major drivers of the increased cost we now expect to incur in 2011.
And those costs will be reflected in the item-impacting comparability.
Ultimately we'll validate the pressure levels for our entire gas transmission system addressing the 1 800 miles of pipe located in the more populated areas and the nearly 5 000 other pipeline miles over the next few years.
Our action plan for this year also addresses inspecting and field testing primarily older pipeline segments that were installed before pressure testing was required.
We're beginning our fieldwork this month and initially plan to pressure test and replace about 152 miles of pipeline with characteristics that are similar to the San Bruno segment.
The relevant segments of pipe are not contiguous so this work will actually extend over more than 200 miles on 24 separate pipelines.
Hydrostatic Pressure Testing is major work.
It involves shutting down the relevant pipeline segments filling it with pressurized water to identify whether any leaks cracks or other failures exist and each pressure test requires advanced initial engineering work and permitting with a lot of different agencies.
Most of the work is targeted for this summer when our gas demand in California is low.
This fieldwork is another major driver of our forecast cost increase in the IIC.
Another part of our plan is our proposed Pipeline 2020 program.
And that's a multi-year pipeline modernization program that if approved by the CPUC will be one of the most significant initiatives PG&amp;E has ever launched.
It will involve targeted efforts to inspect upgrade or replace parts of our gas transmission pipeline system and to add remote-controlled or automatic-shutoff valves in locations where they can be effective.
In fact we have a pilot program in place to install these types of valves this year.
Pipeline 2020 will also involve advancing best practices across the industry in supporting research in the next-generation inspection technology.
We plan to file our proposal for the first phase of this program with the CPUC around the end of June as part of the OIR proceeding.
The first phase of Pipeline 2020 will cover our gas transmission lines that are located in the more populated areas and will identify pipeline replacements and operational changes designed to improve the transmission system.
We believe the Pipeline 2020 program will advance the safety and maintenance standards for natural gas pipelines in the United States.
Now let me turn to our nuclear operations.
Over the last 6 weeks we've gotten many questions about Diablo Canyon in light of the new nuclear reactor problems in Japan following the earthquake and tsunami.
First I want to clearly state that operating Diablo Canyon safely is a top priority.
We are working constantly with both the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations to assure that our operating practices and procedures place safety as the highest priority at Diablo Canyon.
Testament to this commitment is the fact that Diablo Canyon power plant has been a reliable safely run clean source of affordable power for more than 25 years.
Now it's important to note that there are several key safety features that differentiate Diablo Canyon from the Fukushima plant in Japan.
First Diablo Canyon is on an 85-foot bluff rather than at sea level and that provides a significant tsunami safety margin.
There is emergency diesel generators with fuel tanks located underground that provide backup power on the site.
And in addition 2 reservoirs of desalinated water at the site provide an alternate source of emergency cooling that can be delivered without electric power.
Now having said that we do not take our design for granted.
We have been reevaluating the assumptions in the design of our plant and looking at events that could occur beyond those anticipated in the original and updated design.
And in addition we continue to work with the industry to learn from the event in Japan.
And we will make any and all changes necessary to the safety of the plant as a result of these ongoing reviews.
In addition we're currently working on license extensions for the plant.
The licenses for the 2 units at Diablo Canyon expire in 2024 and in 2025 and we're currently seeking a 20-year license extension for each of the units.
In response to public concern we recently announced plans to accelerate completion of advanced 3-dimensional seismic studies related to Diablo Canyon.
And we also formally asked the NRC to delay final approval of the license renewal application until these studies are complete.
We expect the entire process to take several years.
And then finally this quarter really presented us with some of the worst winter storm challenges we've experienced in a very long time.
Storm activity was extreme in February and in fact between February 15 and the end of March we spent more than $50 million in storm response.
And for the quarter as a whole we spent about $77 million in expense on storm recovery.
This quarter we had 24 days of major emergency storm activity and all 24 days involved low elevation snow.
This resulted in a much larger volume of tree-related outage activity and difficult access conditions.
The response effort involved more than 387 000 labor hours.
Last year by comparison we had 11 days of major storms in the first quarter with only 4 days of low-altitude snow.
Now the storms did however put us at 150% of normal snowpack levels in the Sierras which means that we'll have good availability of hydro power this summer.
And needless to say we're glad to have these winter storms behind us.
I am proud of our crews.
They did a great job restoring power and they maintained a strong safety record in this process.
So with that I'm going to hand it over to Kent to talk in more detail about the financial challenges that we're facing.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by echoing what Chris said.
We're disappointed in our quarterly results and the reduction in guidance that we've announced today.
Several developments since our last call have caused us to revisit our outlook for the year.
I have a lot to go through today and I want to be sure that I can provide you with as much clarity and transparency as I can.
So let me highlight the key points before I begin a more detailed discussion.
First our earnings from operations for the quarter and down and we're lowering guidance for the year.
Second the largest scope of work stemming from the San Bruno accident has caused us the to increase our estimate of incurred costs for the item-impacting comparability.
Third even though the San Bruno-related expenses are excluded from earnings from operations they reduced our retained earnings and therefore increased our equity needs and our EPS dilution.
Fourth although we're not providing 2012 guidance on today's call I will share some observations about next year.
And fifth given the challenges we're working through this year we plan to maintain our dividend at its current level for 2011.
So let me begin with Q1.
Starting with Table 1 in the supplemental earnings package we reported $230 million or $0.58 per diluted common share in earnings from operations for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis earnings were $199 million or $0.50 per share.
The difference between the 2 $51 million pretax or $0.08 is the item impacting comparability for San Bruno and the related gas pipeline matter.
During Q1 most of these costs are attributable to the massive records effort that Chris described.
Let me now go through the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations and that's in Table 3.
The $0.58 in earnings from operations for the quarter represent a $0.21 decline compared to the first quarter of 2010.
And here are the key items.
First of all we had an increase in rate-based earnings of $0.04 related to our Electric Transmission business and our separately funded projects like Colusa and Humboldt as well as SmartMeter.
This was more than offset by a number of negative items.
We were $0.07 unfavorable because of the General Rate Case and the GT&amp;S settlements were still pending at the end of the quarter.
So normal increases in operating costs for our Distribution Generation and Pipeline businesses were not offset by incremental revenue.
The final decisions in both of those cases will be retroactive to the beginning of the year.
So we expect a catch up to be recorded in Q2.
We were $0.05 unfavorable due to the storm response costs that Chris described and $0.06 due to charges for litigation and regulatory matters not related to San Bruno.
A significant portion of this is in connection with the Rancho Cordova proceeding.
We were also $0.03 negative due to lower gas storage revenues resulting from adverse market conditions.
In Q1 the average price for summer-to-winter parking deals was about 1/3 of the price realized in the same period last year.
And finally we had a negative $0.03 impact due to a greater number of shares outstanding.
Based on the first quarter results and our projections for the rest of the year we're lowering our earnings from operations guidance range for 2011 by about 5%.
Our prior range was $3.65 to $3.80 per share.
The new range is $3.45 to $3.60.
I want to be clear that we're not taking this lightly as the number and size of the challenges have caused us to step back and reevaluate what we can realistically achieve for the year.
Beyond the impacts we've experienced in Q1 we expect to continue to see some lower gas storage revenues in future quarters and continue to experience some higher litigation costs unrelated to San Bruno.
This may be partly connected with the increased attention we received in recent months.
We also expect that share dilution would grow as a result of the increased scope for the gas pipeline work.
Since this is largely an expense work it negatively affects our retained earnings and results in a greater need for equity issuance to maintain our authorized capital structure.
Now we have taken actions to try to offset the impacts of some of the items affecting our results.
We've looked for efficiencies across various functions but we have to have sufficient resources to provide safe and reliable service.
Notwithstanding these actions in view of the factors I described we believe it's prudent to re-establish our 2011 guidance for earnings from operations at $3.45 to $3.60 per share and that's shown in Table 7.
In Table 7 you will also see that we're updating our 2011 guidance range for the item impacting comparability for natural gas pipeline matters to between $0.52 and $1.08 per share.
The IIC includes 2 components: our incurred cost and third-party liabilities.
So I'm going to walk you through each.
We're increasing the range for the first component the incurred cost to between $350 million and $550 million pretax.
Our previous estimate was $200 million to $300 million.
I want to acknowledge that this is the second time this range has increased.
This reflects I think the reality of the dynamic environment we're in which has caused us to expand the scope of work we're planning for the year.
The costs are increasing for 2 main reasons: We've planned additional work to validate gas pipeline data for 1 800 miles of pipe in more populated areas and that's a huge increase from our prior scope.
We've also more than doubled the number of miles of pipe to undergo Hydrostatic Pressure Testing this year from about 75 miles before to more than 150 miles in our current plan.
The work plan and the schedule for this is very aggressive and significant additional resources are going to be necessary to complete the scope this year.
I'll also remind you that we have not included in our 2011 range any future fines or penalties we could receive as a result of the PUC's various investigations related to the San Bruno accident.
The range for the second component the third-party liability that remains unchanged at $0 to $180 million pretax.
And let me remind you how to think about that one.
In Q3 of last year we took a $220 million provision for third-party liability.
And that represented the lower end of our estimated range of $220 million to $400 million.
The difference between those 2 numbers defines this year's range of $0 to $180 million.
As I've said before we're not going to report any insurance recovery until we have more certainty about their timing and amount.
And all insurance recoveries will be reflected in the item impacting comparability in the future.
We may receive some payments under some of our insurance policies this year.
Nevertheless I think it's reasonable to assume that most of the payments from insurers will be made when the litigation process is further along.
As I said I don't plan to provide specific guidance for 2012 on today's call but I did want to make a few comments about next year.
I believe one question for next year is what our earnings per share from operations will be putting aside the gas pipeline matters.
And that's going to be driven by 3 things primarily: the size of our authorized rate base our earned return on equity and then our equity issuance.
This year 2011 we're experiencing higher growth in authorized rate base than would be typical for us going forward.
We expect the average authorized rate base to grow from about $21 billion last year to roughly $23.5 billion this year.
That's greater than 10% growth and it's driven mainly by the rate base true up in our General Rate Case the impact of Colusa and Humboldt those 2 power plants came on line late last year and then electric transmission investments that are in our TO case.
We won't have all those same factors next year so we expect our rate base will grow more modestly in 2012.
Perhaps half the rate of 2011.
Another contributing factor that you should keep in mind for 2012 is bonus depreciation.
Because that will be due to rate base growth for our Electric Transmission business and some of our separately-funded programs.
Our authorized ROE for 2012 is still set at 11.35% and we'll continue to target to earn our authorized returns.
In terms of equity issuance the diluted impact of funding the gas pipeline cost this year will carry through to next year since of course the shares will still be outstanding.
It would grow further to the extent we continue to have to incur expenses before the rate making is involved.
Some portion of the share dilution may be temporary though depending on the amount and timing of cost recovery.
Another question for next year is how much additional cost will we incur related to all the pipeline work.
And when and how will recovery be decided.
And the simple reality is it's pretty difficult for us right now to forecast our 2012 gas pipeline work.
We expect that the PUC will establish new safety standards for the state's pipeline through its OIR proceeding.
But we don't yet know what the new standards will be how they'll be implemented or how the rate making will work.
In the meantime we're putting together plans to meet the higher standards we expect the PUC could adopt.
The cost of this work could be comparable to our 2011 expenses depending on the outcome of the OIR.
Along with the other California utilities we'll seek funding for the work necessary to comply with the new standards.
As we've done this year we plan to continue to separate out the gas pipeline matters next year in an item impacting comparability for both the cost and the recoveries from insurance or rate making.
This will allow you to see the underlying performance of the business as well as the impact of any gas pipeline cost and recovery on our GAAP results.
It'll also help make our results comparable between this year and next year.
We intend to provide guidance for 2012 when we hold an Investor Conference and we'll work out the timing of that once the new CEO is on board.
Now I'll turn to financing and dividends and let me start with the dividend.
Given the reduction in our 2011 guidance and the various challenges we're facing we believe that this is not the appropriate time to make any changes in our dividend therefore we plan to maintain the current level for 2011.
In keeping the dividend at $1.82 this year we expect to continue to be within our target payout ratio range of 50% to 70% of earnings from operation albeit still at the lower end.
We know the dividend is important to our investors and we want to be in a position to grow it in the future.
In terms of equity issuance the higher expenses for gas pipeline safety-related work will drive equity needs above what we previously estimated.
We currently anticipate needing roughly $400 million of equity during the year in order to maintain our authorized capital structure.
Under our existing internal equity program including the 401(k) and DRIP we expect to be able to issue about $250 million this year since we experienced a little higher than usual issuance in Q1.
We currently plan to use the Equity Dribble Program we established last November to meet our additional needs.
And we'll be filing an 8-K shortly regarding the continuation of this program.
We have about $290 million of authorizations remaining under the program and we currently plan to utilize roughly half of that.
Finally I just want to provide you a quick update on some regulatory items.
Obviously we're awaiting a final decision in our General Rate Case which is on the commission's agenda for tomorrow.
The overall impact on electric rates of course will be minimal.
In April the CPUC approved the settlement of our Gas Transmission &amp; Storage case and then also in April the CPUC approved the resolution to address the treatment of bonus depreciation for us.
This is a very complicated issue but we believe the CPUC's resolution is balanced and workable for us.
And then finally just last week we filed an uncontested settlement with the FERC in our Transmission Owner 13 Case.
I know we've covered a lot on our remarks today so I think I'll stop there.
I'll thank you very much for your attention and we'll open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Two questions.
I guess first for Chairman Cox with respect to a new CEO that you'd be looking for how important it is for that person to have experience in the California regulatory environment? And secondly how important is it for that person to have experience running a Gas business? Okay.
Well we've reaching out to stakeholders and asking them that question.
So some of what I'll say to you reflects things that they've said to us.
On the one hand some people say it's very important to have come from California.
On the other hand we have people saying we need a set of fresh eyes.
So during the search process we'll been thinking about both of those points of view and reconciling them.
We think it's important that the person we hire has actually run at the highest level possible a regulated public utility not necessarily just gas because gas represents about 35% of our assets and we plan to be making many changes.
A lot of them are underway already on the gas side of things.
So we're not looking for a chief engineer if that was behind your question of gas.
A CEO has to be very skilled at dealing with a diverse set of stakeholders.
And that's incredibly important.
And those stakeholders include people in the government from the regulatory commissions our employees unions and so on.
So we're looking for a lot I know.
But based on our search so far we're finding candidates who are able to do all those things.
Great.
My other question is to Kent.
Just could you please clarify on the 2012 commentary your comments related to the Gas business with respect to kind of the spending to meet the higher gas standards? And you said something about could be comparable to 2011 expenses and how you're going to be treating those? It just wasn't clear to me what you were trying to communicate there.
Let me try again.
What I was saying is obviously we've provided guidance for our gas-related expenditures this year of $350 million to $550 million.
And my second point is we really don't know what the new standards are going to be next year.
So what we've been doing through a lot of our work related to our Pipeline 2020 proposal is we've been trying to anticipate where we think things will go.
And based on the work we've done to date we believe that we could be doing a comparable amount of work next year.
Meaning comparable to the types of expenditures we're talking about this year.
But we really need to know where the commission's going on that issue and ultimately what the new standards will be.
And that was really what I was trying to signal.
In terms of the item impacting comparability in 2012 the way I think about it is the situation we're in right now this is not an issue that gets resolved really quickly.
Obviously the accident happened late last year.
There's still a lot of regulatory proceedings and investigations underway.
And some of those will continue beyond this year.
Of course we also will go through all the third party claims and the insurance.
There is a lot of pieces to the challenge we're facing right now and we're working all of them.
But they all won't be resolved really quickly.
And all of them will have unusual impact on results in particular reporting quarters.
And so our idea is to keep things as transparent as possible both this year and next year so that you can all keep track of the pieces appropriately.
Okay.
And just to clarify the 3 -- the similar amount let's say is that a mix of potentially some more direct costs related to San Bruno as well as spending to meet new safety standards? I really think by the time we get to next year we'll be talking about a lot of things we'd like to do to meet new standards in the state.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just a follow up on Steve's question.
If in fact the 2012 gas pipeline expenditures of $350 million to $550 million are in large part to meet new standards presumably set through the OIR will these continue to be unrecoverable? Or are we expecting that some portion of this could be put into rate base? We don't -- we really have to work through the OIR proceeding to determined that and Hugh I just want to clarify I did not provide guidance for 2012.
So I said we could have expenditures that might be comparable to the levels we're experiencing this year but I've not provided a specific range for next year.
And I want to be very clear about that.
But we have to work through the OIR with the commission and the other parties and we have to really work through all the issues.
What are the standards what will the rate-making be and what will the timing be.
Inc.</strong> Yes I'm very clear on the lack of clarity don't worry about that.
What can we do to kind of make this a little bit more transparent? How should we think about the scale of the remaining testing or remediation and the potential costs associated with that testing remediation so we can kind of follow your progress and estimate costs as you go along? Well Hugh I think we've given you a fair amount of information about this year.
And when we get around to providing guidance for 2012 we'll try to be as clear as we can about that.
The reality of our situation which I mentioned is that there is still a lot of things that are evolving fairly quickly.
And so we'll basically -- well going forward we'll do our best to try to give you our insights into where things are going.
But we won't do that quantitatively until we're ready to do guidance for 2012.
The next question comes from the line of Reza Hatefi with Decade Capital.
I just wanted to clarify a couple of points made earlier that you said 2012 rate base should be about half the pace of growth as was between '10 and '11.
Does the 2012 sort of guidance you gave include the effects of the bonus depreciation and everything? Yes it would.
And maybe since you mentioned bonus appreciation I know that's a topic that's confused a lot of people so maybe I can just spend a moment and talk about it just to put it in context.
And it's particularly confusing I think for our audience because the regulatory [ph] treatment is a little bit different for Southern California Edison and San Diego Gas &amp; Electric since they have General Rate Cases that are up for next year.
And we're in a different situation.
We're in the first year of a General Rate Case cycle.
So just a quick background on bonus depreciation.
I'll try not to go on too long but simply put what bonus depreciation does is it increases our cash and it increases deferred taxes.
And the higher deferred taxes causes a reduction in our actual rate base.
When actual rate base is lower than authorized rate base that creates headroom in our revenue requirement.
And so consistent with the intent of the tax legislation we plan to use that headroom to make additional infrastructure investments for our customer.
And as a result our actual rate base should stay pretty close to our authorized level.
We estimate that we'll increase our CapEx this year by about $200 million over what we normally had planned.
And we do that in the latter part of the year and then about $600 million next year.
Now what's happened with us is the CPUC has established a memorandum account I referred to this earlier and the intent is to keep -- have us keep track of this to ensure that customers receive the intended benefit of the legislation.
If we don't make sufficient investments over this period the commission could order us to refund revenues to customers in the future.
Now the reason I mentioned this is that we don't have the same situation for Electric Transmissions business.
In there we do annual TO cases.
And there we would expect that our bonus depreciation would be reflected in our rate base in our next TO case.
And then bonus depreciation also flows through for most of our separately funded programs likes SmartMeter for example.
So that's kind of how it works.
So the projected '12 preliminary guidance you gave for rate base that includes the puts and takes the net-net of the lower -- because of the bonus DNA but then you add some incremental CapEx.
It's all in there in that sort of preliminary guidance you gave? That's correct and as well as the fact that we would be truing up the electric transmission rate base in 2012.
Okay great.
And I was also wondering have you spoken to the rating agencies at all regarding all these issues that have taken place over the last few months? And I guess the levels of GAAP net income and so forth? We continue to have reasonably frequent interactions with the rating agencies.
Okay.
And is there any concern on their part or it's just -- I guess it's still ongoing the discussions? Well I think in the case of S&amp;P they do have us on a negative outlook.
And then in the case of Moody's they've reaffirmed our ratings.
And just lastly to clarify the total equity issuance in 2011 including DRIP Dribble and any outside issuances and then also I don't recall if you mentioned potential equity needs in '12 total all in.
I did not mention equity needs in '12 and in 2011 you're correct.
The total needs we currently estimate are about $400 million.
And a good chunk of that will be with internal programs but not all of it.
The next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
A quick question on the storm costs.
Is there any opportunity recover those extra costs you incurred in the quarter? This is Chris.
Normally for us to recover any kind of storm cost it would have to be in an area where it was declared a state of an emergency either by the governor or in a local area.
And so right now as we've look at it there doesn't appear to be very much opportunity to do that for this set of storms.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
Two questions.
One Kent can you in the $23.5 billion rate base number you gave for 2011 can you give us the components please? Boy I think that's probably more detail than I took with me to this call Michael.
Sorry I can't.
But we'd be happy to give you the basic components if -- over the phone later on.
That sounds perfect.
Second on the Pipeline 2020 program do you envision this as being a program where it's predominantly pipeline replacement and therefore it's capitalized costs versus -- or one where it's largely maintenance on existing pipeline and therefore it's more operating-cost driven? Michael this is Chris.
And the way we're looking at it is that I think that you'll see a combination of replacing pipes.
You'll also see us making a lot of it pigable pipe and so a lot of it will be on the capital side of that.
We'll also be putting in different valves which again should generally be capital type areas.
I think that as we continue to work through with the CPUC there will be maintenance activities and potentially changes in the way we're doing some of the maintenance based on the different standards.
But a lot of the modernization of the pipe will be to make it pigable and to replace some of the older pipe.
Got it.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Caris &amp; Company.
Just kind of getting off the pipeline for a second the Rancho Cordova proceedings I guess you had a cost this quarter.
How many more quarters do you expect costs relating to that? We have accrued some costs associated with it.
We are still inter-proceeding at the commission related to that issue.
So we don't know how much longer that proceeding will go on.
And on the gas storage side could you just kind of get more into detail on why we're seeing the weaker earnings? Is that a basis differential or is it more of just an abundance of gas storage so there's in some ways more competition? Well in that business obviously volatility is your friend to have a Storage business.
And obviously not only has had prices low but volatilities are quite low as well.
In the case of the parking services that we provide usually the revenues there are linked to seasonal spreads.
And that's what we experienced in the first quarter and we think much lower seasonal spreads and we expect there's a good chance we'll experience that more in the latter part of the year.
And I will assume in 2012 too? Is that a fair assumption? It's possible that item could continue into next year.
We don't foresee a big rebound in the market.
But of course it's a commodity market.
The next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to just -- a couple of questions.
I think this first one might be follow-up for Chairman Cox could you give us some insight into where you are in the process in terms of timing and when would be a reasonable time frame to anticipate an announcement around a CEO and then ultimately the Analyst Day you will then hold? Okay.
Well first of all candidates have been identified.
As you know when that happens extensive reference checks need to take place and other search work.
Then interviews are held and decisions are made about possible final candidates.
And then the reason I can't be more specific about a date is that the person that you finally select may have needs at their end about when they can appear.
So as I said before I think it would be a matter of weeks when this should complete.
And in terms of the Investor Conference Jonathan this is Kent.
We want to have our new CEO onboard and then figure out what timing makes sense at that point.
Okay.
And on a separate topic what have you assumed in your guidance for the timing of the equity issuance that you're talking about for '11? Is it sensed reasonable just to assume it's based on sort of mid-year half the share up in the average share count? Jonathan we're almost to the middle of the year.
I mean realistically -- and I prefer not to be more specific just about our issuance timing.
I feel like I'd like to have that flexibility so I'll leave that up to you guys.
Okay.
And on maybe one other topic the rate base numbers you gave us do those include or exclude CWIP? And the last time I saw you you kind of present them you had a sort of with CWIP and without CWIP number.
Now can you just remind us how we should think about CWIP in terms of earnings implications on...
Jonathan thanks for asking that question.
The rate base numbers do not include CWIP.
So those are authorized rate base numbers and they are average year rate base numbers that I was referring to.
In terms of CWIP I think it's probably reasonable to assume very roughly in that $1.5 billion kind of range for our CWIP this year.
Okay.
And can I just squeeze in one other? Sure.
Go ahead.
The line item on regulatory and litigation costs I think I heard you say that that was -- I mean the only thing you really called out was Rancho Cordova.
Can you give us any more insight into what's sort of in that number? How much of it was Rancho Cordova or what the other pieces of it might be? Jonathan let me kind of restate what I said before.
So it is a $0.06 item and I said a significant piece is Rancho Cordova.
The other thing that I'll remind you of is we -- I said we have been experiencing a little bit higher litigation-related costs in general not related to San Bruno during the first quarter.
And we think that we could continue to experience some of that this year and I think that's just probably a little bit of a reality of the world we're in right now.
So that's not on any specific issue that you could identify? That's correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom O'Neill with Green Arrow.
This is probably a question for Kent.
Just related to the opening statement about just hearing some of the announcements to resolve the problems and regain the confidence of stakeholders.
But not asking specifically about those but is it fair to say we've discussed the financial implications of those today? Tom I'm not clear about your question.
Can you repeat it please? Yes basically in the opening statements there from Chairman Cox is basically we were going to hear some announcement in the coming days about resolving our problems and regaining the confidence of stakeholders.
And I guess – Yes I know where you're going now Tom.
Thank you.
No we have tried to incorporate in our guidance our view for the year as inclusively as we can.
And I think really what Lee was referring to was just the fact that there's a lot we are trying to make progress on and you're going to hear some of those specific items and the progress and the steps we make in the coming days and weeks.
Our next question comes from the line of Ivana Ergovic with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> You talked in the past about 6% to 7&amp; growth rate.
So what type of the growth rate are you expecting now at the current lower level? Ivana we actually have not been talking about specific growth rates.
We've been providing guidance ranges by year.
And so what we have out there now is the guidance range both for our earnings from operations for this year as well as the item impacting comparability for this year.
And then what you heard me on the call today to do is in general give some general comments about 2012 but we've not provided guidance for 2012.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And do you think -- I mean I know you gave the new estimate for San Bruno say with the related cost of $550 million.
$350 million to $550 million is the range.
Inc.</strong> Yes yes.
Do you think -- is this your final estimate for the year? I mean would you expect that it actually could go above $550 million? It's our best estimate for the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Vedula Murti with CDP Capital.
I'm wondering with regards to the pipeline cost that you're incurring here as we go forward and I think Kent you alluded that there is some prospect of carryover into 2012 I think it was that in some fashion but I'm not sure.
I can understand it in terms of -- how much -- at what -- how much of these cost have the ability to be potentially capitalized as opposed to being expensed? And at any point in time here is there an opportunity to go before the CPUC given the retained earnings issue and the dilution issue that you referenced to perhaps get an accounting order to put -- to defer these until the next multi-year GRC? Vedula yes.
The costs we've been incurring this year as you've heard have to do with a lot of our records work and then our data validation and then Hydrostatic Testing.
And so the nature of those costs is they're more of expense-type costs.
And I think next year what you've heard from us is that we could do additional similar work additional Hydrostatic Testing for more of our system and then Chris also alluded the fact that we would like to modernize a lot of our pipeline and rebuild a lot of it which of course would be capitalized.
In terms of the OIR process at the commission and how to determine how that's all going to play out maybe -- I've commented a little on that but maybe I'll ask Tom Bottorff who leads up our regulatory efforts relations effort to just say a bit more.
Just procedurally on the opportunity to recover some of the costs of these efforts we had filed late last year a memorandum account that we hope the PUC would adopt track recovery of the expenses.
We hope to seek in a future proceeding.
That proposed memorandum account was rejected in a draft resolution that the commission has yet to take action on.
But they do expect to take action on that tomorrow.
At the same time while rejecting that memorandum account they did recommend that we introduce it in the OIR proceeding which we intend to do today.
So that would least establish a vehicle for recovery of these costs and then as the course of the proceeding continues in the OIR we do expect to file additional proposals to seek recovery of some of the costs that Kent described.
So would you interpret the rejection of the mechanism you just described being more -- just not in the appropriate venue and context in the other docket that it's more appropriate to be considered as opposed to passing judgment on the merits? Yes.
That is in fact what the PUC lays out in its draft resolution.
Okay.
And can you give us a sense of what the total that you'd put into that account that you've been tracking that you'd want to seek some type of regulatory resolution on and kind of how that projects out over the course of this year? No.
We have determined that at this point Vedula.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium Asset Management.
First question for the Chairman is the candidate that you're looking for I'm assuming is someone who could guide PCG for the next 10 years in terms of age is that a consideration? I really wouldn't want to comment on individual characteristics like that because we have a range of people at different ages right now.
Okay.
But is that something of priority to the board or no? It's not a driving factor no.
There are other things that I mentioned earlier someone who has actually managed at a senior level a regulated public utility someone who excels at stakeholder management someone with the kind of leadership ability to be involved in all of the operation's recovery efforts that we have underway today.
Those things by the way started last year shortly after San Bruno.
We haven't been waiting to do them until we got a new CEO.
So that's more of what we're looking for.
I wouldn't narrow at all the search to a factor of age.
And then a question for Kent.
Kent based on your new guidance could you tell us what this equates to on earned ROE for the Gas and Electric business for 2011 please? No I don't have that calculation.
So I'll leave that up to you guys to determine.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
A lot of my questions have been answered but just a quick one in the reconciliation that you provide in those tables there's this environmental liability.
It's only a $0.01.
Is there -- sorry if I missed this is there -- what is that? And is there anything going forward that we should think about? Paul this is Kent.
I didn't mention it just because it was such a small item.
And we had a number of items to cover.
But we do regularly accrue environmental liability and so we do tend to have adjustments quarter-to-quarter.
And this was one that you saw compared to first quarter of last year.
In this case we've been doing some property purchases.
And I think those have showed up as the charge.
Okay.
But there's nothing significant going forward that we should be thinking about with respect to anything developing right? Well environmental liabilities for us are usually are often a significant item.
I  mean we have a lot of different environmentally-related activities.
We have this hazardous waste memorandum account that is the rate making that relates a lot of our environmental liabilities.
And we're active in that area.
So I don't want to suggest that you won't see additional things related to that because we typically do have charges related to environmental liabilities as we true them up as new information occurs.
And Paul this is Chris.
What I'd add to that is I think you can look in the 10-Q and it pretty much has the information on probably the top 2 or 3 or 4 of the environmental remediation efforts that we've got going on.
And I think generally the costs are related to those efforts.
Okay.
Now the gas market conditions I had a little bit of trouble hearing the answer on that with respect to 2012.
Is there a fundamental change that you've seen in the market due to either pipeline additions or storage in the area? Or could you just sort of expand on that a little bit in terms of that what you're seeing there and how we might think about that going forward? Yes Paul I've mainly talked about the gas market conditions related to our Gas Storage business.
And my comments were mainly related to this quarter and the fact that they could continue to affect us this year.
Although I did acknowledge in the Q&amp;A that the market conditions could extend into next year as well.
And really what's going on there is low gas prices low volatility then the prices that you can charge for storage services are negatively affected by that.
And that's really what's driving us.
So when we looked at the parking transactions we did the first quarter of this year we received prices that were about 1/3 what they were the first quarter of last year.
And we don't see an immediate turnaround there but it's something we're going to keep watching.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Just a clarification Kent the 5% rate base growth that you highlighted for 2012 that is net of the impact of the bonus depreciation or would it be lower with the bonus depreciation? Yes.
I think what I was trying to suggest is that this year we've been at greater than 10% and next year the pace will be about half as much.
And that includes the impact of bonus depreciation.
It's sort of net-net everything.
That's where we see things going for 2012 at this point.
And also you're not -- any of this capital spend for gas -- for the gas system improvement is that included in there? Or is that not included in there? There is no additional CapEx in that area included in the general comments about 2012 at this point.
Our next question comes Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Kent someone asked earlier the question about what do you expect your earned ROE to be this year.
I just want to make sure I'm thinking about the components of this correctly.
If I were to take the $23.5 billion rate base and multiply it times roughly a 52% equity layer that would give me the equity base.
And then if I take the midpoint of your guidance that gets me to not quite $1.4 billion of net income.
Are there any components I'm leaving out in doing that kind of back of the envelope math to think about earned ROEs? I think your general approach is how I would go about it.
Obviously we have some things affecting us this year based largely on the first quarter that are giving us additional challenges to accomplish that.
I think the only other thing I would say is that there are some costs that we incur that we don't receive customer funding for.
Charitable contributions for example advertising and public affairs-related stuff.
And those normally are something that we incur.
So that's the only other thing I would add to it.
And do those other items offset the positive impact of CWIP because I mean the thing that wasn't in the numbers I threw out and my apologies I had the $23.5 billion.
I didn't have the $1.5 billion of CWIP.
Yes you do want to include CWIP and so those would go in opposing direction.
That's fair.
Got it.
Okay.
There are currently no further questions coming from the phone lines.
All right.
In that case I'd like to think you all for your attention and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Second Quarter Earnings 2011 Conference Call for PG&amp;E Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to introduce your host Gabe Togneri Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and enjoy your conference.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri.
Thanks Monique and welcome.
I know it's an especially challenging day in the broader market so we appreciate you joining us on the call.
As usual we issued our earnings release this morning.
It's available on our website for those of you who may not have it along with the supplemental earnings tables which includes the Reg G reconciliations.
You will want to have those tables available as we cover the results for the quarter.
We'll also be filing our 10-Q report later today.
I'll remind you our remarks will include forward-looking statements based on assumptions and expectations reflecting information currently available to management and actual results may differ materially from those current expectations.
You'll want to look at the important factors that can affect our results and those are described in the reports we filed with the SEC including the risk factors and other factors described in those reports.
And we of course encourage you to review those.
On today's call Chris Johns President of Pacific Gas &amp; Electric will provide an update on our operations including issues relating to pipeline safety.
Our CFO Kent Harvey will address financial results for the quarter and forward outlook.
But first though Lee Cox our Interim Chairman and CEO who is on the phone with us will make a few comments.
Thank you Gabe and let me first answer the question that probably a lot of you will want to be asking and that is that we'll have an announcement very soon about our new CEO.
And I acknowledge it took a little bit longer than we thought.
It's not a sign of anything other than the Board wanted to make sure we did an absolutely perfect job.
We are very happy with the outcome and again as I mentioned you will be hearing about that soon.
Along the way we sought input from a lot of key stakeholders and that's probably the reason it went a little bit longer.
And also some candidates who weren't originally on our radar screen emerged as possibilities and so that took a little bit longer too.
But we're to the point now as I've said where we'll have an announcement for you very soon.
And changing subjects a little bit to today's presentation.
I know it's been a tough year for our shareholders our customers and our stock price reflects that.
And we know we have a lot of challenges ahead but we're fixing our problems.
We're going to be working very hard to regain public trust and we want to put this company back in the position we believe it was before which is in good set with all of our stakeholders.
And Chris is going to speak about those efforts in more detail.
Chris? Thanks Lee.
And to echo what Lee just said this has been a challenging time for our customers and our shareholders.
And obviously and understandably our regulators are replying in unprecedented level of scrutiny on public safety and utility operation and so are we.
We're taking actions to fix underlying issues and rebuild our trust with our regulators and with the public.
As most of you know in June the Independent Review Panel commissioned by the CPUC issued its report.
And as you know having read that that the report was critical of PG&amp;E's gas operations.
We've embraced the panel's conclusions and its recommendations overall and we're integrating those into our turnaround efforts.
We're also applying those same lessons learned on the gas side of the business to the rest of our business.
Let me now provide an update of the various gas pipeline regulatory proceedings including some of the key events that are coming up in the next several weeks.
And then I'll update you on the work we've been moving ahead within our gas operations and also touch briefly on some of our nuclear operations.
First off we anticipate that the NTSB will complete its investigation and release its final report with the root cause of the San Bruno accident sometime in September.
In the meantime the NTSB is going to continually provide some updates of its previously released factual document and will hold a meeting regarding the investigation we anticipate at the end of August.
The conclusion of the NTSB investigation is an important milestone for us and for others as the findings will likely provide further insight on improving our operations and inform all of our other proceedings.
As you know the CPUC has 2 major proceedings under way.
The first is an order instituting investigation and that's focused on PG&amp;E's pipeline record-keeping activities.
And the second is an order instituting rulemaking which is focused on elevating the standards and practices for safety and integrity of the gas pipeline not just for us at PG&amp;E but also for the gas transmission operators throughout our state.
We expect that the investigation into the rulemaking are going to continue to move forward on somewhat independent but parallel schedules.
And we expect to get final decisions most likely sometime in the early part of 2012.
In the meantime we're continuing to work to address our gas operational issues.
Our new Executive Vice President of Gas Operations Nick Stavropoulos hit the ground running in June.
We've also hired 3 experienced senior gas level engineers for key director level assignments.
And we'll be hiring additional personnel with expertise in specific areas of gas pipeline operations in the coming months.
Nick is focused on strengthening his organization and building the near-term and long-term action plan to turnaround our gas performance.
We're continuing to gather and centralize and scan thousands of directors which we've used to inform the regulatory proceedings and to substantiate gas pressure levels in more of our populated areas and to guide the additional work plants that we have in place.
We also got our ambitious pressure testing program up and running during the second quarter and so far the news is good and that all of the segments tested has passed.
No other company has targeted this amount of hydrostatic testing on in-service pipes particularly in such a short period of time.
Now we still have lots more to do and this work will pick up pretty quickly here over the summer and the fall.
We're also working on our implementation plan which will be the next major milestone in the rulemaking when we file it towards the end of this month.
Our implementation plan will embrace the concepts and the initiatives of our original Pipeline 2020 program and we'll also be inclusive of the request that the CPUC has asked us to include.
The implementation plan will include our proposals for pipeline testing and replacement standards going forward and for retrofitting pipes to accommodate inline inspection tools and for automatic and remote shutoff valves.
It's also going to address the issue of cost.
The rulemaking requires PG&amp;E's implementation plan to include a proposal for cost sharing or for reduced return.
Now while the specifics will have to wait until we make our filing later this month our proposal will recognize the significant cost that the shareholders have already funded which right now is approximately $190 million pre-tax since the San Bruno accident.
Finally I know a number of you are still interested in our nuclear issues which continue to be the top of the mind in the aftermath of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.
Diablo Canyon is a critical source of power for millions of Californians.
In fact it provides about 20% of the electricity to our customers every year.
The plant provides carbon-free power and has an excellent performance and safety record.
Our power generation team has been actively engaged even in advance than the NRC's report on the implications of Fukushima for U.S.
nuclear operators.
We're looking at ways to further improve the ability to withstand unexpected events at the plant such as installing even more robust backup systems.
We will also obviously incorporate additional insights in any new NRC requirements that will move us forward on safety and operational practices at Diablo.
I also want to mention that this quarter we successfully completed our latest refueling outage at Diablo Canyon.
The outage work was done safely with good performance on both the schedule and the budget.
So with that I'll turn it over to Kent to discuss the financial performance.
Thanks Chris.
I plan to cover 3 items.
Our financial results for the second quarter our guidance for the year and then our financing plans going forward.
And overall I don't see any major changes in these items since our last call.
So let's start with the quarter and as you can see in Table 1 of the supplemental earnings package we've reported $406 million or $1.2 per diluted common share in earnings from operations.
On a GAAP basis earnings were $362 million or $0.91 per share.
The difference between GAAP results and the earnings from operations is the item impacting comparability for gas pipeline matters.
And that totaled $74 million pre-tax which is $44 million after-tax or $0.11 per share.
There are 3 pieces to the IIC which you can find in the footnotes to Table 1.
While the dollars in the footnotes are after-tax by convention I thought I'd go through the pre-tax amount so that you have that information as well.
First we incurred $76 million pre-tax $44 million after-tax in pipeline-related costs during the second quarter.
This includes our continued work on the records and data validation the early stages of our hydrostatic testing program and then legal and other costs.
Second we increased the accrual for third-party liability claims by $59 million pre-tax during the quarter.
You'll recall that we originally established a range for third-party liabilities of between $220 million and $400 million and we booked the lower end of that range in Q3 of last year.
Based on our recent experience with the mediation and litigation process we've increased that provision by $59 million to $279 million.
We continue to believe that $400 million is a reasonable estimate for the upper end of the range.
Third we booked $60 million pre-tax of insurance recoveries during the quarter and that reflects payments from the carriers who have the first couple of layers of our liability coverage.
I'll say a bit more about the item impacting comparability going forward when I get to guidance.
Next one we go to the quarter-over-quarter comparisons for our earnings from operations and this information is in Table 3.
The dollar to and earnings from operations for Q2 represents an $0.11 increase compared to the second quarter of the 2010.
The biggest driver here was the final decisions received in our General Rate Case and Gas Transmission &amp; Storage case.
Those decisions were retroactive to January 1 so you see the year-to-date impact reflected in the 2 positive items totaling $0.24 in Q2.
Of that $0.17 represents the increase in rate-base earnings and $0.07 recovers the normal increase in operating expense that we incurred in Q1 while the cases were still pending.
This essentially catches us up for the revenue shortfall you saw last quarter.
The rate case impact was partially offset by several items.
We were $0.06 lower due to our plant refueling outage at Diablo Canyon and associated maintenance activities and of course we have no refueling in Q2 of last year.
We were $0.02 unfavorable due to lower gas storage revenues as we continue to experience adverse market conditions with this part of our business.
We also had a couple other items and each were about $0.01 negative and then we were finally $0.03 unfavorable due to a greater number of shares outstanding than a year ago.
I'll move on to guidance which is shown in Table 7.
And we are reaffirming our 2011 guidance range for earnings from operations that we provided on the first quarter call.
We continue to expect earnings from operations to be in the range of $3.45 million to $3.60 per share for the year.
Our 2011 guidance for the IIC related to gas pipeline matters has been updated to reflect the Q2 accruals I mentioned before.
The range is now $0.51 to $0.99 per share compared to the previous range of $0.52 to $1.8.
I'll briefly just walk you through the pieces and those also are shown in the footnotes to Table 7.
The first component is pipeline-related costs which remains unchanged at $350 million to $550 million pre-tax.
This includes the estimated work associated with the pipeline records and data validation our hydrostatic testing program and then our estimated legal and other costs during this year.
I view the probability of incurring costs at the upper end of that range to be somewhat less than when we did our earnings call last quarter.
But I also believe it's prudent to maintain the full range at this point in the year.
The second component is third-party liability and the range for the year is now $59 million to $180 million pre-tax.
All that we've done here is update the lower end of that range to reflect the $59 million that we accrued in Q2.
The upper end is unchanged.
And then lastly we reflected the $60 million of insurance recovery in the item impacting comparability.
We continue to expect that most of the third-party liability costs will be recovered through our insurance.
However other than the $60 million already recovered and shown in Q2 we're not including additional insurance recoveries in our 2011 guidance.
We'll book additional recoveries once we've resolved our claims with the other carriers.
Similarly we've not included in our guidance range any estimates for potential future fines or penalties.
Last up is just a brief update on equity issuance which is unchanged from our last call.
We're still forecasting a total equity need of roughly $400 million for the year and we continue to expect about $250 million internally through our 401K and dividend reinvestment program and about $150 million externally through our existing Dribble program.
As of the end of the second quarter we've issued roughly $150 million from the 401K and DRIP and about $100 million through the dribble program.
By the way we plan to file a registration statement by tomorrow to cover the offer in sale of additional shares in our 401K plan.
This does not represent a change in our plans for equity issuance.
It just allows us to continue to issue shares to the 401K.
I think those are the key points for the quarter.
So we'll go ahead and open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
So just to be clear I know I think you were very clear I just want to understand at this point do you think you're tracking below the high end of the range of the pipeline related costs? Otherwise known as the costs that shareholders are most likely going to have to bear? So less than the $550 million high-end? Yes Greg if you look at our year-to-date numbers they're running at about $125 million for all the direct costs.
And so just simplistically if you double that that would only be $250 million and that would be the wrong thing to do.
So I don't want to suggest that.
Because obviously we have a lot of our work that's more seasonal and it's frankly upon us right now because in particular the hydrostatic testing is primarily in the summer and into the fall.
So you're going to see that in Q3 and into Q4 as well.
So it's not as simple as math as that but we are somewhat lower than our original plan several months ago and I'm just reluctant to adjust the overall range at this point because we have had new things come on our plate obviously over the last number of months and I think it's still a prudent range overall.
And is my memory correct that you're also expecting a similar range of expenses for next year as well? Yes.
What we've said with respect to next year Greg is that in terms of the costs we incur like that or things like hydrostatic testing and other work that the expenses could be on a similar order of magnitude as this year.
And in reality we're going to give you more specificity about that when we file our implementation plan a few weeks from now in the ratemaking proceeding.
And ultimately of course the commission is going to determine what spending is appropriate how the ratemaking is going to work but in terms of the expense levels we see a lot of the work we're doing this year.
It's going to be multiyear in nature.
I think the other thing you'll see in our implementation plan is we'd like to do more capital work.
Our profile this year has largely been expense work but as Chris described over time we'd also -- we want to replace more of the pipeline and we also want to upgrade it for more inline inspection and we also want to get to more valve automation.
And that type of work will also be capital work.
But I mean the expenses you're incurring on the pipeline-related costs this year are not expenses that you plan on filing for recovery for from the CPUC so is there pretty much direct shareholder cost? It's not clear yet like whether next year's expense levels are recoverable or not recoverable correct? Yes.
The whole issue of cost sharing we're going to be addressing in our implementation plan in a few weeks from now.
One last question.
Can you specifically define the concept of "very soon" in terms of when your CEO announcement might come? I'll take that one.
Very sooner I think is probably the best term I can think of to use right away imminent.
Those are all good definitions.
We've all been waiting on bated breaths.
So we look forward to the announcement.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
I guess the first question just to ask Greg's question one other way it sounds like whoever you're hiring as CEO has signed on and has a contract and we're just waiting on an announcement? There's no more recorum [ph] is that fair to infer? I really don't want to comment on any kind of detail rather other than what I already have.
As I mentioned to you the reason the search took a little bit longer than we thought was that there were more candidates in the pool that we wanted to consider than we initially thought.
So that's what's taken the time.
And other than that I wouldn't want to characterize the delay in any other way.
And then can you just maybe shed a little more light on process for getting the memorandum account set up? And is there a kind of timeframe we could look at where you least have a chance to start getting recovery on this money going out the door? This is Tom Bottorff.
We did make a formal request to have the memo account approved.
It's pending in the rulemaking proceeding.
But as yet the commission hasn't taken any action on it and it's not clear when they will.
So it still remains a request pending at the PUC.
And there's no way until that goes effective they're not able to get recovery on money spent that's correct? There's not a potential to adjust that retroactively? Well there is a potential if the commission approves our request.
That would be their decision whether they want to approve it retroactively and we have asked them to do that but we don't know that they would in fact take that action.
And then on the equity issuance using the Dribble in the quarter.
Should we assume that it's going to be a ratable flow out of equity to get that $400 million number over the remainder of the year or how should we think about kind of that money raised? This is Kent.
I don't like to be more specific about the timing.
But you can see how much we've done so far this year and what our general plans are for the rest of the year.
Our next question comes the line of Steven Fleishman with Bank of America.
A couple of questions.
First I think Chris mentioned that in the proposal you'll file early this month there's $190 million pre-tax that have already been funded by shareholders.
That $190 million is that the cost of the basically just the testing and recordkeeping? This is Kent.
The precise number I think in our press release is $189 million.
And that's essentially all the costs we've incurred since the accident.
So it's the initial cost in our work with the community.
You remember even late last year we did a lot of additional leak testing and other actions to ensure the integrity of the system and then it's all the work we've been doing this year.
So it includes the hydrostatic testing the records work and of course all of our legal costs and other things related to the pipeline.
Separate however from the third-party liability accrual.
Yes.
These are only the direct costs that I was describing and that are included in that $189 and our cumulative accrual as I mentioned before on the third-party liability was the $279 million.
And could you just on the hydrostatic testing I know you mentioned that so far you're having kind of problems but just how are you going on getting the testing done on in terms of -- it seems like it's difficult to actually obviously do in terms of just timeliness? And can you meet the difficult targets that the commission set to get that done? Can you just give some flavor that? Yes Steve this is Chris.
First let's separate those out.
We put forth a plan our own action plan on how much hydrostatic testing we thought we could do this summer and it is our plan.
It's not part of any proceeding at the CPUC.
Having said that it is a very ambitious plan and we've been moving through it very deliberately.
And obviously when you're going in doing hydrostatic testing you have to go through a lot of procedures including getting permits for that making sure that environmentally you've got everything in the right place at the right time and then we're finding it it takes about 10 hours to actually do the test but it basically takes about a week to take the pipe out of service clean it out do the test and then put it back into service making sure all the water is out of there and those kind of things.
So when we look at it though we still think that we've got a good chance of getting it all accomplished this year in terms of what our schedule is.
You may have seen that there were some reports that we filed with the CPUC just alerting them to the fact that because of some of the things that you run into when you do these tests that there could be a chance that we don't get it all done this year but if we don't we'll just do it next year.
And then just finally I saw you've mentioned that you got some insurance proceeds just how was the process going with the insurance process? Is there any challenges that have come up out of that or so far as expected? Steve this is Kent.
It's been going as expected and in general I'll just let you know we have been working really closely with the carriers throughout the process.
So we've had regular communications with them so that they know how we're approaching the various issues in the litigation and the mediation.
And we have settled with the first few layers in our insurance power and that's what we booked in Q2.
And we hope to continue to make progress with the other carriers but we really just can't predict the timing of that.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
I was wondering if you would be able to provide any more background on the CEO hire if the person comes from utility or regulatory background it's currently at some other firm or is coming out of retirement.
Anything along those lines that you'd be comfortable sharing.
I think what I'd like to do is go back to the beginning in the call that we had 3 months ago where I mentioned to you that we would be looking for someone from the energy or public utility sector who had experience in operations as well as someone who could work within the regulatory arena.
And so that's what we looked for and I don't want to try to characterize the specific candidate now because I just think that would be providing too many details right now.
But the hire matches those requirements laid out 3 months ago? Yes.
Those requirements didn't change during the search.
In any way have you communicated with the commission about it or is something that still needs to be done after the announcement? When the process began I sought input from commissioners about what characteristics they thought the new CEO should have and they gave me that information.
But no I've not provided information to anybody at the commission about the final selection.
Our next question comes the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Just trying to think through some of the options on the cost side for the implementation plan.
How do you think -- what do you think the path is in terms of how to get past the pipeline issues sometime over the next couple of years to where we're not talking about PG&amp;E potentially under earning it's authorized ROE and say like 2014 or 2015 timeframe.
How do we kind of get to that level of certainty? I mean I understand it's completely going to be an issue over the next year to be expected normally happens in a situation like this.
I'm more importantly thinking longer-term.
Well Michael this is Kent I'll take a first cut at your question.
In my mind our big challenges are the ones that Chris laid out earlier.
We really do need to restore trust.
And we need to address our operational issues and then we need to actually have the plan that we'd like to do to strengthen the pipeline be consistent with what the commission wants us to do.
And we've spent a number of months working on an appropriate approach to that latter issue and that's what we're going to be filing later in the month in the implementation plan.
And as part of that proceeding that's where the cost recovery and cost sharing issues will be addressed and that's really where we got to work it out.
But I mean intervenors are going to probably want you to spend a lot of money obviously to make the system as safe and reliable as possible but have 0 impact or very minimal impact on customer rate somewhat of a punitive outcome.
How do you get around that? Like what are the kind of options? I know you haven't drafted the plan or haven't finalized the plan yet but what are the potential kind of range of options that could make this something where you're not I don't know for a long multiyear period someone in the penalty box? Well I guess the principles that we've had all along Michael is that if we were remediating something from the past which we could have done better then we understand we wouldn't seek recovery of that from customers.
If we are now building our pipeline to a new standard and there's new standard set out in the state which I think is where the commission is going not just for us but for the other pipelines in that state that is something that should be recovered through rates over time.
Last item.
You've talked Lee about the potential new CEO hire coming imminently or the announcement coming imminently.
Yet your regulatory folks are probably well into the weeds of drafting the implementation plan.
How do you think the timing of those 2 things up? Meaning is this individual likely participating in the drafting of that plan because as CEO this may be one of the most important things that will impact their performance and yet probably a large portion of the plan drafting and writing is already underway before they've even started.
First the new CEO has not participated in that process but the principles that you would use to develop such a plan are not so unique to us or to the industry that the new CEO would have a problem with that.
I'm quite sure of that.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just to change direction briefly on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's recommendations regarding nuclear safety.
There seem to have been a focus on the one hand on ensuring that the plant design was appropriate in light of natural hazards in the vicinity of the plant.
And then secondly the plant had the capability to withstand prolonged station blackout and I was wondering if I can get your comments on how those priorities may or may not affect the Diablo Canyon Yes this is Chris and obviously our first and foremost focus at Diablo Canyon is on the safety aspects of it and making sure that it is running and operating in a safe manner.
And so even before their 90-day letter we have been taking hard looks at our original plant design and what you might consider to be forces outside of the original design basis and how well we are prepared for those kind of instances.
And in fact we've taken actions to order additional equipment for the plant just to make sure that we've got even increased backup access to either power or water those kind of items out there.
And then we've reevaluated and are consistently reevaluating our ability to withstand certain amounts of ground movement based on earthquakes.
As you know because of where we're relocated we have our own seismic group that is constantly evaluating that.
So we don't take any of it for granted.
We are continuing to look at and look at the safety aspects of our plant and trying to do anything additional that we can to reinforce the safety of the facility.
Now we've looked at the 90-day letter and I think that there will be new things that all the facilities in the country will have to do related to that and as much as we'd like to get a jump-start on it we want to make sure that we're doing the things that the NRC eventually will want to have in place.
So we we're working very closely with them on those issues.
Inc.</strong> Do you anticipate any major increase in operation and maintenance expense at the plant or for that matter in required CapEx? It's really hard to predict right now because the NRC hasn't really said that what how and what they will want to have implemented.
I would imagine though most of it is going to be more around reinforcement of design in terms of making sure that you've got back up generation that you've got access to power that you've got access to cooling that you have your facilities located in areas where they would be less susceptible to flooding or other kind of items like that.
So in general those sound more like capital type improvements than anything else as opposed to necessary ongoing maintenance type expenses.
Our next question comes the line of Andy Levi with Caris &amp; Co.
On insurance proceeds so I guess you said you settled with a layer for $60 million.
So just if I remember correctly you had about $1 billion of insurance is that correct? Yes we had $992 million I think for the first 2 layers above the $10 million deductible.
Right so does that $992 million now since you've settled with some of the layers kind of go down if you know what I mean? So kind of what's left? What happens really when you have a claim like this is you have the entire tower and obviously our liabilities are not going to be close to be a full $992 million.
And so what we're doing is essentially making claims against the lower layers as far as necessary to recover all the claims in the case.
And so and after the accident happened many of the layers were single incidents.
So we actually reinstated the insurance for the remainder of that policy period.
I can probably understand but I can talk to Gabe afterwards offline.
And then just could you just also go over I guess there was I don't know if the word is confusion but thinking after the first quarter call you guys got out in the road and you started talking about rate base and CWIP and offsets to CWIP and maybe some offsets to those offsets could you just go over that real quick again with us? Would you mind? Let me give it a quick try Andy and again we haven't provided guidance for 2012 for earnings from operations or for the gas pipeline IIC.
I'll remind you what we've said about 2012.
So in terms of the earnings from operations which I think is what you're alluding to I said a couple different things.
First of all that we'd expect average rate base to grow at about half the rate in 2012 as in 2011.
And this year for a variety of reasons we expect double-digit growth in average rate base so it's got to be going from about $21 billion last year to somewhere around $23.5 billion this year.
And that's just won't be the case in 2012.
So that's one thing I covered.
The second thing is I think what you were alluding to which is construction work in progress and the earnings on that.
And in that case we'd expect the overall amount of construction work in progress next year to probably be pretty comparable to what we're looking at this year which is roughly in the range of about $1.5 billion but we don't expect that all the AFUDC earnings associated with CWIP will flow through to our earnings because we do have a number of costs that are not recovered through rates.
And those tend to offset a good chunk of our AFUDC earnings.
So they include things like our charitable contributions our advertising and lobbying expenses.
So those are kind of the 2 major things I've said.
I think I also commented just in general that given our share issuance this year that will obviously affect share count next year as well and so you want to keep that into account as you're thinking about 2012.
And what type of levels would you be assuming on charitable contributions the 2 or 3 items that you talked about? We haven't provided estimates for each of the components but I would say it would be reasonable for 2011 to think that these items that are the below-the-line type items will offset very roughly maybe about half of the AFUDC earnings.
And then I guess possibly in the past I don't know if I got this right that I guess you always have kind of these charitable contributions and the advertising and things like that but I guess I don't know if it's '08 '09 or '10 but I guess there was some offsets to some of those costs I don't know if there was some tax items or...
I think that's the main reason why people had sort of not paid attention to this.
Because the last few years in addition to having some tax accruals that have been helpful we've also had the CEE earnings.
That with a pretty substantive level $30 million or $40 million a year and I think those tended to have masked the below the line items.
We just don't see those to the same extent going forward right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Kent I'm just curious about if you could give us a little more insight into the factors that are causing the estimate on costs to come in or do you have some confidence that the high end of the range may not apply? To what extent is it timing on some of this testing and permitting issues.
Is that part of it or all of it or none of the reasons? We'll Jonathan I don't have a whole lot more to add to what I've said before.
Basically just the profile is such that now I think there is a somewhat lower probability of hitting the upper end of the range but I'm not taking the upper end of the range off the table yet.
So we have not changed our guidance.
I want to be clear about that.
And I would say that we have found some additional records which will reduce a little bit the overall hydrostatic testing but I also recognize that we're still fairly early in the process.
And so it's hard at this early juncture in the hydrostatic testing to really draw some definitive conclusions about the whole year yet.
Because we're really while we've been working hard at it and we've been out in the field now since May it’s still the first few months and we were in ramp-up mode.
Is it not right that you filed the commission that you might not get it done by the end of the year recently? Yes Jonathan this is Chris.
What we filed with them was just the acknowledgment that given all of the items that you have to go through which is some of the permitting and then once you do the testing if you find something in there you may have to do additional work.
That puts a lot of strain on the ability to meet such an aggressive program and so all we were trying to do is to alert the commission to the fact that we may not be able to get it all finished this year and then if we don't we'll do it next year but right now we still feel like we're on schedule and that we'll able to get it done.
But we do want to make sure that folks are aware of the challenges that are involved in such an aggressive schedule.
Is the main flex point on costs to the extent you're finding records then you don't have to do as much testing because if you have the records to prevent having to actually do the test? Well I would say that's one factor.
I mean when you think of it in general this is the amount work that's encompassed by all of these direct costs.
There's a lot of it and it's huge scale and we've been in ramp-up mode.
So I would say there's a number of factors that affect it and obviously there's a lot of stuff that we've never done at this scale before such as the hydrostatic testing.
So our estimates necessarily need to be estimates and we learn more as we go through the year but we're still only part way through the year.
And many of these activities we've really only just really been ramping up in the spring and into the early summer.
Our next question comes the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Trying to get an idea for the core O&amp;M if we take out some of these one-time and San Bruno stuff so we look at that increase of about $500 million looks like year-to-date.
We take out San Bruno cost the Diablo Canyon refueling the revenue tracked recoverable items what's core O&amp;M growth looking like? I would say that's a little more complicated question to respond to and you're on the right track in terms of pulling those items out but there are other things in O&amp;M like our public focus program and others pass-through costs.
So generally the way to think about it is we have wage escalation which is all about our core item that affects O&amp;M earnings.
And then it would be dependent upon things like the timing of the refueling and our Diablo Canyon outage and other work.
So really just the wage escalations as a core piece? That's one of the primary drivers.
Travis this is Gabe.
The other thing that will help is when we do issue our Q if you look at the Results of Operations section in the latter half of the Q there will be a section that talks about the O&amp;M category and that will be I think somewhat helpful for you as well.
They don't have a lot of the same items that we discussed in the box.
And then just a quick reminder on the Diablo Canyon you recovered that all in the quarter or is that spread over the entire period between the refueling outages on the recovery? We recovered it over time but we incurred the maintenance costs during the quarter and obviously you do a lot of maintenance during a refueling.
There are currently no additional questions waiting from the phone line.
All right in that case I know you have a busy day ahead of you with other calls.
So thank you very much for your interest and your attention and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for attending the Second Quarter Earnings 2011 Conference Call.
This now concludes the conference.
Enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to introduce your host Gabe Togneri with PG&amp;E.
Thank you and enjoy your conference.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri.
Thank you Lynn and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call.
Along with our earnings release and the supplemental tables including the Reg G reconciliations we've also provided you this morning with PowerPoint slides.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements based on the assumptions and expectations reflecting information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect our results are provided on Slide 2.
We encourage you to review that as well as the 10-Q report we'll be filing later today and all of the more fulsome discussion of factors in that.
Today's speakers are noted on Slide 3 and other members of the team as usual are here to participate in the Q&amp;A that will follow.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We have a lot of tough news to communicate today but since this is my first quarterly call at PG&amp;E I thought it'd be a good idea to take some time to share some initial impressions and my plans.
So I'm going to start with Slide 4.
I am totally committed to making Pacific Gas &amp; Electric one of the best operated utilities in the country and I am certain that we can do that.
But in order to succeed we need to be brutally honest about how we stack up against the best today then we need to have a culture that celebrates those gaps as a roadmap to future improvement.
We know that San Bruno was a tragic event that has made it clear to us that our operations are not where they need to be.
In my first 6 weeks with the company I've spent time meeting with our leaders and assessing whether we have the right organizational structure and the right expertise and experience now on board.
So let me start with organizational structure.
Earlier this year the company split the Gas and Electric businesses into distinct operating units and created Gas and Electric EVP roles and I think that was a very good move.
It's already resulting in better focus and clear accountability for each business.
Within those business units we've done organizational alignment to get better focus on operational excellence.
I've also shut down our corporate strategy group that was tasked with looking at industry trends and non-utility investments again to get clearer focus on utility operations.
So let me move to Slide 5 and talk about the officer team.
There have been some key leadership changes at PG&amp;E since San Bruno.
In addition to myself we've added Nick Stavropoulos an outstanding leader in the Gas business.
Nick has been building up his organization including hiring experienced senior staff from companies including TransCanada Public Service of New Mexico and El Paso Pipeline.
We've added Karen Austin our new CIO from the retail industry who will accelerate our use of technology to support our operations improvement.
We also just announced that we hired a new VP of Communications Roger Frizzell from American Airlines.
Our officer team overall includes a good mix of people with long-term PG&amp;E experience as well as those with impressive industry experience at such companies as Exelon Entergy FPL and PP&amp;L to name just a few.
I'm convinced that the team that we now have in place will deliver the results that we're going to need.
We all know that resolving all of the gas pipeline issues will be challenging.
As you saw in our press release this morning and as shown on Slide 6 we have determined that we need to spend more on both our gas and electric system to reach our goal of operational excellence.
Spending approximately $200 million incremental to our previous plan will have a negative impact on our earnings in 2012 which will continue into 2013.
It is our objective however to earn our authorized return in 2014.
Some of this additional spending will be acceleration of work we've previously planned to complete over a longer period and some will be new work that we've identified in our review of operations.
Kent is going to take you through the details of our earnings guidance and Chris will provide more information on the operational areas we're targeting a little bit later on the call.
Work to improve our operations is vital to restoring the confidence and trust of customers and regulators.
My personal experience at both LILCO and DTE is that you cannot PR or lobby your way to credibility.
There's only one solution and that's to provide consistently better service to customers.
Operational excellence and accountability drive customer perceptions.
Operational excellence improves regulatory relations.
We're going to use ongoing benchmarking to measure our progress and allow us to set meaningful improvement goals for the future.
Given what has happened at the company over the last few years this strategy we believe is in the best interest of all our stakeholders.
We need to provide superior service to our customers because average performance is just not going to be enough.
We cannot afford any significant operational issues and we understand that even routine operations are under intense scrutiny so we have to be better than expected.
To execute this strategy Chris and his team have put together plans that I'll ask Chris to describe now.
So Chris? Thanks Tony and good morning everyone.
First I'm going to discuss our review of operations and the steps we're taking to improve our operational performance then I'll bring you up-to-date on the status of our gas pipeline work over the quarter and our related regulatory proceedings.
And then finally I'll also describe the developments related to our Hinkley compressor station that led us to increased environmental accrual.
So let me begin with Slide 7.
To build on Tony's point restoring trust and confidence in PG&amp;E is our key focus.
There's only one way to get there: by providing safe reliable electric and gas service.
We are fully committed to improving the safety and reliability of our operations.
Not all of our operations are where they should be which is unacceptable to us our customers and our stakeholders.
As Tony said we are also operating in a world with much more scrutiny.
The expectations of our customers our policymakers and our regulators are higher than they've ever been and rightly so.
Regulations and expectations are changing.
This is raising the bar for performance and we are expected to meet that challenge.
Over the last year we've been taking some actions to improve certain aspects of our operations and we've continued to evaluate all of our operations across the company beyond just the gas pipeline business and we've been incorporating the findings of the CPUC's independent review panel the NTSB and other reviews that have been performed.
But we still need to do more now in key operational areas to improve our overall performance.
So as you'll see on Slide 8 and as Tony stated to do this additional work we will need to expand our resources which means expending approximately $200 million more than previously planned in 2012 and most likely a similar amount in 2013.
The decision to move forward with this work will cause us to under-earn relative to our authorized levels and Kent will describe the implications to our guidance in just a couple of minutes.
But let me first describe the work we'll be doing.
The majority of the work as you would expect is in the gas transmission and distribution system.
About a third of the additional spending will be dedicated to accelerating work we originally planned to address over a number of years and that we now intend to complete most of it by 2013.
Let me give you a couple of examples of this work on the gas side of the business.
We'll be completing our evaluation and the remediation of our gas deal services that are more vulnerable to corrosion we'll be increasing our right of way clearances and we'll be increasing our protection or relocating our gas distribution meters to prevent damage.
On the electric side of the business we'll be accelerating the inspection cycle and reinforcement of electric poles we'll be increasing the physical inspection of areas that are most susceptible to wildfires and we'll be accelerating our overhead and underground line maintenance work.
The remaining 2/3 of the spending in 2012 will be to elevate our performance and put it on a solid foundation going forward.
On the gas side of the business a couple of examples include work related to increasing our staffing and training for our gas control center shortening our leak repair and leak recheck interval requirements and improving our integrity management and class location programs.
On the electric side work will include technology projects primarily targeted at improving our asset investment and management programs.
We will also be taking steps to improve our customer service by enhancing support for small and medium business customers and increasing our overall customer communications and education efforts.
As we get this work done we expect to raise the level of performance in each of these areas and going forward we'll continue to drive for additional improvements over time.
Now let me move on to gas pipeline matters in Slide 9 starting with an update on the regulatory proceedings.
The NTSB issued its final report during the quarter.
We've embraced their recommendations although they were still very difficult to hear.
In addition at the CPUC there are 2 major regulatory proceedings: the record-keeping investigation and the forward-looking rulemaking for all gas pipeline operators.
In the rulemaking proceeding we've filed our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan at the end of August.
We proposed to spend $2.2 billion between 2011 and 2014 to modernize and improve our pipeline system.
Right now the rulemaking and investigation are proceeding on generally parallel paths that probably won't be resolved until the middle of 2012 sometime but we still have important work to do this year to enhance the safety and integration of our -- integrity of our gas system.
We've continued driving our gas pipeline work plan and have successfully met our commitments and key milestones.
As planned we increased our strength testing work in the third quarter testing more than 46 miles of pipe and as of September 30 we had tested verified through records or replaced more than 100 miles of pipe.
Last week we experienced our first test failure; that pipe was replaced and successfully retested.
By year end we expect to be right around our aggressive target of 152 miles.
This represents an unprecedented level of pressure testing of pipes already in the ground and located in densely populated areas.
Our gas engineering teams have also worked diligently to meet our targets for validating maximum allowable operating pressures for the highest priority pipelines.
We met the CPUC's June July and August targets and are on track to validate more than 1 800 miles of pipe.
We anticipate doing a lot more work like this in 2012 as part of the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
What I just described represents our direct pipeline work.
We're also working to address the needs of the San Bruno Community and resolve the third-party claims associated with the accident.
We took an additional charge of $96 million for third-party liabilities this quarter.
This brings the total accrual to $375 million.
The high end of the range which was previously $400 million has also been updated and is now $600 million.
These changes reflect additional information regarding the nature of the claims and our experience to date in resolving key cases.
They also reflect developments in the litigation and regulatory proceedings related to San Bruno.
Finally but very important I want to bring you up to date on our environmental remediation efforts related to chromium in Hinkley and that's shown on Slide 10.
During the quarter we took a significant charge of $125 million for environmental-related costs associated with groundwater contamination.
As you may be aware decades ago the company used the chemical hexavalent chromium at our gas compressor station in Hinkley California.
For several years we've worked with the Regional Water Quality Control Board to develop test and deploy a variety of methods to clean up the chromium contamination in the groundwater.
The next step for us is to build on this extensive cleanup work and to seek approval of a final remediation plan for the site.
During the quarter we submitted our plan to the Water Board proposing a range of options for the ultimate resolution of our liability for the Hinkley site.
These remediation costs represent the primary driver for the increased accrual.
The accrual also reflects new environmental data about the remediation site as well as recent orders from the Water Board.
It includes estimates for higher potential remediation costs and costs to provide replacement water to certain residences impacted by the plume.
We are fully committed to remediating the groundwater in Hinkley and providing bottled water to affected residents but we have some concerns about the approach the Water Board is taking and we're working with the Board on these issues.
We expect more information from the regional and the state water boards in the coming months about the range of our remediation efforts the resolution of the replacement water issue and potential new standards which could lead to additional charges in 2012.
As I turn it over to Kent to discuss our financial results I'll reiterate what Tony said.
We know we're sharing some tough news on this call but we also know this is the right path to take.
Demonstrating capability through effective operations is the only way to restore the trust of our customers and all of our stakeholders and that is exactly what we are doing.
And now I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
I plan to cover our third quarter results our outlook for the remainder of 2011 and our guidance for 2012.
I'm also going to address our financing needs and the dividends.
So let's start with the quarter and on Slide 11 you can see that earnings from operations for Q3 were $436 million or $1.08 per diluted common share.
On a GAAP basis earnings were $200 million or $0.50 per share.
The difference between the two reflects 2 items impacting comparability one for the natural gas pipeline matters and one for environmental-related costs at Hinkley.
The gas pipeline item totaled $0.40 per share for the quarter and the environmental-related item totaled $0.18.
Chris already described the factors affecting the environmental accrual but I will spend a moment on the gas pipeline item.
You can see in the table below that the largest component was the pipeline-related costs of $177 million pretax.
This includes the strength testing and the pipeline validation work in the field that Chris described as well as legal and other costs incurred during the quarter.
The other component was the additional accrual of $96 million pretax for third-party liability claims.
Since the accident we've now accrued a total of $375 million for third-party liability.
There were no insurance recoveries booked during the quarter and you remember we only book insurance recoveries once we've resolved the claims with each carrier.
Slide 12 has the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations and the $1.08 for the third quarter represents a $0.06 increase compared to Q3 of last year.
And here are the key items.
First we had a $0.10 increase due to higher authorized rate base investment.
We also had a number of smaller items totaling $0.03 positive.
These increases were partially offset by higher costs for litigation and regulatory matters totaling $0.04 negative and the primary driver here was an additional accrual for the proposed decision of the Rancho Cordova proceeding.
We were also $0.03 negative due to a greater number of shares outstanding.
Based on our results to date and our projections for the rest of the year we're maintaining our guidance range for 2011 earnings from operations of $3.45 to $3.60 per share and this is shown at the top of Slide 13.
On this slide you'll see that we're updating our 2011 guidance range for the item impacting comparability for gas pipeline matters to between $0.65 and $1.28 per share and we're showing the additional item impacting comparability for environmental-related costs at Hinkley.
This reflects the third quarter accrual totaling $0.18 per share.
Let me walk you through the various components of the pipeline item in the table below.
First we're not changing our range for the pipeline-related costs.
They remain at $350 million to $550 million pre-tax although I will say given where we are in the year I do not expect we'll end up at either extreme of that range.
Second we are updating our 2011 range for third-party liability to reflect the assessment made at the end of Q3 that Chris described.
The new range shown here is $155 million to $380 million and let me explain how you get to that range.
You may remember that our original estimate for third-party liability after the accident was $220 million to $400 million and that we accrued the lower end of that range last year.
Based on the information we currently have we've increased that range to between $375 million and $600 million if you deduct the $220 million we booked last year to get our new 2011 range of $155 million to $380 million.
We booked $155 million this year.
And third I'll remind you that we don't include any future insurance recoveries in our guidance so what you see here is the $60 million of recoveries we booked in Q2.
We also don't include any future fines or penalties in connection with the pipeline accident.
I'd now like to move on to our guidance for 2012.
We've decided to provide 2012 guidance now based on the operational review we've recently conducted which Tony and Chris described.
Obviously we still have some key issues that need to be resolved; in particular the outcomes of the various gas pipeline proceedings could have a significant effect on our item impacting comparability our equity needs and our share count.
But for purposes of our 2012 guidance we've assumed that our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan is approved as filed including our proposed cost recovery.
2012 guidance also excludes the impact of any future fines or penalties.
Those are important assumptions to highlight upfront.
Let me go through our other assumptions.
Let's start with rate base which is shown on Slide 14.
We're assuming an average authorized rate base of about $24.5 billion in 2012 which is up about 5% over 2011 and CWIP of about $1.6 billion.
This reflects our General Rate Case our gas transmission case the Electric Transmission business and our separately funded projects like SmartMeter Cornerstone and then the Photovoltaic Program.
You should expect that roughly half of next year's earnings on CWIP will be offset by below-the-line costs such as charitable contributions advertising and public affairs activities since we don't recover those costs through rates.
In terms of CapEx you'll see that we assume $4.6 billion to $4.8 billion of CapEx next year and this is an increase from our 2011 level which has been at about $4.2 billion and mainly reflects the incremental CapEx that we expect to be funded by bonus depreciation.
Our cost of capital and cap structure will be unchanged in 2012 under the existing mechanism which is in place through the end of next year.
The PUC will be reconsidering these issues for 2013.
On Slide 15 as Chris described we expect to increase our expenses next year to improve the safety and reliability of our operations.
Chris already covered the areas that we're focusing on here.
We expect to spend roughly $200 million more than previously planned about 1/3 for work that would be completed by the end of 2013 and about 2/3 for new ongoing work.
On Slide 16 you can see that based on these assumptions we're establishing guidance for 2012 earnings from operations of between $3.10 and $3.30 per share and this obviously represents a significant decline from our 2011 guidance.
There are 2 main drivers: First the higher expense level in order to improve our operations; and second we expect higher shares outstanding on average next year as compared with this year.
These items more than offset the higher earnings associated with year-over-year rate base growth.
We expect the average shares outstanding will be higher because the shares issued throughout 2011 will be outstanding for the entire year in 2012 and we also expect to issue additional shares next year.
And I'll cover future share issuance in a moment.
Slide 17 summarizes our 2012 guidance.
So in addition to the earnings from operations I described on the first line we also showed the ranges for the 2 items impacting comparability.
The range for the gas pipeline matters item is $0.14 to $0.60 per share.
We're also providing a range of $0.00 to $0.14 per share for environmental-related costs at Hinkley.
This reflects the potential for additional accruals next year depending on the final remediation plan that's approved the resolution of the replacement water issue that Chris described as well as other issues.
In terms of the gas pipeline item the components are shown in the table before and it's a bit [indiscernible] so I want to walk you through.
The first is pipeline-related costs outside the scope of the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
These are costs we do not plan to recover through rates.
We estimate them at $100 million to $200 million pretax for the year.
What are they? Roughly half is for specified work on our pipeline such as strength testing and validation for post-1970 pipe as well as some additional in-line inspections.
The rest is mainly for costs associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings.
We have not included the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan cost in our guidance range for next year's item impacting comparability.
The assumption here is that we receive a final decision on our proposed plan during 2012 and that the PUC approves our proposed cost recovery.
Until we actually receive the PUC's approval we won't be able to offset the expenses we incur for the plan with revenues.
This will increase the item impacting comparability until we receive a final decision.
Once we receive it the year-to-date revenues would offset the prior expenses in the item impacting comparability.
If our plan is approved as filed we'd expect these to net to 0 for the year.
The second component of the gas pipeline item is for estimated third-party liability and the range for this component is $0 to $225 million.
And this just reflects the difference between the total amount we've accrued to date $375 million and the upper end of our estimated range for third-party liability of $600 million.
As has been our practice we're not including future insurance recoveries in our guidance.
We continue to believe that a significant portion of our third-party liability costs will be recovered through insurance but we'll only book insurance recoveries once we've resolved the claims with each of our carriers.
Our 2012 guidance also does not reflect any future fines or penalties.
Now I'll turn to financing and dividends and that starts on Slide 18.
And this shows that year-to-date through September we've issued roughly $400 million of equity.
About half that has been through our internal programs our 401(k) and DRIP programs and about half externally through our continuous equity offering or Dribble Program.
Providing a forecast for equity needs is challenging in our current situation but based on the assumptions and the guidance I've laid out we would anticipate needing additional equity somewhere in the $600 million range between now and the end of next year.
When you compare the equity issuance over these 2 periods that are shown in the table the key drivers of the increase are higher CapEx next year as well as lower earnings from operations.
In addition the accruals we took in Q3 increased our going-forward equity estimate.
Partially offsetting these factors is the lower level of unrecovered pipeline costs expected next year.
Again this estimate assumes our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan is approved next year as filed and it excludes the impact of any fines or penalties.
The changes in these assumptions will drive additional equity needs in order for us to maintain our capital structure and our credit quality which is important to us.
In terms of timing I currently expect that more than half of the additional equity would be issued by the middle of next year.
We're looking at $250 million to be issued through our internal programs the 401(k) and DRIP and we also have about $100 million of capacity left under our current Dribble Program.
For the remaining needs we'll consider an additional Dribble Program [Audio Gap].
Earlier this year we announced that given the challenges we were facing we would not make any changes in our dividend during 2011.
I know this was disappointing to investors especially given our lower-than-average payout but it was the right thing to do.
Currently we're not planning an increase for 2012.
Obviously we still have a lot of issues to resolve including the outcomes of the PUC's rule making and investigation.
After those proceedings are concluded we'll assess our situation and any other issues that remain and then determine what makes sense.
We recognize that dividend growth is important to our investors and we want to be able to provide that growth in the future.
But in the meantime we intend to maintain our current dividend of $1.82 per share.
I'm now going to hand it back to Tony.
Thanks Kent.
So we've talked about a lot on this call so let me make a run at trying to summarize the key messages.
First our operations are not where they need to be particularly in light of the intense scrutiny we've experienced after San Bruno.
Second getting them there will require higher expenditures.
While it's the right thing to do it does result in disappointing guidance for 2012.
Our spending profile is likely to be similar in 2013 but we are committed to earning our allowed return in 2014.
We've outlined the importance of addressing the challenges that we face: resolving our pipeline issues improving our operational performance restoring our reputation with customers and regulators.
I believe that is the only way to achieve sustainable earnings and dividend growth in our industry and I can tell you that the whole PG&amp;E team has committed to that sustainable success.
So with that we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Tony I guess the thought was that you're going to face some higher costs to try and get operations up to snuff but that $200 million I guess question number one is when you look out to '14 in your near-lot [ph] ROE are you assuming that you'll be back on course after 2 years of spending your spread up or are you going to have to go to the commission in the next rate case and assume you get squared up that way? No it's too early to really give you details on what that next General Rate Case would look like.
I think it's probably a combination of things.
There are some things as we said that we're pulling forward that would be over with but then in looking at our operations we'll have to look at going forward what spending is appropriate given the high level of performance that we want to provide.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess kind of the next question on that vein is that the $200 million of additional cost -- the assumption I guess is that PG&amp;E was a reasonably good operator.
As you've gotten in are you finding structural problems or cultural problems that have kind of led to some of these gaps? I think if you -- and I know you read the NTSB report and that's certainly highlighted in a couple of areas where we need improvement.
And we've taken a top-to-bottom look at the company being very self-critical and I think that's the approach you need to take.
And the other point that I'd make is as you go through an event like San Bruno the level of scrutiny and the level of expectations increases to an even higher level.
So to get ourselves back to having the support of our customers and our regulators we can't just have average performance we have got to have an outstanding performance and that's driving some of the additional spending.
Research Division</strong> I guess Tony as you envision it from us on the outside given kind of all the challenges you have what sort of benchmarks do you guys plan to share with the street so we can try to keep track of the improvements in performance in a way to gauge whether the plan is working and the ability to repair the relationship is in course? That's a good question and obviously a company this size should have literally hundreds and hundreds of benchmarks you can use.
We're still working on what would be good measures to continue to share on an ongoing basis.
But we do want to be transparent as we go through this around our performance metrics but I don't think we're ready yet to say here is exactly what we're going to share.
Research Division</strong> And Kent just one last clarification question.
The $600 million through end of '12 that'd be $600 million on top of the $400 million this year before any sort of additional equity to fund the fine or something like that? That's correct.
We've already issued $400 million and we estimate what we need from today through the end of next year based on all the assumptions I laid out we estimate roughly in the $600 million range and the drivers were on that slide that I covered a little while ago.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Couple questions.
The earnings guidance does it include the expectation that -- I think you've explained what you're doing in terms of this item impacting comparability on pipeline-related costs.
You're not including the assumption that your operating costs associated with the August 26 filing are approved but once they are approved you'll reverse that.
Is that right Kent? Yes.
The way to think about it Greg I think you've got it right is if you're in the first quarter and we don't have final approval yet for the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan the expense components obviously we would be showing as an increment to that item impacting comparability.
Once we get final approval and if the plan were approved as filed we would reverse that because we'd be able to show the associated revenues year-to-date when the approval happens.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that item is going to grow as we move through the year if we don't have approval? That's correct.
And the final approval assuming is what we have proposed would tend to offset the accruals during the year.
Research Division</strong> And does your earnings guidance assume that the capital program as filed in the PSEP is impacting rate base and that you're getting recovery on that? Yes.
It assumes that the commission makes the decision during 2012 and ultimately allows for recovery of those reasonable going-forward costs that are incremental to what we've currently been spending under past standards.
Research Division</strong> And it assumes you earn a return on the capital? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So just a higher-level question.
If I look at the earnings guidance and I look at the $200 million of unrecoverable cost you're basically telling us that all things equal the earnings power of the company would be around $350 million next year if it were healthy? What is your expectation of sort of the underlying rate base growth profile? And that's off of a rate base growth -- a rate base number that you've also laid out in the presentation that is a number of $24.5 billion.
What's your expectation of sort of the level of rate base growth that investors should expect as we move out past 2012? Greg we really haven't provided rate base growth beyond there yet and I think that gets back to some of the issues that Tony described about thinking through what we're really going to be looking at by the time we get to 2014.
So I guess what I'd say is year-over-year this year is in the 5% range and I just don't know if that's going to be specifically a good indicator of future years at this point or not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question.
The $1.6 billion in CWIP the earnings associated with that should we continue to assume they're offset by unrecoverable expenses? Yes.
I think my suggestion is that you'd assume that roughly half of those earnings on CWIP would be offset by those costs that are below the line.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Boy.
When we're looking I guess -- I guess when do you feel that we'll get back on sort of a more normalized track on operating expenses? And I guess going forward past the next couple of years when do think this would become to get more normalized? Well as we said in the presentation 2012 2013 will probably have a similar spending profile.
Our objective is to be back to earning our allowed return in 2014 which would be a combination of finishing some of the spending and also will have gone through a General Rate Case.
Okay.
So I mean -- I understand that -- so in other words you feel that all these expenses that you currently have or what will be going forward after this period in time will be at a level that the commission everything would be okay with it.
Is that the way to think about it? Yes.
What we're spending now comes under the existing General Rate Case which means it's spending that we are not going to seek recovery of and when we file a General Rate Case we think we'll be able to justify whatever spending levels that we put in that case.
And obviously as you know those General Rate Cases are subject to  discussion with the commission but yes we think we're confident that we've got a good plan in place.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> My first question is for Kent.
Your estimate of equity issuance next year apparently excludes fines and penalties.
Have you budgeted any equity issuance to cover third-party liability costs that may not be recovered under your insurance policy? Hugh when we do our forecasting we have forecasted internally the third-party liability issue and then we also forecast insurance recoveries over time and I think the reality from a cash perspective is that we tend to accrue the third-party liabilities when they are probable.
And so it's a going forward and often as has been the case we accrue before we actually incur the cash.
So if you look at our cumulative accrual for third-party liability we talked about that being over $375 million year-to-date.
The cash outlay to date is more in the $80 million to $90 million range.
So you have to look at both the cash and the accruals and in the case of the insurance again we do try to forecast when we think the claims will be resolved.
But that's obviously on a lag because a lot of the litigations still has to proceed.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Are you anticipating that recoveries under your liability insurance will be materially less than the claims you pay out? I guess the way we're articulating is that we continue believe that a significant amount of our liability claims will be recovered through insurance.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Tony a question for you on the incremental expenditures the $200 million of incremental expenditures.
Should we -- which way should we be thinking of these -- are these expenditures that to some extent will have to continue beyond the next 2 years because they reflect operations outlays for maintenance or for data monitoring that the company should have incurred and wasn't incurring and therefore there's going to be an ongoing bump up in your cost or should we think of these as perhaps more productivity enhancing expenses outlays that you'll make now that are going to make operations not only safer but also more streamlined in the future and therefore will not have that effect of ratcheting up your cost on a going-forward basis? I think it will be both and let me let Chris just address that in a little more detail.
Yes this is Chris and I would agree.
Some of it as we said is going to be items that we are accelerating and so those are going to be a 1- to 2-year kind of increase and then in other areas we are going to be increasing our performance.
And you would expect that when you increase your performance that yes there may be some costs associated with doing the extra work but at the same time we're going to be looking at what best practices are in driving for productivity driving unit costs to be at lower levels.
And so it is a little hard to predict right now where we'll be by 2014 but it will be a combination of doing some of the cost increases to get the performance up to a good level but at the same time constantly reevaluating the processes and driving productivity through the organization to put the downward pressure on those costs.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds to me like we should probably assume that not all the $200 million really disappears in 2014 and that there's sort of an ongoing level of higher costs that you'll incur to maintain a higher level of operations performance? I think that's probably a good assumption that there'll be some level that will be in the next General Rate Case request.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Caris and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> For the O&amp;M level to kind of use for a base for 2012 can you kind of give us a little guidance on that at the utility level? I guess normally your models I would assume have had estimated O&amp;M for us for next year that would be consistent with us earning our authorized return putting aside the items impacting comparability.
And what we're articulating here is that we see an increment of about $200 million above the levels you would otherwise estimate for us to earn our authorized return.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you can't give us a number on that right? Not on the 2011 kind of the base number? No we're not providing a specific number on a line item on the income statement.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just also to understand so if you were to incur a fine whatever that fine is from the state of California on the pipeline issue that would lead to incremental equity is that what you're saying? Andy that's correct.
For the charges we've been taking for our unrecovered expenses as well as for any future costs like that we would issue additional equity in order to maintain our capital structure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And why was it that you didn't recover any insurance costs in the third quarter? Is it just timing or anything else? The insurance process -- our insurance coverage involves a number of carriers that are in a tower and so we have discussions frequent discussions we've been having with our insurance providers as we go through the litigation process and are trying to resolve some of the cases.
But we do have to continue to advance that process before we resolve claims with a lot of our additional insurance providers so that's just a process that takes a while.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Tony you've still been there a relatively short period of time so when you've come up with these kind of $200 million expected numbers how set in stone are these numbers? Did you leave some cushion in them given that I assume you're still reviewing operations to some degree or is that review totally done? No.
I mean we will continue to review operations.
I think we're obviously comfortable enough with those numbers to be able to give 2012 guidance.
And I think one of our next steps going forward both in 2012 and 2013 we'll be looking for opportunities to offset those costs through efficiencies but we're nowhere near being able to say "Well here's what we think we can offset." Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just from a General Rate Case standpoint your next kind of scheduled filings both electric and gas are for the 2014 implementation year? This is Tom Bottorff from Regulatory Relations.
Yes we are on schedule to file our General Rate Case application towards the latter part of next year.
Research Division</strong> So that would be implemented essentially beginning of '14? Yes.
Research Division</strong> On that schedule.
Okay.
Steve this is Gabe.
And the gas transmission and storage case isn't scheduled until one year later so that one would be 2015.
But that's a much smaller case than the GRC.
Research Division</strong> Last question just -- is there a rough way to say of this $200 million how it's split between electric gas and maybe transmission? Yes -- this is Chris.
I would say the majority of it is gas transmission and gas distribution.
It's a smaller part on the electric and the customer side of it but most of it is on the gas side of the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Kent real quick just in terms of what's in and what's not in 2012 guidance.
I apologize.
I know you went over this a little bit after Greg's question.
I want to make sure we totally understand.
The EPS from operations assumes the plan is approved the PSEP plan but also incorporates $200 million of incremental expenses that are above and beyond the plan.
Is that correct? Let me just quickly walk you through it.
And it is complicated so I want to acknowledge that upfront.
But we've tried to lay it out as clearly as we can given just how complex our situation is.
If you look on the Slide 17 that we used for guidance the earnings from operations there excludes those items impacting comparability.
So it excludes the gas pipeline stuff and then it includes any potential additional accrual related to the environmental costs at Hinkley.
But what is in the earnings from operations is the incremental $200 million of expenditures that we've been talking about.
So that is reflected in that $3.10 to $3.30 range.
The gas pipeline items have the 3 components that are shown down at the bottom: the direct costs where we're estimating between $100 million and $200 million and in that $100 million and $200 million those are costs that are outside the scope of the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
So we have assumed that the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan is approved as filed during this year and therefore would not by the end of the year have an impact on that item impacting comparability.
And then we talked about the third-party liability claim guidance just takes you up to the maximum in the range the upper end of the range that we described is the low guidance range here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because you're pulling -- and Tony this may be more of a regulatory question.
Because you're pulling forward a lot of the work that you would had originally laid out in the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Program do you have to go back and refile that? Do you have to file an amendment? Does the OIR process have to almost not start over again but get a little bit of a restart? No let me let Chris deal with that.
Michael we're not -- the work that we're talking about in the $200 million is not work that was included in the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
This is other ongoing work.
So let me just give you a couple of examples.
So we're accelerating some of our leak repair process -- cycle process so it's something we would normally do over a 15- to 18-month period we're now going to do over a 12-month period of time.
Or we had programs on the distribution side of the business that we had to have done by 2016 we're now going to do by 2013.
So most of the stuff in the $200 million that we're talking about on the gas side which is the majority is on the distribution piece whereas the plan that we filed with the commission is on the transmission side of the business.
And so although there's some of it on transmission we're not accelerating anything related to the filing that we've made and so that's still all items that would be included as on schedule.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Last Tony when you think about organizationally you've made a lot of changes and there were changes underway before you came.
What's left from an organizational structure standpoint and  from a process standpoint that you see at PG&amp;E in your first 6 weeks there that are dramatically different than what you've experienced elsewhere or that what you would prefer to see at PG&amp;E in the future? Well a lot of the changes that we've made -- I was very pleased when I got here things were happening and happening very quickly.
I think the biggest organizational change was splitting gas and electric.
Those of us who have been at combination companies and this is my third understand that you need to have that singular focus on each line of business.
Actually as the brand newly minted President of Long Island Lighting Company in 1989 I thought it would be a great efficiency move to try and combine the 2 businesses.
I found out very quickly that that wasn't such a good idea.
And I think most people will tell you that getting that singular focus from a very senior person on a line of business means that you get the right resourcing.
So I mean that was one of the biggest things.
There are obviously always small tweaks to organizations but I think from both a structure and a personnel standpoint I am now very comfortable that we've got the right elements in place.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on -- so the $200 million -- sorry to come back to this that we're discussing is basically an O&amp;M type of number.
Is there an element of capital spending that's also going on here that's sort of embedded in that CapEx forecast that's also part of this accelerated plan or am I not thinking about that right? Jonathan this is Kent.
We do have a higher capital in 2012 as compared to 2011 and that's largely been accommodated by the bonus depreciation treatment where as you know we have the benefits of bonus depreciation and the commission has set up a memo account for us to use to do [ph] incremental CapEx.
When you look at the increase from '11 to '12 there is a significant amount of that that is on the gas side including gas distribution.
So we are ramping up our expenditures which will tend to also improve operations.
They're just not out of the norm because we do have the bonus depreciation situation in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from a rate base standpoint it sort of maybe nets out? That's correct.
Yes you won't see the full impact on rate base of the higher CapEx because you also have the increase in deferred taxes from bonus depreciation and those largely offset one another.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I may just send a little bit more into the types of things that you're doing on the gas business and there was a round of enhanced accelerated spending on gas distribution 2 or 3 years ago what's -- what are you doing now that you weren't doing then? Well the things that we did a couple of years ago is that we basically just resurveyed.
We accelerated a 5-year program into about 2 1/2 years.
And so at this point we're taking similar type of actions but just different from that.
So we've got a meter protection program so for the safety of meters putting -- making sure that there's protection around -- those around the homes.
That was a program that we were originally going to complete by 2016 we're now going to finish that by the end of 2013.
We've got some steel services which you've heard a lot a lot about maybe the Adelaide pipe but there's also other types of services cast iron and steel services that we've had programs on and we're accelerating the completion of those.
So it's several of those kinds of things.
And then when you talk about some of the previous questions there's other things that were related to the findings in the NTSB report.
So for instance there was a lot of focus on our control room and so there is an instance where we're going to hire more folks to be involved in that program we're going to have training costs that we're going to have to do.
And so those are types of costs that will be incremental and will stay there.
We will do some enhancements of scada controls and monitoring so that we'll get some efficiencies out of that but those are some examples of the costs that we're going to be incurring.
Research Division</strong> Thanks Chris.
And if I can just on -- more on the regulatory strategy front obviously you have these -- I think there was a schedule just came out in the last couple of days on the pipeline case.
Are we looking at sort of a midyear type of -- into 2012 before we get some certainty on these? Or Tony do you see any opportunities to push for a faster resolution or try and get these cases wrapped up kind of together rather than separately or any comments there? Well John and we certainly would like to get them wrapped up and behind us as soon as we can but given the reality of that schedule that was just announced I think your midyear number is a good time frame.
Research Division</strong> And then as for having that happen sort of as a pair rather than separately is there any scope for that? Let me let Tom discuss that.
This is Tom Bottorff again.
Now these proceedings are pretty much on separate tracks; the rule making to look at what cost recovery is appropriate for improvements in our transmission program that's on one track.
And an investigation called the records OII that's pretty much on a separate track and just this week the commission issued proposed schedules for both proceedings.
So you mentioned the rule  making which Tony just affirmed is scheduled for a decision probably in the summer of this year.
The records OII that schedule suggests a final ruling in that proceeding probably won't occur until the latter part of 2012.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Smith with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Question for you maybe shifting a little bit to the operational side and the testing side.
You guys had one of your large diameter pipelines fail in one of the pressure tests a couple weeks ago.
I wonder if you guys can just give us an update there.
Has there been any kind of root cause analysis yet? Essentially I think Nick was quoted in the media as saying that where it failed was one of the highest-quality wells in the pipe.
I just kind of want to understand with how you guys were thinking about that and if that was impacting your testing strategy going forward.
This is Chris.
It's not changing our testing strategy.
I mean basically this was the pipe that we want to run it up at a very high pressure and so we had to spike it up there when we do it at about 150% of what we anticipate running it at and it did have a seam weld that failed.
We removed that.
We're doing testing on it to get further into what the root cause was but we replaced it and moved forward on it.
Given the amount of testing that we've done we don't know whether -- we don't ever expect any of these things to occur but we will go and we've sent it away for analysis to make sure that we can learn from it but we don't have that analysis done yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys have talked about the sort of a permitting issue when you do your testing being sort of extensive.
This rupture was in a rural area it sounds like it was in a field somewhere.
Do you think this complicates permitting going forward when you test maybe in more urban areas or what's your sense there? I mean all of our testing actually is in what we term highly populated areas so in this instance it was still a pretty relatively populated area other than the break occurred out in the farmland-type area.
But we're -- as we said we're over 100 miles out of the 150 that we had planned to do and we're on schedule still with the permitting that's associated with those so I don't anticipate by this event that we're going -- that that's going to change.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Fallon with Talon Capital.
Just wondering on Slide 17 to hit the high end of your guidance the $3.30 number does that assume that you only incur $100 million out of the $200 million that you've been discussing for incremental expenses or does it assume that you recover $100 million out of that $200 million? This is Kent.
We don't make different assumptions for the high or low.
We have an overall scenario with assumptions that we provide for you and then we have a range around it.
Okay.
So I guess the guidance the $3.10 to $3.30 does assume that you eat the $200 million incremental [ph] cost is that correct? That is correct.
This is Gabe.
Let me break in at this point.
If we have one more question we'll go ahead and take that but we are on the hour right now and so let's see if there's one more question.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom O'Neill with Green Arrow.
I just wanted to ask I guess just a broader question just the amount sort of being foregone by shareholders now is starting to approach a pretty good chunk of the rate base at the time the San Bruno explosion occurred.
Just kind of curious if you can take us through the thoughts that you went through and why the scenario of either sell it or ring-fence it isn't viable? This is Kent Tom.
The reality is our gas business is very much -- on the pipeline system is very much integrated with our distribution system.
They're operationally not totally separate nor separable.
And yes we have incurred a lot of costs since the accident obviously and we're working through all those issues.
But from our perspective our intent is to operate the gas business well and successfully and safely and it's not to sell the business.
Okay.
I want to thank all of you for joining us this morning.
Thanks for your questions and we look forward to seeing many of you at the EEI next week.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for attending the PG&amp;E Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This now concludes the conference.
Enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to introduce your host Mr.
Gabe Togneri.
Thank you and have a good conference.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri.
Good morning everyone.
So let me provide the usual upfront remarks.
Our comments today will include forward-looking statements based on assumptions and expectations reflecting information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect our results are described at the front of today's slide.
We also encourage you to review the more fulsome discussion of risk factors that appear in our 2011 annual report that will be filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K with the SEC later today.
This morning's speakers are Tony Earley Chris Johns Nick Stavropoulos and Kent Harvey.
Other members of the team are also here to participate in the Q&amp;A.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Thank you Gabe and thank you all for listening in today.
Since this is only my second quarterly earnings call I think I'm still enough of a newcomer to share some of my observations of the company before we get to the heart of our discussion this morning.
At our last earnings call I made several points about what we had done to start to transform PG&amp;E.
And we had hired a lot of top-tier talent to supplement the strong core of PG&amp;E veterans that we have.
We made organizational changes that established clear lines of accountability for our gas and electric businesses.
We put a strong emphasis on operational excellence and we made a commitment of resources to turn the business around and ultimately to make our operations the safest in the country.
So with the benefits of a few more months on the job let me add a couple more observations.
Our team understands that public safety is our highest priority and we're now rolling out technologies to get us there.
They understand that the focus is on back-to-basics that we have to be -- have to focus on benchmarking and to put in place a continuous improvement program.
Most of all the team understands that we have to deliver.
We know the areas we need to improve on and we've got a solid foundation from which we can execute.
And that's significant because it means that in contrast to where we were just 7 or 8 months ago we now have a very real opportunity in 2012: first to truly tackle and resolve our gas issues; second focus on repositioning PG&amp;E for long-term success; and third rebuild relationships with key stakeholders.
And that is exactly what our executive team is focused on.
So let me start with the first point the gas issues.
The new gas organization we put in place last year has delivered on our key commitments and made impressive progress in 2011.
And Chris and Nick will give you the update on the details in just a couple of minutes.
What you'll hear is that we still got an extremely demanding amount of work ahead in 2012.
Much of this falls under our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
It's work that is critical to meeting the new pipeline safety standards being adopted by the CPUC and in Congress.
It's also essential to resolving the San Bruno issues and rebuilding public trust and confidence in the company.
At the same time it's important to distinguish between the work that was necessary to close the gaps in our past performance and work that's newly required going forward.
Our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan is largely new work for a new world where the CPUC is setting future safety standards at a higher level than ever before.
With minor exceptions it's not all work to meet yesterday's standards as some have claimed.
To avoid confusion we've already asked the CPUC to separate the review of the appropriateness of the plan over the issue of who should pay for the plan.
You've seen our press release this morning that although we're maintaining our guidance from earnings from operations we've updated our outlook for 2012 pipeline costs.
The update reflects our current understanding of our cost based on the experience that we gained in the field last year.
We've also made some conservative assumptions about the timing of the CPUC's ruling on our safety plan.
Let me underscore that we're going to continue to work hard to accelerate a decision on a safety plan and to resolve all of the gas-related proceedings at the commission.
Reaching as much clarity and closure as we can on the regulatory and legal fronts in doing so as soon as we can is a top priority for our team and we know it's a top priority for our investors as well.
Shareholders have stepped up and are bearing substantial cost to address past issues and it's important that regulators recognize this when it comes time to make a decision on cost for work going forward and we will urge them to take that into account.
Let me turn briefly to positioning the company for long-term success.
Success for us is delivering overall results for customers that are in the first quartile.
The key is honestly assessing our business benchmarking our performance and then acting to close any gaps that we find.
We're going to ingrain this into our operations and our culture.
Focusing on operational excellence is the single best way to rebuild our relationships with customers regulators and we believe investors.
As you've heard me say before based on my past experience in similar situations the only way to convince customers that you're a different company is to prove it by listening to them and then delivering great service.
And our entire executive team understands this.
None of us expects to get there overnight but we've set a high bar and we will make significant progress in 2012.
So with that I'll turn to Chris and then Nick to take you through our operational progress in 2011 and our plans for the coming year.
Chris? Thanks Tony.
Today I'm going to summarize the significant work that we completed in 2011 to help resolve the gas pipeline issues.
And I'll touch on the work that we're doing to position the broader company for success.
I'll also discuss some of the regulatory developments over the last couple of months.
Let me start with the gas work in 2011.
We accomplished a remarkable amount of work this past year to improve the safety of our gas pipeline system.
To give you just a couple of examples by the end of January we have validated the maximum allowable operating pressures or what we refer to as MAOP for all of the more than 2 000 miles of transmission pipelines in high consequence areas.
And along the way we met every one of our commitments with our regulators.
In the process we conducted a records validation effort more detailed and comprehensive than anything done before anywhere.
We've completed an unprecedented amount of pressure testing validating the safety of over 160 miles of gas transmission pipe.
This was technically difficult and highly complex work on in-service pipes in densely populated areas.
And as Nick will discuss later we'll be doing a similar amount of work this year to further validate and enhance the safety of our system.
Now gas operations in place we're not the only ones working hard to improve the safety and reliability of our operations last year.
We made a number of safety enhancements to our electric system focusing on reducing the risk from outages and reducing the number of and the impact from equipment failures.
At the same time we had another strong year in electric reliability where we had our second consecutive year with the new low of outage frequency.
In the area of renewables 19.3% of the electric power we delivered in 2011 came from renewable resources putting us on track to meet the interim benchmarks as we move towards California's 33% goal by 2020.
This is in addition to the 40% of clean energy sources from our vast hydroelectric system and our nuclear facility.
Speaking of which we had another very successful year of nuclear operations at Diablo Canyon including in the industry-leading safety performance during our refueling outage.
Finally we installed 1.5 million SmartMeters in 2011 bringing our total to 8.9 million out of the planned 9.7 million.
And we're utilizing those meters and the capabilities to reduce our outage times.
As we look into 2012 we will continue to drive our safety performance improvement in all areas of the company.
And Nick's going to discuss the gas plants in just a few minutes.
But in the electric operations we'll be doing more reinforcement and inspection work on poles and increasing our overhead and underground line maintenance work in an effort to identify and resolve potential issues before they disrupt our customers or cause unsafe situations.
Throughout the business we'll continue to work on improving our processes and using technology to achieve our safety and reliability objectives.
Finally I'd like to discuss regulatory developments which affect our operational outlook and plans.
As you know the CPUC initiated 2 new investigations since our last earnings call.
So we're now working through 3 gas-related investigations as well as the rule-making proceeding.
You may recall that the original investigation was initiated in early 2011 focused mainly on our records management.
Then in November the CPUC initiated the class location investigation to review whether we operated our pipeline system at pressures consistent with current class designations.
We've provided our responses in that proceeding identifying our errors and properly designating class location and adjusted operating pressures accordingly.
The most recent investigation the gas pipeline investigation covers all areas of our pipeline operations.
It takes into account a report by the safety division on the company's gas pipeline operations and practices which the report attempts to broadly connect with the San Bruno pipeline rupture.
This is the most comprehensive review of operations by the CPUC leading to a penalty proceeding.
In addition to these investigations the CPUC in December gave the staff new citation authority in their oversight of gas companies.
Through that new authority the safety division staff issued a citation for about $17 million for our self report of some maps missing from our distribution leak survey schedule which our team identified and then promptly corrected.
We believe this fine is excessive under the circumstances and we have appealed the citation.
However there are no precedents to rely on here so we can't predict the final outcome.
Given all of these recent developments and considering the CPUC's wide discretion in these matters the magnitude of the San Bruno event and developments such as the citation issued by the safety division we've taken a charge for $200 million.
This is an estimate and it does require a lot of judgment but we believe this represents the low end of the range of expected fines and penalties associated with the various gas matters.
Meanwhile in the rule-making proceeding there's been no action or progress on our request for a memo account and the procedural schedule beyond the March hearings remains unclear.
We previously assumed that we'd be able to recover the cost for work we do related to the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan in 2012 to comply with the new standards.
But that is now much less likely before the rule-making proceeding is resolved.
To be conservative for guidance purposes we now assume resolution will not occur until the end of this year.
This means that costs incurred during 2012 related to the safety plan and prior to a final CPUC order will fall to the bottom line.
This obviously has implications for our guidance which Kent will discuss in just a few minutes.
But before we go to Kent Nick is going to provide more detail about our gas safety plans in 2012.
Nick? Thanks Chris.
As Chris told you we've completed a lot of gas work this last year but we've also been building a strong team of experts from both within the company and from industry-leading firms across the country.
As we go forward we'll be making additional progress in gas operations including improving our integrity management program our gas distribution practices and the use of technology all designed to enhance public safety.
We know a lot more about our gas pipeline system than we did a year ago.
And we've also uncovered new challenges even during this past quarter.
Based upon all of our experiences last year we've adjusted our operational plans and our cost expectations for this year.
In terms of the scope of work for this year we plan on pressure testing or verifying records for 185 miles of transmission pipe replacing about 40 miles and upgrading 78 miles to enable in-line inspections on those segments.
Also by early 2013 we will complete the MAOP validation for all remaining transmission pipelines in the system more than 4 000 additional miles.
We now expect our costs for the pipeline-related work in 2012 to be about $120 million higher than we previously estimated.
The main driver is the cost for the Hydrostatic Pressure Testing program.
As a reminder we filed our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan last summer including estimated costs which were based upon our limited experience up to that point.
We completed the majority of our 2011 pressure testing since that time which impacted our cost expectations for this year.
Based upon what we experienced last year in the pressure testing program we expect to continue to incur cost per mile much higher than what you might see from some of our industry peers.
And there are a couple of reasons for this: first industry average cost for pressure testing are generally based upon long line pipe of uniform size with minimal population or customer impacts.
We on the other hand need to conduct test on shorter segments of older pipes often in densely populated areas.
And second we face challenges in local permitting and environmental activities like water disposal and we expect these to continue as we focus our program on more pipelines in the San Francisco Bay Area this year.
So while additional lead time allows us to bid and contract for these projects more strategically which will lower these costs compared to 2011 we still expect our pressure testing cost to be substantially more than the industry average.
Although the pressure testing unit costs are by far the biggest driver of our higher estimates this year we'll also need to complete work on some pipelines that we had not originally planned to address in 2012.
This carryover work will also increase our pipeline expenses.
The combination of all the work I've described in our ongoing performance improvement efforts should bring us greater certainty in higher performance in our gas business going forward.
Now I'll turn things over to Kent.
Good morning.
I have a fair amount to cover so I'd like to provide the big picture before I go through all the details.
And I think there are 5 key takeaways: first we took a $200 million of accrual in Q4 for potential penalties associated with all the gas matters; second our other Q4 results were in line with guidance; third we're maintaining our 2012 guidance for earnings from operations at $3.10 to $3.30 per share; fourth we're modifying our 2012 guidance for pipeline-related costs; and fifth we're increasing our estimate of 2012 equity needs.
I'll explain each of these as I go through with my remarks.
So I'm going to start with our Q4 results which are summarized on Slide 6.
Here you can see that earnings from operations for Q4 were $366 million or $0.89 per share and earnings for operations from the year totaled $3.58 per share.
GAAP earnings for the quarter were $83 million or $0.20 per share.
The difference between Q4 earnings from operations and GAAP earnings is the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters.
And the details of that are shown in the table at the bottom of the slide.
First is the pipeline-related costs which totaled $180 million pretax during the quarter.
And this includes the strength testing and the pipeline validation work that Chris and Nick talked about as well as our legal and other costs that we incurred during the quarter.
For the year this totaled $483 million pretax and was in line with our guidance.
Below that you see the $200 million accrual we took in Q4 for potential penalties stemming from the various gas matters.
As you know this was an item we had not provided guidance on.
Chris described the regulatory developments that occurred since our last call and some of the factors we considered in determining the amount of the accrual which clearly involved a lot of judgment.
Obviously we'll continue to assess the accrual in future quarters until the issues are resolved.
Next you can see that there were no additional accruals during the quarter for third-party liabilities.
Prior to Q4 we had accrued a cumulative $375 million through a third-party liability including $155 million in 2011 which you see on the right.
And finally you can see that we booked additional insurance recoveries of $39 million related to third-party claims during Q4.
That brings us to $99 million of insurance recoveries since the accident and we'll continue to wait until we've resolved claims with each carrier before booking additional insurance recoveries.
Slide 7 has the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations.
The $0.89 earned in the fourth quarter which is shown on the far right represents a $0.19 increase compared to Q4 of 2010.
You see the $0.02 of that is due to higher authorized rate base investment.
And then we also incurred costs for 2 items in Q4 of 2010 that we did not have in Q4 of 2011 $0.06 for a nuclear refueling outage and $0.05 related to the SmartMeter program.
Litigation and regulatory matters also was $0.04 favorable compared to Q4 2010 in part because the prior period included an initial accrual for the Rancho Cordova accident.
These increases were partly offset by higher shares outstanding which had a $0.03 impact and miscellaneous items totaling about $0.04 negative including some employee related costs such as severance and workers' comp.
That completes my summary of our 2011 results.
So I'm now going to move on to our outlook for 2012.
On Slide 8 you can see that our guidance for 2012 earnings from operations remains at $3.10 to $3.30 per share.
As I'll cover in a moment we do expect additional equity issuance this year which will result in some dilution.
However notwithstanding that we're maintaining our 2012 guidance for EPS from operations at $3.10 to $3.30 per share.
I'll remind you also that in the last quarter's call we provided some of the key assumptions underlying our 2012 guidance including authorized rate base CapEx spending levels incremental expenses we expect to incur and authorized ROE and cap structure.
And that info is again included on a slide in the appendix.
Back to Slide 8 there also was no change in our 2012 guidance related to our item impacting comparability for environmental-related costs.
This is in connection with chromium cleanup and mitigation at Hinkley.
However we are updating our guidance for the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters.
And if you turn to Slide 9 I'll walk you through the changes.
Starting on the left-hand side of the slide you'll remember that our 2012 gas pipeline-related work includes the work we proposed in our pipeline safety enhancement plan which was originally estimated to cost about $230 million as well as work that fell outside the PSEP which we estimated would cost between $100 million and $200 million.
The non-PSEP costs included work on post-1970 pipe as well as litigation and other costs.
Previously the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan work was excluded from our 2012 guidance for the item impacting comparability because we assumed approval of the PSEP as filed.
So as you can see at the bottom on the left our item impacting comparability included only the non-PSEP work which as you know we weren't seeking recovery of.
At the upper right side of the slide you can see the updated cost estimate for our 2012 pipeline work which is increased by about $120 million for the reasons Nick described.
Remember the original PSEP cost estimates were down last summer prior to a lot of our experience in the field.
Our estimate now reflects that experience.
In addition our outlook for the PSEP recovery has also changed.
Since our last call we haven't seen progress in approving a memo account for cost we incur pending a final decision and the procedural schedule for a final decision is still unclear beyond hearings scheduled in March.
We've decided to conservatively assume that the PSEP is not resolved by the commission until the end of this year.
Therefore we're now including our PSEP and non-PSEP costs in our 2012 guidance for the item impacting comparability.
The updated guidance range for these costs is $450 million to $550 million.
On Slide 10 you can see a summary of our current 2012 guidance.
As I mentioned before there's no change in guidance for EPS from operations or for our environmental-related costs.
The natural gas matters item is broken out in the table below into its components including the pipeline-related costs I just described.
The range for third-party liability claims remains unchanged at 0 to $225 million.
This range reflects the difference between the amount we've accrued to date $375 million and the upper end of our estimate for third-party liability which is $600 million.
As has been our practice we're not providing guidance for additional penalties beyond what we've already accrued or for future insurance recoveries.
I'm going to finish with an update on our equity issuance in 2011 and our plans for 2012 and that's on Slide 11.
On our last call we estimated that based on our guidance assumptions at the time we expected to issue roughly $600 million of equity starting in the fourth quarter of 2011 through the end of 2012.
And you can see that on the left.
Next to that you can see we actually issued $276 million of equity in Q4.
Of course our guidance now assumes higher unrecovered costs for our gas pipeline-related work in 2012.
And in Q4 we took the $200 million accrual for gas-related penalties.
Both of these factors have contributed to an expected increase in our 2012 equity issuance of about $300 million.
As a result we expect our 2012 equity needs to be roughly in the $600 million range based on our current assumptions.
Obviously our actual issuance during the year is going to depend on the resolution of the gas matters as well as other factors.
We'd expect to issue between $150 million and $250 million through our internal programs the 401(k) and DRIP with the balance coming from external issuance.
Our existing dribble program has about $300 million of remaining capacity and we'll consider another dribble program as well as other alternatives to address any remaining needs during the year.
That completes our prepared remarks for this morning's call.
And so we'll go ahead now and open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Kent I'm just kind of following up on where you finished off your conversation with the $200 million fine accrual in your numbers in the fourth quarter.
What could cause that number to change up or down other than some sort of definitive agreement or some sort of fine out of the commission where that could move over the course of the year? Well Dan the $200 million that we talked about obviously involved a lot of judgment.
And every quarter we'll continue to monitor the overall situation and all the factors that Chris described.
And we need to be confident at the end of each quarter that our accrual accurately represents the lower end of a reasonable range.
Research Division</strong> And so then you would adjust -- if that number were to move up and the equity number would go up in step with that is that the right way to think about the kind of the one-for-one as you accrue against an equity need? Yes.
The only thing I would say maybe to just refine on that a little bit is in the case of our accrual that we took in the fourth quarter obviously that's a non-cash accrual at this point.
And depending upon the resolution of the gas matters at some point it will become a cash item.
While it's a non-cash accrual it's not 100% you fund with equity because obviously you're raising cash which otherwise you don't need at this point when you issue the equity.
So in some ways you end up initially raising roughly half of what you need and displacing debt issuance that you otherwise would have needed.
Ultimately when you pay a cash amount for the item then we would raise the remaining equity and some a little bit of debt to offset what you displaced initially and that becomes one-for-one eventually.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I guess just Tony I know you spend a lot of time trying to focus on the benchmarking work.
Can you just kind of talk to us a little bit now that you have some metrics in place where you see the businesses ranking out against your benchmarks today? And then what kind of deliverables you promised or committed to the board over the '12 and '13 timeframe to get to get improvement up to kind of meet the goals you want to have.
I think what the benchmarking has told us is there are some areas that we have made some real progress.
And as Chris mentioned some of our reliability numbers on the electric system we've seen some tremendous improvements.
We've also seen some very nice improvements in things like OSHA recordables on safety although we still have some issues we've got to work on in terms of serious injuries and fatalities at the company.
And we've committed to our board to move those along.
Clearly on some of the perceptual benchmarkings so our customer satisfaction numbers which combines not only our operational performance but also the perception of the company in the marketplace those continue to reside squarely in third and fourth quartile.
And to deal with those you've got to do a combination of improving the service and also in improving the credibility of the company in the marketplace.
That's why some of the work that Nick and his team has done this past year on the hydrotesting in the MAOP we're starting to get some recognition.
And we really have committed to having the safest gas system.
And I think eventually people will start to realize it's a very real commitment that we're delivering on.
So I would say while there are some areas we've made some real progress we continue on some of our operational areas that affect our customer satisfaction numbers and the like.
We're still average to below average.
Research Division</strong> And then what is your commitment to the board as far as making improvements over the course of '12 or '13? Is there numbers we should be looking at to gauge success? Well our long-term target is to have everything in the first quartile.
There's some things like safety we want to be top decile.
My commitment to the board is we will show significant progress in 2012.
The next question is from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Tony I just want to go back to your comments from the beginning of the call.
I just want to be clear in my understanding that you feel very strongly that the commission from a legal precedent perspective needs to differentiate prudently incurred costs associated with new mandates and allow their recovery as it compares to the cost that you've already incurred and will incur in 2012 on sort of catching up with old mandates.
Is that a fair regurgitation of your statement? That is absolutely fair.
And as I said there's a lot of confusion because in the proceeding around our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan there seemed to be more discussion from some the parties around the issue of who pays rather than -- whether the scope of the plan is the right scope and that we're working on the right things to make this the safest system that we can make it.
So we did file a request to separate those 2 issues.
We'll have to see what the commission does with it.
But we're making it very clear you do have to separate those 2 issues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when I look at Slide 9 of your presentation which goes through the increase in the costs your non-PSEP cost estimate previously was $100 million to $200 million.
Is the full $120 million increase associated with non-PSEP-related costs? This is Kent.
I would say that the majority of that amount is associated with non-PSEP costs.
And if you think about it in the PSEP we had originally proposed work on pipe that was from 1961 to 1970 that timeframe.
And we have since agreed that that should be outside of the scope of the PSEP.
So while the cost of the hydrostatic testing both in and outside the program has gone up the increase within the program is somewhat mitigated by the fact that we've reduced some scope within the program and moved it outside.
So most of the overall impact will be on the non-PSEP side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So basically the underlying tenet here is that PSEP costs to the extent they're deemed to be in line with new regulation should be recoverable.
Non-PSEP costs are on the shareholders.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Great.
One more question on that line.
In reading the turn in the DRA testimony they were very critical of a lot of things frankly.
But they were very critical of the cost estimates for doing certain types of work including hydrostatic testing and that they cited their experts indicating that they thought you could do it for less and here you are increasing the estimate of how much it's going to cost.
Can you speak to why there's such a wide difference of opinion on what the right cost is to complete this work? Let me start off and then I'll turn it over to Nick to get into the details.
So having built pipelines like the Millennium Pipeline Iroquois Pipeline when you're going out doing hydrostatic testing on a brand-new pipeline and you've got the pipe lying there in the trench you know where you're going to do the hydrostatic testing in advance.
It's all laid out and it's a relatively simple process.
We're doing hydrostatic testing on pipe that's been in the ground for 50 60 years that neighborhoods have grown up around streets have been paved over.
It is a major project.
The other issue that we discovered was when you put a brand-new pipe in the ground you fill it with water you pressure test it the water comes out clean.
When you put water in a pipe that's been around for 50 or 60 years you've got residual hydrocarbons you got corrosion products in there and we've had to then spend a huge amount of money treating the water coming out out of the pipes.
So Nick and his team have been working very hard to simplify the process.
But Nick there still is a lot of challenge out there.
Yes Tony.
I think it's fair to say the work that we did this past year and that we're going to do in 2012 regarding hydrostatic testing is probably the most complex hydrostatic testing program anywhere in the United States.
And as Tony alluded that these are shorter segments of older pipelines very difficult working conditions to be able to stage the equipment at the point where you need to begin and then stage additional equipment at the end of the test.
And the environmental requirements here in California are appropriately the most rigorous in the country.
So those standards that we are adhering to here are the highest bar no doubt and drive a lot of these costs.
And the majority of the cost that we incurred that were unanticipated really relate to handling the water in the hydro test program where we need to in many cases before we begin our hydro test flush these lines to make sure that the water in the pipe when we do the hydro test the actual test itself is up to drinking water standards.
So that has required us to do a lot of water handling a lot of water treatment a lot of water disposal way over and above what would be required as Tony indicated in a new pipeline.
That said over the course of 2011 our cost per mile was around $1.6 million a mile.
Our estimate for this year is somewhere in the $1.1 million $1.15 million per mile.
So a significant reduction of what we incurred in 2011.
I would also add that we're dealing with shorter segments of pipe than I think that most people do and so that adds to the cost per mile.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just to go to the penalty stuff how should we think about how you guys go about sort of -- I know there's a lot of judgment involved but sort of how do you go about sort of estimating what you think they might be? I mean is this based on discussions? Or just how do we get a feel for that process? Let me start and then I'll flip it over to Kent.
And just to clarify that what we accrued is not what we thought it might be.
It is the low end.
And you get to there as we've looked at all the developments that we concluded having no accrual at all was not the appropriate place to be.
Because I think it was certain we going to have a penalty.
And in looking at all the facts and circumstances and using judgment concluded that $200 million -- we didn't think that the penalty would in any realistic circumstance be below $200 million.
Now there are a lot of facts that went into that.
Kent you might want to comment on just some of the things you look at.
But I want to make sure that's what we think the minimum is it's not what we think the best guess of what it's going to be.
Paul Tony's overall summary is exactly right.
And the things we looked at with the various proceedings at the commission including -- we looked at that CPSD's report that was filed early in the year.
We looked at the new OII in San Bruno that was issued January and also the citation from the CPSD related to the maps that Chris covered earlier.
And the reality of the situation when you look at all the different issues is that there are no clear precedents really.
And there's not just like a formula that can be applied to the situation.
But all the indications are that the PUC will impose a large penalty here.
So we considered previous penalties such as Rancho Cordova.
And then we tried to take into account the magnitude of this event and we determined overall that the penalty will likely be higher than anything that's been previously issued by the PUC for all of those reasons.
And we ended up thinking that $200 million was a reasonable estimate for the low end of the range of possible outcomes.
Okay and then also there was a week or 2 ago some articles regarding welders saying that the hydrostatic testing wasn't perhaps as good as it could have been or it was -- I'm just wondering I know that it's been pretty recent since this came out but just do you guys have any thought processes as to what they're talking about or the validity of it? Well this is Nick.
We take every communication that comes into us concerning questions about whether or not we accomplish work properly very seriously.
And so we took a look at what these 2 welders had to say and we've gone back and made an intensive records review.
We've pulled all the radiographic welding records and all of the asphalt material.
We have looked at this every way we possibly can and we find absolutely no merit whatsoever into the allegations that have been brought forth by these 2 folks.
I can't speak to their motivations but we take everything like this very seriously and we have found nothing to suggest that our workmanship was nothing but top quality.
That's another thing going back to the cost of these hydrostatic testing program.
We have put in an extraordinarily extensive QA QC program way beyond what industry standards are to make sure that this work is done property and that certainly adds to the cost to the time of execution.
But we find absolutely no indication whatsoever that we had any issues with our testing last year.
The next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the -- just to be sure I understand the PSEP number and how it's impacted guidance is the situation that that $230 million before was kind of neither in your operating guidance nor in the GAAP guidance because you were assuming recovery? And all this really happening is it now -- it's in the GAAP guidance having been a net 0 before effectively? Jonathan that's right.
Essentially we said last quarter that we were assuming full recovery of the PSEP cost so that they wouldn't flow through the bottom line.
Although I remember sort of talking through the fact that there could be a timing.
Once you have a memo account in place there'd be a timing about when we get a final decision but that the cost would be recoverable.
And we left it up to you guys if you wanted to make different assumptions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So now if you were to get a memo account sometime mid-year and some of those costs will end up being recovered that would just reduce the amount of charge to the GAAP earnings.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on -- just on the time -- you obviously put the slide out with the regulatory calendar.
Just the way you've laid it out it's sort of tempting to imagine that some of these hearings and proceedings could come to a head at more or less the same time.
Am I reading too much into that? One.
And two what chances do you see that there would be some kind of merging of any of these proceedings at the commission? And I guess the third strand of that would you need to see that in order to be able to potentially settle any of these? Jonathan this is Tom Bottorff responsible for regulatory relations.
I don't foresee the commission consolidating the 3 investigations at this point.
But that doesn't preclude the parties of the proceedings from engaging in settlement discussions in connection with each of the investigations.
Research Division</strong> Have you -- is that something that's essentially happened already? Or is it a little too early in the game for that? I think it's early in the game.
Although the judge at the pre-hearing conference which was held this Tuesday in the San Bruno investigation they strongly encouraged parties to agree on issues where they could and actually offered himself up as a potential mediator to help facilitate some discussions.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First if you add the penalty accrual the PSEP now being kind of rolling through as well as this additional $120 million altogether that's a lot less than the -- a lot more than the additional equity issuance.
Is the difference just the -- this penalty issue that you're not actually having to spend the money yet when you add all those up I think you'll probably get $500 million $600 million of additional hit to the balance sheet.
Yes Steve this is Kent.
It is that in that -- that's why I elaborated a little on that issue earlier that it's not as simple as saying you accrue $200 million and you immediately issue $200 million.
We actually as you know have to actively manage our capital structure and we do really monthly forecasting to do that.
And so you really do have to consider both when you book things and therefore affect your retained earnings but also when the cash goes out the door.
And that does affect that as well as you want to think about the expenditures that are now going to be unrecovered for gas pipeline matters occurring throughout the year rather than all at the beginning of the year.
And as a result that tends to also affect the timing of the equity issuance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question is just if you now take this update and go back to the beginning of the San Bruno what is the total cost that shareholders have now borne? Steve we can easily now get up to costs that are well in excess of $1.5 billion and I'll just kind of recap them.
You saw in our press release that cumulative to date we've spent around $550 million that is not going to be recovered that is at a shareholder cost.
And obviously our guidance indicates that we could spend nearly that much in 2012 on pipeline-related items.
We accrued a $200 million penalty.
So when you add all that up that brings you to about $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion that shareholders have incurred.
As you know we've also committed to spend $200 million this year and $200 million next year on all of our operations which is not going to be funded by customers but in fact at shareholders' cost.
And that's how you can get to $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion which obviously is a very significant price tag.
In fact that's actually approaching the total net investment in our pipelines that we built up over decades.
And I would also say that this business typically is authorized to earn about $100 million a year.
So the cost here that shareholders have now incurred represents 15 to 20 years of earnings basically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question.
There was the testimony on the San Bruno OII that I guess that audits so to speak talked about underspending and over-earnings over a long period of time at least alleged that.
Could you just go through kind of -- my sense is some of those issues you might not exactly agree with.
Could you go through some of the issues in that analysis? Yes this is Chris.
There's a couple of things that you have to take into consideration when you look at that.
First of all is that for the most part most of our gas transmission rate cases were settled.
So there were settlement agreements.
And when you have a settlement agreement you don't necessarily do a line item by line item tracking of the different types of costs.
And in a lot of times you also don't address how costs are allocated between years.
And so there's a lot of judgment that goes into trying to determine what were the authorized amounts of cost to be spent in any one of those given years.
And so when you go back and look at the findings or the assertions if you will in that audit you can see that there's a lot of different assumptions that they're making that quite frankly we disagree with.
And that -- and we will dispute as we move forward in the process.
The second thing though that you really need to focus here on is that the majority of the costs that they're alleging that we did not spend the $400 million out of the $500 million relates to the programs that are quite frankly at-risk programs and it generally is around our gas storage and our ability to utilize those funds.
Many years ago the CPUC decided that they did not want the customers to have the risks around that and so we were  -- the shareholders then were the ones that would suffer the consequences of a marketplace that didn't have activity in it or could have the rewards of it.
And in fact over the last couple of years we've seen very little in terms of rewards and income off of those businesses.
And so what they're asserting is that we should have taken at-risk revenues that were designed to incent or penalize shareholders and apply them elsewhere.
And then finally when you look at the totality of our returns over the last 15 to 20 years you'll see that in general they're pretty much right around our authorized return in total for the company.
And so it's not like all of that went and caused it to have a company-wide excessive earnings.
We were utilizing that for other parts of the business.
And so there's a lot there that we will -- that will come out and be asserted differently by us as we move forward in the regulatory proceedings.
The next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne from Sanford C.
Bernstein &amp; Co.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I also had a question related to the Consumer Protection and Safety Division's report.
What struck me most about that report were not so much the details of the audit but the line of argument that the division was presenting which I think you could paraphrase as something along these lines: that PG&amp;E had a legal obligation to run its gas pipeline system in a safe reliable fashion.
It requested and received most recently through a settlement the revenues that it deemed necessary to do so the events at San Bruno.
And the record presented in the report indicate that the company failed in its obligation to provide safe and reliable service.
Now the company is coming back and saying our large portion of our PSEP budget which relates to more onerous regulatory standards should be recoverable.
And the amounts that are being requested for recovery are comparable to the rate base of the system.
And the argument seems to say "Didn't we pay you once for the assets and the O&amp;M necessary for safe and reliable service? And if you failed to provide it given that we've paid for it already why should we pay for it again?" And it seemed to me an argument that would strike a chord with intervenors.
Obviously it has with commission staff.
It might strike a chord with commissioners themselves.
So I wanted to ask you how have you seen that argument received at the commission? And secondly perhaps most importantly how do you rebut it? Well we can't comment on where the commission is on this because the proceedings are going on.
We'll see how they come out.
But I think you have to look at it in the overall context.
When you're talking about safe and reliable systems it's measured against what are the standard practices in the industry.
And I think what we've said in response there are some places where we weren't following standard practices.
And to the extent that that was the case then we ought to absorb those costs.
But to the extent that the standards are being changed and being increased those new requirements ought to be recoverable from our customers through our rates.
And I think you're going to see across the country as we see new national pipeline standards I think other states will start to look at what happens here in California you'll see the same thing that while people were following accepted practices in the past technology has changed the understanding of the risks have changed and therefore these new standards should be recoverable as part of a normal course of business.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes first 2 questions.
First Kent other uses of cash likely in 2012 when I think about what's embedded in your guidance and maybe even 1 or 2 sources? Can you comment on Hinkley-related costs? Can you comment on expected funds to be paid out due to the generator settlements and some of that kind of that liability that's sitting there on your balance sheet? And then can you talk about the short-term debt balance? Because the short-term debt balance is at a level we haven't seen in a long while.
They're about $1.6 billion.
And normally at this time of year -- normally the peak in short-term debt balance is third quarter not fourth quarter.
So it's not -- so not all funds or proceeds being utilized it seems for fuel and power procurement.
It's for obviously the gas side.
Can you touch on those 3 items? Sure.
So first of all in terms of Hinkley we did as you know accrue a liability in the third quarter for Hinkley.
Those are in terms of a cash impact those are activities that are going to take place over many years.
And we have guidance out there for a potential increase in the liability this year.
And again most of those activities would take place over many years.
So I don't see that as a significant driver of short-term cash.
In terms of generator settlements we don't see a lot of activity there this year.
I think that's a little bit further out.
So again kind of same answer.
That's not a big driver of our short-term cash needs.
And in terms of where we ended up the year with short-term debt we do have a fair amount of collateral posted which we do as part of our normal activities related to energy procurement as well as hedging.
And when you have low gas prices as we currently have while that reduces the cash outlay for procuring fuel and gas for customers it does cause us to have the post collateral to security arrangements we have with counterparties.
And that's a big driver of what you're seeing at the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Meaning that the short-term debt balance is higher this go around versus let's say a year ago or 2 years ago from now at the same quarter because the lower commodity price required an increased collateral posting? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
finally -- and Tony this one is for you.
Total cost related to San Bruno getting close to the actual rate base in the pipeline business.
Is there a point -- what's kind of the breaking point? What's the tipping point where it's gone too far meaning that it's too detrimental to shareholders? Or is there not a number that can be assigned to that? Well my personal view is shareholders have paid a lot of money and I really believe that the commission needs to take that into account when they're assessing how much additional penalty ought to be involved.
Because I will tell you that right now we are doing everything we can.
We're not going to do anything differently or more depending on what the size of the penalty is.
In fact I think everyone including the commission recognizes this company needs to be financially healthy to be able to keep the investment going because we're going to be working on this for a number of years.
That said we're totally committed to whatever it takes to meet the commitments that we've made in the PSEP program and to make sure that we have the safest possible gas system.
I can't put a number on that.
And the reality is we don't have a choice.
We're committed to doing that.
You can't just say "Well we're not going to make this safe." We need to build credibility with our customers.
And I think the way we build it is by showing we're serious with our actions.
Your next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the capital structure's parent utility in that accrual along with that equity issue.
Does the accrual go to the utility or will that stay at the parent? No the accrual does go to the utility.
Research Division</strong> So how does that affect the capital structure then? The accrual ends up staying through and the cash impact doesn't come into effect during the year.
When you guys go in for that capital structure review is that going to change the equity share? What happens is for rate-making purposes the capital structure at the utility is affected in the short-term by the accrual because you're reducing retained earnings by that amount.
As we've indicated our plans are to maintain a balanced capital structure consistent with our authorized capital structure.
And that does require that we issue additional equity to offset the accrual.
It eventually becomes a one-for-one impact but because it's a non-cash accrual initially there's a little bit of a less of an impact in the near term.
But over time it becomes a 1:1 impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then if we think back to that $300 million extra but then you had the correct me if I'm wrong the $200 million accrual plus the $120 million so $420 million of extra costs is that -- am I hearing that correct? Yes.
You want to remember that the accrual for the penalty is not tax-deductible.
Our ongoing gas costs which would include the higher estimate now by $120 million those are larger unrecovered costs which over time gradually will affect what would have been our retained earnings.
And so again we displace essentially the after-tax amount of that over time with additional equity.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got it.
So the $600 million gets you back to the 52% based on your expectation? That's correct.
We have the line of Andy Levi with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just an insurance question.
So just remind us again how much insurance you guys have? Yes.
At the time of the accident for third-party liabilities we had $992 million of insurance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $992 million and you've gotten back about $100 million so far? That's correct.
And obviously we don't intend to have the liability.
We don't expect the liability will reach that full level.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us any idea of kind of how much you've requested or filed for from insurance side thus far and whether that number changes or that's kind of what you're asking for? Well we have estimated publicly we've accrued $375 million total for the accident.
We've said that the maximum liability based on our estimates is in the $600 million range.
The way it works with our carriers is that as we resolve claims with third parties then we take those claims to our insurance carriers.
And our insurance policy represents a tower of insurance companies at different layers in the coverage.
And so we are in the process of working through that with the first several layers of our insurance coverage and those are the proceeds that you've seen so far.
Those are for claims that have been resolved with third parties that we brought to our first few layers and have resolved the recovery with them.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it sounds like the maximum amount that you're kind of looking to receive is about $600 million? That's what we estimated is the maximum likely liability.
But we have currently accrued the low end of our range which is $375 million.
We just have not resolved that level yet of third-party claims so we have not yet brought that magnitude to the insurance carriers.
All right.
I'd like to thank everybody for being on the call today and your interest.
And have a great day.
Bye now.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for attending the PG&amp;E Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This now concludes the conference.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Corporation First Quarter Earnings 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to introduce your host Mr.
Gabe Togneri with PG&amp;E Corporation.
Thank you and enjoy your conference.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri.
Thanks Monique and hello everyone.
We appreciate you joining us for our call.
This morning you'll hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey who will be providing our remarks and other members of the team are also here and will participate in the Q&amp;A.
Our discussion of course will include forward-looking statements based on assumptions and expectations reflecting information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's results are described in Exhibit 1 located in the Appendix of today's slides.
We encourage you to review those and also to review the discussion of risk factors that appears in our 2011 annual report and in the form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Thank you Gabe and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
On our last earnings call we outlined our top priorities for 2012.
But I'd like to start today by reviewing these priorities again because I think they provide a good context for the discussion of our actions and results from the last quarter as well as set the context for our plans for the rest of the year.
So if you look at Slide 2 our key objectives for the year are first we want to resolve as many of the gas-related issues as we can in 2012.
Second we want to position the company for a long-term success.
And third we want to work very hard at rebuilding relationships with stakeholders.
So let me start with the gas issues.
We're continuing to work to the various regulatory and legal proceedings.
We'd like to resolve the regulatory proceedings as soon as possible because the sooner we get clarity on these issues the better it is for everyone from the utility to regulators to our customers.
There's no way to predict whether settlement discussions will go forward or be successful but we do support this approach as a way to accelerate the process.
If and when there's any further news to report on this we'll share it at the appropriate time.
On the legal front we also continue our efforts to settle the various individual claims related to the tragedy in San Bruno.
Our goal is to provide victims with fair compensation.
Just as with the regulatory issues we'd like to do that as soon as possible and we're making progress towards that goal.
Separately we were pleased in this quarter to reach a critical agreement with the city of San Bruno by making a contribution to benefit the citizens of the community.
This was an important milestone for us in that it helps the city move forward in the healing process.
And it's important for us because it's another step on the road towards resolution of all of these issues.
Let me shift to the steps we're taking to position the company for long-term success starting with the gas business.
We're maintaining the momentum that we established last year with safety improvement efforts in gas operations and Chris is going to provide you with lots more detail on what's planned for 2012.
We've also now essentially completed the restructuring of the gas business which has significantly improved accountability and the expertise in the organization.
Recently several highly experienced gas industry veterans have come onboard filling our remaining vacancies for vice presidents overseeing key areas in gas operations.
By the end of this quarter we hope to complete the last of our high-level hires and have the team completely in place.
We're also continuing to add new talent in other areas of the company.
This includes officers with excellent credentials in customer care and information technology which clearly are areas that where we can benefit from their deep expertise.
And then most recently we announced the hiring of Ed Halpin from the South Texas Project as the Senior Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer.
Ed's full-time presence at Diablo Canyon builds even greater depth into an already strong nuclear program that we've got.
All of these additions to the team give me greater confidence that we're making the changes necessary to achieve a new level of performance and operations in customer service.
Everyone on the team is focused on safety compliance and continuous improvement and working to close the gaps between where we are today and where we need to go to deliver outstanding service to our customers.
So last let me touch on rebuilding relationships.
Chris and I and many of our other senior leaders continue to meet as often as possible with customers policymakers business partners and others.
It's become clear to me from the conversations that we have that our stakeholders do want us to be successful and broadly speaking we're getting positive feedback on the direction that we're moving.
In that vein a few recent successes are worth noting because I think they demonstrate we're doing a better job of listening to our customers.
So for example for that segment of customers who do not want to participate in our SmartMeter program we now have an opt-out alternative.
Another example is the economic development rate that we've proposed to the CPUC.
In these difficult economic times this is a way to bring electric rate relief to businesses that need it to preserve or create jobs at our service area.
And finally for our residential customers we're working to further modify the current multi-tiered rate structure to streamline and simplify it and improve the affordability of our service.
Rebuilding relationships will be a long-term effort but these are steps in the right direction and we'll continue to look for these kinds of opportunities going forward.
Ultimately though we know that the key is for us to continue to deliver what we say we're going to deliver.
Importantly we did that last year when we completed our aggressive hydrostatic testing commitment and our operating pressure validation in our high-consequence gas transmission pipelines.
So with that introduction let me turn the mic over to Chris.
Chris? Thanks Tony.
Good morning everyone.
So this morning I'm going to provide the regulatory and operational updates that are described briefly on Slide 3.
Starting with the regulatory side procedural schedules have now been set for all 3 of the gas investigations with hearing dates scheduled for the fall.
The CPUC staff has filed its findings and reports in 2 out of the 3 of those investigations and they are going to provide the report on the third one at the end of this month.
These are all important milestones in each of the cases on our path forward towards resolution.
In our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan the administrative law judge held 2 weeks of hearings at the end of March.
A key issue covered in the testimony of the various parties was the categorization of work proposed in the company's safety plan.
We believe that most of the work is needed to comply with the new standards while other parties argued that much of it should have been done to comply with existing standards.
We expect that final resolution will deal with both the scope of the gas work required through 2014 and the allocation of cost between shareholders and customers.
We continue to feel our proposal for this split is appropriate.
And that is that PG&amp;E shareholders will continue to pay the cost necessary to comply with existing regulations but work that we undertake to meet new standards set by the CPUC is appropriate to recover from our customers.
The final decision in the safety plan is expected in September.
In other regulatory news on April 20 we filed our cost of capital case as did the other California utilities.
And we proposed a reduction in our return on equity to 11% and that's from our current level of 11.35%.
We did not propose any changes to our common equity ratio of 52% nor to the current multiyear adjustment mechanism.
That mechanism would continue to link ROE to the performance of the Moody's bond yield index.
We expect hearings to occur this fall and proposed and final decisions by the end of the year.
The new levels in mechanism would go into affect in January of 2013.
And finally this summer we'll file the notice of intent for our next General Rate Case.
We'll provide you details of our expense and capital requests at that time.
And as a reminder the GRC addresses electric and gas distribution and electric generation and it will go into effect in 2014.
Our next Gas Transmission &amp; Storage case is a year later.
Now moving over to operations.
Obviously we continue to perform important gas work this year.
Building up the extraordinary work completed in 2011 this quarter the gas team continued to deliver impressive results.
Even with the limitations of working on the system during the winter when gas demand is much higher we completed several miles of hydrostatic tests in the first quarter and that's on our way to the planned performance of hydrostatic tests on another 160 miles during the remainder of this year.
We also made significant progress on our efforts to validate and document the Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure of our pipelines.
We completed about 900 miles in Q1 out of 3 600 miles planned for the entire year.
In addition as we performed fieldwork and identify emerging issues we will continue to shift the pipeline work plan to ensure that the work of the -- at the highest safety priority is completed.
In the area of nuclear operations Diablo Canyon Unit 1 began its regularly scheduled refueling outage about 2 weeks ago and the outage is progressing as scheduled.
Now although we don't -- we have not experienced similar issues at Diablo Canyon we do recognize there is currently a lot of focus on the steam generators at San Onofre so I'll offer some comments pertaining to our Diablo Canyon plan.
As you may recall we replaced the steam generators and all the associated tubing several years ago.
They have since then passed the rigorous one-year inspection demonstrating very strong performance.
In addition our steam generators are of a different design and were sourced from a different manufacturer.
Nonetheless we continue to monitor them and with the next more detailed inspection of the steam generator tubing scheduled for 2014 and 2015 for the 2 units.
Obviously both San Onofre and Diablo Canyon are important resources for California and we'll continue to monitor Edison's findings and apply any lessons learned from San Onofre to Diablo Canyon.
Shifting gears we recently reached a milestone in our long-term commitment to resolve the chromium exposure in the groundwater at Hinkley.
We were supplying residents in the area with bottled water and we've established a program that offers eligible residents a set of alternatives including a whole house water replacement system or the choice to sell us their property.
Primarily as a result of this program we took a charge for $71 million for environmental-related cost this quarter.
We have not changed the overall estimate of cost related to the ultimate resolution of all the chromium-related issues previously provided.
Resolving the whole house water issue addresses a significant component of our obligations to the community of Hinkley.
The most notable remaining issue which is the final remediation plan is expected to be resolved late this year or early next year.
Moving on to overall performance.
We continue to focus on our highest priorities of safe reliable affordable customer-focused electric and gas service.
You'll see our high-level operational performance focus areas described in Exhibit 7 in the Appendix.
We place greater emphasis than ever before on safety in operational performance specifically adopting measures that tie to public safety employee safety customer service and financial performance.
For each of these measures we have developed quarterly and annual targets based on improving our performance and ultimately over the years providing first quartile utility service.
In some areas such as nuclear operations we already meet first quartile benchmarks and the year-end goal is to maintain that level of performance.
In other areas the year-end goal is to improve performance by a specified percentage as part of a multiyear plan to provide exceptional levels of service.
Our first quarter results show we're exceeding year-to-date performance targets in nuclear operations gas leak performance and emergency response.
We're meeting performance targets in gas reliability and we need to improve our performance to achieve our targets for employee safety customer satisfaction electrical liability and the outages caused by downed wires.
As 2012 progresses our goal is to show improvement in each one of these areas.
With that I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thanks Chris and good morning everybody.
I'm going to walk you through the results for the first quarter and then I'll cover our outlook for the rest of 2012.
Our Q1 results are summarized on Slide 4 and earnings from operations for the quarter were $372 million or $0.89 per diluted common share.
GAAP results for the quarter were $233 million or $0.56 per share.
The difference between earnings from operations and GAAP reflects the items impacting comparability for natural gas matters and for environmental-related costs at Hinkley.
The item related to natural gas matters totaled $0.23 per share for the quarter and the components of that are delineated in the table at the bottom.
First is the pipeline-related costs which totaled $104 million pretax during Q1.
So this includes the strength testing and the pipeline validation work as well as our legal costs incurred during the quarter.
And most of this work was generally on plan for the quarter although legal costs exceeded plan due to an upswing in activity.
Below that you see that there were no additional accruals during the quarter related to potential penalties stemming from the various gas matters.
And you remember in Q4 of last year we accrued $200 million for potential penalties which represented the low end of a range of possible outcomes.
Of course we'll continue to assess the accrual in future quarters until the issues are resolved.
The next component is the $70 million pretax charge we took during the quarter for the contribution we made to the city of San Bruno and Tony mentioned in his remarks the importance of reaching this agreement with the city.
Next you can see there also were no additional accruals during the quarter for third-party liability claims and to date we've accrued the total of $375 million for third-party liability related to the accident.
And then finally we booked insurance recoveries of $11 million in Q1 and that brings us to $110 million of insurance recovery since the accident.
We'll continue to wait until we've resolved claims with each carrier before booking future recoveries.
In the table at the top you can see that in addition to the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters we also took a charge for environmental-related costs at Hinkley totaling $0.10 per share.
This accrual represents the expected costs associated providing the whole house water option that Chris described and is in line with our original guidance range of 0 to $0.14 for the year.
Now Slide 5 has the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations and the $0.89 that we earned in the first quarter which is shown on the far right represents a $0.31 increase compared to Q1 of 2011.
Most of that increase is due to unusual items in the first quarter of last year rather than activity in the most recent quarter.
So for example in Q1 last year we were still waiting for final approval of the General Rate Case and the Gas Transmission &amp; Storage case.
So $0.14 of this quarter's increase is because we weren't able to book the associated revenues in Q1 last year.
As a reminder because we booked the catch-up revenues in Q2 of last year you should expect to see a similar item but in reverse when we discuss our second quarter results a few months from now.
Next $0.07 of the increase is due to lower outage restoration cost in comparison to last year when we had an unusually severe winter storm season.
And $0.05 cents relates to lower litigation and regulatory cost compared to last year in large part because the prior period included an accrual for the Rancho Cordova accident.
We had a $0.05 increase due to higher authorized rate base investments this year compared to last year.
We also picked up $0.02 in gas transmission revenues and $0.07 in miscellaneous most of which includes a number of small items that we expect will reverse by the end of the year.
These increases were partially offset by a reduction of $0.06 related to the planned incremental spending we've undertaken to improve our operational performance and $0.03 dilution for higher shares outstanding.
And by the way you should expect a larger impact from dilution in future quarters.
And this is in part because we issued $250 million of equity late in Q1 so it's full effect wasn't felt in the quarter.
Now our guidance for the year is summarized on the next slide and you can see at the top that there's no change in our guidance range for earnings from operations.
That remains at $3.10 to $3.30 per share.
Some of the key assumptions that underlie our 2012 guidance such as authorized rate base capital expenditure levels the incremental expenses we expect to incur and our authorized ROE and cap structure those are all provided in Exhibit 3 in the appendix.
The guidance range for the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters has been updated basically to reflect the accrual made in Q1 for the contribution to the city of San Bruno and the proceeds we received from insurance providers during the quarter.
So moving to the bottom part of the slide you can see in the table that we're maintaining the range of $450 million to $550 million for pipeline-related cost for the year although we are trending towards the upper end of that range.
And while our fieldwork is generally on track fairly early in the year our legal costs have risen significantly as the pace and scope of discovery and other activities have picked up more rapidly than we expected.
So we'll continue to monitor this trend and we'll provide an update on our next call.
The range for third-party liability claims remains unchanged at 0 to $225 million.
And this range again just reflects the difference between what we've already accrued to date $375 million and then the upper end of our estimate for third-party liability which is $600 million.
As in past quarters we're not providing guidance for additional penalties beyond what we've already accrued or for future insurance recoveries.
Back to the table at the top you can see our guidance for the item impacting comparability for environmental-related costs.
The upper end of the range is unchanged at $0.14.
The lower end of the range reflects the $71 million pretax charge we took in Q1 associated with the whole house water replacement program.
So I'll finish up with our updated plans for equity issuance in 2012 and that's on Slide 7.
On our last call I indicated based on various guidance assumptions we expected to issue roughly $600 million of equity this year and that estimate is shown on the left.
Next to that you can see that we've increased our expectation for equity issuance this year by about $100 million.
So our new estimate is roughly $700 million based on our guidance assumptions.
The primary driver for the increase is the contribution we made to the city of San Bruno during the quarter as well as the trend towards the higher end of the range of our pipeline-related cost.
Moving to the right in the chart you'll see that we actually issued a significant portion of that almost $400 million in the first quarter.
This includes about $60 million to our internal programs our DRIP and 401(k); about $80 million to our Dribble Program; and then about $250 million through the block equity offering we undertook in March.
That allowed us to prefinance some of our equity needs for the year and provides us more flexibility pending resolution of the various gas issues.
Our remaining need based on our guidance assumption is roughly $300 million which is shown on the right.
Obviously our actual issuance during the year will depend on the resolution of the gas matters as well as other factors.
So with that we're going to open up the lines for your questions and then Tony will provide some closing remarks following Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us any incremental -- 2 questions.
One can you give us any incremental sort of guidance on how you -- on whether you feel you'll be able to bring the majority of the pipeline legal matters to a close this year through settlement or whether you feel like you're going to have to litigate through the -- these sort of 3 to 4 separate paths? And the second question is when we look at the Slide 7 with the $300 million of remaining equity needs is that inclusive of equity that you need to issue in the course of normal operations to fund capital spending? Or is that exclusive of equity you need to fund ongoing operations? Greg this is Tony.
Let me take the first part of the question.
I'll let Kent handle the second.
So what we know is that some of the parties have indicated both directly and indirectly through other people that they are interested in settlement of these regulatory proceedings.
And we've said very clearly we're interested in settling those regulatory proceedings because we think that's the fastest path to closure.
But I do want to be clear that we have not had substantive discussions at this point and obviously those discussions if and when they do begin are sensitive.
So we won't be able to comment on them until we finish with those discussions.
So I think that's kind of the status that I can provide you.
And Greg this is Kent.
In terms of the $300 million of remaining equity need that is what we expect to need for the end of the year based on our various guidance assumptions.
So it is inclusive of needs that are driven by our CapEx program as well as our gas expenditures.
And you should remember that for the $300 million remaining need a good portion of that will be met through our normal internal programs our (401)k and DRIP.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And when I think about 2013 -- and I know you haven't given guidance on any financial matters for '13.
But should we presume that when we think about costs that roll over into '13 we should think about a similar funding profile? That -- to the extent you have pipeline-related matters the O&amp;M expenses that you expect to incur that you would also need to fund them pro rata with equity in addition to your ongoing capital spending? Well Greg yes.
I mean the same factors potentially could influence us next year as influence us this year.
So obviously our CapEx program which is significant this year that is one driver of our equity needs and I would expect that we'd continue to have the healthy CapEx program next year.
I would also say we are incurring a lot of unfunded gas expenditures right now and to the extent we continue to have unfunded gas expenditures next year that would be a driver of equity needs.
And I would say one significant issue next year compared to this year is just that obviously there's been bonus depreciation both last year and this year and it's not clear that that's going to be the case next year.
So that will be another driver that you should keep in mind.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One balance sheet you'll put out later today when you file the Q but could you just give high level in terms of where you sit right now in terms of cash balances and in terms of equity ratios Holdco and Opco? Michael this is Kent.
In terms of our equity ratio of course what we focus on equity ratio-wise is the way it's measured for regulatory purposes.
So that excludes our short-term debt and I would expect that we would be very close to our 52% common equity overall.
And our cash balances are down somewhat from the end of the year and comparable to the year before at this time.
I think they're a little bit over $1 billion in terms of short-term borrowings which is what we'd normally expect.
Research Division</strong> Meaning short-term borrowings is around $1 billion.
And how much was the cash balance? Yes.
I don't know that there's a significant -- I think about $600 million of the cash balance in short-term borrowings and normally in that range so a little over $1 billion.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Tony when you think about the issues in resolving the various pipeline dockets is there one particular -- of the 3 or 4 dockets outstanding is there one particular docket you think will be the most challenging to reach settlements on? And if so what are the 2 or 3 biggest reasons why? No I think while they all focus on different issues if we can get into settlement discussions which we've said we'd want to I don't think it's -- we're going to be able to distinguish where one is going to be harder than another.
What we would like to do is have a comprehensive settlement.
So I don't see that one could be singled out as harder than the other.
I think it will be hard.
As I said the spirit is willing on trying to get settlement discussions but whether we actually can get there and get it all wrapped up we'll see over the next couple of months.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One question I had on the sixth sense that you called out as being the incremental work should we think about that as lining up quite cleanly with the $200 million annual numbers that you've been guiding to? Yes Jonathan.
It's essentially the first quarter component of the $200 million.
Research Division</strong> So it's obviously looking like it's not quite 1/8 or I guess 1/4 of $200 million? Yes.
But it's the first quarter of the year and there are some seasonal dimensions to our work plan.
Research Division</strong> So can you give us a flavor of what the seasonality might be as we look in the next -- is it going to be more weighted to the middle of the year more weighted to the end? I don't think there'll be dramatic differences among the quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you progressed with this are you still confident that this is $200 million of items that won't recur beyond 2013? Or is -- are you getting your arms around the workflow more? Jonathan when we identified this incremental spend of about $200 million to this year and next year I think we indicated that about 1/3 of the work is essentially work that we wanted to accelerate from multiyear plans to a shorter time frame this year or next year.
And so you would expect that that component we would try to complete during the 2-year time frame but the remainder is work that we wanted to take to another level that we anticipate is a higher level of operations.
Research Division</strong> So therefore would continue beyond '13? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then on another -- could -- Tony you'd mentioned you had some progress on civil cases.
Could you be a bit more specific about how many cases have been settled how many outstanding or any other color you can give us there? Yes.
We have not been providing specific numbers.
I will tell you we have settled some cases in the last quarter.
Kent gave you the insurance numbers on them but as we work through these individual cases we'd prefer not to give specific numbers right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I may I have just one other item.
I noticed that you'd been -- you're supporting this bill in the Senate Bill 971 that would exclude large-scale hydro from the sales denominator on the 33% renewables.
Can you talk a little bit about your views on the prospects for that legislation? And secondly how impactful would it be to your investment plans? The reason why I think it's important is to give people an understanding of the high quality portfolio that we have on the generation side.
I mean one of the things that struck me coming to California I kept hearing "Well PG&amp;E is at 20% renewables." We're actually over 40% renewables and if you take into account our nuclear over 50% of our generation is from non-emitting sources.
And I think we and the policymakers need to understand how much progress we've made.
So I think by eliminating the large hydro which are excluded from the formula for the renewables mandate -- and I understand why it was excluded because at the time we wanted to stimulate new investment in renewables but it is renewable nonetheless.
The irony is that we're expanding some of our large hydro plants and incremental megawatts count the base megawatts don't.
So I mean it illustrates that it's kind of artificial.
In terms of the prospects I don't know.
I think we've -- it's been received well.
People understand what we're trying to do.
We're not trying to change the renewables mandate.
We just want to have more clarity over how much progress we've made.
Research Division</strong> And if it was to pass would it -- how -- what would it mean for the CapEx plan? Oh it wouldn't have any impact on the CapEx plan.
It doesn't change I think where we're going.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on the insurance front you have still slow collections.
Is there a view of when that could can pick up as far as reversing cash? And can you remind how that might affect the equity ratio that you guys have laid out so far? Well Dan what happens obviously is we resolve issues eventually with our insurance providers once we've actually settled a lot of the claims and so it will follow the third-party liability claims resolution.
And it's hard to tell exactly what that pace is going to be.
I think there is a fair amount of potential activity in the coming quarter in terms of the legal process and the degree of success we have there will be one key driver about when insurance will follow.
But it isn't unusual to see a significant lag between insurance recovery and settlement of the third-party liability claims.
Research Division</strong> And you guys are funding those third-party claims effectively with the equity raised this year with the assumption of not getting recovery.
So when the money does come in it will help mitigate some future equity needs? That's correct.
It's an interim issue for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
And I guess just a couple of actually operational questions as crazy as that may sound.
With the SONGS issues kind of facing Southern California how do you guys see that affecting your system this summer? And is there any concern about reliability concerns creeping up your direction? Yes.
This is Chris Johns.
Dan it's a good question in that that's a significant and vital resource for California in general.
But most of it from what we've seen is going to be more localized effects in Southern California.
We don't see any impacts on us as far as reliability or resources in Northern California.
Obviously we're following it pretty closely but from a supply and reliability aspect we believe in our service territory we ought to be fine.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess Chris if you look at kind of balancing out the proposed lower ROE the drop in natural gas fuel costs against higher renewable expenses where do you guys see electricity rates going next year or the year after from those inputs you can look at right now? Yes.
When we look out over the next couple of years we still feel pretty good around maintaining rates around the level of inflation growth on a year-to-year basis.
I think that we still are focused a few years down the road on the impact of some of the renewables as they start to come online and the -- and what they'll do to our rates and that's something that we're working through with both regulators and policymakers on how do we really make sure that the rate system is set up for the best for our customers.
But over the next couple of years you mentioned some of the good things that put downward pressure on rates but obviously we still have a lot of investment in the infrastructure of the system that we need to make and we do need to get in compliance with the renewables as they come online.
So it should balance out over the next couple of years to keep us right around the inflationary rate.
Research Division</strong> Does the step-up in rates kind of coincide with the next GRC? Is that the timing we should be thinking about comping [ph] the renewables impacts more? It's -- yes.
I mean that time frame is probably not bad.
It's a couple of years out when a lot of the renewables come on in bigger chunks and that probably is right around the same time as when our General Rate Case will kick in.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein &amp; Company.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> My question is around the PSEP CapEx and the OIR.
If I understood correctly you don't expect the OIR to be resolved until September and you won't know consequently until then whether the full PSEP CapEx will be included in rate base or whether some portion will be disallowed.
And my question in this are on the financing and the accounting for the PSEP CapEx.
I assume until the OIR is decided that you're funding that as if it were included in rate base with the normal equity ratio.
If that assumption turns out to be too optimistic and some portion of the CapEx is disallowed you would then write off that CapEx and issue incremental equity that cover the write-down.
Is that right or wrong? Hugh this is Kent.
I think generally that's directionally right.
In other words we are essentially financing that CapEx which really is just beginning because we've been in the winter months but we are financing that with the weighted cost of -- weighted capital structure.
And then we do -- in our guidance we assume that essentially the annual costs associated with that capital the carrying costs essentially is part of our earnings guidance for the $450 million to $550 million.
It's a small component of the overall expense.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Any quick thoughts or reactions on the citation decision? I mean we got the board's recent decision and thoughts on how the company should best proceed with that program going forward.
Well I think we were disappointed in that decision because the principle of assigning maximum penalties for self-identified violations just is not consistent with regulatory practices in many agencies.
But that said we'll continue our discussions with the CPUC on how we might modify that approach but that one particular proceeding it's behind us right now.
Research Division</strong> And then on a separate issue just going back to the bonus depreciation question any sort of quick stab on the year-over-year effect of that? Trying to quantify that somehow Kent? Well I think we indicated for this year that the bonus depreciation allows us to do some incremental CapEx given that our rates were fixed in our last General Rate Case and that incremental amount for the year was roughly about $600 million.
So you can essentially see the headroom that was created through bonus depreciation.
And you'll remember in our case the PUC allowed us to set up a memorandum account in order to try to utilize that headroom for the benefits of customers with incremental infrastructure investment.
Our next question comes from the line of Angie Storozynski Macquarie Group.
You mentioned the high-profile hires for your gas business.
How should we think about it from a cost perspective? Is it going to be covered under your GRC that you're supposed to issue notice for this summer? Or is that already the Gas Transmission Rate Case which will be filed on the following year? Yes.
I mean I think the incremental cost of our hires in the overall scheme of things is in the rounding.
Some of the positions were positions where we're backfilling.
Some of them were new positions as part of the reorganization but I don't think it has any bottom line impact in the long term.
Okay.
And secondly about the reset of allowed ROEs and the equity ratio.
You mentioned that currently you have about a 52% equity ratio.
What happens if the -- if there's a reduction in that equity ratio and you have already issued equity? So you're basically -- in a way you are starting from a higher level of the equity ratio than the allowed one.
Well in that scenario obviously we would need to true up our equity so that it matches the authorized ratios.
In reality of course the proceeding is going to take place during this year and I'm hopeful that we'll have some view whether or not that's truly a controversial issue at the commission or not.
I continue to believe that the 52% makes a lot of sense for us.
And while simplistically some of our observers have noted that our common equity ratio was higher than the other utilities -- although frankly I think Sempra is looking to raise their common equity ratio to look more like ours.
But particularly with respect to Edison that's more like 58%.
It's important that people also recognize that Edison has a lot more preferred stock than we have.
And as a result we end up at the same place from a credit perspective overall which is really the purpose of having the right balance for your capital structure.
And we have looked at the alternatives of issuing a lot more preferred stock and having less common stock outstanding and it is essentially equivalent from a cost perspective of our customers given our credit ratings and our expected cost of issuance.
So we think we have a capital structure that makes sense.
And especially given the fact that S&amp;P downgraded us in recent months we don't think that increasing leverage makes sense for us right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I believe in February you had mentioned about $230 million that you expect to at least apply for recovery.
I was wondering how comfortable you are with that and the pipeline costs number after the initial regulatory proceedings.
Travis I think what you're referring to maybe was within the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan the portion that was -- that we were seeking recovery for.
Because you remember in the overall program there were some components particularly for newer pipe that we were not going to seek recovery of.
We right now are challenged in terms of actually achieving that recovery this year just given the fact that the proceeding is still underway and we're having -- we're beginning to incur those costs.
So until that proceeding gets resolved we won't have more confidence about actually achieving that level for this year.
We do hope to seek recovery -- once the decision is made we hope we do obtain recovery for all those costs that are associated with new requirements and we're hopeful that the commission will move expeditiously to resolve the proceeding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you're still comfortable with that $230 million as of now? Yes.
I think the split -- we might have adjusted slightly but it's not a dramatic difference.
Research Division</strong> And then remind me you mentioned it but how much of the $230 million has been spent to date? It's fairly modest.
And we have not broken out out of our total pipeline-related costs the specific amount that would be part of the PSEP.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan [ph] with Visium Asset Management.
Yes.
My questions have been answered.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on the OIR case the -- where do you stand on addressing the gas distribution side of the business? Steve this is Kent.
The -- in the rule making the gas distribution is not really a part of it.
That's focused on the pipeline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I think it's been brought up in terms of addressing that as well at some point.
Is that...
Yes.
This is Chris and right now that would be addressed through our General Rate Case.
We're still continuing to look and work with the CPUC to see if there is a different forum for addressing that.
But as of right now our plan would be to include that kind of a program in our filing this year on our General Rate Case.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the remaining equity for this year any sense on what -- how you are likely to do that and maybe related to how much is left on the dribble plan? Yes.
The dribble program I can't remember the number right now.
We do have some left on that and that's of course easy for us to renew which we have done in the past.
So the dribble program can be very flexible for us and allow us to do it rateably as we go.
But I indicated earlier of the $300 million we'll get a chunk of that through our internal programs.
And so the remainder we can handle through a dribble or any other alternatives that are out there and we're really going to kind of see what make sense at the time given the situation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question.
I think during this quarter you got a court ruling on the Oakley plant.
Could you update us on that and kind of what's next? Yes.
This is Tom Bottorff from Regulatory Relations.
We have refiled an application to seek approval of the Oakley plant.
That was filed on March 30 of 2012.
So we asked for expedited treatment.
We hope we get a decision this year but it may be delayed until the following year.
There are currently no additional questions waiting from the phone lines.
Well this is Tony.
Let me just wrap up the discussion this morning.
The next several months are going to be very important and challenging for the company.
As we work to bring to a close the various San Bruno regulatory proceedings we're going to see a whole new round of public discussion about the tragedy that quite honestly will not put the company in a favorable light because we'll review all of those issues.
But I've told our team here that that's part of the closure process and that we can't let that distract us from moving forward with the plan.
The good news is that we will be much closer to giving closure to the victims to the public and to all of our constituents so that PG&amp;E can focus on a bright future for the company.
So I thank you all for joining us this morning and I look forward to talking to you in the future.
Thanks for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for attending today's PG&amp;E Corporation First Quarter Earnings 2012 Conference Call.
This will now conclude the conference.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines will be muted during the presentation portion of the call with an opportunity for questions and answers at the end.
At this time I would like to introduce your host Gabe Togneri with PG&amp;E.
Thank you and enjoy your conference.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri.
Thank you Jackie.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining our call.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey I’ll remind you that our discussion is going to include forward-looking statements based on assumptions and expectations reflecting information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company’s results are described in Exhibit 1 located in the appendix of today’s slides.
We also encourage you to review the discussion of risk factors that appears in our 2011 Annual Report and in the Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today.
And with that I’ll hand it over to Tony.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I’m going to provide some opening remarks and then I’ll turn it over to Chris and Kent to cover operations and financials in more detail.
On slide 2 you see the three key objectives that we have been talking about this year.
I’ll speak to the first resolving gas issues.
We’ve been in settlement discussions regarding the regulatory proceedings.
These are multiple proceedings they are multiple parties and they are complex issues.
And beyond that given where we are in the discussions I just don’t think it’s helpful to go into any more detail about where we are.
But I will say that if and when we have news to share we will in fact share that at the appropriate time.
We continue to believe that resolving the regulatory issues sooner rather than later would be beneficial for PG&amp;E our regulators and our customers.
So we will continue to push forward on that.
I do want to comment on third party liability our civil cases.
We’re making lots of progress in resolving these claims.
We’ve settled several more of the most serious cases and our intent continues to be that we provide victims with fair compensation and doing that as soon as possible.
Meanwhile we continue to make good progress on our work in the field.
As we’ve done this and as we’ve added new experienced leaders we’ve identified some new work that we need to accomplish and given all that we’re currently doing it’s probably going to take several years to finish this new work as well.
And Chris is going to describe that in more detail shortly.
And as I’ve indicated in the past there’s no quick fix but we’re going to do whatever it takes to meet the commitments we’ve made related to system safety.
With respect to our second objective for the year positioning the company for long-term success last month we filed our 2014 General Rate Case Notice of Intent and it reflects the important work we should be doing over the next several years.
So we’ll spend some time discussing that in this call as well.
We’ve also introduced a new planning process.
It’s one that I’ve used in the past to more effectively manage the business.
This process focuses first on developing a long-term strategy and identifying the critical objectives that we want to accomplish.
Once the team has clear alignment on this we develop tactical plans and budgets that then can be implemented on a company-wide basis.
I think this is a process that will keep us focused on our key objectives and ultimately help us deliver results for many years to come.
Finally shifting to our third objective rebuilding relationships we’ve seen a slight uptick in customer satisfaction but I think it’s a little too soon to predict that that is a consistent trend.
In the last month we launched a major new customer outreach campaign.
This effort combines advertising social media online information community outreach and a variety of other elements.
It will feature our own employees and provide concrete examples of the work we’re doing to improve safety and reliability and we anticipate that this is going to be a multiyear educational effort as we continue to work on our system.
Our research had told us that our customers really like the work that our employees are doing and they respect them but they do want to know what specifically that the company is doing to make our system safer.
This multichannel communications campaign will underscore the message that this is a new PG&amp;E that’s serious about making improvements.
And ultimately we believe that this educational campaign is an investment in our relationship with our customers and our communities and part of the recovery plan that’s essential to our long-term success.
So we’re focused on these key objectives – resolving our gas issues in the near term positioning the company for success and rebuilding the relationships and I believe we’re making good progress.
It’s going to take some time but the long-term prospects for the company are positive.
So with that let me turn it over to Chris to discuss our operations in more detail.
Great thanks Tony and good morning everyone.
I’m going to provide the regulatory and then the operational updates that are summarized on slide 3.
I’ll start with our General Rate Case Notice of Intent filing which covers the gas and electric distribution and electric generation parts of the business.
You’ll recall that the gas transmission and electric transmission are handled in other proceedings.
The key themes in the general rate case filing are investing in our infrastructure and leveraging technology in order to improve operations and achieve significant gains in safety and reliability performance.
The 2014 proposed revenue increase of $1.25 billion represents the funding necessary to cover operating expenses and provide for the annual costs associated with roughly $4 billion of infrastructure improvements.
The capital expenditures in the general rate case should represent roughly two-thirds of the company’s total CapEx in 2014.
The biggest percentage increase in the GRC filing is in the gas distribution area where we would be replacing a substantially greater number of older gas distribution lines than in the past improving the technology we use to detect gas leaks and significantly upgrading asset management capabilities.
For electric distribution we’ll be replacing more overhead electric lines based on their operating performance and installing more automation to limit the impact and duration of outages.
The next step in the process is a full review of the filing by the Division of Ratepayer Advocates followed ultimately by the filing of our formal application before the end of the year.
Turning to the operations side as you can see on this slide and the Appendix we’re on track for many of our high-level operational performance metrics.
We’ve also made substantial progress this quarter on several of our key initiatives.
We validated and documented the Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure or the MAOP of over 1 300 miles of our gas transmission pipe in the second quarter and that brings our year-to-date total to almost 2 000 miles out of the 3 400 miles planned for this year.
We’ve completed 41 miles of hydrostatic tests during this quarter and remain on track to test 160 miles during the year.
And we’ve installed 24 new automated safety valves on our gas transmission system and plan to have 46 by year end.
We’ve also been doing some follow-up field work on class location and related issues and this is where we’ve identified the additional work that Tony referred to earlier.
Specifically we’ve found vegetation and structures that are encroaching on our rights of way over our transmission pipelines.
As a result we’ll be conducting a comprehensive survey of the entire gas transmission system to identify all of the encroachments assess the cost and scope of the work and begin taking action.
We’ve also identified additional integrity management work that’s necessary and this includes completing more internal pipeline assessments and other types of inspections to confirm the quality of our pipelines.
Now most of this work will ramp up next year and we expect that addressing these issues may take several years to complete.
Next you’ll recall that we identified roughly $200 million in incremental work that we decided to undertake across the utility this year and next.
To date we’ve made solid progress in carrying out that work.
In the electric operations we’ve increased maintenance and repair work on both our overhead lines and underground cables and structures.
We’ve also increased our patrolling of poles by tens of thousands of units and have taken appropriate corrective maintenance actions to reduce fire risk and improve safety.
On the gas side we’ve completed more repairs to lower grade distribution leaks as we’ve shortened our recheck intervals and have performed more maintenance work on our gas distribution lines.
In putting together our 2014 General Rate Case filing we’ve identified some additional work mainly in the gas distribution area that we expect to undertake going forward.
It includes a higher volume of gas meter and service work as well as some mark and locate work.
Consistent with our commitment to safety and compliance we’re not going to be able to wait until 2014 to begin some of this work.
This will result in an increase in the annual incremental spend from about $200 million to about $250 million.
However there are some other areas like the light storm season we experienced earlier this year that create headroom for us to maintain our 2012 guidance for earnings from operations.
Finally I know a number of you have an interest in our progress on the Diablo Canyon seismic studies.
There are a couple of authorizations that are pending to allow us to conduct the offshore seismic mapping.
We’re hopeful that we’ll receive these authorizations in the next few months to allow us to complete the work by the end of this year.
And with that I’ll turn it over to Kent.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
As usual I’m going to go through the results for the second quarter and discuss our outlook for the rest of 2012.
I also plan to provide some observations about post-2012.
I’m going to start on slide 4 which summarizes our results for the quarter.
Earnings from operations were $0.81 per diluted common share while GAAP results were $0.55 per share.
The difference between the two is the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters which totaled $0.26 for the quarter.
The components of that are broken out in the table at the bottom in pre-tax dollars.
The pipeline-related costs totaled $128 million during the quarter and include the pipeline validation and strength testing work in the field as well as our legal costs.
In general the field work has been on plan although we continue to experience higher than planned legal costs.
We also took an $80 million accrual during the quarter for third-party liabilities and this reflects the results of the recent settlements reached which Tony discussed as well as the latest information that we have about the remaining claims.
It brings our total accrual for third-party liability claims since the accident to $455 million.
The upper end of our estimate for third-party liability remains at $600 million.
Finally we booked insurance recoveries of $25 million for the quarter bringing us to $135 million of insurance recovery booked since the accident.
We continue to believe that a significant portion of the cost incurred for third party claims will be recovered through insurance but we’ll wait until we’ve resolved claims with each carrier before booking future recoveries.
Moving to slide 5 you can see the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations including the primary factors that take us from $1.02 in Q2 last year to $0.81 in Q2 this year.
First off results for the period last year reflected two quarters of incremental revenues due to approval of the 2011 General Rate Case and Gas Transmission and Storage Case which were both retroactive to January 1.
So there’s a $0.13 adjustment to normalize the timing of those decisions last year.
There was also a $0.09 reduction due to our planned incremental spending this year to improve our operational performance across the utility.
And then finally share dilution accounted for a $0.06 reduction and this reflects the share issuance during the quarter as well as the full effect of our equity offering completed late in Q1.
Those items were partially offset by a $0.05 increase due to higher authorized rate base investments this year compared to last year and then we had another $0.02 positive due to other smaller items.
Slide 6 summarizes our 2012 guidance.
The guidance range for earnings from operations remains at $3.10 to $3.30 per share.
The range for the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters has been updated to reflect the accrual this quarter the third party liability and our insurance recovery.
In the table at the bottom you can see the ranges for each component of the natural gas matters in pre-tax dollars.
The range for pipeline-related costs is unchanged at $450 million to $550 million for the year.
However we continue to trend towards the upper end of that range primarily due to legal costs so we’re continuing to watch this one.
The range for third-party liability claims is now $80 million to $225 million.
The lower end reflects the accrual taken in the quarter and the upper end is unchanged.
For insurance recoveries you see the $36 million we booked during the first and second quarter.
As in the past we’re not providing guidance for future insurance recoveries or for additional penalties beyond what we’ve already accrued.
In terms of equity issuance we continue to expect to need roughly $700 million this year based on our guidance assumptions.
Through the end of the second quarter our total issuance was $572 million so we’re well along with our plans.
Obviously our actual issuance during the year will depend on a variety of things most significantly of course developments related to the gas matters.
At this point I thought I’d also provide some observations to help you think about our profile beyond 2012.
Clearly 2013 looks to be a down year for earnings from operations primarily due to year-over-year dilution and some reduction in our authorized ROE.
And of course 2014 is going to be a key year for us since that’s the start of our next General Rate Case period.
As I go through this I expect that you’ll have some questions for which you’ll want quantitative answers.
However much of what I’m going to say will be more directional more qualitative than quantitative.
We certainly want to be transparent with you all but we won’t be in a position to provide guidance for future years until at least we have more visibility around the outcome of our gas issues.
In the meantime this somewhat qualitative approach seemed to be the best option.
I’m going to start on slide 7 and there you can see that we’ve listed some factors for you to consider in thinking about our future year earnings from operations.
In terms of capital expenditures this year we expect to be approaching $4.8 billion.
In 2013 we should be at or above that level since we have important investments planned throughout our business.
As an aside if bonus depreciation is not extended next year that would cause us to be somewhat above our authorized rate base in 2013 and we’d intend to true that up in the 2014 General Rate Case.
For capital expenditures in 2014 we’ve proposed a higher level in the next General Rate Case.
In terms of our authorized rate base which we earn on we expect it could increase from around $24.5 billion this year to about $26 billion in 2013 based on our last General Rate Case and other proceedings including the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan request which obviously hasn’t been decided yet.
Our authorized rate base for 2014 will be reset in the upcoming General Rate Case as well as other proceedings.
Because we intend to true up historic rate base in the General Rate Case we’d expect a more significant increase in authorized rate base in 2014 maybe in the 10% range or so based on our General Rate Case and our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan request.
But we’d expect rate base growth after that to return to more normal levels during attrition years.
Our authorized ROE and equity ratio for 2013 will obviously be set in the Cost of Capital proceeding which is now underway.
We’ve proposed a reduction in ROE from 11.35% to 11% next year and we’ve proposed maintaining our common equity ratio at 52%.
In addition to deciding those levels the PUC is also going to consider a mechanism for adjusting ROE in 2014 and beyond but we don’t expect them to address that until the early part of next year.
Next is the incremental spend.
As Chris discussed we expect it to total about $250 million across the utility this year and to continue next year.
As you know these costs are not currently reflected in our rates.
However we will be seeking cost recovery in our General Rate Case starting in 2014.
Next is earnings on CWIP or construction work in progress.
You’ll remember that we accrue AFUDC on CWIP and our 2012 guidance assumes that about half of that is offset by below-the-line costs that are not recovered from customers and those are things like charitable contributions advertising public affairs work and so forth.
Of course that reflects the minimal advertising we’ve done the last few years.
And given the recovery plan that Tony talked about including the customer outreach campaign we expect that we will have higher below-the-line costs which will largely offset our CWIP earnings in the future.
So you’ll want to keep that in mind.
Finally we’ve seen significant equity issuance this year much of which has been driven by unrecovered gas pipeline costs.
You’ll see our equity need estimate of roughly $700 million for 2012.
Our equity issuance beyond this year is expected to continue to be significantly higher than would be satisfied by our internal programs our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment plan.
Some of the key drivers for this are capital expenditure levels year-over-year differences in our cash flows the potential expiration of bonus depreciation which I mentioned our planned incremental spend across the utility and then the level of future gas pipeline costs.
So let’s go to slide 8 now and here we’ve shown some factors to consider in estimating future unrecovered pipeline-related costs.
Let’s start with 2012.
At the top you can see our current guidance for unrecovered pipeline-related costs of $450 million to $550 million.
That includes the four components you see listed – the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan expenses which we’ve been seeking recovery of for which a final decision isn’t expected until late in the year the pipeline costs that we’re not seeking recovery of such as work on post-1960’s pipe and then other work that’s been identified since the PSEP filing last summer and then legal and other costs.
In 2013 and 2014 the PSEP expenses we are seeking recovery of are shown as to be determined pending a decision by the PUC.
And of course you can go back to our PSEP filing from last summer to see our original request over this timeframe.
The PSEP costs we are not requesting recovery of will continue in 2013 and 2014 but the level of expenditure is expected to decline after this year.
That’s why we show it as lower.
Other work refers to the pipeline rights of way and integrity management work that Chris discussed which we’re in the process of scoping out.
We do expect it to ramp-up next year and it takes several years to complete.
So we show it as higher next year.
Finally we expect our legal costs to decline significantly after this year so we show it as lower in both years.
Obviously that profile will depend on how quickly the various proceedings are concluded.
Down below you see the other components of our item impacting comparability for our natural gas matters – penalties third-party liabilities and insurance recoveries along with some commentary there.
In particular I think we’ve made good progress in resolving a number of significant third-party claims and we hope to be able to resolve many of the remaining claims in a timely manner.
I’d expect the timing of insurance recovery to generally follow from that but it’s hard to predict exactly when that will occur.
So that’s an overview of some of the major factors likely to affect our earnings from operations and our unrecovered natural gas costs going forward.
I know it’s a lot to digest but I do hope my comments are helpful to you in keeping track of the various pieces that will likely influence our results over the next few years.
Tony? Well thanks Kent.
We have a number of challenges and uncertainties that we’re working our way through and I know it can be frustrating that we can’t be more specific about timetables or predictions for all of the different regulatory proceedings but that is the nature of the regulatory process.
But I do believe we’re making good progress.
We’re focused on resolving our outstanding issues and running the business well so we can be successful in the long run.
We continue to get positive feedback from many of our constituents regarding the direction that we’ve been moving in.
As a result I believe the company has a promising future and an attractive value proposition over the long run.
So with that let me open it up for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Mr.
Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to get a better understanding on the equity issuance that you mentioned the significantly higher versus 401(k) and DRIP.
Can you provide some color as to how much of that is related to the substantially higher capital expenditures in the filing – rate case that you preliminarily filed for versus expenses and other things that are running above previous expectations that now will have to be plugged to equity?  Michael this Kent.
We’re not at the point of providing any guidance for the future years but I think you should be able to get a general sense of our CapEx levels and to determine from that sort of how much of that is driving year-over-year equity needs as compared to where you end up with looking at unrecovered costs and those obviously hit our equities so they drive our equity needs in order to maintain the balanced capital structure.
Got it okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr.
Goldenberg.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
First a quick follow-up on that question.
In the normal course of business Kent what is the amount of equity that you issue through those programs?  For the 401(k) and dividend reinvestment plan we typically have issued between $200 million and $300 million per year.
Okay.
So you’re telling us that given the level of capital expenditures and everything else that in the future to maintain your cap structure you would expect to have to issue more than that?  Yeah significantly more.
That’s right.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then is there anything that you all can tell us about the possibility anything more you can talk about about the possibility of resolving some or all of the outstanding pipeline matters via settlement at some point this year or should we presume that it’s just too complicated and we’re going to have to see a litigated outcome?  Greg this is Tony.
It’s still my objective to try and wrap up all of those issues through a settlement by the end of the year but as I said this is one of the more complex proceedings I’ve been involved in.
We’ve got three investigations one rulemaking we’ve got multiple parties we’ve got the Attorney General the U.S.
Attorney and several other prosecutors involved.
So it just takes time to work through the issues.
Each has their own agenda they want to make sure it gets covered in the agreement.
But I think where we are here in August I still think that we can accomplish my stated objective of trying to get it wrapped up by year end.
Thank you Tony.
Thank you Mr.
Gordon.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford C Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Hi.
I wonder if you might just help me sort through some of the strands of your disclosure here regarding factors affecting EPS.
Just two quick questions on that.
The incremental spend that you mentioned on page three or rather I should say increased scope in incremental work that you mentioned on page three is the implication of that solely the increase in incremental spend that you show on page seven from an anticipated $200 million to an anticipated $250 million continuing on then into 2013 or is there something else that we need to be on the lookout for by way of incremental CapEx or incremental costs that are somehow not reflected here?  Hugh this is Kent.
The mention that’s on slide 3 which talks about rights of way issues identified that actually ties to page – to slide 8 and that’s the incremental – that’s new spend in the pipeline area having to do with rights of way and integrity management.
Also on slide 3 and this may be what you’re referring to the increased scope of incremental work that relates to slide 7 and the item that is mentioned as incremental spend and that is the work we’re doing across the utility that’s not specific to the pipeline which we’d previously estimated at $200 million this year and next year and we’re saying that’s going to be $250 million.
Good okay.
I think that’s clear.
And then on page 7 you mentioned that you’ve requested PSEP to be included in rate base over 2012 through 2014 and you give the annual amounts.
Is that included then in this authorized rate base number that you show up in 2012 and 2013?  It is yes.
So you will – so you’ll want to keep that in mind and that’s why we provided you the details down below in the footnote.
Okay so the point that you’re making is that you’ve spent this money but you actually don’t have the rate base revenues at this point that it will be...
Correct.
Okay.
And then just a final quickly.
You mentioned or Tony mentioned that the Attorney General of the State of California and the U.S.
Attorney were involved in the settlement discussions.
Are the Feds and the California authorities then continuing to proceed with a criminal investigation of the case? Is that what we should read into that?  They have been involved – they have interviewed employees.
Obviously it’s not as high on their priority list as it is on ours to get this done they’ve got lots of other things.
So they’ve kind of gone in fits and starts involved in that but we have reached out to try and get everybody involved in an overall settlement.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Mr.
Wynne.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Yeah hi maybe a few questions for Kent.
Just curious at the end of the quarter how were some of your key balance sheet – how were some of your key balance sheet metrics meaning like how much short-term debt did you have outstanding? What was debt-to-cap? And then when we think about kind of cash requirements going forward how much of what’s been accrued for third-party liabilities have actually been paid and what are your expectations for things like either Hinkley-related payments in the next – or CapEx related items in the next few years et cetera?  Yeah Michael in terms of – sort of major changes in cash in our balance sheet I don’t think there’s anything very significant there.
I think our amount of commercial paper outstanding is down by a few hundred million dollars since the end of last quarter.
It’s – that’s kind of normal course of business for us.
In terms of the cash requirements associated with – with things like third-party liabilities and stuff we’ve accrued $455 million to date.
I think the actual payments that have been made through the end of the second quarter were $145 million.
And then again on the insurance side we’ve booked $135 million of insurance.
So we tend to pay those settlements as the settlements are concluded and some of those are fairly recent.
Got it.
And Tony just – I’m seeing a lot of the items on page seven and on page eight and just want to kind of get a feel – I think going back to the third quarter call you may have made some comments about the goal is to get closer to earning your authorized ROE by 2014.
Do you still view that as the goal and are there any items that have been outlined here which clearly won’t be recoverable in rates by 2014?  Well that is still our goal.
I think the big driver for 2014 is going to be how the GRC the General Rate Case comes out.
That’s a large number $1.25 billion and we think that we’re able to justify that level of spending.
But the results of that are going to dictate a large part our ability to achieve ROE returns then.
And this is Kent.
The only other thing I’d add obviously the General Rate Case covers electric and gas distribution and electric generation.
In terms of gas transmission that rate case is not until 2015.
So our opportunity to true up costs there that are outside of the PSEP proceeding is really a year later in 2015.
So does that imply there’s a little bit of drag or a little bit of regulatory lag on the gas pipeline side?  I think that would be a reasonable expectation.
Okay.
Thank you Kent.
Thank you Mr.
Lapides.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Jonathan.
Quick question on the $250 million number that you’re now giving for incremental spend that’s to continue into 2013 did I hear you correctly that you think you can offset that partly because you’ve had the low trend storm costs in 2012 but that we shouldn’t necessarily assume that that offset will continue into 2013 or do you have some other offset to the kind of incremental $50 million since last quarter?  Hey Jonathan this is Chris.
And you’re right when we look at this year we’ve had the lighter storm season.
We’ve also had some tax benefits and some other savings that we’ve focused on and that’s been able to offset that.
And we anticipate that that level of spend will continue into next year.
I mean obviously we’re always looking for ways to continually improve on there but we wanted to make sure that you all were alerted to that higher level.
So as the higher level continues to be offset unless something else materializes it doesn’t necessarily.
That’s true.
Okay.
And then secondly on – in the first quarter you had $7 million – sorry $0.07 a share of miscellaneous items that were positive that you said you thought would reverse over the course of 2012 and obviously that didn’t show up as a driver in this second quarter.
Is it – do you still anticipate that through the balance of the year? Any comment on that?  Yeah Jonathan this is Kent.
We do still have the same view of that and that was a lot of – a number of small items that many of which were timing in nature.
So we do anticipate that trending down during the rest of the year.
Okay.
And then finally Kent if I may just on your comments around equity are those those are sort of premised on the 52% that you requested in the Cost of Capital case and I would presume firstly is that correct and secondly does that comment change significantly depending on where that shakes out?  Yeah no I think that’s reasonable.
I think that would be a driver if we ended up with a different authorized equity ratio.
There really aren’t indications that’s going to be the case at this point.
We filed obviously for 52%.
We think it makes a lot of sense from a credit perspective and otherwise.
And we noticed last night when the interveners filed their testimony I think everyone did 52% common equity as well.
So we’re at least in alignment on that dimension of the case.
Certainly we’re not at alignment in terms of the recommended ROEs that they proposed.
And – but that’s no surprise.
Okay.
Then Tom just one final thing.
The – there was a date in the schedule in the OIR for a proposed decision I think yesterday as well.
Is it a reasonable working assumption that given you said you’re still in settlement talks that there will not be a PD in the meantime or any kind of help you can give us on what to expect there?  Yeah this is Tom Bottorff from Regulatory Relations.
We haven’t heard anything different from the PUC on the schedule from when that proposed decision would come out.
We have no indication that it’s scheduled to come out on that date either.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr.
Arnold.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom O’Neill with Green Arrow.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
I was just curious if you could review the longer term dividend policy and just whether we should recalibrate that if CapEx levels are approved as proposed?  Well let me just reiterate.
We’re committed to the dividend.
We believe that’s an important part of the value proposition for a company like ours.
But in terms of policy we can’t revisit what we’re going to do until we get some major things behind us like the gas proceedings we’ve got cost of capital we’ve got to take a look at some indication of where the general rate case is going to be going before we would be able to say any more about policy going forward.
So what we’ve been saying is we’re committed to the dividend but we’re going to have to resolve a couple of these major issues before we start to give you some guidance on what you might expect.
Okay understood.
Thanks.
Thank you Mr.
O’Neill.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Yeah hi.
Can you hear me?  We can Steve yeah.
Hi Tony.
Just one clarification on the settlement discussions.
When you say you’re targeting to have a resolution by the end of the year are you targeting a settlement by then or approval by the PUC of a settlement by then?  I think you’re cutting too fine a line there.
But it could be several – you know three four or five months?  You know it could or it could go very quickly.
It probably depends on how many parties you can get to sign on.
Is it a heavily contested settlement or is it one where you’ve got a number of parties? So I’ve said I want to try and get them wrapped up by year end.
Either one of those would be real progress if we just got an agreement even if it wasn’t yet approved by the Commission.
At one point you had mentioned the two year anniversary of San Bruno as a potential kind of goalpost on this.
Is that – should we not really focus on that as a potential goalpost date on this? It certainly continues to be a driver of trying to move things along.
Here we’re about a month away it may not be – well certainly you’re not going to get total resolution by then but it continues to be in everyone’s mind that we’d like to make a lot of progress by then.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr.
Fleishman.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar Securities Research.
Please proceed.
All right thanks.
With the docket right now – all the dockets right now on the CPUC what’s your sense for where you stand for each of these proceedings in line in the queue and how would you rank each one of the four outstanding in the regulatory calendar that you guys give there?  This is Tom Bottorff again.
The rulemaking is the furtherest along and it has – again we have proposed decisions scheduled for release this month.
That hasn’t happened yet.
We’re not sure when it will happen.
But it calls for a final decision as early as September.
But again I don’t see that on a track where that’s likely to happen but that’s what the current schedule calls for.
The three investigations are all on similar timelines right now.
PG&amp;E has filed its responses.
We expect rebuttal testimony from the staff in August and hearings will probably take place either in late August or early September.
So the procedural timeline for the three investigations have probably proposed decisions by the end of this year or early January and final decisions in the first quarter of 2013.
And is it reasonable to expect that those will be on time?  As of now they’ve been on schedule yes.
So if they – absent a settlement I’d expect those schedules to proceed on that timeline.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Mr.
Miller.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
You may have addressed this already but I was wondering if the company could comment if they’ve been successful in maybe getting all of the OII’s wrapped up into like one settlement discussion.
I know maybe on the previous earnings call you mentioned that was your goal or that was your hope.
Could you give any status on that?  You know as I said before these are complex issues.
We are trying to get a global settlement but I really don’t want to get into the details of the discussions.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr.
Crowdell.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium Asset Management.
Please proceed.
Hi how are you doing? I just wanted to -you were trying to point out directionally the earnings.
Is it fair you’re saying from what I heard 2013 is down versus 2012 of course because of the ROE issue and even the rate increase and everything is not going to offset the rate base increase not going to offset of course lower ROE what you’re predicting.
But then you’re expecting 2014 to be higher than 2013 and can you point out whether you expect 2014 to be equal to 2012 higher or lower? Can you give any kind of indication from that perspective?  Are you referring to overall like earnings from operations?  That’s correct.
Well I think the key drivers in 2013 that I mentioned were the fact that there will be some reduction in the ROE that’s authorized.
And then in addition to that we do have the cumulative impact of dilution some year-over-year dilution because of the equity issuance that’s happening throughout this year for example and will be outstanding for all of next year.
Probably one of the bigger factors in 2014 is that it’s a General Rate Case which will affect our authorized rate base and it will affect our ability to earn an authorized return given that we’re doing incremental spend this year and next year in the $250 million range.
So we are looking to the General Rate Case as a way for us to address a lot of the activities that we’re doing over the next few years and to make sure that our revenues are aligned with what we think we ought to be doing on our system.
Okay understood.
But is there any guidance that you can give in terms of – I know I guess we don’t know what will come out in the rate case but are you pointing that 2014 any directionally guidance of 2014 versus 2012?  We’re not providing guidance for either year at this point.
Okay okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr.
Khan.
(Operator Instructions) Jackie is that an indication that there are no further questions?  Yes sir.
And there are currently no additional questions waiting from the phone lines.
All right in that that case I would like to thank everybody for spending some time with us today.
I know it’s a very busy earnings season and this is towards the tail end.
So have a great day.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for attending the PG&amp;E Corporation’s second quarter earnings conference call.
This now concludes the conference.
Enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to introduce your host Gabe Togneri with PG&amp;E.
Thank you and enjoy your call.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri.
Thanks Monique.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining us on our call.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey let me remind you that our discussion will include forward-looking statements based on assumptions and expectations reflecting information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's results are described in Exhibit 1 located in the appendix of today's slides.
And we encourage you to review the discussion of risk factors that appears in the 2011 Annual Report and in the Form 10-Q that we'll file with the SEC later today.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Thanks Gabe and good morning everyone.
Before I start I know many of you are on the east coast and I want to urge you to make sure that you're in a safe location and please don't try and travel until the storm passes and we -- you know the extent of it.
EEI has activated its storm response network.
The industry is mobilizing all possible resources including west coast resources.
PG&amp;E is looking at what we can do to help along with the other west coast utilities.
This could be a very major event.
So please make sure you are careful and stay safe.
My comments this morning will be brief and then I'll turn it over to Chris and Kent.
On Slide 2 as you've seen before our focus is on 3 priorities: resolving the gas issues positioning the company for long-term success and rebuilding relationships.
I'm pleased to report we continue to make progress in these areas including improvements throughout all of our operations and we continue to be focused on the key stakeholders especially customers.
Given recent events however our call today will primarily cover gas issues starting with our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
We're disappointed with the proposed decision we received on the PSEP filing because among other things it failed to reflect the fact that much of this work is driven by new standards and requirements and that good engineering and planning practices include contingency plans in such complex operations and Chris is going to elaborate more on this point.
As it stands the proposed decision is punitive and with cost already incurred represents more than $1 billion in unrecovered costs without even factoring how the investigations will be resolved.
We believe that the resolution of the investigations and the resolution of the PSEP rulemaking should be viewed in conjunction with each other to resolve in an appropriate conclusion.
This is going to be the primary focus as we participate in continuing settlement discussions.
I want to emphasize we are still committed to the settlement discussions and we still believe in the involvement -- that the involvement of a mediator is the best way to bring the parties together in what have been complex and protracted discussions.
As always our work to resolve the gas proceedings will not distract us from our obligation to deliver safe reliable and affordable gas and electric service to our customers.
So with that let me turn it over to Chris to go into some of these things in detail.
Thanks Tony and good morning everyone.
As you can see on Slide 3 my comments will primarily be focused on the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Program or the PSEP program and the proposed decision and the work that we outlined in our PSEP filing.
I'll also provide an update on Hinkley the environmental activities there.
You'll recall that the PSEP filing was made in August of 2011 and represents the work that we believe is necessary to address the new higher standards adopted by the CPUC related to pipeline safety and modernization.
We made our filing in about 2 months' time in response to the CPUC directive to develop a comprehensive multiyear plan.
In developing the PSEP cost estimates we worked with an industry expert who followed industry best practices in helping us estimate these costs.
In particular our contingency estimates followed project management standards for work in the preliminary design stage as much of our work was at that time.
We also requested an advice letter process for recovery of costs of both those estimates.
Since making our filing our experience in the field shows that we need the contingency and in some cases more than that as I'll describe in a moment.
In contrast the proposed decision in the PSEP orders us to complete the work we outlined but disallows a significant portion of the funding including all of the requested contingency and the advice letter mechanism.
We believe the rejection of these requests is both arbitrary and unreasonable particularly since this is an established practice used in other commission proceedings.
The proposed decision also drastically reduces our return on equity on PSEP capital investment compounding the punitive effect of the decision.
Shifting to the work underway we are on track to accomplish the work we targeted for this year.
On the strength test front we completed 85 miles of testing in the third quarter putting us on track to achieve the 160 miles we targeted by year end.
Our PSEP filing targets more than 350 additional miles through 2014.
As Nick Stavropoulos discussed on our call in February we've seen strength test costs that are higher than both industry benchmarks and the cost assumptions in our PSEP filing.
The strength testing effort is the largest and most expansive -- expensive component of the planned PSEP expenses.
We did achieve a 25% cost reduction in 2012 compared to our per-mile cost in 2011 but we expect the strength testing in 2013 and '14 to be at a similar unit cost as it is in '12.
There are a couple of drivers for these higher costs.
First we're testing short segments of older pipeline as opposed to newly constructed longer segments.
These are often located in dense urban areas as opposed to the rural less populated areas.
Second when we prepared our cost forecast we assumed that the pipelines could be cleaned with a single cleaning run.
However in practice fully eliminating the contaminants in the older lines has required up to 5 cleaning runs significantly increasing the cost of storing testing treating transporting and disposing of the water used in the cleaning runs.
On the pipeline replacement we completed the replacement of 12 miles in the third quarter.
We have additional replacement projects currently underway and we expect to have replaced almost 40 miles by year end.
We plan to replace an additional 150 miles through 2014 as outlined in our filing.
Conditions we've encountered while completing this work include more complicated and lengthy permitting processes as well as land acquisition delays and project reengineering.
The pipeline replacement cost is expected to be at a level consistent with our request when you include the contingencies in 2013 and 2014.
In our work validating the Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure or the MAOP our pipeline -- of our pipelines we've completed the validation of more than 3 000 miles year-to-date with 4 000 miles expected to be validated by the end of the year.
We're on track to complete all of the MAOP validation work of our entire gas transmission network of more than 6 700 miles by early 2013.
We've also installed 35 automated valves so far this year and expect to reach our target of 46 by year end.
The costs associated with these programs are in line with what we assumed in the PSEP filing when including the contingency.
So summing this up we continue to focus on ways to complete all of our work more efficiently including competitive bidding and more pre-engineering and design work.
It's a reasonable assumption though at this point that we will need more than the contingency amounts requested in the PSEP filing for the expense-related work and to meet our commitments and that we will remain on track including the contingency for the capital-related work.
Now before I conclude I'll briefly mention our chromium cleanup of the groundwater in Hinkley.
To remind you earlier this year we established a program that offered eligible residents a set of alternatives including a whole house water replacement system or the choice to sell us their property.
We have adjusted our cost estimates for Hinkley to reflect the responses we've received.
We have also made adjustments based on the draft environmental impact report issued by the water board in August.
As a result of these items we took an additional charge of $24 million this quarter.
We believe that we've developed a strong final remediation plan and our accruals have been based on that plan.
However the water board is not anticipated to adopt the final plan until sometime in 2013.
So with that I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
As usual I'll run through our third quarter results and our outlook for the remainder of the year.
As you'll see the quarter was in line with our expectations.
I'll also address some of the financial implications of the proposed decision on our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan should it be adopted in its current form.
Slide 4 summarizes our results for the quarter.
Earnings from operations were $0.93 per diluted common share while GAAP results were $0.84.
The difference is the items impacting comparability for natural gas matters and for environmental-related costs.
The components of the item impacting comparability for gas matters are shown in the table at the bottom in pretax dollars.
Pipeline-related costs totaled $139 million during the quarter including work in the field and legal costs.
There were no additional accruals for third-party liability claims during the quarter but we did book insurance recovery of $99 million in Q3.
That brings total insurance recovery since the accident to $234 million.
In terms of the item impacting comparability for environmental-related costs we accrued an additional charge of about $0.03 per share in Q3 reflecting the development at Hinkley that Chris described.
Slide 5 shows the quarter-over-quarter comparison from earnings from operations including the primary factors that take us from $1.08 in Q3 last year to $0.93 in Q3 this year.
While we had a $0.05 increase in rate base earnings compared to a year ago this was more than offset by our planned incremental work across the utility which totaled $0.10 negative during the quarter and share dilution which totaled $0.06.
In addition we had other smaller items that net to a negative $0.04.
Slide 6 summarizes our 2012 guidance.
The changes from last quarter are shown in blue.
Our range for earnings from operations is unchanged at $3.10 to $3.30 per share.
Our range for the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters has been updated solely to reflect the insurance recovery booked in Q3.
The table at the bottom provides the ranges for each component of the natural gas matters in pretax dollars and I'll just briefly go through them.
For pipeline-related costs the range remains $450 million to $550 million for the year and we continue to trend towards the upper end.
I need to point out that the proposed decision for the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan if adopted by the PUC would result in the write-off of some capital expenditures we've made since the program began.
That effect is not included in our guidance at this point and I'll say more about that a little later on.
The third party liability claims our range for 2012 was unchanged at $80 million to $225 million.
The larger number corresponds to the upper estimate for cumulative third-party liabilities which remains at $600 million.
For insurance recoveries you see the $135 million we booked during the first 3 quarters of the year.
And has been our practice we're not providing guidance for future insurance recoveries or for additional penalties beyond what we've already accrued.
Back to the table at the top we've updated the range for environmental-related costs to reflect the accrual taken in Q3.
To date we've accrued $0.13 consistent with our guidance of up to $0.14.
In terms of equity issuance our year-to-date total to September was $720 million.
We expect some modest additional issuance for the remainder of the year through our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment plans.
On our last call I talked about our financial profile over the next few years.
And Slide 7 which we used on the last call lays out some of the drivers of this profile including our requested CapEx and rate base our allowed ROE our incremental spend across the utility and then our equity needs.
And I'll remind you a few of the takeaways.
We expect 2013 to be a down year for earnings from operations primarily due to year-over-year dilution some reduction in our authorized ROE and our incremental spend across the utility.
2014 on the other hand is the start of our next General Rate Case period and there's an opportunity to true-up our cost and revenues for significant portions of our operations and to continue to invest in our infrastructure.
Of course this picture is clouded by the uncertainty associated with the gas pipeline issues what the total cost will be and how the ratemaking is going to work.
We hope to resolve these issues as soon as we can through the settlement process.
In the meantime the proposed decision on the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan provides the data points regarding some of the issues.
Obviously there is much about the PD we don't agree with but I know many of you have been trying to assess the financial implication in the event it is approved by the commission.
Now Slide 8 is also from our last call and I just want to spend a minute on it for context before we get into the proposed decision.
So let me reorient you to the slide.
At the top you can see our 2012 guidance for pipeline-related costs totaling $450 million to $550 million and this is comprised of the 4 components shown below that.
These same components will affect 2013 and 2014 costs to varying degrees.
First the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan expenses which we may not recover.
Second the PSEP costs we're not requesting recovery of such as certain work on post-1960 pipe and we show those costs as declining after this year.
Third the other work that's been identified this year including the rights of way work we described on our last call.
We show these costs as increasing after this year.
And I'll just say we're still in the process of scoping out this work how long it's going to take and what it will cost but we do expect the work to be significant.
And then fourth are the legal and other costs which we show as declining after this year.
Now it's that first component the PSEP cost that's really addressed in the proposed decision.
As Chris said the PD orders us to do the work but would disallow recovery of a significant portion of those costs including all the requested contingency amount and the advice letter mechanism to address costs above those levels.
So let's go to Slide 9 which shows you the numbers from the proposed decision.
The top half of the slide compares our requested expense recovery each year with the amounts recommended for recovery in the proposed decision and then the bottom half does the same thing for capital.
So I'll start with expense.
Assuming we don't receive a final decision until the beginning of 2013 the PD would disallow all 2012 expenses.
That's in line with our guidance that we've been providing for this year.
For 2013 and 2014 the PD will leave us short for expense work by about $130 million over the 2-year period compared to our original request which included the contingency.
So that's the $81 million and the $51 million from the slide.
However as Chris indicated our experience to date with pressure testing is that our costs will be higher than our original request.
That means our unrecovered expenses in 2013 and 2014 could be roughly double the amount shown here.
Now let's go to capital.
The proposed decision would disallow recovery of about $400 million of capital expenditures over the 4-year period including the entirety of our records project and all the contingency we requested.
If the proposed decision were approved by the PUC we'd have to write off the disallowed capital.
For capital that's already been incurred we'd take an immediate charge.
And then for future capital that exceeds the authorized level we'd write that off as it's incurred.
To date we've had less experience with capital work than with our expense.
But our experience so far suggests that our costs are generally on track with the amounts we requested if you include the contingency.
So long as that trend continues the amount shown here will approximate our unrecovered capital cost over this period.
Now going forward I expect this to continue to show any unrecovered PSEP costs both expense and capital along with other gas pipeline-related costs from the prior slide as an item impacting comparability in 2013 and 2014.
For those PSEP investments we are allowed to recover the proposed decision would also reduce the return on equity to the level of our embedded cost of debt.
They continue to earn this reduced return for a 5-year period after each project's gone into operation.
After that they'd be allowed to earn our authorized cost of equity.
We estimate that the total nominal value of this reduced return could be roughly $130 million after tax over the relevant period and that figure is shown at the bottom of the table.
If the PD is approved as proposed I'd expect us to reflect the lower return in our earnings from operations going forward rather than include it in an item impacting comparability since earnings on rate base is typically viewed as ongoing.
So that basically covers the potential impact of the PSEP proposed decision including the unrecovered expenses the CapEx and the reduced return on equity.
I'm going to turn it back to Tony now for a few final comments.
So let me reiterate a few points before we go to the Q&amp;A.
I want to assure you we are totally committed to resolving the outstanding regulatory issues the 3 investigations and the rulemaking associated with our Gas Transmission business.
We believe it's in everyone's best interest to reach a conclusion as soon as possible and move forward with the important work to improve the system that we've already begun without the ongoing hearings briefings and other activities that divert resources from the primary task at hand.
If we can't settle these proceedings in a global way it will be months before we get a final decision in all of them and I know that's frustrating to you.
But I still believe the commissioners know that we're working on the right things and that we need to be financially sound to complete that work successfully.
So with that let's move to the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just curious when you put out the 8-K after the proposed decision on the PSEP came out one data point was in there caught our eye that -- I think it had said that you had spent $95 million of capital in total on the PSEP.
And if I look at I think it was Kent's Slide 9 your proposed capital spending combined for 2011 and 2012 that's $69 million and $384 million so closer to $454 million $60 million or so.
Just curious are you -- after third quarter are you still vastly underspending the proposed capital tied to the PSEP? Michael this is Kent.
Yes the cumulative CapEx for -- under the PSEP program through the end of Q3 was $187 million CapEx.
So that number's been updated.
You're right.
Our original plan shown on Slide 9 here would approach $450 million and we may not get there completely by year end.
But we are going to have a significantly higher number than the $187 million by the end of year.
Whatever the number a significant portion would be written off if the PD were approved.
Obviously we're still kind of working through the details of the PD.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But this isn't -- this is a timing issue.
This isn't a "Hey you're finding ways to spend capital at a cost lower than what you had filed originally when you made this application." Michael that's right.
It is a timing issue and the work was more tilted towards the latter half of the year rather than early in the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One is can you -- I don't think you've shared sort of what the rate base would look like under the PSEP PD.
Is that something you can give us some guidance on? You know we haven't updated any rate base estimates based on the PD Jonathan.
We just have sort of the original filing.
You probably can back into it by just kind of looking at what the proposed decision would disallow but we've not actually done that.
Research Division</strong> I just wondered.
So there's nothing sort of quirky we need to think about then Kent.
We could probably just take the numbers that are face value and adjust is that...
I think you'll get pretty close that way Jonathan.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly more to do with the process.
I missed the first couple of minutes.
But Tony I believe you mentioned that yes you'd be -- having a mediator would still be something you guys would be in favor of.
Is there sort of a time frame whereby you'd want to sort of see progress with these talks? And how long do we have to sort of figure out whether we're going to be talking or litigating? I've given up predicting time frames.
I have said often I wanted to try and get the proceedings behind us by the end of the year.
I guess until December 31 we could still get an agreement in principle.
It -- now it's probably unlikely to get the agreement and get it through the regulatory approval process with just 2 months left in the year.
But I think the important piece is getting the parties together and we do believe that given the complexity and the multiple parties that all have different interests that getting a mediator would be helpful.
The discussions around George Mitchell if you read a lot of the filings were not an objection as such to a mediator.
It was about the process of selecting that particular mediator even though his credentials were superb.
And so we're -- we've gotten back to the parties and suggested that let's see if we can get another mediator.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so it was reported -- I think CPSD filed on Friday that you were going to have a -- there was going to be a meeting today and an update to the ALJ November 1.
Is that still the -- is that the sort of the latest and greatest? Yes.
I'm not going to comment on the specific timetable of any meetings Jonathan.
But I can tell you I mean there isn't a day that goes by that we're not working that issue.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify a comment you made on Slide 9.
You said that unrecovered expenses on the expense side of things could be double what we're showing here.
I just want to make sure I understand that that is the difference row that you're looking at for '13 and '14 that would be largely a number we can take twice as large now on that difference line if we were to update for the most recent estimates? Brian that's correct.
This is Kent.
And essentially the main driver here is the pressure testing.
And I think we've talked in the past on prior calls that our unit costs there have been in excess of $1 million a mile and our filing including the contingency was more in the range of $600 000 per mile.
So when you apply that to about 350 miles we have planned for 2013 and 2014 you get a number an increment above that $130 million that's about equivalent to that amount.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Majority of my questions have already been answered.
But I do have a question regarding the PSEP proposed decision.
It strikes me that -- and please correct me if you think I'm wrong here that the proposed decision in sort of opining that you should earn a modified equity return on the investments you're making that are deemed prudent and useful would sort of be selectively regulating you differently from the same types of investments that are being made by other utilities in the state to comply with the same plans.
So if you -- they were ultimately to approve that if the CPUC ultimately approve that do you have recourse in the courts? Because it's essentially selective ratemaking on similar investments.
And also does it just sort of blur the lines between the penalty phase which is in the OIIs and this OIR which is supposed to deal with capital investments and related to these new rules? Well I think we'll take your comments in the transcript and use that as our brief because those are exactly the points that we'll make.
We think that's inappropriate.
If the work is work that we ought to be doing and that we're going to get recovery of then we ought to get recovery full recovery of it including a allowed return on equity on that and we'll be making that point of not only -- we won't wait for appeal.
We'll wait -- we'll make that point when we go to the commission.
Remember this is a proposed decision.
And we'll be making our points with the commission and then they'll make their decision.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question more of a modeling type but how do you guys think about your long-term effective tax rate going forward? Because I know last year and this year whether it's the quarter or the trailing 9 months it's sub-30%.
How should we think about that on a sustained basis? Jim this is Kent.
We don't exactly provide guidance on our tax -- effective tax rate in future years.
But obviously the last few years have been very unusual with bonus depreciation very very unusual.
And at some point we will see that kind of get back to normal going forward.
I think the other thing is just going forward we do have a lot of questions about what will tax policy be.
We don't know whether or not bonus will be continued beyond this year.
But then there's lots of other proposals out there for tax policy.
So that one's going to be a tough one to wrap our minds around at this point.
I think I'd also remind -- this is Gabe.
I'd remind everybody that we have said over the last few years we've had a number of sort of overhanging tax issues that we had settled from many years ago.
Those are being worked down very rapidly and we would expect that we would not have that level of tax issues to be working through in the future.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 quick questions hopefully.
When the settlement discussions are going on or when the procedural calendar I guess was suspended there was a date of November 1 where -- I want to know does the procedural calendar start up again? Just what happens on that November 1 date.
And the second question the company seems optimistic or even the interveners that a mediator would work best.
But the selection of Mitchell's team definitely created a very charged atmosphere out there in California I mean who -- was it the CPUC or was it the utility that was really driving the selection of Mitchell? Well I'll start off with that second part of that question.
It was the CPUC's process selection and contacted the Senator not the utility.
And I'll let Tom comment on the procedural schedule going forward.
This is Tom Bottorff from Regulatory Affairs.
The only procedural issue at this point for November 1 is waiting for CPUC to report on the progress of the discussion at that point with the ALJs in proceeding.
So that's the next significant date in the process.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do the hearings start up again? Or the -- like I -- I thought there were still some more hearings to go on maybe like 6 or something like that.
Do they start automatically on November 1 or they're still suspended? Those hearings are suspended.
If they do resume it wouldn't be until November 26.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar Securities Research.
Research Division</strong> Real quick I wondered if there was any precedent for CPUC for offering a lower ROE on any kind of capital investment.
Travis this is Kent.
We did have experience back in the '90s where the PUC authorized all the utilities to have a lower return on other generation assets and that's the one that comes to mind for me.
Research Division</strong> Is there any kind of correlation there that you could use on an appeal basis or anything involved in that? I don't know that that decision at the time was appealed by the utilities.
It was all part of industry restructuring at the time wrapped into a very complex dynamic going on in regulation.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then real quick the financing plan if that proposed decision were to be approved would that be pretty much in line with capital expense and operating spec spend? Or would there be some kind of timing issue there in terms of equity and debt issuance? Well the proposed decision essentially has similar capital to what we had planned and it essentially says "Go ahead and get the work done.
You just won't get recovery of all your capital." And on the expense side again it's get the work done without the contingencies that you need to complete the expense amount.
I would say on the margin the impact of the proposed decision because of the disallowances on the margin it will drive somewhat more equity issuance than long-term debt in order to finance the overall program.
And essentially the after tax amounts of the write-ups drive some incremental equity issuance.
That's the way to think about it if you're modeling it.
Our first -- our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just -- yes maybe 2 mechanical questions.
Number one Kent could you talk a little bit about how and when you would assess having to revise the expected fine from $200 million to another number? I'm sorry Dan.
Can you restate your question? I couldn't hear it all.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm sorry about that.
Can you just walk through a little bit the process for reevaluating the level of fine you guys are assuming in your numbers in equity rate so far as adjusting the $200 million to a new number? Yes.
Dan we actually do that assessment every quarter.
And essentially the thought process we go through is we look at all the information available to us through the regulatory process and otherwise and to try to assess whether or not $200 million is still at the lower end of a reasonable range.
And you can infer from our reporting this quarter and the quarter before and so forth that we've not had a basis for increasing that reserve to this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one other question.
Can you just tell us where you are as far as authorization for more equity issuance? I mean could you turn on the DRIP in the fourth quarter or next year? Is there new authorization that has to occur? If you're talking about the 401(k) and dividend reinvestment if it's that DRIP that -- those are our internal programs and that's fine.
On the dribble program we do have authorization.
But the program we have I don't remember exactly how much is left in it but it's something like $60 million or $70 million left.
Of course we could replace that with another program when the timing was appropriate.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just to clarify a few things.
The mediator the other parties are not objecting you said to a mediator.
Is that -- did they want a mediator? Is that -- do I understand that correctly? All we can read into is -- if you saw some of their public statements objecting to Senator Mitchell and a number of the public statements and letters specifically said they don't have a problem with a mediator I guess it was the selection process for the Senator that they were concerned with.
And so we will be now raising the issue of okay are there other mediators and of course there are dozens and dozens of very successful mediators out there.
And we'll suggest the -- there's a process that we ought to go through and select one.
How long do you think that might take? As I said before I've given up predicting.
We'll work it every day.
Okay.
And then on -- I think Travis was asking a question on the ROE reduction and you mentioned the generation assets in the 1990s.
And as I recall there was some securitization there.
Is there any discussion of securitization as a means of sort of dealing with this sort of low ROE asset? Theoretically there could be a tax benefit for rate payers and what have you.
I'm just speaking just in general the securitization.
Any of the -- any of this -- the options or -- of strategy that's being discussed at all? No there hasn't been any discussion like that to date.
Okay.
And then just on the actual ROE cost of capital case.
The schedule doesn't look like it's changed.
So I'm just wondering given the slippage that we're seeing not just in your case just in general I mean it seems that the -- the PUC seems to takes some time quite often more than scheduled.
Do you still think we're really -- the schedule still holds for the -- I notice the testimony seemed to be filed and stuff.
Just -- do you think it's still going to happen at that time or any flavor on that? Yes.
I'm very hopeful that it will.
And it's stayed right on schedule.
The utilities -- everyone just filed their briefs last week.
So it's chugging along.
It's a fairly straightforward proceeding really and we are hopeful that we'll have a final decision on phase 1 by year end.
Okay.
And then just finally the Safe Harbor -- there's been a few changes in Safe Harbor statement.
And I noticed I think the addition of the nuclear issues potential legislation or regulation and I know you guys had some seismic stuff going on.
But I'm just wondering I don't believe I saw that last quarter.
And I was just wondering has there been any change that we should be thinking about on that area? It -- with the -- either with respect to seismic or post Fukushima or something like that that we should be thinking about that has come up? Paul this is Gabe.
It's really just our attempt to make sure that we're adequately covering everything in our disclosures and specifically with these risk factors.
Okay.
So there's not anything new that we should be -- that's developed that you're particularly concerned that we should be thinking about? Well I think we have disclosure.
We're actually making progress in getting the approvals to do the seismic testing.
So we're moving in the right direction there.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a handful of things.
First of all I want to make sure I follow your comments that when I look at Page 9 of the slide deck the expense you will still show even if it's more than what's on the slide you will still show as a nonrecurring item impacting earnings.
The capital and therefore any potential write-offs of capital you'll show in the lower ROE.
The capital write-offs you would show as nonrecurring items.
But the lower ROE on which you are allowed to earn on you will actually include in ongoing EPS.
A little different Michael.
The shortfall for expense and for our recovery of capital we would show as an item impacting comparability.
It just gives you more transparency.
You guys can keep track of the pieces that way.
The ROE component that reduced return on the subsets of our rate base which is related to the PSEP that we would just put in earnings because that's really return rather than a cost.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Can you give -- I'm going to change topic off the PSEP a little bit.
Can you give an update on the cash flow impacts expected for both Hinkley and the generator settlements? I think I'll take Hinkley first.
In the case of Hinkley most of what you've been seeing here have been accruals related to the whole house water situation and those are fairly near term -- and property purchases.
So they're fairly near-term items for -- like the accruals we've done this quarter.
When you look at our overall accruals one is up for Hinkley there's a significant amount that is really over a very long period of time.
That's the remediation of the chromium itself and that goes on for years.
So it really depends which part but these most recent accruals will be nearer term because we're essentially in the process right now of providing those options and the residents have selected them.
The second thing in terms of the generator settlements Gabe do you want to take that one? Yes.
Michael on the generator settlements there's really no news there other than what we said I believe on our last 10-K.
And I think as everybody who's followed us knows there is an overhang of several hundred million dollars or more that will require financing if all of the remaining generator claims that haven't been settled were settled all at once.
That's fairly unlikely.
We're having small settlements over time.
But at some point what remains will probably have to be decided by FERC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And coming back on the Hinkley just want to make sure I follow.
Have the cash flow impacts mirrored the earnings impacts over the last year or so or are the accruals solely for anticipated future cash flow spending on the more near-term items Kent that you addressed? The cash flow impact it really only mirrored the accruals reasonably closely.
I mean there's always a little bit of a lag but it's really for this whole house water and property purchase.
And even that there's somewhat of a lag certainly within quarters.
It's the final remediation which we've taken significant accrual for that does not mirror the cash flows at all.
The cash flows will be much more gradual on that one.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan [ph] with Visium Asset Management.
Sorry I joined a little bit late Kent so I don't know if it was addressed.
Can you just talk about -- there was a note from the rating agencies that came out last week which had negative implications from the proposed order.
Can you just talk about what your conversation with the rating agencies are? And what is -- in your view how does the company try to maintain its credit ratings where they are? Is that a focus? Could you share your thoughts there please? Well we have been in conversations with the rating agencies once the PD from the PSEP came out.
In many ways I like letting the rating agencies speak for themselves in their own reports and obviously people have access to the agencies themselves.
I will say the way I look at the issue is it's not simplistically a numerical issue where you just look at our credit ratios.
It's not that.
I think the rating agencies to me it's more important to really be focusing on the overall appropriateness of the resolution of all the gas issues and whether or not that continues to signal a balanced regulatory environment in California or not.
And I think that's really the key indicator that I believe the rating agencies are focused on.
Okay.
So it's more of a qualitative issue than a quantitative issue? I think that's fair.
Okay.
And then can I just -- so the time line still remains right? There's been no change in the time line regarding -- right? There was a November 26 drop-dead date before the OIIs fine was to come out.
That still remains intact is that correct or am I wrong? That date is scheduled for the end of November.
And whether it comes out or not depends on the status or success or progress in the negotiations that are ongoing.
Okay.
So -- but those dates have not been changed right? No.
There are no additional questions waiting from the phone lines.
All right.
In that case I will wish everybody a safe day.
Please stay inside and make sure you and your family are protected.
Thanks very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for attending the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This would now conclude the conference.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like introduce your host Gabe Togneri with PG&amp;E.
Thank you and enjoy your conference.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey let me give you the usual reminders and that being the discussion today will include forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions and expectations reflecting information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's results are described in Exhibit 1 that's located in the appendix for today's slides.
And we also encourage you to review the discussion of risk factors that appears in the 2012 Annual Report and in the Form 10-K both of which will be filed with the SEC later today.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
So good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We have a lot to cover this morning starting with our results over the past year and then we'll discuss our outlook for 2013 and beyond.
I'll begin and then turn it over to Chris and Kent.
Our focus continues to be on the areas that I outlined at the beginning of last year resolving gas issues positioning the company for long-term success and rebuilding relationships and partnering effectively with stakeholders.
We've made significant progress in all of these areas in the last year.
As you know we've been working diligently to resolve the outstanding gas issues.
Unfortunately we reached an impact in settlement discussions with the other parties in the investigations and we're now moving forward with the scheduled regulatory proceedings.
We're committed to bringing this to a conclusion that is fair to all the parties involved including our shareholders.
Since the San Bruno accident we've spent 1.4 billion in shareholder dollars on unrecovered pipeline-related expenses and capital investment.
And the total cost is $1.9 billion when we add the charge we've taken related to potential penalties the contribution we made to the City of San Bruno and the incremental work we've done to improve our performance across the utility.
While the investigations remain undecided we are well on the path to resolving many of the other issues.
The decision on the pipeline safety enhancement plan was an important step forward in closing out some of the cost uncertainties.
While the result was not what we originally had in mind it was an improvement over the proposed decision.
We've also continued to make substantial progress on third-party liabilities.
We've settled all of the most serious cases and we're now focused on resolving the remaining cases.
As a result of this settlement the judge in the case recently took the trial off the court's calendar and encouraged the parties to continue settlement discussions on the remaining cases and we continue to receive insurance payments.
As we reported to you each quarter we've also made substantial progress on gas operational needs.
One area where our assessment is not complete is the encroachment issue on our gas pipeline rights of way but we are including a range of costs in our guidance today and Kent will get to that later.
We continue to be focused on that issue as well as resolving CPUC and criminal investigations.
We're starting to transition from the uncertainties of the past couple of years and we have taken steps to position the company for long-term success.
As I've mentioned before we've adopted a more rigorous multiyear planning process which has put us on a positive trajectory towards operational and financial success.
As part of our planning process we established key operating metric target at the beginning of last year and we closed the year with strong performance against those metrics.
Our continuous improvement program is up and running and we filed our 2014 General Rate Case application which is intended to re-baseline the company's distribution and generation operations.
Our objective is to execute well on the programs outlined in the GRC enabling us to earn our authorized return in 2014 with the exception of the Gas Transmission business.
As I've said since arriving at PG&amp;E we can't rebuild our company without also rebuilding relationships and being a trusted partner.
The first step is with meeting our operational commitments.
In 2012 for the second year in a row we executed an unprecedented level of gas work and we've gotten much better at communicating with our stakeholders about the work that we're doing.
We've been collaborating with public officials in Sacramento on important policy issues such as residential electric rates and greenhouse gas emissions.
We're also improving our relationships with the cities and towns across our service territory.
Last year we piloted an initiative to strengthen our local PG&amp;E presence and we're so pleased with the result that we're expanding those pilots across our system.
In addition the customer outreach and education effort that we won in 2012 is delivering results.
We're seeing strong momentum in our customer satisfaction survey scores and our brand favorability numbers have moved up sharply but we recognize that relationships with our customers are still fragile.
To continue to earn back their trust we simply have to keep our focus on improving the safety and reliability of our system and our service.
We believe that delivering strong operational results for our customers will lead to strong financial results over time.
So now I'm going to turn things over to Chris who will cover the regulatory and the operational items in a little more detail.
Chris? Thanks Tony.
First I'll start with our regulatory activity.
In December of 2012 we saw resolution of several significant cases at the CPUC.
First the commission voted out the cost of capital case resulting in a 10.4% return on equity for 2013 and a capital structure of 52% equity.
In addition last month the parties filed a settlement that would essentially extend the previous adjustment mechanism through the end of 2015.
The CPUC also approved our application for the Oakley generating station a 586-megawatt high-efficiency gas plant to be built in Contra Costa County.
We expect to take ownership of the facility from the developer some time in 2016 or 2017.
Also in December the CPUC awarded us $21 million in energy efficiency incentive revenues associated with the successful results of our 2010 customer energy efficiency programs.
As you know the CPUC also voted out our pipeline safety enhancement plan or PSEP.
Although the vote provides certainty on how the plan will be implemented the punitive disallowance is disappointing.
The PSEP decision and the current gas transmission rate case remain in effect through the end of 2014 and will incorporate future pipeline spending in the 2015 Gas Transmission rate case.
Looking at significant regulatory items in 2013.
As Tony mentioned we filed our $1.28 billion application for the 2014 General Rate Case in December.
The administrative law judge on that case has approved a schedule that if followed would allow the case to be resolved by the end of this year.
As part of this rate case we are participating in a new CPUC process where a third party performs an independent safety overview of our filing.
We also filed our Transmission Owner Case or TO 14 with the FERC and refiled the application at the end of the year under order from FERC staff to use a much lower return on equity.
We have filed a request for rehearing as we believe the resulting ROE is insufficient to attract capital.
Moving on to operations.
2012 was a very busy year across the entire company as we executed on our plans to enhance the safety and reliability of our system.
In the gas business in 2012 we completed pressure tests on 175 miles of pipeline.
This level of strength testing in a single year on pipes already in service exceeds anything any other utility has done before.
We also replaced 40 miles of pipe and installed 46 remote or automatic shutoff valves across the system.
This year we will complete our comprehensive validation of the Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure on all of our gas transmission pipelines.
As you know we have brought in an experienced gas leadership team and tasked them with ensuring that we have a safe and reliable system.
As part of their evaluation they've identified additional work related to integrity management requirements and maintaining pipeline rights of way across our system both of which we've discussed with you in the past.
On the integrity management side we've made some changes to our risk assessment methodology to better align with leading practices.
So for example we've strengthened our procedures associated with identifying manufacturing and construction defects in the internal corrosion on our pipes.
We're now incorporating assessment and testing for these and other potential challenges into our integrity management program where we'll also use the information for asset management and investment planning.
Much of this work was not included in our last gas transmission rate case.
The cost for the work we do this year and next will not be recovered but we do plan to include this enhanced integrity management approach in our request for the next gas transmission case starting in 2015.
With regard to the encroachment on our rights of way and the necessary mitigation we'll have to undertake we're conducting a detailed survey to ascertain the exact coordinates of the pipeline within the rights of way across our entire service area.
We expect to complete this survey later this year.
Meanwhile we've relied on aerial photography and other inputs to develop preliminary cost estimates.
Our information thus far confirms that the encroachments are numerous and significant and because this issue arises from our ineffective patrolling in the past we will not be able to recover these costs and rates.
We expect the total cost for this right-of-way work to be on the order of $500 million over the next 5 years.
Obviously this is a significant cost but it's work we're committed to get done and to get done effectively and efficiently.
Shifting gears we're really pleased with the work being done to provide reliable customer service in the electric operations and in energy supply.
For example in electric operations installing smart grid technology such as intelligent switches on more than 100 distribution circuits helped us reach record reliability for PG&amp;E for the fourth year in a row.
While we're not yet at the first quartile level we aspire to be our consistent improvements give me confidence that we're making good progress in that direction.
At Diablo Canyon we had another year of strong performance on safety in operations and ended the year with a 90% capacity factor overall.
And earlier this month we began a regularly scheduled refueling outage on Unit 2.
Finally we continue to progress on the renewables area and are on target to meet our commitment of having 33% renewable power by 2020.
However as part of that process we have decided not to continue with our utility-owned solar PV program after this year as we are getting better pricing for our customers through competitive bidding.
We're seeing the results of our focus on operations in planned incremental spending and capital investments all of which continue in 2013.
This year the additional capital spending will support things like consolidating our electric and gas distribution control centers and installing more sophisticated technology.
We believe it makes sense to continue these efforts going into the next General Rate Case given our progress in improving our operations across the board.
Our customers are responding in these efforts.
Last year our customer satisfaction survey results were the highest they've been since 2009.
This reflects our customers' appreciation for our team's commitment to restoring power quickly and safely.
And with that I'll turn things over to Kent.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
I plan to briefly go through Q4 and 2012 results and then spend most of my time on guidance going forward.
Slide 4 summarizes the results for the quarter and the full year.
Earnings from operations were $0.59 for the quarter and $3.22 for the year.
GAAP results are also shown here and reflect the items impacting comparability for natural gas matters and for environmental-related costs.
The natural gas item is laid out in pretax dollars in the table at the bottom.
Pipeline-related costs came in at $106 million pretax for the quarter and $477 million for the year well within our guidance range of $450 million to $550 million.
We had been trending towards the upper end of the range during much of the year but some of our expected legal costs were pushed into 2013 given delays on the pipeline investigations while settlement discussions were underway.
Importantly during the quarter we took a pretax charge of $353 million for the capital that was disallowed in connection with our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
Going forward we don't expect additional capital write-offs unless our costs trend higher than our current assumptions.
During Q4 we accrued an additional $17 million for possible penalties related to the gas matters.
Our original accrual of $200 million done in Q4 of 2011 included potential fines for missing maps in our gas leak survey program.
Since those fines have been paid we took an additional accrual in Q4 in order to restore the total accrual to $200 million.
We continue to believe this represents the low end of the range for possible penalty.
During the quarter there were no additional accruals to third-party liability claims but we did book additional insurance recovery for $50 million which you see near the bottom.
That brings total insurance recoveries to $185 million during 2012 and $284 million since the accident.
In terms of the items impacting comparability to environmental-related costs which is back in the top part of the slide we accrued an additional charge of about $0.02 per share in Q4 reflecting updated cost estimates related to property purchases and whole-house water replacement.
Slide 5 shows the quarter-over-quarter comparison of earnings from operations including the main drivers that take us from $0.89 in Q4 2011 to $0.59 in Q4 2012.
And most of these drivers are consistent with the items we've seen in past quarters.
Planned incremental work across the utility totaled $0.11 negative and employee incentive compensation accounted for a $0.09 difference since the annual incentive in the prior year was well below target.
In addition increased shares outstanding drove a $0.05 decline storm costs and litigation costs reached $0.02 negative and we had various other items that together totaled $0.06 negative.
A few of these items include somewhat lower awards for our energy efficiency programs when compared to the prior year and in lower tax settlements.
These factors were partially offset by a $0.05 increase in rate base earnings compared to a year ago.
In terms of our equity issuance we issued a total of $775 million of common stock during the year bringing our year-end share count to 431 million shares.
That's it for 2012 results and I'd now like to move on to our outlook going forward.
I plan to walk through our guidance for 2013 and then I'll also provide some thoughts about 2014 and beyond.
As we've discussed before 2013 is going to be a down year for us due to the impact of our lower authorized return the additional dilution from share issuance year-over-year and our continued incremental spend across the utility prior to a reset in our 2014 General Rate Case.
Let's start by going through some of the key assumptions in our guidance which are shown on Slide 6.
First we're assuming capital expenditures for the year of a little over $5 billion somewhat higher than last year's level and you can see the key components of the planned CapEx on the left.
We're also assuming an average authorized rate base of about $26 billion in 2013.
This reflects past regulatory decisions like our 2011 General Rate Case as well as pending proceedings such as our current electric transmission case with the FERC.
The authorized return on equity for most of our rate base other than electric transmission is assumed to be the 10.4% that we recently received from the California PUC.
However we are assuming an ROE of only 9.1% on the electric transmission business for guidance purposes given where we currently are with the FERC on that issue.
Our authorized equity ratio continues to be 52% across the board.
We assume that we'll continue to incur about $250 million of expenses across the utility in excess of levels authorized in recent rate cases in order to enhance the level of service we're providing customers.
We requested recovery of most of these costs starting in 2014 in our next General Rate Case.
There is roughly about $50 million of that total that relates to gas transmission and that's expected to be incorporated in our next gas transmission case in 2015.
Because the CapEx program described will exceed levels authorized in our last General Rate Case and other proceedings by about $1 billion this year we expect to incur some additional financing and depreciation expense that won't be recovered in 2013.
We do anticipate truing up rate base in our upcoming General Rate Case to include recovery of most of these investments beginning in 2014.
As we've previously discussed we expect our below-the-line costs in 2013 to fully offset CWIP earnings.
So that's another assumption underlying our guidance.
And as has been the case for the past couple of years we continue to experience lower revenues for our gas storage business due to market conditions being less favorable than was assumed in our last gas transmission case.
Roughly offsetting this last item is the assumption that we earn an incentive award for our customer energy efficiency program this year that approximates the one we earned late in 2012.
Turning to Slide 7 you'll see that these assumptions lead us to provide a guidance range for earnings from operations in 2013 of $2.55 to $2.75 per share.
The primary drivers year-over-year are the reduction in authorized ROE for both the PUC and FERC jurisdictional assets the additional dilution due to share issuance year-over-year the impact of below-the-line costs which are expected to fully offset CWIP earnings as compared to partially offset in 2012 and then planned CapEx in excess of authorized levels.
These factors are partially offset by the growth in authorized rate base.
Moving on to Slide 8 you can see our guidance for the item impacting comparability for gas matters in 2013.
We're providing guidance for pipeline-related costs that we expect to incur but not recover during 2013 of $400 million to $500 million pretax.
So let's go through each of those components.
In terms of the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan we wrote off the capital that was disallowed by the CPUC in Q4.
So our guidance in 2013 includes the expenses that we expect to incur but not recover through rates.
Our pretax guidance range for this component is $150 million to $200 million.
In terms of the emerging work we're looking at the cost to survey and begin clearing our pipeline rights of way and the higher level of activity we've undertaken on our integrity management program.
Our pretax guidance for these emerging work categories is $175 million to $225 million.
We expect the right-of-way work to represent more than half of this spend in 2013; as Chris indicated to be carried out over a 5-year period.
We do not expect to recover these costs for the rates.
We'll continue to refine our estimates once we've completed the center line survey late in the year.
We expect the integrity management work to represent less than half of the spend in 2013 and to continue in future years.
However we plan to seek recovery of these ongoing costs beginning in 2015 in the next gas transmission case.
Finally we're showing a range of $50 million to $100 million for legal and other costs since some costs we planned in 2012 were pushed out with the delayed proceedings at the CPUC.
We would expect these costs to decline significantly after this year.
You'll notice also that the guidance range we're using for total pipeline-related cost is somewhat narrower than just the sum of the ranges for each period.
At the bottom of the slide are the other categories we've been tracking related to gas matters.
As we've done in the past we're not providing guidance for additional penalties coming out of the investigation and the range we show for third-party liabilities continues to reflect the difference between what we've accrued today $455 million and then the upper end of the estimate we've disclosed which is $600 million.
We're also not providing guidance for insurance recovery but anticipate those to continue to follow from the resolution of the third-party claim.
On Slide 9 you can see our estimated equity issuance of $1 billion to $1.2 billion for 2013.
This range is consistent with our guidance assumption and does not reflect any equity issuance that would result from fines greater than the $200 million we're already accrued.
Key factors driving our equity issuance in 2013 compared to 2012 are lower earnings from operations in 2013 somewhat higher CapEx and the PSEP capital charge at the end of last year.
We'll continue to utilize various ways to raise equity efficiently and effectively including our dividend reinvestment 401(k) programs and our thermal [ph] program.
Slide 10 summarizes 2013 guidance including earnings from operations and the gas matters item.
As you can see we're also including a modest guidance range for environmental-related costs in connection with the Hinkley cleanup.
The range here reflects some true-ups we may experience on our whole-house water program during the year as well as habitat protection activities we may undertake.
You'll remember we've already accrued the expected costs associated with our proposed final remedy to clean up the groundwater.
Our guidance does not include additional cost in the event of more onerous final remedy this quarter.
I know many of you recognize that 2013 is an unusual year for us and you're interested in getting a read on what things might look like in 2014 and beyond.
So while we're not providing earnings guidance beyond 2013 at this point I do want to share with you our current view of our CapEx and our rate base going forward.
Slide 11 shows a range of estimated CapEx for 2014 through 2016.
The upper end of the range provided for each year reflects the CapEx level included in our 2014 General Rate Case and attrition request.
It also represents our current view of future regulatory requests for electric transmission and gas transmission.
The lower end of the ranges reflect current spending levels across the utility with some adjustments for known changes such as the end of the Cornerstone Program and the utility Photovoltaic Program.
I should also point out that we've excluded the recently approved Oakley generating project from the 2016 CapEx numbers shown here just in the interests of being conservative.
Our turnkey purchase of that plant will occur when it's ready to go operational and that could be as early as 2016.
The level of CapEx I've described would provide for significant growth over the next few years.
And as you'd expect we continue to issue a meaningful amount of equity to support this growth.
Slide 12 shows ranges for authorized rate base consistent with the CapEx numbers.
Under these assumptions average authorized rate base for 2014 ranges from $28.5 billion to $29 billion and would grow to between $32 billion and $35 billion in 2016.
The compound growth rate over this period ranges from 6% to 10% excluding the Oakley plant.
These numbers reflect our intent in the 2014 General Rate Case to true up our rate base in order to reflect the higher CapEx we're undertaking this year.
In addition we hope to true up our revenues to recover most of the incremental expenses we've been incurring across the utility-approved service both last year and this year.
As a result our objective is to earn our authorized return from the nonpipeline segments of our business starting in 2014.
Slide 13 just addresses the fact that in future years we still expect to incur some costs for gas pipeline work that will not be recovered.
You already know that the PSEP decision did not sufficiently fund our planned expense work and that affects us through the end of 2014.
After that we anticipate incorporating our ongoing pipeline safety work into our 2015 gas transmission case.
By then there will be even more data to demonstrate the true cost of doing this work.
In terms of the emerging work Chris mentioned that our current estimate for the right-of-way activities is roughly $500 million over 5 years.
So we expect those unrecovered costs to continue through 2017.
We also expect our enhanced integrity management program to continue next year and beyond.
Though we won't recover those costs in 2014 we do plan to incorporate them into our 2015 gas transmission case.
And finally we expect our legal costs to decline significantly in 2014.
On this slide we have not included things like third-party liabilities insurance and penalties and our objective is to resolve those as much as possible this year.
Obviously there may be some things that don't get fully wrapped up.
We plan to continue to break out these costs so that you can keep track of the impact that they have on our GAAP results.
I'm going to stop here.
I know I've covered a lot.
Hopefully the information that we've covered today will be helpful to you in assessing our financial prospects going forward.
Tony? Thanks Kent.
Let me just reiterate some of the points from this morning's call.
We weren't able to resolve all of the San Bruno issues last year as we had hoped to do but we have resolved many of them including the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan and much of the third-party liability and I'm pleased with that.
Operationally 2012 was a very productive year for us.
We accomplished the work we set out to do and I'm proud of the employees who have been working hard toward our goal of becoming a safer high-performing company.
So challenges remain our recovery is clearly underway and our progress will continue in 2013.
We have a good team in place a solid fundamental operating plan and some successes under our belt.
We're committed to becoming a high-performing gas and electric utility that our customers regulators and shareholders deserve.
So with that let me open up the floor for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Angie Storozynski from Macquarie.
I might have missed the statements about how much you've accrued for the potential penalty versus the $1 billion to $1.2 billion equity guidance.
So your Slide 9 says that does not include potential penalties above the accrued level.
So what's the accrued level? The accrued level is $200 million.
Wow so you're assuming that that issuance is largely a function of basically unrecoverable expenses? And our capital expenditure program.
Okay.
And so -- okay.
Now if you -- yes I'm basically a little bit stunned that this is how much equity you would need in 2013.
I would have assumed that this is partly a function of the penalty but well in excess of the $200 million that you have already accrued for.
But that's fine.
Now can you talk a little bit more about the FERC transmission ROE? It seems extremely low.
Yes we received a FERC staff order in our Transmission Owner Case that essentially ordered us to file with a 9.1% return on equity so obviously something we don't think is adequate to attract capital.
We think it's a very narrow way to actually consider what our true cost of equity is and we hope to be able to resolve it through some [indiscernible] discussions or else through the legal process but that's going to take us a while to actually resolve.
So we have assumed the 9.1% return on equity for the electric transmission component of our business in our 2013 guidance.
Okay.
And then lastly the pipeline-related expenses if I look beyond 2014 where you have your legal expenses significantly down is it fair to assume that the only expense unrecoverable expense that I should assume is the right-of-way payment of roughly $100 million say '15 '16 '17? Yes.
If you look at Slide 13 it really kind of lays out the natural gas matters beyond 2013.
And you can see most of those items we would be either completing the expenditures on are pursuing them through our normal pipeline rate case so it really is the right-of-way encroachment that is the multiyear item that we do not intend to pursue recovery of.
Our next question comes from the line of Leslie Rich with JPMorgan.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
Can you remind me the purchase price for Oakley when you do have to pay for it and it goes into rates? This is Chris.
We have not put out the price for Oakley.
It is under a confidentiality agreement and we still have to negotiate some of the pieces of getting the contract completed.
But what I can tell you is it's 586 megawatts.
It is a modern facility.
It is dry cooled and it is in California with all our related regulatory costs that go with that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on your comment on solar you said that you would not continue with utility-owned solar investments beyond this year.
And I recall you had a solar program for x number of megawatts over a multiyear period.
Was that scheduled to finish this year? Or are you building less than you had originally thought? Leslie we completed the first 3 years of a 5-year program so basically we're not completing the last 2 years and as I said in my prepared remarks we're just seeing prices that are much better through the contracting process.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Tony just kind of on the OII proceedings and kind of the outlook given the fact that the settlement talks fell apart a little while ago is this something from your perspective that's going to have to go through the full regulatory process to come to conclusion? Or do you think there is leeway or interest in finding a workable solution for all the parties given what you guys have been through so far? Yes we made it clear that we are open to settlement.
As I've said time and again we need to get these proceedings behind us.
That said we've got to get the other parties to the same position.
Disappointed toward the end of last year we thought we were getting very close and it became apparent that we weren't as close as we had hoped but we made it clear to everyone we're ready to sit down.
But what I don't want to do is go into extended settlement discussions and defer resolution of the proceedings.
As we saw from the PSEP proceeding while the result wasn't what we had wanted it is a result we know where we are we had the plan approved and we can now move forward and deal with it.
So it's almost more important to us to keep the proceedings moving to get them done.
But that said these settlements can occur very quickly if in fact we get all the parties agree and that's what we want to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then I guess on the encroachment issue how did you guys come to the $500 million number you based on kind of what you surveyed so far? And how high is your confidence that's going to be the ultimate cost? Dan this is Chris again.
Well what we did is as I said we're going to go through a detailed center line project.
But that project is going to take us through the end of this year to get completed.
And so we wanted to be able to provide some overview of what we think the numbers would be.
So we used a lot of our aerial photography capability to look over the lines and then we also used some inputs from testing that we've been doing over the last year including some pilots that we had in place.
And so what we tried to do was estimate based on what we've seen in the past how many -- how much vegetation is out there around our lines how many structures might be in and around them and then estimate what those costs would look like in doing that.
And so as you can imagine the large part of that $500 million is construction-type costs and vegetation management-type costs that are associated with that.
So we feel like we've done a lot of due diligence around it.
Obviously we'll have to tweak it as we physically get out and walk the line to make sure but we think we have a pretty good estimate there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess one last one.
Kent when you look at the range of CapEx the high end to base case can you just maybe help bucket a little bit more of that spend? How much of that is going to be pipeline-related versus electric transmission-related versus other stuff just so we can try and gauge the potential for the high versus low? Dan I think on the slide we kind of at least for 2013 show our pipeline spend broken out in the assumptions page which was I think Slide 6.
So you get a sense of our electric transmission CapEx for this year is about $800 million -- excuse me are you saying electric or gas? I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Both actually.
Okay.
Yes that slide shows you kind of how much is electric transmission.
It shows about $850 million and then you see the gas transmission which is in the $350 million range.
So those are kind of -- then you want to add the PSEP down below which is $450 million so there are comparable sizes for those 2 parts of our business.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect to continue at that rate? And does the sensitivity to that spending is going to affect the range? Well it's not exactly the same number in future years but you'll see overall we are increasing and those would be some part of those increases.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious I think Tony made the comment at the beginning that in 2014 you [indiscernible] earnings allowed return everywhere except the Gas Transmission business.
And given that a lot of these merging were costs and other stuff so if I'm understanding it rightly are excluded from operating earnings will you comment on the GAAP results or are there other things that are causing you not to earn that allowed return in '14? Jonathan this is Kent.
In 2014 it's just that the GAAP pipeline profile is what it is.
We're spending dollars in a lot of areas that weren't in our last Gas Transmission case.
Our intent is in 2015 to be able to true that up for the items other than the right-of-way work.
And so that's really why 2015 is a really important year for us on the Gas Transmission business.
The other lines of business we would be addressing to our General Rate Case in 2014 and then our Transmission Owner Case for electric transmission which we tend to do just about annually.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's really the integrity management and other work or that's below the line kind of...
Well the integrity management you're right we have been breaking out as a big new category where we're spending a lot.
But even within the Gas Transmission business notwithstanding the item impacting comparability I indicated that of our incremental spend across the utility of $250 million this year and last year about $50 million of that is the Gas Transmission business.
So that piece of the $250 million also wouldn't be trued up until 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then on the equity Kent you've listed out the sort of various -- the drift 401(k) dribble can you just remind me what the reasonable expectations for how much you could raise through those programs collectively and at what level you'd be looking to step outside of those plans? Well if you look at our 2012 equity issuance for example which was $775 million we did those in sort of 3 fairly equal pieces.
So we got about 1/3 of that through our internal programs our drift on our 401(k).
We got about 1/3 of that through our dribble program and then the remaining 1/3 about $250 million we did through a block transaction early last year.
So that's not to put a cap on how much you could do for example through the dribble program.
That's just how much we did last year.
And we're going to continue to evaluate the options that make sense for us given our profile and the timing and so forth in 2013.
Obviously one factor will be when and how the pipeline matters get additionally resolved.
Research Division</strong> For sure but I mean there's -- does it seem -- so is there a scenario where you could do the number you've put out? I guess the number's likely to be bigger whatever but is -- would you use the base assumptions from last year about 2/3 of last year's number through the programs and the rest of the block? Is that a good working assumption? Yes.
Jonathan I think the key will be we'll probably get up to about $300 million to our internal programs and we'd want to optimize the rest of our issuance.
Undoubtedly the dribble will be a significant component of that but we're going to really use the various options that we have in the way that makes the most sense so that we can have issuance that is both efficient and effective.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Tony as you know I mean the normal utility business model is you provide safe and reliable service you get to invest a lot of capital doing it and you earn a nice return on that and then you pass through the operating cost to the customer.
On the gas side PG&amp;E seems to be running kind of an anti-utility where the service isn't safe and reliable.
You spend a lot of capital trying to catch up on the safety and incur a lot of integrity management costs and then you just write it off.
It's kind of like burning $100 bills.
How confident are you that this is over now or do you fear that there could be other items like the right-of-way clearance that are still looming ahead and might limit your ability to recover capital and operating costs in the future? Well we're clearly playing catch-up in investing in the system but I think we're starting to see certainty emerge.
So for example Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan as we said went through the proceeding.
We had proposed that we recover about 85% of the plan.
Some of the interveners in the case said "No you ought to recover nothing." We ended up in a 60% range or so which is less than we want but it gives us some certainty about what we are going to recover going forward in the future.
In terms of what other expectations one of the things that we've done is we've reviewed -- or in the process of reviewing every single aspect of our gas business kind of divided the system into asset classes so gas transmission rights of way gas storage and we prioritized based upon where we thought the largest risks might be.
And we're comfortable that we think we've identified all of the large risks.
We're not through all of the asset classes yet but the ones that we're working through and we want to be through our top to bottom review certainly by the end of 2013.
But since they're lower-risk areas we don't expect numbers to emerge that would be anywhere near what we're seeing from the right-of-way clearance numbers.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And if you've already said this I apologize.
But can you remind me what FERC ROE is assumed in the earnings guidance for '13? Yes Hugh we're assuming the 9.1% which was what we were ordered to refile with the FERC.
So that is assumed for 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Brian Chin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Asked and answered actually.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Ashar Khan [ph] with Visium.
Kent can I just ask what -- I might have missed this in your presentations I apologize.
Running -- what is the average shares outstanding in the '13 guidance? I actually didn't provide a share count for the '13 guidance but we have indicated that the year-end count was 431 million shares and that our guidance based on the assumptions we've provided is to issue equity of between $1 billion and $1.2 billion during 2013 and that all is based on our current accrual for the fine so if the fine ends up being an incremental amount above that then you would want to adjust those estimates accordingly.
Okay.
If I can then ask another related question where did the book value per share end up for the corporation at the end of the year? I don't have that with me Ashar but that will be available when we get our 10-K out later today.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Looking at both Page 6 and Page 8 kind of the guidance on the natural gas matters.
First question I completely understand the moving all the PSEP and all the San Bruno items into the IIC.
But just curious what went behind the decision to move things like the right-of-way work.
I mean doing work for the next 5 years strikes me as a recurring item a little bit.
That's the first question.
Second can you clarify that second bullet point on financing and depreciation cost? Are you saying that's $1 billion and therefore you'd apply kind of whatever depreciation rate to that to get to what the earnings drag from that would be? Yes this is Kent.
I'll take your second question first and you're interpreting the bullet on Slide 6 correctly.
We expect our CapEx to be roughly $1 billion over what was authorized in our last GRC and other proceeding and so during this year we'll incur the associated financing and depreciation costs on that.
And then that's what we would true up in the 2014 General Rate Case so that's the correct interpretation.
Your other question about the natural gas matters is -- you're correct that the right-of-way work is for a long period of time.
What we try to do with all the gas matters is give you the full picture of them because every -- all of this really relates to the recovery following the accident at San Bruno.
And so what we're trying to do is give you as much transparency as possible so that you can understand what's in there as compared to just have it all blended into our overall GAAP results.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And when we look at your rate base guidance slide of the kind of through 2016 I think it's Slide 12 does that include or exclude the CWIP balance and can you just give us an update on what that CWIP balance is? It does not include the CWIP balance and I've indicated in our guidance that we would expect our below-the-line costs that we normally incur to largely offset our equity AFUDC.
So we've not included that on the slide.
In terms of what CWIP has usually run for us I would say over the last few years it's probably averaged in the $1.5 billion range something like that.
So you could probably use that as a ballpark guesstimate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess one final question just when you think about financing and over the next 12 to 24 months really the next several years would you ever consider using anything other than just straight common meaning converts or something like that? We've seen some other companies in the industry use that to help finance when they've got a multiyear kind of high growth in CapEx planned? Or does -- from a regulatory standpoint does that make it harder to use instruments like that? No I would say those are instruments that we are definitely considering in the future.
We have a lot of different alternatives and we're really trying to figure out which ones make the most sense for us given our profile sort of the timing and nature of our needs.
But those are definitely on the radar screen.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to know when I look at your -- the midpoint of your 2013 guidance I look at your forecasted rate base I calculate an earned ROE of somewhere like 5.0% 5.1%.
Can you break out what you think the earned ROEs will be in '13 for your electric and gas business? And going forward in '14 and '15 any comments on where you expect those ROEs to be? This is Kent.
I don't intend to break out earned ROEs that specifically but I would point you again to Slide 6 which essentially shows you what our authorized returns are.
And then in the lower right-hand corner we have what we label as EPS factors.
Those are the key items that will affect our ability to earn the authorized return.
So we've been telling you for a while about our incremental spend across the utility and that includes both the gas and the electric parts of our business of $250 million.
We just spoke briefly about the impact of higher CapEx for 2013.
We talked about the fact that we're expecting our below-the-line costs to essentially offset our CWIP earnings this year.
And then we have continued to have a little bit lower gas storage revenues that was -- than was assumed in our gas pipeline case and that's kind of comparable to last year but it has been a bit of a drag compared to an authorized return.
And then the offset to that is that we do assume that we get energy efficiency incentive as we got late last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I look then I guess past '14 and I just want to make sure I've heard the correct statements I think Tony had said earlier in the call that in '14 you expect to earn your allowed return in electric.
Is that correct? And possibly in '15 when you file your gas case is it reasonable to assume that you earn your allowed return or I guess the only cost that you're not putting in there would be the right-of-way encroachment.
Is that accurate? Yes I think that's right.
When you say gas in that case what we're talking about is the gas pipeline part of our company.
Gas distribution will be addressed in our General Rate Case in 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it's reasonable to say that '14 you guys earn the allowed return in I guess gas distribution and electric and '15 you hope to have all the gas pipeline costs except right of way in that rate case for new rates January 1 of '15? That's what our objective is.
Our next question comes from the line of Jon Cohen with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question about the timing of the equity issuance.
So if we're standing at the end of 2013 and you would have issued the $1 billion to $1.2 billion can we assume that all of the unrecovered costs through '13 are now going to be incorporated in your capital structure and you're going to be sitting at a 52% equity ratio and really beyond 2013 the only equity that you'll have to issue other than normal course of business CapEx and the fine is going to be for the integrity management the PSEP O&amp;M in '14 and the integrity and -- sorry and the encroachment beyond 2013? This is Kent.
I think you're thinking about it the right way.
We don't really necessarily manage to be at exactly our authorized equity ratio of say December 31 2013 but we do have to manage our capital structure over a period of time such that it averages to that level.
So sometimes we're slightly below.
Sometimes we're slightly above.
But the intent of your statement is correct which is that we try to keep up with our equity needs over time.
And I think the way you articulated some of the cost beyond 2013 that we would need to fund with incremental equity sounds appropriate to me.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just let us know in that $1 billion to $1.2 billion do you assume any incremental insurance recoveries above what's already been received? We've not provided in our guidance any assumptions about insurance.
When we do our internal forecasting and determine some of the ranges of our -- what financing needs we have we usually try to come up with some assumptions about insurance proceeds but we're not disclosing what those are baked in to our equity assumptions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question is do you have some flexibility over when you issue the equity? So if you think that you might get closer to a settlement between now and year end could you put off the equity issuance and sort of lean on short-term debt or the parent revolver and do one big equity issuance later in the year? Yes we do have flexibility about the timing.
Although we do need to maintain our capital structure over time.
So we wouldn't want to get too far off on that issue but we do have some flexibility there and we do intend to issue it in a way that's efficient and to not be -- to have to be rushed to issue equity in a way that wouldn't make sense for our company and our shareholders.
So we would try to manage that and I would anticipate if we needed to manage the timing of an issuance that we could do some short-term measures to give us that flexibility such as you describe.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could quantify the difference in the drop from 2012 EPS to 2013 midpoint guidance that came from that cut in the allowed ROE and then also perhaps the cash flow impact from that.
Well that is the biggest item Travis.
There's no doubt about it.
I think you can pretty much just get there by taking the rate base amounts which we have broken up by line of business so you can take electric transmission for example and you could go from what was sort of implicitly in our guidance before for last year of 11.35% and take it down to 9.1% from 52% of that rate base.
And then you could do the same calculation for the other lines of business going from 11.35% to our new assumption of 10.4% based on the PUC's decision.
And I think you'll pretty much land with what we landed with.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then real quick how much incremental debt do you expect to issue in 2013 I would say for the equity above that? We've been -- if you look over the last several years we've been issuing long-term debt annually that probably averages about $1 billion and I wouldn't expect a significant difference in that in terms of an order of magnitude change or anything.
So somewhere in that very rough range would probably be a reasonable expectation for 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fallon with SIR Capital Management.
Just a question do your financing plans and your rate base guidance include the impact of bonus depreciation? They do for this most recent bonus depreciation but the reality of our situation is given the pancaking we've had from last several years of bonus depreciation even before 2013 bonus was approved we already were expecting to be in a net operating loss position for 2013.
So it's really not going to be providing us any financing benefit incrementally in 2013.
And we'll probably see that benefit actually next year just given our current situation.
Okay.
And just to clarify on Slide 12 the rate base slide those are average rate bases or year-end rate bases for the shown years? Those are average rate bases.
Okay.
And finally just if you could give some color on the FERC rate case process? As you go through the settlement talks when you ultimately come to the endpoint however it turns out is the ROE adjusted for the change in the 10-year treasury? So if interest rates move higher do they make adjustment or are you stuck at that base 8.6% for this proceeding no matter what? This is Tom Bottorff Senior Vice President of Regulatory Affairs.
The rate of return has yet to be determined that we're seeking but if we settle the case the rate of return is sort of [indiscernible] it's not explicitly adopted as part of the settlement.
So as in prior rate cases there really is no adopted rate of return.
That would only happen in the event of going to litigation [indiscernible].
But that's what I mean.
They gave you a point estimate to change rates on under the current to the 8.6% base ROE and that's what I'm asking.
That was an administrative determination by the FERC and is there an administrative process x something in your settlement that changes that or is that 8.6% the base unless you reach a different number in the settlement? If we reach a different number in the settlement then the rate would we based on that adopted figure.
But if the case is litigated and rates move higher is it adjusted upward or is it stuck at that 8.6%? Right now the issue is we had to submit our application with the 9.1%.
It has the 8.6% plus the 50 basis point adder for the California ISO and that is based on data that was available when we did the filing.
And essentially we looked at a number of comparable utilities and it is prescriptive in that we're required to use the DCF model which of course is particularly disadvantageous in this current economic environment and we don't think representative of our true cost of equity.
So we would have to litigate that and unless the FERC ended up with something that was more reasonable then we would have to seek legal review of that decision.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Ashar Khan [ph].
Kent I just went back and looked at your 10-K from the third quarter so I guess you were around $30 and then I've got the GAAP earnings and the dividend.
Am I -- tell me if I'm doing my utility maths wrong or right.
GAAP earnings you're showing this year $1.66 to $2.
The dividend is around that level.
So assuming we come out book value does not increase it remains at 30 or so then is it fair to look at it that if the company earns around 10% that by the end of '13 that the earning power is more like $3 a share or something like that? I don't know.
I can't follow your logic over the phone.
So if you want to follow up with our IR team about your question maybe we can handle it that way Ashar.
I apologize for breaking in and if there are any questions remaining but we do have some constraints on this end.
Please call the Investor Relations line if you have any follow-up questions and we wish you a great day and talk to you the next time.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for attending the PG&amp;E Corporation fourth quarter earnings conference call.
This now concludes the conference.
Enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Corporation First Quarter Earnings 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to introduce your host Mr.
Gabe Togneri with PG&amp;E.
Thank you and enjoy your call.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri.
Thanks Monique and good morning everyone.
We certainly appreciate you joining us on our call.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey let me remind you that our discussion will include forward-looking statements about future financial results.
And those are based on assumptions and expectations reflecting information that's currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's results are described in Exhibit 1 located in the Appendix of today's slides and we certainly encourage you to review that.
We also encourage you to review the Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today and the discussion of risk factors that appears in the 2012 annual report.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Well good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We're going to keep our prepared remarks fairly brief this morning.
We had a solid quarter consistent with our plans.
Our focus continues to be on the areas I've outlined at the beginning of last year: resolving gas issues positioning the company for long-term success and partnering effectively with stakeholders.
In the various investigations hearings are complete and we expect the parties to file briefs on fines and remedies in the next few days.
While we remain open to settlement the most likely path will be completion of the litigation.
Even though this is a slower process involving briefings and decisions we believe the PUC proceedings will be completed this year.
Meanwhile we're doing extensive work throughout the utility to continue driving toward safe reliable and affordable electric and gas service for our customers.
And I'm pleased with the operational progress we're making.
And as Kent will report our financial performance for the quarter is in line with our plans.
But I'll first turn things over to Chris who will cover regulatory and operational items in a little more detail.
Chris? Great.
Thanks Tony.
So I'll start with the regulatory items and then touch on some of our operating results.
In the gas proceedings we filed our reply briefs in the record keeping in San Bruno investigations last week.
In the briefs we addressed the violations alleged by the other parties to the cases.
We challenged the legal basis of those allegations which we consider to be flawed.
On Monday the interveners and CPUC staff are scheduled to file their recommendations for fines or other penalties related to the San Bruno accident.
We'll have the opportunity to file our formal reply brief later in May.
And then following rebuttal briefs from the other parties in early June the record will be complete in all of the investigations.
Then the case will be in the hands of the administrative law judges.
Let me highlight a few other regulatory items.
During the first quarter the CPUC approved the automatic adjustment mechanism for the cost of capital.
This mechanism is in place through 2015 and provides good visibility to our authorized return on equity during that period as well as some protection for our customers and shareholders.
More recently the CPUC denied requests for a rehearing on their approval of Oakley.
And as a reminder Oakley is a 586 megawatt next generation gas-fired plant that will be an important resource as we ramp up renewables to 33% of total usage over the next couple of years.
And finally on the regulatory front tomorrow we expect the Division of Ratepayer Advocates to file their testimony responding to our General Rate Case request.
Now we have taken approach to the General Rate Case application focused on enhancing the safety of our system utilizing a risk-based process.
While we hope that the DRA will also take a different approach to their testimony they've routinely taken extreme positions in the past.
That brings me over to our operations.
Over the past few years this company has spent more than $1.4 billion in shareholder funds to improve our gas pipeline system as we focus on safety and excellence in operations.
We continue to make significant and measurable progress in the first quarter of this year.
You can see on Slide 3 of the planned work we've completed on pipeline testing replacement and valve installation since the beginning of the year.
We don't do as much work on the pipelines during the first quarter because of higher gas demand during the winter months.
So you can expect to see the volume of this work increase as the year progresses.
Also during the first quarter we closed out 3 recommendations made by the National Transportation Safety Board following the San Bruno accident.
At this point we resolved 7 of the original 12 recommendations.
The remaining 5 are longer-term projects that are on target and the D&amp;T has -- characterizes this as open but acceptable.
On the rights of way we've completed more than 1 500 miles of the center line survey which is on target with our goal for the year thus far.
We started the survey in the more rural parts of the system which means we haven't yet had to deal with remediating many material encroachments.
We're still early in the surveying process.
And as we move into the Bay Area and other more populated areas this spring we'll expect to gain additional insights.
Shifting to the electric part of the business.
Last quarter we talked about our record level of electric reliability in 2012.
And now during the first quarter we had our best reliability performance ever as a company.
That's not just the best first quarter ever but the best quarter ever.
Although favorable weather was a component the investments we've been making in upgrading the infrastructure and increasing the use of technology on the system have resulted in improved performance.
We know that reliability is a critical component to customer satisfaction so it's one of the key metrics we're focused on.
And last at Diablo Canyon we completed a scheduled refueling outage on Unit 2 in March.
This was among the most successful outages in Diablo Canyon's history given the extent of work involved.
The team finished the outage in less time than planned and demonstrated exceptional attention to safety.
Based on our benchmarking we understand what good operations look like and we will keep reaching for top-level performance throughout our business.
You can see how we're doing across a range of top-level metrics for 2013 in Exhibit C of the Appendix.
And with that I'll turn things over to Kent.
Thanks Chris and good morning everybody.
I'm going to start by going through Q1 results which are summarized on Slide 4.
Earnings from operations for the quarter were $0.63 and our GAAP results were $0.55.
Of course the difference is the item impacting comfortability for natural gas matters and that's laid out in pretax dollars in the table at the bottom.
You'll see the pipeline-related costs totaled $62 million pretax for the quarter.
This includes our pipeline safety enhancement planned work our right-of-way and integrity management work and then our legal costs.
We expect the overall run rate to increase the rest of the year since a couple of these components are expected to ramp up.
You'll remember that PSEP work is somewhat seasonal and is typically lower in Q1.
And in the case of the right-of-way work we're still ramping up that program.
So those costs are also expected to increase in future quarters.
You'll also see in the table that there were no additional accruals for penalties third-party liability claims or insurance recoveries during Q1.
Slide 5 shows the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations including the main drivers that take us from $0.89 in Q1 last year to $0.63 in Q1 of this year.
The new cost of capital that went into effect this year was the biggest driver of the year-over-year decline totaling $0.10 negative.
In addition to the reduction in ROE there was a small impact associated with the true-up of our debt financing cost.
The refueling outage for Diablo Canyon Unit 2 accounted for $0.06 negative since last year's scheduled refueling outage for Unit 1 was in the second quarter.
Increased shares outstanding resulted in a $0.04 impact and the timing of our planned incremental expenses across the utility drove a $0.03 decline.
Last year our incremental spending was lower in Q1 since we were ramping up our programs.
And this year we expect a more even spread across the quarters.
A number of other items totaled $0.08 negative [Technical Difficulty] I'm sorry this is Kent.
I understand that you lost me for a moment.
So I'm going to just go back to guidance and we'll take it from there.
And if there are any questions about the quarterly results we can handle those in Q&amp;A.
So our guidance for the year is unchanged and is summarized on Slide 6.
The range for earnings from operations remains at $2.55 to $2.75 per share and some of the key assumptions that underlie our guidance are provided in the Appendix of the slide deck.
These assumptions have not changed since we provided them on our last call.
At the bottom of the slide you can see our guidance for the key components of the natural gas matters item in pretax dollars and these are also unchanged.
Finally we continue to expect to need roughly $1 billion to $1.2 billion of equity for the year excluding any fines or penalties beyond the $200 million we've already accrued.
Of that we issued about $430 million in Q1.
This was comprised of a $300 million block issuance about a $70 million under our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment programs and about $60 million to our continuous equity offering or dribble program.
During Q1 we completed our existing dribble program and we're ready to file for another $400 million program later on today.
That's it for my remarks.
We'll now go ahead and open up the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Tony in your early comments you made reference that you're probably going to go the full distance on getting San Bruno done.
Can you maybe just give a little context on have your settlement talks effectively broken down? And is there a concern that once the briefs are out there people's positions are going to be too far apart to be able to settle? Well as we've said there have not been active settlement costs for some time but we continue to indicate we are open to those talks.
Obviously as people have to file briefs positions become a little more hardened.
And that's why I think the most likely outcome Dan is that we just continue through the litigation process.
And we're getting now towards the end briefs are getting filed.
So we can see the light at the end of the tunnel.
We can work our way through the process and certainly get it done this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the $1 billion to $1.2 billion of equity just to make sure I understand that.
That number does not assume that there is any sort of fine or penalty so whatever gets settled in this case will have to get addressed toward year end or whenever the case gets resolved.
Is that fair? Dan this is Kent.
So the $1 billion to $1.2 billion includes the $200 million that we've already accrued.
So if a fine were larger than that then that would be incremental to the $1 billion to $1.2 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kent what I had lost off on the call is when you started talking about the $0.08 of drag from Other.
So I mean I don't know if everybody else missed that or not.
But could you just explain what was in the $0.08 year-over-year drag and how we should frame that up from a recurring basis? Yes Dan and sorry about the technical difficulties and I wasn't sure when you lost me.
But the $0.08 was really kind of a number of Other items and it included things like lower gas transmission revenues.
And we really had last year during the first quarter a little bit higher gas utilization for generation.
And then it had other items including our higher below-the-line costs as well.
Research Division</strong> So that -- is that the gas storage business and kind of where you make some extra profits is that what you're referring to from the transmission piece? Or this is just a flow-through number? In this case on the gas business it was more the backbone revenues.
And it just was associated with the throughput for gas generation.
Research Division</strong> And then the storage business was -- how was that year-on-year? I don't believe that was a major driver quarter-over-quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one on the -- I maybe should know this but I wanted to clarify.
The Centerline survey where you talk about having done the 1 500 miles is that really the -- linked to the encroachment analysis? Are these the same thing effectively? Or are they separate? Jonathan this is Chris.
They're the same thing.
The Centerline survey is going through the process of major -- or putting on GPS exactly where the center of the pipe is.
And that takes into consideration then our ability to know the encroachment on top of our right-of-ways.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the 1 500 is out of a total of -- About 6 700.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I think I heard you say that you've started off in the more -- the less densely-populated areas.
That's correct.
And we're just now starting to get movement towards the more highly-populated areas.
Research Division</strong> So do you -- that not withstanding do you have -- do you feel any better about the quality of the estimate now than you did last time? Obviously we haven't changed it.
And that's our best estimate at this point in time.
And Jonathan I'll just add we really have not yet gotten in to the Bay area and stuff.
We've been out in more remote rural areas.
So it's going to be a while I think before we have additional insights there.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> My question's for Tony.
As you think about the way that the pipeline matter's proceedings work their way to a conclusion does the fact that you now are looking or your opinion that you're now looking at a litigated outcome versus a settlements narrow the potential for the type of decision that you ultimately get from the CPUC i.e.
are they limited in a -- in their decision-making process to just either fining you or not fining you? Or do they have the flexibility to determine the way in which they deem the penalty should be applied i.e.
through reinvesting in the system and getting lower returns or things like that? Or is there just a fundamental -- is there a fundamental difference between the flexibility that can be put to bear in a settlement versus the flexibility that can be put to bear in a final decision? Greg we think with respect to penalties versus disallowances which would be in the form of requiring us to do work that we wouldn't get recovery of we think they've got the same kind of flexibility that we have in a settlement.
Probably the only difference is those other parties who in a settlement might be able to get some concessions are not going to be able to get anything in a litigated decision because the litigated decision will just impact us.
But in terms of the big-ticket items of whether it's a fine or whether it's in a form of some sort of disallowance I think the commission ultimately has all the flexibility that they need.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm referring to Slide 3.
Quick question is I guess when I get to the gas investigations we get fine and remedy recommendations May 6.
I think you guys have a couple of weeks before you file I guess your rebuttal testimony.
Roughly a timeframe I would guess when we get an ALJ I guess recommendation do we get 1 or we get 3 separate ones? And then from there just a rough window of when does the CPUC come out with an order.
This is Tom Bottorff in Regulatory Affairs.
The PUC -- the judges are expected to issue a consolidated decision.
The uncertainty is whether they issue 2 separate opinions: one on the violations and one on the fines.
They could for example issue an interim decision on whether or not we violated any rules or regulations and subsequently issue a decision on the fines; or alternatively they could just do it all at once.
At either event all 3 investigations will be consolidated in those opinions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is there -- I'm just trying to come up with a rough calendar from when an ALJ recommendation possibly could come.
Are they like a 60-day window or something and then a CPUC decision? Yes it's at least 60 days.
So we wouldn't expect to see any decision probably until July or August of this year.
Again it depends on whether they choose to do 2 opinions in which case the -- an interim opinion on the violations could come as early as July.
If they choose to wait and issue a consolidated opinion on both the violations and the fines you probably wouldn't see anything until mid- to late-August.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then from there from the ALJ then it subsequently goes to the CPUC the commission and that's when you get a final order? Potentially the difference in an investigation is the administrative law judges could issue what's called a presiding officer decision.
And if no one protests the judge's decision then it becomes final.
However if there are protests then it would go to the commission for a final order.
And that would add probably at least 30 days to any final outcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Tony one question for you one for Kent.
Just a bigger broader picture the fact that you've been unable to settle from the San Bruno-related fines and investigation tied to the OII do you think there's a read across to the broader regulatory environment and the broader regulatory treatment of PG&amp;E especially given the fact that there's some other key dockets like the General Rate Case outstanding? That's kind of the first question.
And then a Kent question.
General Rate Cases in California have over the last 3 or 4 years gone well beyond the normal 12- or 14-month time horizon.
I know the commission is trying to kind of rectify that with your case a little bit.
But if your case were to extend similar to the same timeframe that the SoCal Ed and San Diego gas cases have done so what would that mean for balance sheet and capital needs kind of next year? Michael let me start off.
We've asked ourselves that question or ask whether there is spillover.
We're fairly confident that there won't be.
The San Bruno cases are very complex.
They have multiple proceedings.
We've got civil cases.
We've got U.S.
attorney and Attorney General involved.
And I think the complexity of multiple jurisdictions multiple cases and also in my view how interveners are funded in California all that contributes to the fact that we haven't been able to resolve the cases.
All other indications in terms of regulatory relations seem to be moving in a positive trend.
We've gotten good feedback from the commission on the work we've done on the system.
I think they're pleased with the fact we've been able to deliver 2 years in a row on our commitments to -- just a massive testing and analysis program of our gas system.
We got good results in the return on equity proceeding and we've had a number of other cases where we think we've gotten some good treatment.
So I don't think there is going to be that spillover.
I think just the complexities of San Bruno contribute to the inability to have an early resolution to it.
Kent you want to comment on rate cases? Yes.
Michael in terms of the General Rate Case and the potential for delays certainly we've seen that happen with the other utilities of late in the state but I also think that the commission is aware of the problems that that creates.
And I think there is a lot of interest in trying to get back on schedule.
We have to acknowledge the fact that over the last year between 2 General Rate Cases from the other utilities the San Bruno proceedings there has been a lot on the PUC's plate.
So we're actually hopeful that we're going to have a more normal experience with the General Rate Case.
And we certainly have a schedule that looks very reasonable.
And even should there be a few months delay from the schedule it would still be quite early in 2014 which has been kind of our experience over the last few proceedings.
So we're hopeful that's really the future that we're going to face.
If in fact we ended up under your scenario with a significant delay in the decision that also makes it very difficult to run the company.
And my guess is that it would put pressure on us to hold off on our planned increases that we'd like to make because we've obviously filed for a higher CapEx level than we've been currently spending and obviously higher expenses as well as we want to really improve the safety and the reliability of our system.
And a significant delay would probably cause us to have to consider holding off on a lot of that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And finally Tony when -- and just remind us a little bit how you're thinking about when you think you can position PG&amp;E.
Whether it's your gas transmission electric transmission the distribution businesses when do you think you'll be in a position to talk about being able to kind of earn a normalized return on equity invested in your rate base? Well our objective is for the parts of the business that are subject to the current GRC that when we get that decision we will earn be able to earn the allowed return there.
We've got 1 additional year delay because the gas transmission and storage case is 1-year beyond the GRC.
So it's kind of a stepped attainment of that goal to earn our allowed return.
But I think when those cases come in we're committed to working to earn the returns allowed in those cases.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
So a little bit different change in tact here.
Back on electric transmission I'd be curious where the status of your own settlement conversations are going and how you see that shaping up through the course of the year.
Yes this is Tom Bottorff again.
We continue to engage in settlement discussions with the parties.
And some of you may have seen a recent note from the judge requesting parties to engage in a conference call on May 28.
So we continue to exchange proposals and those discussions are certainly challenging given the debate over the rate of return.
But nonetheless a settlement does remain possible.
And we really won't know for sure probably until mid-June.
And then ultimately if that isn't resolved do you think you bring up the issue of ROE methodology here? I mean how did -- is that something that you bring back to the table if that settlement isn't reached? Well we already filed an application for rehearing on that issue.
We'll wait for FERC to act on that.
If we don't receive a favorable opinion there we do have the opportunity to pursue it in the courts.
But again there's still the opportunity to settle the proceeding and hopefully that's where we end up.
This is Tony.
I'll also add the industry is taking that issue up.
And as a whole the industry believes it's inconsistent with FERC encouraging -- be able to build new transmission that unless the policy goes back to where it was it is going to inhibit that investment.
So it's a broader issue than just our rate case.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> We've -- there's obviously been a lot of talk on the GRC investments the pipeline investments.
I was wondering if we look longer term out beyond 2016 what are some areas where you see investment potential? Is it transmission distribution gas electric? Longer term what do you think are areas? Or are we just going to get down to a maintenance level? Well I think the answer to all of those things is yes.
We continue to look at our long-term strategy and our commitment to really be top quartile in all facets of operations.
We're going to see higher-than-traditional levels of capital investment for the foreseeable future.
I mean we are working on our next 5-year plan internally and I think we'll continue to see investment in the infrastructure.
You'll recall that a lot of our infrastructure certainly the electric and gas infrastructure was really built in a post-World War II boom years '50s '60s and into the '70s and a lot of that just -- we need replacement work.
We've got a fabulous hydro system of 4 000 megawatts.
Some of that was built right after the turn of the last century.
We've done a very detailed analysis and are doing investment in those assets because they're great assets.
They help us meet our renewable requirements.
So for the foreseeable future certainly our planning horizon we see a higher-than-historical levels of capital investment.
Research Division</strong> When you say that is that more on those lines of what we're seeing on the 2016 run rate? Or would that be even higher $4.5 billion to $6 billion range? Travis this is Kent.
I think we're going to be determining those years going forward beyond '16 once we complete our -- this year's planning process.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Just wanted to check Tony how should we look at the I guess the fines coming? They'll be done by of course different parties and there will be different numbers.
As investors how should we look at which is the more credible number? How should we judge this information coming next week? Well it's hard to say without seeing them but traditionally some of the parties are known for taking extreme positions.
I think probably the most important recommendation comes from the staff of the commission but even there in the PSEP proceeding we're able to get changes in the commission final decision so none of them are final.
There'll be a range but I would say probably that the staff the commission will be one that we're certainly going to be looking at very closely.
And then can I ask you once we get these recommendations does your -- I know you have not accrued anything beyond what you have but will that be a data point that that disclosure could change and hence there could be more accruals at that period of time or no? Well it certainly will be a relative data point.
We've got to take a look at it.
I think we've said in the past if they all come in and are really extreme it doesn't help us narrow the gap.
And we may not be able to make a change but if some of them come in in ranges that are helpful in trying to gather where the ultimate decision will be we will be taking a hard look at that disclosure and what we've reserved certainly once we get those numbers.
And then my final question Kent can you just -- I apologize I came in a little late into the call.
Can you tell us how much equity has been issued to date out of what was projected for the year? Yes.
We issued in the first quarter $430 million and that's out of our guidance for the year of $1 billion to $1.2 billion.
And I'll just remind you that the guidance that $1 billion to $1.2 billion reflects the $200 million accrual we've taken for a fine or penalty so anything in excess of that would affect our expectations for the year.
Can I ask you Kent I know the range is pretty large.
When does that range get narrowed down? I know that what gets a fine is on top of that but it's a pretty wide range of $1 billion to $1.2 billion.
What is the determining factor when we know whether it's $1.5 billion it's $1 billion or $2 billion? I'm just trying to get a sense.
I wouldn't expect that we're going to be narrowing that range this year.
I actually think that that amount of range is not that wide given all the different factors that affect your financing needs because it's not only just on recovered gas costs it's not only just capital expenditures but it's all of our cash flows that happened during the year as well.
There are a number of factors that can affect your equity need and the timing of your equity needs during a calendar year.
So I don't consider the $200 million to be very wide and I think it will probably stay in that range.
And Ashar this is Gabe.
I may have misheard you but I think I heard you say 1 -- No I said it wrong.
I apologize I said it wrong.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just going back quickly to your gas progress.
You describe on Page 3 the progress you've made in closing the NTSB recommendation.
Apparently there are 5 left to close out.
Can you remind us are any of those material in terms of cost? And if so could you remind us what they are? Yes.
This is Chris.
I don't have the list of all 5 of them but what they are they're the longer-term projects like the hydrostatic testing and the insertion of the automatic and remote shutoff valves.
So those are the longer-term projects and the costs of all those are already incorporated in what our projections have been over the last couple of years.
So all of that has already been taken into consideration.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes these are already in your PSEP 1 and 2.
Right exactly.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up cash flow question.
Just curious I'm trying to think about the cash flow statement for this year and beyond.
Outside of items that flow through the income statement and outside of CapEx dividends debt issuances retirement equity issuances are there other things like either significant pension contributions or the environmental remediation costs or maybe generator settlements or other items working capital that are significant either sources or uses of cash during 2013 and beyond? Well this is Kent.
Michael I mean obviously we have amounts of everything.
It's a complicated business with lots of cash flows.
I would say the generator settlements I don't see that happening near term and being a big impact on our cash flows.
And in the case of pension contributions for example we recover those through rates and we basically fund those as their recovered through rates.
I don't see at least the items that you mentioned as being out of the ordinary for us this year.
One thing that does move for us significantly for cash flows is just collateral requirements associated with the commodity purchases and hedging we do on behalf of customers.
And that's something that we get in the normal course.
And if gas prices go down from current levels we tend to have to post more collateral.
If they go up we actually reduce the amount of collateral.
And that's probably the most obvious fluctuation that we tend to see quarter-over-quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just really quickly just back to the San Bruno schedule you guys said the ALJ decisions you were expecting sort of in July is that right? Could you just review those very briefly for me.
Yes.
This is Tom Bottorff again.
What I was commenting on with respect to the decisions is that if there is an interim decision on the violations piece of the proceeding that that could come out as early as July.
However if the judges decide to wait to issue a ruling on both level of the violations and the fines and these [ph] associated with them we may not see that decision until mid- to late-August.
Okay.
And then just in general in terms of resolution of the San Bruno schedule and everything we've noticed that there's been some legislative inquiry and sort of I guess questions about the CPUC in general.
Do you see that as having any impact? Just in general as you guys know the California scheduling seems to be kind of a moving target and I'm just sort of wondering if there's any potential here for slippage as a result of some of these issues that have been sort of brought up in the media and what have you.
How should we think about that? Yes.
I don't think it's going to have any impact on the schedule.
The schedule will move along.
I think as Tom laid out that's what we -- our best guess is to what the schedule would look like.
I don't think these other things will impact that.
There are currently no additional questions waiting from the phone lines.
All right well in that case I'll -- I know it's a very busy day with earnings season.
But I will mention before we end the call that we'll see a number of you over the course of the month.
We'll be at the ISI Conference next week the Deutsche Conference the week following that and the Bernstein Conference at the end of the month.
So there'll be other opportunities to talk to you and we'll look forward to that at that point in time.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for attending the PG&amp;E Corporation First Quarter Earnings 2013 Conference Call.
This will now conclude the conference.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Corporation Second Quarter Earnings 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to introduce your host Mr.
Gabe Togneri with PG&amp;E.
Thank you and enjoy your call.
You may proceed Mr.
Togneri Thanks Juanique.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As usual you'll be hearing from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey.
And I'm going to remind you that the discussion will include forward-looking statements about future financial results based on the assumptions and expectations reflecting information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's results are described in Exhibit 1 located in the appendix of today's slides.
And we also encourage you to review the Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today and the discussion of risk factors that appears in the 2012 annual report.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Thank you Gabe and good morning everyone.
I'll start by saying we had another solid quarter operationally consistent with our plans and we continue to make progress towards top quartile performance throughout the business.
As usual Chris will highlight a few points on our operational performance and Kent will go through the financial results.
I'll focus my remarks today on an update of the various gas issues.
Most of the recent activity and attention has been centered around the regulatory arena.
Late yesterday we received an ALJ ruling requesting that we and the other parties submit information about the impact penalties would have on our ability to raise capital.
Responses are due August 14 and September 13.
We're disappointed to see the ALJ's ruling which results in significant delays in this already protracted proceeding.
We understand the desire to punish the company for past behavior but more importantly the process should ensure that past practices are corrected and that we meet new higher standards.
Since the San Bruno accident the company has made significant improvements and has committed substantial resources and shareholder dollars.
Instead of recognizing that commitment CPUC staff and other parties want to identify how much additional pain the company can bear and their resulting recommendations have lost all perspective.
Ultimately if the safety division or the other parties' recommendations are adopted total shareholder-funded spending on unrecoverable gas pipeline work and fines would exceed $4 billion.
This is obviously excessive.
We believe strongly that the commission's final decision should recognize the huge amount of gas safety work we've already completed and the billions of dollars being spent without recovery from customers.
We will continue to urge the commission to bring these proceedings to a reasonable conclusion as soon as possible.
With respect to the criminal investigation we continue to provide information as requested by the federal state and county attorney.
And although it's uncertain criminal charges may be brought against the company they've been at this now for about 2 years and like you we'd like to have it resolved.
Regarding civil litigation as you know we settled all of the most serious cases a few months ago.
I'm pleased that we've been able to resolve many of these cases and we're now focused on settling the remaining cases and the judge has put in place a process to do just that.
So now I'll turn things over to Chris.
Thanks Tony and good morning everyone.
As you can see on Slide 3 I'm going to start with a couple of regulatory items and then provide some updates on operations.
Tony already provided you with an update on the gas event so I'm going to go right into the General Rate Case.
And I'm pleased that so far the General Rate Case is progressing on track.
We're currently in the midst of hearings which started earlier this month and are scheduled to end by August 9.
As we've previously discussed this case includes a few new steps in the process.
For example the commission asked the safety division to affirm that our electric and gas proposals are appropriately focused on the safety of the system.
In May 2 consultants hired by the safety division submitted their reports reviewing how we address safety and security issues including risk assessment and mitigation.
The consultants provided some constructive comments for us to consider but they also recognized the overall improvements we're making including our integrated planning process and risk-management adjustments as well as safety improvements.
These reports contrasted with the fairly extreme filing by the division ratepayer advocates.
DRA didn't even acknowledge many of our specific requests for safety and risk mitigation and actually suggested that revenue should be decreased from the current amounts.
In our electric transmission business last week we filed our TO15 rate case with the FERC.
The request incorporates a slight decrease in the revenue requirement to a little over $1 billion and includes an ROE of 10.9%.
We derived the ROE using the median of our proxy group like other applicants.
We anticipate the FERC would allow the new rate to become effective in October.
That brings me to operations.
The attached slide shows the status of our efforts related to pipeline replacement valve installation and mileage of hydrostatic testing.
Some of these numbers might suggest a lower run rate than you'd expect but we need more flexibility on our pipeline system in the first part of the year so much of this work will occur in the next 2 quarters.
We continue to actively manage our unit costs related to hydrostatic testing and have successfully brought those costs down significantly since we launched the pipeline safety enhancement program in 2011.
This quarter we notified the NTSB that we've completed work on 2 more of their recommendations on integrity management and pipeline threat assessment.
Assuming the NTSB approves our request to close out these items we will have only 3 of the original 12 recommendations remaining and these 3 involve multi-year programs to complete.
This clearly demonstrates the significant progress we've made in improving safety and strengthening our gas operations over the past 2 years.
Given the tremendous work involved this is no small feat and I'm proud of how far the team has come.
On the rights-of-way we've completed more than 1 600 miles of the Centerline survey during the second quarter and approximately 3 200 miles so far this year.
We expect to survey all 6 700 miles of our system by the end of the year.
To date we have identified fewer significant encroachments than we originally anticipated.
However we have a long way to go on the survey particularly in the more populated parts of the service area and we've only just begun the remediation effort.
At this time we're maintaining the cost estimate of roughly $500 million over 5 years.
Shifting gears to power generation I'm pleased to report that our Gateway plant just achieved its fourth consecutive year without a safety incident.
This demonstrates the daily personal commitment to safety on the part of every member of that team and I'm really proud of their significant achievement.
We also recently completed a successful 6-month planned maintenance outage of our Helms Pumped Storage power plant.
Helms has been operating for 30 years and the recent equipment replacements there will help us to achieve ongoing reliable and sustainable hydropower.
Helms is a great resource for us and our customers particularly during the summer months when our peak loads are at their highest.
Finally at the Diablo Canyon nuclear plant we had a couple of small unscheduled outages during this quarter.
In both cases the systems and processes in place worked as intended.
The team did a great job identifying and correcting the issues and quickly restoring operations.
And with that I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
As usual I'm going to go through our Q2 results as well as guidance.
And I thought I'd also spend a few minutes quantifying the substantial amount of gas pipeline safety work that shareholders have funded to date and that we've committed to fund and then I'll also cover the potential impact of the safety division's revised recommendations.
Slide 4 summarizes the results for the quarter.
Earnings from operations were $0.79 per share and our GAAP results were $0.74.
The difference between the 2 is our items impacting comparability.
The item related to natural gas matters totaled $0.04 in the quarter and is broken out in pretax dollars in the table at the bottom of the slide.
Pipeline-related costs totaled $74 million pretax in Q2.
This includes our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan work our rights-of-way and integrity management work and then our legal costs.
As Chris mentioned work on our pipelines is somewhat seasonal and is expected to increase in the second half of the year.
And similarly we expect our remediation activities associated with rights-of-way encroachment to also ramp up in the second half.
During Q2 there were no changes in our penalty accrual of $200 million associated with potential fines in connection with the gas pipeline investigation.
Obviously this accrual is subject to change as the CPUC process comes to a conclusion.
There were no additional accruals for third-party liabilities in Q2.
However we did recognize $45 million of additional insurance recoveries during the quarter.
This brings us to a total of $329 million in insurance recoveries to date and of course those cover both claims as well as associated legal costs.
Back to the table at the top our environmental-related costs were $0.01 for the quarter and related to our whole house water program at Hinkley.
Slide 5 shows the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations.
Our lower authorized cost of capital resulted in a reduction of $0.09 compared to Q2 of last year and our increased shares outstanding resulted in a $0.03 reduction.
These were largely offset by the absence of a scheduled nuclear refueling outage in Q2 this year worth $0.06 and higher rate-based earnings worth $0.05 compared to Q2 of last year.
Our guidance for 2013 earnings from operations is on Slide 6 and it's unchanged at $2.55 to $2.75 per share.
Some of the key assumptions underlying our guidance are provided in the appendix of this slide deck.
At the bottom of the slide you'll see our guidance for the key components of the natural gas matters in pretax dollars and these are unchanged other than reflecting the $45 million of insurance recoveries we booked in Q2.
Regarding our equity needs we continue to expect to need roughly $1 billion to $1.2 billion for the year based on our current accrual for potential fines.
So where are we to date? During the first half of the year we issued about $575 million of which about $140 million was in Q2.
It consisted of about $90 million through our internal programs our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment plans and about $50 million through our continuous equity offering or dribble program.
Obviously our financial plans are subject to change during the remainder of the year depending largely on the resolution of the gas investigations.
Now I'm going to spend a few minutes on the numbers associated with our gas pipeline commitment and the safety division's revised recommendation.
In the appendix to today's slide deck in Exhibit 3 we've included a table that lays out the $2.2 billion that our shareholders have spent or that we committed to spend on pipeline safety since the accident.
This includes unrecovered expenses and capital under our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan as well as other gas transmission expenses outside of that program such as integrity management our rights-of-way work and other gas transmission safety work.
The following slide Exhibit 4 walks you from the $2.2 billion that our shareholders have spent or committed to spend to the $4 billion that would be required under the safety division's revised recommendation.
First you need to add $300 million for the fine that they are recommending.
And second you need to add more than $1.5 billion of incremental shareholder-funded gas spending that they've recommended.
The way you get the $1.5 billion figure is you start with the safety division's headline number of $2.25 billion.
In the revised recommendation they would only give us credit for $435 million of our pipeline expenditures so you would subtract that off.
You would also subtract $300 million for their recommended fine.
That would leave you with about $1.5 billion of incremental shareholder-funded gas spending.
We believe this recommendation is excessive and if approved could increase our cost of capital which would ultimately increase cost to our customers.
S&amp;P for example indicated that if the revised recommendation were approved it would review its assessment of California regulation and that a downward revision to their assessment could affect ratings on all companies regulated by the CPUC.
Obviously the ability to raise capital efficiently is very important given the large investment in infrastructure we're planning so that we can continue to provide safe and reliable gas and electric service to our customers.
I'll stop there and we can now open up the lines and address your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I have more of I guess a regulatory question for you.
And it's I guess the potential communication that exists between an ALJ and a commissioner on the CPUC.
And in an OII I'm getting mixed reports that there's no communication between an ALJ and a commissioner on the CPUC even if that commissioner is in charge of the OII.
I wonder if you could give some color on that.
This is Tom Bottorff.
I'm responsible for regulatory affairs.
Commissioners can speak with ALJs the assigned commissioner can speak with an ALJ on a proceeding irrespective of whether it's an investigation or a normal regulatory class [ph].
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapidis with Goldman Sachs.
I'm sorry.
That question comes from Steve Fleishman with Wolf Research.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
Based on the ALJ filing last night and the timing of the comments et cetera could you give us a sense of when the earliest we could actually get an ALJ-proposed decision and then a final order? Yes this is Tom Bottorff again.
Normally this schedule would have all of the submissions concluded by a certain date and then the judges would have 60 days from the submission of all the documents to issue a proposed order.
The commission -- the judge doesn't have to use the full 60 days.
So if you look at what's happened with this recent order where they've asked for more information and the reply comment's due September 23 following those submissions those documents we would expect to still have the opportunity to submit our own reply to the staff's last amended reply the brief proposal.
So we probably will conclude the submission of our documents sometime in October but that again depends on a schedule that hasn't been issued.
But conceivably the judges if they have their decisions in progress could issue them shortly after the submission of the documents so you could see one as early as October but it could be as late as November or December.
It just depends on the schedule that they ultimately adopt and we haven't seen that yet because they're still in the process of requesting additional information.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on the criminal case that Tony mentioned could you just -- it sounded just a little bit more of a tone that you're expecting something to actually be filed most likely.
Could you just give us a little more flavor on that? And what are the potential implications if those charges are made? Yes Steve let me start off and [indiscernible] Can add any additional color to it.
I think what we're finding is now that the other proceedings the civil cases and the regulatory cases are winding down the various prosecutors who have been involved are starting to become more active.
We've had a number of meetings with them providing them with information.
As we've said all along we're fully cooperating with them in providing information.
So it's just a matter I think of now the timing.
Those proceedings are starting to get ripe to make -- have them make a decision as to what they want to do if anything.
LLC</strong> And again just if they do file charges where is that -- where's the implication in terms of just all the other I guess financial implications? Is it an insurance issue or is there some other parts of this process where it could impact? Well there are a whole range of approaches that they could take including a fine which would be financial.
It's hard -- we have no indication whatsoever of if they will seek that or what kind of range they would seek or whether they would look at the CPUC proceeding and say "The company has paid a significant amount already." LLC</strong> And then one other just technical question on the -- it seems like in this whole process there's a lot of focus on the Oberlin report.
And just -- to your understanding does the Oberlin report reflect all costs that shareholders have borne both costs that had already been borne plus additional costs? This is Kent.
There was a hearing related to the Oberlin report and it was clear at the hearing that Oberlin considered all unrecovered costs not just fines so including work that we did on our system that was unrecovered.
LLC</strong> And including costs that had been done before they did that report too.
So...
That was a little less clear about -- the timing was a little less clear.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I mean it just seems like this is getting out of control as you mentioned I guess excessive.
I mean and obviously this seems to get more and more fought in the press so to speak.
Just what are kind of the options you can do to kind of just -- I know you refiled to kind of put new testimony in.
I mean are there other options that you can do to kind of get your point made here than having to just hope for an outcome and have to appeal it or something? I'd say that it's more than hoping for an outcome.
It's being aggressive in our filings and we've made it clear that we think the approach of looking at what we can afford rather than looking at the substantial work that we've already done and taking that into account that ought to be what they should be looking at.
And remember these are recommendations of parties and the staff.
We don't even have an administrative law judge's decision yet.
And then of course the commission has to issue a final decision.
And we'll be involved each step of the way making our argument that the focus ought to be "Did the company get it? Have we changed our focus? Are we committed to safety and are we spending money on safety?" rather than "How much can they afford?" Because we just think that is the absolute wrong focus.
I don't know of any proceeding that focuses on that in the regulatory arena.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Questions on the General Rate Case processing and on the TO.
First on the General Rate Case is there a formal timeline for when settlement talks could occur? And if not are you looking at the rate case and saying "Hey this could actually get resolved on time unlike many of the other California rate cases over the last few years?" This is Tom Bottorff again.
There is a formal date set aside for a settlement conference.
That's August 12 and 13.
So we'll have an opportunity at that point to convene with the parties.
I should point out though that we've already settled with 3 of the parties and continue to engage in discussions to settle specific issues.
So we're not necessarily waiting for the conference to resolve them.
But right now with those settlement conversations in place the ones that are scheduled that is all part of the schedule that had been set out by the judges when the proceedings were first initiated and we are on schedule.
So there's nothing that's occurred that would suggest there's a significant delay coming.
And in fact just the opposite.
We're on schedule in every phase of the proceeding up to this point.
Research Division</strong> The other question is on the TO case the TO15 case that you just filed last week.
Do you implement rates on an interim basis using the 10.9% ROE and then if the decision comes back differently you adjust or refund accordingly? Or do you expect the case to actually be litigated this quickly? No.
Generally what's happened and one of the reasons we did file for a reduction is that it allows us to put the rate into effect sooner we're hoping as early as October 1.
And that would reflect the request as we filed it.
So that would include the higher return and that's one of the reasons we submitted the application at this point -- this earlier time frame.
And Michael this is Kent.
I'll just add the rates are subject to refund based on the ultimate outcome from the proceedings.
Research Division</strong> And how long do you think the actual proceeding will take? So normally we settle these proceedings.
So we haven't actually gone to hearing on any of our TO cases as yet.
So we would expect to settle it sometime by the middle of next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So you'll put in rates with the higher authorized return in it and then settle mid-next -- sometimes second quarter third quarter-ish next year and any adjustment subject to refund.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Andrew Gay.
Just procedurally is it your view that yesterday's ALJ request settles the scheduling issue in the docket? Or will you still ask for the ability to respond to the CPSD corrections letter in line with your original request for an extension to the schedule? This is Tom Bottorff.
We still have our motion pending to reopen the proceeding.
That's still undecided.
We expect a ruling on that.
And in any event once that decision is issued and once the responses to the recent questions are answered we still have our opportunity to file a reply to the amended proposal the staff issued on July 16.
So those opportunities still exist and that's why there's some uncertainty in the schedule if the judge has yet to rule on our motion and has yet to decide the new date for us to respond to the staff's July 16 proposal.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the ALJ ruling they mentioned -- I'm sorry the ALJ request they mentioned in there that they thought the $2.25 billion from the Oberlin report was incremental equity.
Should we read anything into that or how should we think about the interpretation of that $2.25 billion? This is Kent.
I think that term is used to describe the way Oberlin approached it which was how much equity can be raised in addition to the expected amount of equity needed just to support our normal ongoing capital expenditure program and other needs.
Research Division</strong> So not necessarily relating to whether it was from this point forward or whether it's aggregate is that...
It's really to address the equity needs associated with the gas pipeline cost and the proceeding as compared to the rest of our equity needs associated with our core business.
Research Division</strong> And then finally can you give an update on the processes -- on the process to address net metering issues and then also the rate hearing legislation? This is Tom Bottorff again.
What we have pending on the rate issues the tier reform issue is being addressed in legislature and through a proceeding at the PUC a general rule-making on how residential rates should be set going forward.
They're both in process.
The legislation is pending in Sacramento and the proceeding is still ongoing on how rates should be set for the future generally on time of use versus tier reform or some other kind of tier reduction.
So we expect a decision on the PUC proceeding by the end of the year.
We would also expect to see some action on the legislation before the end of the year as well.
Net metering has not been formally introduced in either of those forums.
But certainly the effect -- any effect on the change in rates may have an effect on how net metering is calculated.
But there's no formal proceeding as to address changes in the net metering prices.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Steve Fleishman with Wolf Research.
LLC</strong> I might have missed this but in the new TO filing what is the requested ROE now versus what you got the 9.1% that you got the last time? Steve this is Kent.
We requested 10.9% and that includes a 50 basis point outer.
LLC</strong> And you're able that book at the 10.9% as of October unless they ask you to change it again? That would be correct.
Assuming that they would put rates into effect at that time.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just I mean besides the delay caused by this ALJ filing last night could you just maybe give a little more color on how to think about the types of questions that are being asked in this filing and commentary? It's hard to speculate.
I mean what I said before I think is true that the focus has -- seems to be on this affordability issue.
Our hope and we will continue to urge the commission to keep this in mind is that's the wrong question.
And it's not a question that I see used in other regulatory proceedings.
The real question is what's appropriate given the facts of the San Bruno explosion and also what's necessary to make sure that the company is working on the right thing.
I don't think anyone can question we're working on the right things.
We've heard that time and again.
There's no question that we're spending significant resources on working on the right thing.
So I think we just have to get the focus back to the right questions rather than focus on this affordability issue.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Rajeev Lalwani.
Just a follow-up on San Bruno.
As you go through the next few months and you look at an ALJ recommendation and a final decision is it going -- do you think it's going to follow the path of a rate case where you get less and less extreme views as you go through the process? Or are you in kind of new territory and not sure where it goes? We really can't speculate on that.
That's what we will be urging that the commissioners will take a reasoned view of this.
But it's hard to right now say where we're going to go.
We'll continue to push for focusing on what we think are the right questions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And let's say you get a kind of an extreme recommendation like the CPSD had but if that's the final decision what's the process after that to appeal et cetera? Well these decisions of the CPUC can be appealed to the courts.
Obviously that's not a direction we want to go.
We want to get these proceedings done and behind us which I think all of you have expressed the opinion that that's what you'd like to see.
Obviously the safety valve is -- if the number is too high if the credit we get for what we spent already is too low we'd have to look at our ability to deal with it but that's kind of a last resort.
We want to go try and get the decision to where it's something we can live with going forward and focus on the future.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups.
I want to know what exactly is the record right now in the proceeding.
Does the record include the like original recommendations that the CPSD and say the city of San Bruno made and the revised ones? Or does it just include the revised recommendations? And the second question is just when I think of all the recommendations that've come out they've all revolved around that Oberlin report number of like $2.25 billion.
Is that just a mile marker that everyone's using or legally they all have to come back to that number? It's Tom Bottorff.
There's no requirement that the judges adopt the $2.25 billion number.
That simply seems to be a framework that each of the parties have built their recommendation around.
So it still remains to be seen whether the judge adopts that and if so what dollars that we've spent are credited against that $2.25 billion number.
So we'll just have to wait and see what ultimately comes out in the judge's decision.
And with respect to the question about the proposals that are in the record all of the proposals that have been filed remained in the record.
The only one that's really been revised significantly is the staff's recommendation and that takes the place of what they originally thought.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fallon with SIR Capital Management.
I just wanted to follow up on Anthony's question a little bit.
What kind of latitude did the ALJs have in terms of crafting a proposal here? In particular are they able to do things like give you relief from keeping your 48% -- or your equity ratio as a utility so you wouldn't have to issue as much equity up front? Are they allowed to do things like that? I don't know to what extent they would have enough information to make a recommendation on that.
They certainly have a lot of discretion on how they decide what penalty amount is appropriate what the basis for the penalty is.
So it could be quite different from the proposals that you've seen presented up to this point but I don't know to what extent they would specifically address the equity issue.
But they have that kind of latitude there's really very little to limit them not just on the equity ratio in terms of levels and fines and what's sort of are included? This is Kent Harvey.
I would just add the equity ratio was recently resolved in the cost of capital decision.
And that's the proceeding through which the commission determines what's an appropriate capital structure.
So I think it's less likely that it would reconsidered in a penalty proceeding.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> It's actually John Cohen.
So in reading the ALJ filing it seems to me that what the ALJ is trying to draw out is a distinction between pretax and posttax dollars.
And obviously any equity raised would cover aftertax expenses which I guess you could gross up to get a pretax number.
So if we're looking at something where the ALJ allows you to deduct all of the shareholder-borne expenses but uses a posttax number for that $2.25 billion how do you think that would compare to what the current CPSD revised recommendation is? Because when we look at it it looks like you almost got to the same place under those methodologies.
Yes.
We'd have to look at the numbers.
And I think one thing we've seen from all the parties is that people have been very creative in terms of how they've actually applied numbers in this proceeding.
So we want to go through that and address that appropriately through the proceeding.
There are currently no additional questions.
All right.
In that case I'll thank everybody for their participation and hope you have a good day.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for attending the PG&amp;E Corporation second quarter earnings 2013 conference call.
This will now conclude the conference.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Hello and welcome to the PG&amp;E Corporation Third Quarter Earnings 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like introduce your host Mr.
Gabe Togneri with PG&amp;E.
Thank you you may proceed.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey I'll provide you with the usual reminder that our discussion is going to include forward-looking statements about future financial results and these are based on assumptions expectations and information that's currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's results are described on the second page of today's slide deck and in addition we encourage you to review the Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today and also the discussion of risk factors that appears in the 2012 annual report.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Thank you Gabe.
We've got a fair amount to cover today and I'm going to start with the gas business.
We continue to make progress in the field to improve the safety and reliability of our system.
We've gathered an unprecedented amount of data about our Gas Transmission system and we're using our comprehensive pipeline features database to prioritize our pipeline safety work.
This has resulted in some changes to the work plan and higher unit costs for work on the pipeline safety enhancement plan as compared to the filing that we made a couple of years ago.
Yesterday we filed a required update with the CPUC that reflects these changes.
As a result we'll be taking a charge for the additional costs that won't be recovered from customers.
We're disappointed to have to do this but it reflects the complexity and the challenges of this important gas safety work and Chris will go through the details in just a couple of minutes.
A noteworthy accomplishment this quarter was the resolution of substantially all of the remaining San Bruno related third-party claims.
From the beginning our focus has been on bringing closure as quickly as possible through settlements that treat people fairly.
The judge overseeing the case expressed how pleased he was that we're able to work with the plaintiffs to resolve these significant cases without going to trial and we are proud of the outcome.
Also the San Mateo County District Attorney's Office has publicly indicated they will not be pursuing criminal charges under state law.
However the federal investigation under the Pipeline Safety Act is ongoing and we continue to cooperate with the U.S.
Attorney's Office on that.
In the regulatory area the gas penalty proceedings are taking much longer than we had ever expected.
However the record is now complete in the 3 investigations and we await the administrative law judge's rulings.
So when you lay out the timetable for the ALJ's issuing a recommended penalty and the subsequent commission decision I think it's fair to say that the final result should be expected in the first quarter of 2014.
As you know the other parties to the proceedings have suggested unprecedented penalties.
More recently a number of third parties have weighed in calling for a more balanced approach to the penalty recognizing that an extreme decision would have negative implications for financing California's ongoing infrastructure needs.
We believe it's vital that the commission's final decision recognize the significant improvements we've made to large sums that we have already spent without recovery from customers and that the victims have been fairly compensated in the civil proceedings.
Before I turn this over to Chris I'll mention important progress we've made this quarter in addressing some key customer affordability issues.
As many of you know California has a multitiered residential rate structure that was intended to promote energy efficiency.
Basically higher electric consumption moves you to a significantly higher rate.
Over the years cost increases have been disproportionately loaded onto the upper tiers while the CPUC's ability to address this has been constrained by the legislature.
As an unintended consequence the structure disadvantaged a large number of our customers in areas like the Central Valley who need air-conditioning in the hot summer months and pay extremely high bills.
At the same time customers living along the coast where there's moderate weather pay much lower bills even those people that have fairly large houses.
This year the utilities and the consumer groups worked together on legislation that restores the CPUC authority to make important changes to fix California's rate structure.
The governor signed the bill this month and we look forward to working with the CPUC to move this forward.
So with that let me turn this over to Chris.
Thanks Tony and hello everyone.
I'll begin my remarks focused on operations and then touch on the regulatory proceedings.
Although we've had a lot of success in our overall operations I'm going to focus my comments on gas ops today.
First on Slide 4 you can see the significant amount of work we've completed to make our pipeline safer just since the beginning of this year.
Over the past few years we've been testing and replacing more pipeline miles and installing more automated shutoff valves than just about any utility that I'm aware of.
Much of the pipeline safety work we've been doing was based on the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan that we filed in 2011.
The CPUC approved the work in December of 2012 but only gave us partial recovery of our costs.
That decision also required us to update the plan once we had finished validating the Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure for all 6700 miles of our transmission pipelines.
We recently completed that effort and used the result to reprioritize every pipeline segment for strength testing which is funded with expense dollars and pipeline replacement which is capital work.
Yesterday we filed the required Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan update application with the commission.
The biggest change is to the pipeline replacement component which is the capital side of the program.
About 90 miles or roughly 1/2 of the previously planned replacements were removed from the program and about 50 miles were added to the pipeline replacement portfolio again based on the reprioritized risk ranking.
Although there were fewer miles to replace in total many of the miles reflected in the update are short pipeline segments each with costs comparable to the longer segments.
In addition many of the segments included in the reprioritized and updated plan are in difficult terrain including unstable soil and high water tables that require pumping and disposing of water adding to the unit cost of the replacement program.
Also we found more third-party infrastructure under the street than originally anticipated such as water and sewer lines and this requires additional costs for trenching and pipe fitting.
Even though we're replacing fewer miles and the cost per mile will be higher the total costs for pipeline replacement are not substantially different from the previous plan.
However since we are replacing fewer miles the revenues eligible for recovery under the terms of the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan are lower.
Given this profile we're required to write off the projected shortfall which is estimated at $196 million and we've taken that charge this quarter.
We also expect a smaller impact to our strength testing plan which is the expense component of the program.
That's because we expect to do a larger amount of the work on newer pipe which is not eligible for cost recovery.
As a result we expect additional unrecovered expenses in 2014 of about $30 million however those charges will be taken next year as the costs are incurred.
While I don't like delivering this news I know that the result of all this work will be a safer system for our customers and Kent will cover how this impacts our guidance in just a couple of minutes.
We continue to make progress on the system-wide Centerline survey of our pipeline rights-of-way.
As you can see on the slide we've completed about 5800 miles.
But we're not done yet and we're currently working throughout the San Francisco Bay Area our most densely populated region.
The survey will still be essentially complete by the end of this year and we'll review the total cost estimate once we have clear visibility into the entire portfolio for remediation work that results.
For now we're maintaining estimate of roughly $500 million over 5 years.
Turning to regulatory matters on Slide 5 the General Rate Case remains on track.
We filed our reply brief and updated our overall request based on the outcome of the hearings.
Everything is now in the hands of the administrative law judge and the schedule calls for a proposed decision on November 19th.
On the electric transmission side last month the FERC excepted our TO-15 filing and the rates went into effect on October 1 subject to refund based on the final outcome.
We expect the case will now go through the settlement process.
As we approach the end of the year I'll remind you that we're preparing to file our 2015 gas transmission rate case.
We are already spending a lot more than is currently in revenues and in light of this increased spending we expect the filing to be of significant size and certainly to draw attention from interveners.
We plan to file the gas transmission case in the December timeframe to allow the CPUC a full year to make a decision because we don't have the same assurances about retroactivity of revenues that we've typically had in a general rate base.
We'll try to address that through the regulatory process.
So with that I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thank you Chris.
As usual I'm going to go through our Q3 results as well as guidance and I'll address the impact of the PSEP capital charge that Chris discussed.
Slide 6 summarizes the results for the third quarter and earnings from operations were $0.88 per share and GAAP results were $0.36.
The differences in our item impact comparability related to natural gas matters which totaled $0.52 in the quarter.
As usual that's broken out in pretax dollars in the table at the bottom of the slide.
Pipeline-related expenses totaled $113 million pretax in Q3 and these include the strength testing work in our pipeline safety enhancement plan our rights-of-way and integrity management work and then our legal costs.
Next you see the $196 million pretax charge that Chris described related to the required update to the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
Again these are capital costs we expect to incur for pipe replacement work which we don't expect to recover from customers.
In Q3 you see there were no changes in our accrual for potential fines in connection with the gas pipeline investigations.
Our accrual remains at $200 million.
During the quarter we did increase our accrual for third-party liability claims by $110 million as a result of settling virtually all remaining third-party claims in Q3.
The total accrual for third-party liabilities stands at $565 million which is within our previously established range of up to $600 million.
During Q3 we also recognized $25 million of additional insurance recoveries and that brings total insurance recoveries to-date to $354 million.
Slide 7 shows the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations.
Our lower authorized cost of capital resulted in a reduction of $0.09 compared to Q3 of last year and our increased shares outstanding resulted in a $0.04 reduction.
These negative factors were partially offset by higher rate base earnings worth $0.05 compared to Q3 of last year along with a number of smaller items.
Our guidance for 2013 is on Slide 8.
And at the top you'll see the guidance earnings from operations is unchanged at $255 million to $275 per share.
Some of the key assumptions underlying our guidance are provided in the appendix of the slide deck.
At the bottom of the slide you'll see our guidance for the key components of the natural gas matters in pretax dollars and we've made 3 primary changes here.
First the range for pipeline-related expenses has been adjusted downward by $50 million to reflect somewhat lower costs experienced this year.
The new range is $350 million to $400 million compared to the old range of $400 million to $500 million.
Second below that you see that we've added the charge for the unrecovered PSEP capital of $196 million.
Third we've replaced the previous range for third-party liabilities with the actual amount of the accrual taken during Q3: $110 million since virtually all claims have been settled.
In addition as we've done in the past insurance recoveries have been updated to reflect the proceeds received during Q3.
Regarding our equity needs we continue to expect to target roughly $1 billion to $1.2 billion for the year although some portion of that may be pushed into 2014.
Our cumulative issuance through the end of Q3 was about $740 million and about $170 million of that was done in Q3.
I'm going to stop there and I'll turn it back to Tony for some closing remarks.
Thanks Kent.
Let me just summarize what we're doing to both resolve outstanding issues and to move the company forward.
First we're focused on wrapping up the uncertainty related to the gas penalty proceedings and we expect the final result in the first quarter of 2014.
Second on third-party liability claims we're in good shape and we expect to recover a significant portion of the cost through insurance and we're going to continue to work through that process.
Third the hearings and all subsequent regulatory briefs for the General Rate Case are all completed and we're now awaiting the proposed decision in the GRC.
And fourth we're working on the gas transmission rate case that will be filed by year end.
The GRC and the gas transmission cases are critical to our path forward.
We made solid progress executing on our plans and we know we're laying the foundation for future success.
So with that we'll open up the lines and answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Leslie Rich with JPMorgan.
Inc.</strong> So just in terms of thinking of the timing of the ALJ rulings I know they're on really separate and distinct paths.
But is it possible that you get an ALJ ruling on the GRC before you get an ALJ ruling on the fines and penalties? And then in terms of the commission decision on the final decisions for both of those are they interrelated at all or really sort of separate and distinct? I'll let Tom comment in a minute but since the record is closed and now the ALJs are working on their decisions it really is up to the ALJ to decide how to orchestrate when they issue those decisions.
And I'm not privy to what their thinking is but they really have lots of flexibility right now.
Tom I don't know if you have any more insights.
I think that's right.
On the General Rate Case Chris mentioned schedule calls for the GRCP to come out in November that may or may not happen but that's the current schedule.
And with respect to the posed decisions [ph] on the 3 investigations we expect those to come out in mid-December.
That remains to be seen as well but the procedural schedule would call for that kind of outcome.
I don't think that the 2 decisions are being coordinated.
I think they're on separate tracks.
The judges do communicate with one another occasionally but I think they're working on their own decisions and trying to get them out as quickly as possible.
Inc.</strong> And then the final decisions are sort of typically within 60 to 90 days but not necessarily? Yes it could be as early as 30 that rarely happens.
Yes 60 to 90 is realistic.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I have a couple of questions.
First on this issue of -- I guess there's kind of like a revenue per mile cap in the PSEP 1 final order could you just explain a little better why it matters how much cost per mile? This is Chris.
I'll start off and then Tom can come in on some of requirements from the regulatory process.
But in general when the order was put together and the supporting work papers behind that it identified a certain amount of work and then allowed revenues based on that certain amount and type of work that was being done.
So when we've taken work out and put work back in it basically reduced the amount of work being done and therefore the revenues go down with that.
Unfortunately when you look at the mix of work that's remaining to be done it is at a higher unit cost.
And so it wasn't - the way it was set up was not something that allowed us a bucket of dollars to do a bucket of work.
It had a cap on it based on the very specific type of work that was done and so unfortunately the way the order works out for us is that the revenues are decreased because the amount of work is decreased.
And it was indifferent as to what the cost per unit was and the types of work that we're seeing that's left to do is as I've said in instances in different terrains and situations where the cost per unit is higher.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Remember Steve we had also proposed contingencies that were disallowed in that case which we didn't think was fair because of the uncertainties like this and that has hurt us.
LLC</strong> Tony you've talked before about -- with the right kind of GRC orders being able to earn your allowed return I guess electric in '14 and gas '15.
Can you say that that's still feasible? That's still our objective.
I think as we've said in the past I was pleased with the way the GRC went in.
Remember the commission had asked us to really focus on risks and safety and what we're doing we did that.
They hired independent consultants to look at both the gas business and -- the gas distribution business that's in that case and the electric business.
The consultants had favorable reports and the interveners in the case really did not take issue with the safety analysis and the risk analysis.
It was really just well we don't want rates to go up too high and in the case we've shown that even if we were granted the full relief which obviously never happens but even if we were granted the full relief the average customer bill is still below the national average.
And so I'm guardedly optimistic that we will get a good result and we believe with a good result in the GRC that we certainly have an ability to earn -- or meet our objective and earning allowed return [ph].
On the second piece Gas Transmission &amp; Storage.
That case as Chris said we'll file by the end of the year.
Once we file it we'll see what the reaction to it is from various interveners and get a better feel for whether it's going to be hotly contested or whether people say yes you really do need to spend on Gas Transmission &amp; Storage.
Because remember a lot of new requirements that we have to cover in that case.
LLC</strong> And then just 1 other question to clarify the other rights-of-way issue.
I mean in the past when you've talked about the $500 million you kind of would say that we're still kind of on track for that.
I mean is that fair to say at this time if it's still kind of -- is that estimated? This is Chris and as I said earlier we're getting near completion.
We still have just do San Francisco which is a more congested area to go through but based on what we've seen we're reiterating the $500 million at this time.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then 1 last thing can you just explain kind of what happened with this San Carlos situation and how -- how these might be handled going forward? Sure Steve.
This is Chris again and one of the things that everybody needs to recognize this obviously this is a very politically-charged environment that we're working in right now.
And when you look at San Carlos this is what we refer to as our Line #147 and we pressure tested that line in 2011 and have done the work on it that we're convinced makes it a safe line and we reiterated that to the commission and to our customers.
But the issue that arose is that when we were in 2012 doing some follow up excavation on a routine leak survey and repair we found in there that some of our records associated with that line weren't accurate.
So we updated those and we did alert the CPUC and their staff to that process.
And then eventually filed making sure that -- through an errata filing that folks were aware that we found that discrepancy.
And quite frankly that's part of what we want to do.
As we're doing work we want to constantly challenge and make sure that our records and the pipes are safe and so we're going to continue to look for those kinds of things.
But as we went through that that caused the others in San Carlos to get concerned and that's where it's become a little bit more involved in the press and through the political process.
But the CPUC did -- because they took issue with and had concerns about the timing of how we -- of when we notified them and the method of which we notified them they opened these orders to show cause and both of those are proceeding now.
It's hard to estimate what the outcome will be on those but we do anticipate that we will wrapped up in the next month or 2 especially on the one that we need to get them to authorize us to reenergize that line.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> FYI I think a PD [ph] on the very question you're addressing just came out.
But my question is to -- only equity delay Kent saying that it might be pushed into 2014.
Is that -- and you've obviously already also had this additional charge you've taken.
Is that really just because the proceedings are taking longer and pushed into the next year so timing for any sort of significant incremental charge is pushed out or are you doing better elsewhere? Can you just talk around your thought process there? First of all to state the obvious which is that equity requirements is sort of the end game.
There's all sorts of different things that factor into our cash needs as well as our capital structure essentially everything in our results factors into that.
So it's kind of at the end of the line.
The reality is as in any others there are puts and takes that drive our equity needs.
And the fact that we did take this charge fairly recently in reality it isn't a huge driver for the total annual needs because the annual needs are weighted average over the whole year and when you have a charge towards the end of the year it doesn't have the same kind of impact as when it's reflected throughout the entire year.
So puts and takes no major changes in our expectations and in our plans we've built in flexibility so that obviously some amounts can always spill over into the following year just because that's how the markets work and that's how the timing is and you want to have that kind of flexibility.
So we're going to see how the last part of the year goes.
We're generally on track but some of it may end up being in 2014.
I don't think it is a concern.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on this extra $200 million of cost as you've reallocated in priority of work.
Is there potential for more of these to be done as you guys reprioritize kind of the phase of work that's going to get done in '14 or '15 under the PSEP? Or is there a chance this can be reversed as you continue to do more work as what needs to get done? Dan this is Chris.
We were required to file this as a onetime update on the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
So we don't anticipate going through and reprioritizing or doing another update on this through the end of the program which is through the end of 2014.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just kind of putting the cart before the horse a little bit but as far as getting the resolution on San Bruno and potentially where the fines could end up or the penalties could end up.
Can you guys just walk through kind of the legal arguments if some of these high fines or penalties are put out there.
How you guys look to protest or try and reduce those impacts to shareholders from a legal perspective? I'll start off and Hyun Park our General Counsel is here he can add to this.
But we believe that there are some very strong arguments that when a penalty gets too large that we do have options to appeal that penalty.
There are provisions under California law that prevent excessive fines and penalties and we think that we've got some good arguments there if they just get out of line with precedents across the country and what's reasonable given all the money that we've already spent.
Hyun I don't know if you want to add any more to that.
This is Hyun Park General Counsel.
I actually think it's too early to tell.
Obviously we're speculating.
But as Tony said we believe that if the fine is so excessive we would have both state and federal constitutional law based arguments.
Research Division</strong> And those would be appealed through California state court U.S.
federal court or a combination of any which [ph] route you decide to go.
I think those are all being assessed at this point and we would have the option to go to both state as well as federal court we believe.
Our next question comes from Kit Conlidge [ph] the line of with BGC.
To revisit the gas transmission case a little bit again is it going to be part of the potential reaction here that it may not be completely clear what you've been disallowed from recovering that you've already spent or plan to spend versus what the new rules require you to spend in the future.
In other words are we going to get into some very complex detailed arguments that will make it hard to figure out what the rate base is and what the return is likely to be? This is Chris and just for clarification are you referring to the gas transmission case that we're going to file is that what we're talking about? Yes.
So as I've said we're spending significantly more right now as you guys are well aware than we're getting in revenues.
And so we expect this filing to be a pretty large ask and I think it's important to remember there's a couple of differences from what we asked for the first time that got disallowed versus what we're going to ask for this time.
In the last case when they did the big disallowance there were 2 real big areas that they disallowed: One was on our records systems that we were updating and modernizing and that project will be done by the end of next year and so that won't be part of the ask for the next time.
And then that next one was as was referred to earlier is we asked for a large contingency because at the time this was several years ago we hadn't gotten through the design phase and all the engineering and the estimates were pretty rough at that time so we put in some large contingencies and they disallowed all those contingencies.
And that in this case we got 2 years under our belts 2.5 years under our belts knowing what these costs look like and so the contingency request would be a lot smaller.
And so I think that it will be a little bit more of a standard type in terms of filings and such other than part of the big increase is from the fact that they've changed the rules.
And they've raised the standards around safety which are good standards and that requires a lot more work from us and the other utilities and so those will be items that will be in there.
We do expect that because of the size of the asset interveners we'll get involved and they'll probably challenge us as they did on the last cases did we already have -- did we already be get paid for these kinds of costs in the past.
But we think we'll have a very solid case to be able to file and I think you'll be able to see with transparency what the rate base ask will look like.
And I don't think that the issues that will be raised will be any different than things that we've seen in the past.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just wrapping up on the gas side quickly.
You talked about filing this later this year just to provide a little extra buffer.
How much buffer do you think that provides you ultimately in terms of getting through it in a timely fashion? I'll start and Tom you can -- this is Chris again.
What we're trying to do is that if we do it in December that gives them hopefully a full 12 months' worth of time to get through the regulatory process which is what we would hope that they would be able to do at the commission.
Normally the schedules will call for something around the 12-month timeframe.
So that's really what we're trying to have accomplished.
I don't know -- Tom if you want to add anything? The schedule that calls for us to file no later than February 3 so we're adding this extra couple of months just to try to make sure we get a decision by the end of the year and we'll have that established once the commission application is filed there will be a pre-hearing [ph] conference to set the schedule again we hope it calls for a decision by January 1 of '15.
Research Division</strong> And then going back to Dan's question and kind of juxtaposing if you will a potential appeals process in the context of equity needs.
Can you provide just a little bit of clarity in terms of when you might need to issue equity to the extent to which a decision were to come out from the CPUC.
Is there is some need to fund that immediately pending an appeal process? How do you think about that ultimately? I mean obviously there's some balance sheet ramifications as well.
Julien this is Kent.
Of course any answer to that is somewhat hypothetical because it kind of depends on what the decision is and we have a huge variety of recommendations out there and a range of possible outcomes still in these proceedings.
So the specifics are going to depend on what the final decision is.
If we do appeal it unless it is an unusual situation my guess is that from an accounting perspective we'll still be required to accrue what the decision is because to not do that would essentially -- we'd have to think it probable that the appeal would occur and so my guess is the accounting will cause us to have to deal with some of the capital structure and financing implications and the appeal could last a long time before that's actually resolved.
Research Division</strong> So really the reality is you could only -- a partial amount of equity to the sense that you'd get [ph] resolution and then ultimately full payment -- ultimately would be on resolution of the appeal most likely if it were to come to that.
But Julien let's remember the scenario and if I use one scenario which is the SED recommendation there's only a portion of that that actually drives upfront equity financing.
A lot of it is over time.
So again it really depends on the specifics of the final PC [ph] decision.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on Julien and Dan's question talking about the appeals process.
And I think that one of the responses you give Dan was based on precedents across the country I guess and other pipeline matters.
I mean could you highlight or give us some examples or yard markers of where previous appeals or I guess pipeline penalties have been? As far as we can determine the largest penalty in a -- pipeline gas pipeline explosion incident related to El Paso natural gas about -- a little over a decade ago it was just over $100 million in penalties.
Now there have been some more recently there was one in Pennsylvania that was in the low double digits.
Nick do you remember that number? About $25 million.
Some of that was constrained by some of the state law in Pennsylvania.
But if you look at all of it and we've done this work -- the numbers that are being talked about which would total $4 billion in penalties are orders of magnitude beyond anything that's ever been assessed.
And when you think about it assessing a penalty that size doesn't accomplish anything.
We made major changes in the leadership in the organization here we immediately started to do work knowing that we weren't going to recover but we didn't wait until we had an order telling us what we'd recover and what we didn't.
We went and did the right thing and so we think it accomplishes any logical purpose to have penalties the size that some of the folks are talking about.
Research Division</strong> So just a follow-up if I think about it a decision comes out we hope in the first quarter of '14 and let's just say the decision comes out that's on top of the SED recommendation and the company does appeal it and I guess there's really no timeline for an appeal.
If an appeal brings a decision back to something closer to like an El Paso decision does the utility now go refile with the commission to recoup the difference or start recovering what was disallowed previously? Yes it's too early to speculate what we do in that case but clearly if we get a decision that's near where some of the proponents are advocating we'll start the appeal process and work that through.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Question on the General Rate Case.
Tony you commented that you've got a little bit of positive outlook or have gotten some positive feedback on the rate case filings.
But if I go back and actually look at the testimony there's a pretty big spread between your request and what some of the main intervenors had requested in terms of a revenue requirement.
I'm just curious is there a bogey or a level where if you get a certain amount in the rate increase it wouldn't impact what you would wind up spending on the system whether in OpEx or in capital spending levels meaning -- are you in a position where if you get an outcome that isn't what you're looking for that you're willing to dial back spending on the system? Well we think everything that we've asked for is justifiable.
We did a lot of work around the risk associated with not doing the work.
I think the issue as I said before you never get 100% so at some point whatever the number is you have to take a look at -- are there discretionary things that you take out of your spending or are there some important things that instead of a having a 5-year plan to do a particular program do it in 7 years or 8 years or something like that.
So I think there will be flexibility.
We'll have to work hard but I think we made a really good showing that a lot of this and particularly on the gas side of the business are things that we ought to get on with.
Research Division</strong> Okay and how much when you think about the rate increase request how much is capital driven versus how much is growth in O&amp;M? Let me ask.
Tom do you have those numbers handy? No we don't have those numbers available but we can certainly share them with you later.
Research Division</strong> And apologies just kind of focusing on the rate case because I know there's been so much attention on the San Bruno related dockets but I mean the revenue request of over $1 billion is a big number in the grand scheme of things and some of the intervenors came out with dramatic differences versus your forecast.
They did but to get back to my point early when you look at it -- it's a big company with total revenues in the high teens.
The average bill if we get 100% of what we've asked for is still below the national average.
And I think that's what customers really care about.
I mean it's always a discussion about why your rate is high but in many parts of our service territory the total bill is low because of usage and that's why the legislation we got that allows restructuring the rates is so important because this skewing where the high-end of our structure was way high.
We'll be able to make a significant dent in that high-end.
Our current high rate is about $0.35.
That will come down significantly if we just use the normal cost of service regulation that many other states probably almost all states use.
Our next question comes from the line of Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
I'm looking at the calendar here.
So we're waiting for a decision on the penalty -- or a proposed position on the penalty.
Then you will file a transmission -- gas transmission rate case where you can ask for a pretty significant increase as you're suggesting.
We have a pending electric rate case.
So how is it possible that you could actually challenge the decision by the commission while you have 2 big rate cases pending? I'm asking about legal challenges to a proposed penalty decision or a final penalty decision.
Well there certainly is no legal barrier to doing that.
I mean these are all -- I'm talking about the collateral damage to those other proceedings from such a filing.
Right and remember -- I mean so our Gas Transmission &amp; Storage case while we'll file it it will go through a year-long process.
So you're going to have a significant amount of time pass between when we file the case and when it actually gets decided and lots of hearings and a recommended decision there.
So I mean I'm comfortable that in the interest of protecting our shareholder's interest we'll have to make the right decision on the penalty phase.
And if the penalty phase is too big we're comfortable with going ahead and appealing that.
And we've seen that the commission seems to have been able to separate the San Bruno proceeding from our normal regulatory process.
I know early on there was a lot of concern about was there going to be some slop over and would San Bruno affect other regulatory proceedings and we continue to believe that there isn't any evidence of that.
Okay and separately so you were planning to issue between $1 billion and $1.2 billion of equity this year.
And we are almost in November and you've issued $740 million.
Is it that you need less for this year and thus you're not rushing to issue the additional equity? Or are you basically waiting for the final proposed penalty decision? Angie this is Kent.
We have had $1 billion $1.2 billion as our target for the year.
I indicated on an earlier question that we do have some flexibility.
So if it's appropriate and we're going to sort of assess things over the remaining months if it's appropriate some might push into next year.
But we haven't had any major change in our overall needs for equity.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium Asset Management.
Ken I was just trying to look at this Slide 8 where you have the natural gas matters and the expenses tied to them.
The pipeline-related expenses to the low end of the guidance is $450 million and the high guidance range I guess is $350 million.
And if I'm right you spent total 9 months something like $250 million.
So can you give us a sense where you are going to end up over here because it's still I guess the range is still wide enough with still 1 quarter left and I guess now only 2 months left as the year is coming to a close.
We're keeping the range at -- we've adjusted the range to $350 million to $450 million.
That range used to be at $400 million to $500 million and that's the adjustment we made on the call.
So we could still -- why is it back-end loaded can I ask? That's what I'm trying to understand.
Let me just recap what's included in that.
There's 3 major components.
There is our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan expense work which is for the strength testing and that is seasonal work and we didn't have a lot of that very early in the year so it tends to be certainly in the third quarter and some of it in the fourth quarter as well.
The second component of that is our rights-of-way work as well as our integrity management work and Chris gave an update on the rights-of-way work.
We're not done with that yet and that will continue into the fourth quarter.
And then the last category is sort of our legal and other costs and that also is obviously driven by the things you think would drive that.
Those are really the factors and our guidance is $350 million to $450 million.
Can you give us some approximation percentage wise the 3 factors that you mentioned how much they make up of this total? There is a slide in the appendix that gives ranges for each of the components.
So I'll refer you to that.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> One in terms of the trend -- the electric transmission stuff the TO.
I wonder if you can characterize the key issues in those settlement discussions right now both in the TO14 TO15.
This is Tom Bottorff.
You may be aware the TO14 has been settled we reached a tentative agreement with all the parties and we filed that settlement agreement with FERC yesterday.
So that's pending.
We expect the judge to certify it make a recommendation to the full [ph] commission to improve it and probably expect a final decision in first quarter of next year.
So all the issues in that case were settled.
The key issues tend to be around the rate of return that's been one not just in our proceedings but nationally.
And the amount of investment is also an issue; the depreciation rate sometimes is an issue; operating and maintenance costs compared to historical trends tend to be an issue.
So they tend to be fairly consistent from proceeding to proceeding and I'm sure we'll address those again in TO15 which is pending.
Research Division</strong> And then on TO15 with that possible increase in the ROE what kind of earnings impact could that have given the rates went into effect October 1.
So you have essentially 3 months versus what -- I believe you said in the guidance was about a 9.1% full year.
Yes this is Kent.
It is in effect for 3 months.
I'll just say we booked the revenues that we request but we also reserve against those revenues for a litigation assessment until the case is resolved.
So it's really the net of those that affect our overall results.
I would say compared to the 9.1% we're hopeful there we're going to end up doing better so it's probably a slight favorable this year but in reality not in place for very long during 2013.
[Operator Instructions] I take it that there are no further questions? We have one question from Kamal Patel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One dealing with -- Monique did we lose him? [Operator Instructions].
[Technical Difficulty] LLC Research Division</strong> What risks do you see in your pending -- or your upcoming gas transmission rate case with the potential shuffling of leadership at the CPUC late next year early 2015? This is Tom Bottorff.
I don't think the shuffling of the commissioners puts the case at risk at this point.
It depends on the arguments that are presented by both sides and what the judge ultimately considers to be a reasonable outcome after hearing the case.
If the decision -- if the PD is out prior to the end of the year and the commissioners who are seated today get a chance to vote on it there's no change.
But you're correct if the decision is beyond January 15th we could have 2 new commissioners and it's unclear what perspectives they will bring to the commission at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Second question being one of the key focus areas for the management team has been to partner effectively and rebuild relationships.
And wondering where you think you stand in light of Tony I think you've been there about 2 years in light of comments that were made back in August regarding concerns surrounding a bankruptcy and the recent San Carlos issues.
Do you think those have had detrimental impact on rebuilding those relationships? Well obviously this is politically charged and the articles in the press can affect that but we continue to see improvement in our customer satisfaction numbers.
Last quarter we saw yet another increase.
And the other indicator I think over the past probably 2 months we've had 1 to 2 dozen editorials and op-ed pieces from community leaders mayors business associations supporting the notion that while PG&amp;E ought to be penalized for San Bruno that the numbers that are now being talked about are counterproductive that the company is an effective and an important member of communities across large portions of the state.
And if you read those things it's very encouraging that our message has gotten out and our efforts to as we call it go local and really partner with local communities have been very effective.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's seems like the newswire tend to pick up the negative articles a bit more than the positive ones.
We'd be happy to send you the copies of the good ones.
Thank you.
There are currently no additional questions waiting from the phone line.
In that case I would like to thank everybody for your time today.
I know it's a very busy day with a number of earnings calls and we'll probably see many of you at the EEI finance conference in a little bit more than a week.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for attending today's PG&amp;E Corporation third quarter earnings 2013 conference call.
This will now conclude the conference.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to introduce your hostess Sara Cherry with PG&amp;E.
Thank you and enjoy your conference.
You may proceed Ms.
Cherry.
Thank you Lynn.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey I'll remind you that our discussion will include forward-looking statements about our outlook for future financial results based on assumptions forecasts expectations and information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's actual financial results are described on the second page of today's slide deck.
We also encourage you to review the Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today and the discussion of risk factors that appears there and in the 2013 annual report.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Thanks Sara and good morning everyone.
I'll start off our remarks today and then turn it over to Chris and Kent.
I'm going to cover our focus as a company.
Chris will discuss the current status of our operations and regulatory and legal matters; and then Kent will conclude with the financial results of the quarter.
Let me start with Slide 3.
Since my first day at PG&amp;E it's been clear to me that everyone here is united around our shared mission to operate a leading utility that delivers safe reliable and affordable electric and gas service to our customers.
Our 3 objectives continue to be resolving the gas issues positioning the company for long-term success and partnering effectively with others to move the company forward.
So on the gas regulatory front we continue to await action by the California Public Utilities Commission law judges in the pending gas investigations.
But we have not waited to make significant improvements to the safety and reliability of our gas pipeline system.
As I've said before it's vital that the Commission's final decision recognize that we compensated the victims through the civil proceeding and that we made substantial improvements in safety at a very significant cost to our shareholders.
Next resolving the gas rate case.
Well the General Rate Case will allow us to continue the important work we've already begun.
We'll be able to upgrade our gas and electric systems and generating assets and continue to grow.
As you know we don't control the schedule but we expect to receive a proposed decision soon and we'll look to the Commission to reach a reasonable and timely final decision.
In our gas transmission business we filed a Gas Transmission and Storage Rate Case for 2015.
And finally the U.S.
Attorney's indictment of the company under the federal Pipeline Safety Act was a development that we shared in detail earlier this quarter.
We just do not believe any employees intentionally violated the federal pipeline safety regulations.
And we believe that even where the mistakes were made employees were acting in good faith.
Turning to operations in 2014 we continued to see strong progress.
As a company we've been focusing on steps to ensure the safety of our customers.
And one area where I'm pleased to see great progress in the first quarter was in the reduction of third-party damages to our gas and electric lines as a result of unsafe digging practices.
With respect to future success our integrated planning process is now in its third cycle with plans for driving continuous improvement throughout the organization.
As we look forward we continue to focus on superior execution of the work outlined in our rate cases and earning our authorized return this year with the exception of the gas pipeline business.
And next year our objective is still to earn our authorized return for the entire enterprise.
So with that let me turn it over to Chris.
Thanks Tony and good morning everyone.
I'll begin my remarks with an update on our operations and then touch on regulatory developments.
Starting with gas operations since 2011 we've successfully strength-tested over 675 miles of pipe replaced almost 130 miles retrofitted more than 400 miles to allow for inline inspection and installed nearly 150 automated shutoff valves.
This work on the pipeline is the most extensive in the United States and demonstrates the company's commitment to enhance the safety and integrity of our gas system.
And this work has not been limited to the gas transmission business.
We've taken lessons learned and applied them throughout our operations.
We're finding and fixing issues in all areas of our operations including our gas distribution system.
In our gas distribution system during the first quarter one of our crews working on a distribution line upgrade accidentally caused a leak which caused an explosion at a vacant house in Carmel.
Fortunately nobody was injured.
We take this event very seriously.
The immediate steps we took included modifying our work procedures and hiring an independent third-party engineering firm to conduct a root cause analysis.
The expert firm released their report last week and concluded that the explosion could have been prevented by proper verification of the distribution line status and configuration prior to working on the line.
The report recommends a series of safety actions which we fully embrace and have already implemented or will begin implementing shortly.
We know the lessons learned from Carmel will make our operations even stronger and safer going forward.
In the electric business this quarter we've now fully integrated about 500 new devices on our lines to isolate outages and reroute power automatically in the event of a failure.
We've already seen positive results from this program.
Just since January 1 we've avoided nearly 10 million customer outage minutes or almost 100 000 sustained customers’ outages.
This is just one example of the work we're doing on our electric system to improve the reliability experienced by our customers.
In our energy supply organization we've successfully completed another refueling outage at Diablo Canyon.
As is true every 5 years 2014 includes scheduled refueling outages on both units at the plant with the second outage coming in the fall.
Turning to regulatory matters I'll spend a few minutes on our 3 pending rate proceedings.
The first is our 2014 General Rate Case where we are awaiting a proposed decision.
This rate case integrates a strong risk prioritization process and a focus on safety.
The Commission's consultants reviewed our request from a safety perspective.
The consultants' reports provided some constructive comments but also recognized the overall improvements we're making including our integrated planning process that Tony talked about and risk management assessments as well as safety improvements.
We look to the administrative law judge overseeing the GRC and ultimately to the Commission to acknowledge the importance of our plans to improve the safety and reliability of our distribution systems and generation assets.
As a reminder once the CPUC issues a final decision the revenue requirement change will be retroactive to the first of the year.
The second case was the Gas Transmission Rate Case which we filed in December.
During the quarter we filed a motion with the Commission to request that the revenue requirement for the Gas Transmission Rate Case be retroactive to January 1 2015 even though the final decision will come later.
We're pleased to have partnered with TURN and ORA to gain support for this important motion in the proceedings.
We expect a ruling on the motion in the next 2 months.
Finally with TO15 our electric transmission rate case we continue to engage with the other parties for settlement discussions in April and we'll continue those conversations later this month.
With that I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
I'll now walk through the results for the first quarter which are summarized on Slide 5.
You can see that earnings from operations were $0.54.
GAAP results reflecting the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters were $0.49.
The table at the bottom has the natural gas item in pre-tax dollars.
And you can see the pipeline-related expenses came in at $40 million for the quarter.
Keep in mind that work on the pipeline is seasonal.
We plan less work during the winter months and we do expect it to pick up significantly in future quarters.
Slide 6 shows the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations and the main drivers behind the $0.09 difference.
About $0.04 of it is due to the fact that without a decision in our pending General Rate Case we're not recovering the increase in depreciation and interest expense resulting from capital growth over the past year.
After the Commission approves the General Rate Case which will be retroactive to January 1 we'd expect to recover these costs.
And for that matter turn a return on a larger authorized rate base.
So this one's essentially a timing issue.
Another $0.03 is due to the increase in shares outstanding and the rest is due to a number of smaller items some of which are also just timing.
So that's the summary of our first quarter results.
As you know we are not providing -- we've not provided guidance for earnings from operations for the year given the pending General Rate Case and the gas investigations at the PUC.
However on our last call we did provide some key inputs to assist you in developing estimates such as ranges for CapEx rate base unrecovered gas cost and equity issuance.
We've not made any revisions to that information since last quarter and it's included in today's presentation.
On Slide 7 you'll see the estimated range for our item impacting comparability for natural gas matters remains at $350 million to $450 million pre-tax.
At the bottom is the reminder that these figures exclude future insurance recoveries which obviously would net against these costs and exclude any additional fines or penalties resulting from the gas investigations that haven't already been accrued.
Finally during Q1 we issued a little over $300 million of common stock and we continue to target between $800 million and $1 billion of issuance for the year.
Keep in mind that that range excludes any additional fines or penalties resulting from the gas investigations which will be incremental to the range we've provided.
And with that we'll go ahead and open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Just -- you mentioned that the Carmel independent report was out last week has there been any reaction to that from other constituent policymakers? Steve this is Chris.
We have not heard anything and we haven't seen any reactions to it.
I mean we've been aggressive about sharing it with the different policymakers and constituencies.
So there hasn't been any reactions publicly yet.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just the $300 million of stock you've issued so far to date how much of that -- do you know how much of that came out of your dribble versus your comp programs? Yes I've got the number here Steve.
The majority was out of the dribble.
Our internal programs I think were in the $80 million range and the remainder was from the dribble.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And the obvious question just are you getting any indication from anyone on timing of when you'll get an ALJ on the San Bruno issues? This is Tony.
No we still believe that as we approach midyear we should get it.
But obviously we don't control that and we're just waiting.
But we continue to focus on moving ahead and getting work done.
Because our belief is the more work we get done the more we close out all of our gas issues the better off we are.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'm just thinking about timing for this year with the GRC waiting on the PD and then formalization.
Can you remind me what the time distance or what would be the normal process once you have the PD to once you have a final order in the GRC just so we can try and figure out if how much time we have left in this quarter before all the catch-up money goes into the third quarter -- or whenever that shows up? Yes.
This is Tom Bottorff.
I'm responsible for regulatory affairs.
So what we expect once the PD is issued parties will have 20 days to comment then there will be another 5 days for reply.
So the earliest you can get a final decision is 30 days roughly after the PD was issued.
But sometimes decisions can change or other issues can come up that cause delay.
But the earliest could be 30 days and it could be another month or 2 after that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So basically if we don't have something in the next couple of weeks then we should assume that it's going to be at best case third quarter pickup from an earnings perspective? Yes I think that's reasonable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the criminal case as it stands out right now there's been more talk of maybe going after some of these past profits rather than the per violation costs.
Can you remind us again where your legal position is on that point? And then is this something do you think there's an opportunity to settle on or resolve or does this have to go through the court process? Let me start off and then Hyun Park our General Counsel could go into a little bit more detail.
But there has been considerable confusion in the press about these alternative fines following the arraignment last month.
So I just want to make it clear that the indictment documents do not include any request for alternative fines.
And talking to our lawyers we strongly believe that the law says that in order to seek alternative fines at this point the prosecutors would need to go back to the grand jury file a new superseding indictment that specifically seeks alternative fine.
Whether they do that or not we don't know whether they're going to do that but none of it changes the underlying reality that fundamentally it's our belief that the criminal charges against the company just are not merited.
Hyun I don't know whether you want to say any more about the -- procedurally what...
Yes Dan this is Hyun Park General Counsel.
And I guess the point that I want to make is that there are actually pretty high hurdles to seek an alternative fine.
So what the government would have to do is in addition to filing a brand new superseding indictment we believe that they would have to prove to a jury beyond a reasonable doubt that the criminal conduct occurred and that the specific conduct actually caused the loss or the gain that they're going to base the alternative fine on and that they have to also prove beyond a reasonable doubt the amount of the loss or gain.
They also have to convince the court that the alternative fine would not unduly complicate or prolong the sentencing process.
So they have to jump through lot of hoops for that.
Research Division</strong> Do you see given that -- given otherwise the comparable -- these smaller dollars relative to anything else you guys have gone through is there an opportunity here to settle this and just get it off the plate? Well we are always open to settlement on this and we'll continue to look for opportunities going forward.
I think procedurally right now that the time isn't right for that.
But as we get through the initial phase of this proceeding we will look for those opportunities.
Because you're right the dollar figures are not big issues here.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just one last question Tony.
You focused a lot on trying to improve the operating performance from third and fourth quartile performance up to higher levels.
Can you just give us an update where some of those bigger measures stand and maybe when we should expect to see good comparability for what you guys did last year relative to the industry? Sure I'll start off and Chris can add some things.
You're exactly right.
I think 2.5 years ago when I got here I characterized that we were solidly in the third and fourth quartile for a lot of our key metrics.
And I'm really pleased to say that we're pushing up.
We moved some of the metrics into first quartile.
Even some of the more challenging ones are starting to push up to the median which will push them from third to the second quartile.
Chris mentioned electric reliability.
We've had a string of -- we're looking at probably the fifth year in a row this year where we will have record performance on the electric side of the business.
Nick Stavropoulos and his team have really transformed the gas business from a solid fourth quartile company to one that's got some really positive things going on.
And maybe Chris or Nick can comment on some of the progress we've made.
Yes Tony.
This is Chris.
And what I would say is is that we've focused on a lot of the different areas.
We've talked about reliability on the electric side having five-year -- 4 years now and getting into a fifth year of setting new records for us that will get us into the second quartile nationally.
In addition on the electric side we've been able to offset inflation in that organization last year.
And we've embedded that into the rate case because of the continuous improvement programs.
I think that's really the key.
All of the organizations have embedded continuous improvement programs and initiatives within the organization that is helping them drive out cost and be able to do things like start to offset inflation and some of the other pressures that we've had.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
I just wanted to confirm the -- when you're saying that there'll be some recovery once the retroactive nature of the GRC falls in are you talking about the $0.04 there in the waterfall chart? Yes this is Kent.
So what's happened is in the past year since the first quarter of last year obviously we've had another year of CapEx and a rate base as [ph] well [ph].
So we have been incurring in the first quarter a higher level of depreciation and our interest expense is higher.
Once we get the General Rate Case we expect that it will provide revenues that will cover those costs as well as the fact that we will have an authorized rate base that will be higher and we'll be able to earn a return on a higher authorized rate base.
So you should see both the $0.04 recovery in a future period as well as just the return component on a higher level of rate base for 2014 as compared to 2013 in the last rate case.
So just to be clear you're not delaying any capital spending right now? The capital spending is going on rate base is increasing it's just not been recognized as such? That's correct.
And the key thing is that the PUC's decision we do expect will be retroactive to January 1.
So we will get the revenues for -- that we would have otherwise gotten during the first quarter they will just be booked in a later period.
And there's nothing unusual about that retroactivity.
That's kind of the standard way.
Right right.
I just wanted to make sure there wasn't a delay in the spending that you'd have to make up I guess later on in the year.
But it sounds like...
No we've mainly been staying on our plan and our plan on the expense side for the time being was to stay relatively flat to last year with the expenses pending the GRC outcomes.
And that's the path we've been on.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Could you just walk us through the -- I'm not an attorney so can you just walk us through the process with the indictment and what goes on from here? And maybe the expected timing for this whole process? Yes so this is Hyun Park.
So right now there is a status conference that's scheduled for June 2.
And I think the judge will at that point decide on some procedural schedules.
There will be discovery.
There will be motion.
There will be additional status conferences.
I think it's hard to predict how long the actual trial will take.
It's probably 1 year 2 years or it could take longer than that.
There was a federal indictment in August of 2009 against a utility and from indictment to the actual jury verdict it took approximately 22 months.
That's an example that's out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Where is this going to be tried? Is this going to be tried in San Francisco? And if so do you think you can get a fair trial given all the media coverage of this? So we believe the trial will be here in San Francisco and it's before a U.S.
federal district court judge.
And we believe that we can get a fair trial.
And we'll just have to work through this here in San Francisco.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question is aside from the penalties that might be considered is there anything operationally that a conviction could have on the day-to-day operations of the company? Yes.
So some of the remedies that are available to a judge in sentencing in the event of a conviction is that the judge could order a monitor -- a court-appointed monitor and there are other reporting type of remedies that the judge could also order as well.
Research Division</strong> Nothing would impact your Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity is that correct? Or shouldn't impact I should say? I assume you're talking about our ability to operate our business? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes -- no.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Just one question.
When you think of the delays we thought we'd resolved right now we're waiting for the ALJ in the San Bruno proceeding yet the company is still spending capital.
Do you think the delay helps you when it comes to their proposed decision or final decision that maybe cooler heads are prevailing and the parties are seeing all the investment the company's making? Or you think this delay's going to have no impact at all on the final decision? I hesitate to speculate on the impact but our view is that the more we improve the system the better off we are.
And I think the commissioners recognize that we have transformed the system and have really taken it to a whole new level.
And we're doing some things in the gas business that will be industry-leading -- are industry-leading.
And we think that will be helpful when they're considering the appropriate penalty.
Because not only have we compensated the victims in the civil cases but we've remedied a lot of the issues that were raised in the NTSB report and elsewhere.
Our next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just -- most of my questions have been answered one quick question.
I think Tony you mentioned that you have support from TURN and ORA on the retroactivity concept for the gas transmission case? Yes that's correct Kit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And -- so when should we see a final indication from the Commission that that would be retroactive? And can you just give us a view of what the timing is for the full case? Yes this is Tom Bottorff.
With respect to that motion that seeks approval of the settlement between ORA and TURN and our company that's expected within 1 month or 2.
So we should see maybe [indiscernible] within the next month or the month after.
The entire case we do have a schedule that's been issued by the judge and the proceeding and it calls for a final decision in the first quarter 2015.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Rajeev Lalwani.
First question was just on the -- as to whether or not there's any interaction between the criminal case and the state-level investigation as it relates to penalties fines so that there's no kind of double counting? I'll ask maybe that and then a follow-up.
We don't see any interrelationship.
They are independent proceedings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you know if there's a dialogue between the 2 or anything like that? That we don't know.
I mean I'm sure there have been discussions.
We do know that in the course of the U.S.
Attorney's investigation they were looking at a lot of materials that were developed in the PUC case.
And I would assume that there have been some discussions but we really see these as separate proceedings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
Second question was just more on investment potential longer term.
I know you've got a 7% to 11% annual rate base forecast but any thoughts on whether or not you think that can continue longer term? And then any thoughts on whether or not earnings could follow that closely? Rajeev this is Kent.
I think it's fair to assume that the infrastructure investment we're making at a pretty good clip is not going to be done during the next -- this upcoming general rate case period.
So we continue to see a lot of opportunity to invest in our existing system to upgrade it both for reliability and safety.
And this is Tony.
Let me add I think from the general standpoint we're getting a good consensus of thought leaders around California that a we need to invest in infrastructure -- not only to remedy some of issues we had in gas but also to take advantage of new technologies.
Chris talked about the fabulous performance improvement in our electric business.
And a lot of it's been driven by coupling the technology of smart meters with automated switching devices and we've only just scratched the surface on using the data that we're developing out of those smart meters.
And I think there's a lot of excitement of thought leaders around making sure we continue those investments here in California.
Research Division</strong> And then Kent just to follow up on that.
As it relates to just earnings growth do you generally think your rate base growth and earnings growth would be close or do you expect a big delta just from equity needs et cetera? Well we haven't provided equity guidance longer term but I think we have given you guys the tools to come pretty close to estimating it.
And we do anticipate that we'll continue to have equity needs.
So that will impact what the EPS profile looks like going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could characterize the timing and why it's taking so long I guess at the FERC on the transmission case.
And how that might back up your next few transmission cases or affect investment? Hi.
This is Tom Bottorff.
If you're addressing TO15 our FERC transmission rate case it's really not off schedule to any significant degree at this point.
Settlement discussions are all ongoing.
We would expect to file TO16 in July so we'll see.
But I think there's still a good chance TO15 could be settled prior to that.
This is Chris.
I mean I think that's generally in line with our last several years' worth of TO filings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then would you expect any impact or any further delays based on FERC -- potential FERC rulings in the Northeast case or the MISO case in terms of ROEs? No we would not.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I kind of catch up a little bit on some of the rate case dockets the General Rate Case and GT&amp;S one.
Can you talk to us a little bit about what won't be recoverable as a result of both cases? Meaning what will still be kind of a potential drag on traditional rate base math for you even after you get that GT&amp;S order? Well this is Kent.
And let me just take the gas transmission stuff.
I think in that case we have not requested the rights-of-way work which you know is a 5-year program 1 year of which is behind us.
But we're in the second year of that program.
And our estimates for the full 5 years was roughly $500 million.
So those dollars would not be recovered and those will continue in '14 '15 '16 and '17.
And then I would say the other ones there are 2 smaller pieces that we decided not to seek recovery of in the gas transmission case.
And each one of them is roughly $25 million per year for the 3-year rate cycles.
One has to do with certain remedial corrosion work and the other one has to do with hydrostatic testing of post-61 pipe.
And those are really the items that we've not sought recovery in the gas transmission case.
Research Division</strong> And can you help us understand when we think about the combination of your GRC as well as the GT&amp;S cases what the bridge between the O&amp;M you're requesting and as a result of both cases versus kind of historical levels? Well I guess the way I would say [ph] it from an earnings perspective maybe one way you want to think about it is prior to this year we've been consciously spending about $250 million in excess of what we were recovering in those cases.
That's putting aside the gas item impacting comparability.
But in our normal operations about $250 million.
And those -- that's essentially the gap from an earnings perspective that we're trying to address in the combination of the 2 rate cases.
And obviously the General Rate Case is the bigger piece of that.
Research Division</strong> And finally can you rehash for us just what's the level of capital spending under PSEP that we won't be recovering in rates going forward? I think that's about $500 million that doesn't get recovered.
Research Division</strong> Of future capital spend or spend that's already occurred? Some of that is spend that's already occurred but we've accrued the total amount.
And the rest of it will occur this year because the PSEP program reaches its conclusion at the end of 2014.
There are currently no additional questions waiting from the phone lines.
Thanks Lynn.
I think we'll wrap it up.
Thanks very much everyone for participating and don't hesitate to call us if you have any follow-up questions.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for attending the PG&amp;E First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
This now concludes the conference enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to introduce your hostess Ms.
Sara Cherry.
Thank you and have a good conference You may proceed Ms.
Cherry Thank you Josh.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey I'll remind you that our discussion will include forward-looking statements about our outlook for future financial results based on assumptions forecasts expectations and information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's actual financial results are described on the second page of today's slide deck.
We also encourage you to review the Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today and the discussion of risk factors that appears there and in the 2013 Annual Report.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Well thanks Sara; and good morning everyone.
I'll start off my remarks today by touching on a few items of importance and then Chris is going to cover the status of our operations and regulatory matters and Kent will conclude with the financials.
So I'll start with Slide 3.
We remain focused on our mission of operating a safe reliable and affordable utility for our customers.
Our objectives are to resolve the gas issues position the company for long-term success and partner effectively with others to shape policy and create value for our customers.
Let me start with the gas issues.
Unfortunately we still haven't received the presiding officer's decision in the pending gas investigations.
Although the record was complete last October the proceeding continues to take a long time to be resolved.
In fact just this week you probably saw that the city of San Bruno filed some motions raising questions about the propriety of communications between PG&amp;E and the CPUC.
I want to be clear that we are absolutely committed to conduct ourselves in an ethical manner and in compliance with CPUC rules at all times and we take seriously any questions about the conduct of PG&amp;E employees.
As any regulated utility does we communicate with the CPUC almost constantly on a wide range of issues.
To ascertain whether our communications were appropriate we will carefully review the documents in question and will take appropriate actions.
Looking at the big picture as we approach the fourth anniversary of the San Bruno accident we look to the commission to bring these proceedings to a close and to do so in a way that acknowledges PG&amp;E's unprecedented response since the accident.
Moving on to the federal arena.
As you know we expected the U.S.
Attorney to file additional charges against the company.
And on Wednesday they issued a superseding indictment.
Essentially there are 3 primary changes in the indictment.
It added 15 additional charges under the Pipeline Safety Act and referenced an additional code section.
They have also alleged that the utility obstructed the NTSB's investigation of the accident based on a letter we submitted to the NTSB which is on the NTSB's website and which we still stand by.
And finally for purposes of determining the maximum fine they have alleged with no details that the utility derived $281 million in gains and that there were $565 million in losses.
Let me just state that based on all the evidence that we have seen we still do not believe any of these criminal charges or fines are warranted.
Moving on from the gas issues.
In a key step forward for the company we did receive the proposed decision on our 2014 General Rate Case.
You'll recall that the GRC sets base revenues through 2016 for 3 key parts of our company: electric distribution gas distribution and electric generation.
The proposed decision would provide revenue requirement increases well below those we requested to fund important progress in safety and reliability and obviously we like to see some improvement in.
For instance the proposed decision would deny funding to accelerate our gas distribution leak survey cycle to every 3 years compared with the current 5-year cycle.
It would also deny our request to treat every gas odor call as requiring immediate response instead of screening some out for later action.
We also believe that we should have received a larger increase in depreciation rates.
We've raised these and other concerns in the comments that we filed with the commission.
Having said that as a percentage of the request the proposed decision is within the range of other recent GRC decisions made by the commission.
And the proposed attrition adjustments for 2015 and 2016 do reflect the magnitude of our capital program which is critical to us.
As I've explained in the past we spent the last few years improving our company-wide planning process and developing our continuous improvement skills.
Thus although it will be challenging we intend to manage our costs consistent with the final authorized revenue requirement in order to earn our authorized return this year except for the gas transmission business.
The commission should be able to vote on the proposed decision as soon as August and we look forward to their reaching a reasonable and timely final decision in this important case.
So now I'll turn it over to Chris to talk about the progress we're making in our operations.
Chris? Thanks Tony; and good morning everyone.
I'll begin my remarks with an update on our operations and then touch on some additional regulatory developments from the quarter.
Starting with gas operations.
On Slide 4 you can see that we continued to execute unparalleled levels of work on our gas pipelines as we enhance the safety and integrity of our system.
In May our gas business received 2 international certifications: Publicly Available Specification or PAS-55 and International Organization for Standardization ISO-55001 for best-in-class operations standards.
We're the only gas company in the United States and 1 of a very few worldwide to hold both of these prestigious certifications from Lloyd's Register who is an independent auditor.
These certifications provide important external validation of the safety culture and the asset management strategy and standards that our gas team has been working so hard to implement.
Now this doesn't mean that we do everything perfectly but it shows we've made tremendous strides and are focused on the right work.
Another item I want to mention is our program to remediate encroachments in our gas pipeline rights-of-way.
We had previously intended to provide an updated cost estimate for the program around midyear.
However earlier this year we encountered concerns in some of the Bay Area communities about our planned vegetation management remediation activities.
We've taken some extra time to work through these issues and we have reached several agreements with the affected communities that will allow us to resume our work in ways that address community concerns and enable us to ensure the safety of our pipelines.
As a result of this effort we've remediated fewer encroachments than we had planned at this point in the year and are not yet in a position to refine our overall cost estimate.
However we continue to believe that we will not exceed our original $500 million estimate and that we'll still complete this program by the end of 2017.
One more operational item worthy of note.
Our Energy Supply Team recently received external validation of the work they've been doing to keep our nuclear plant operating safely.
Last year inspectors from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission spent more than 7 500 hours conducting detailed inspections on our Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant.
And at a meeting in May the NRC announced the results of its assessment which found Diablo Canyon to be among the highest performing plants in the nation in 2013.
We're obviously proud of this result.
It's a great achievement.
Shifting to regulatory matters.
During the quarter we received approval that the revenue requirement in our Gas Transmission &amp; Storage Rate Case will be retroactive to January 1 2015 even though the final decision will come later and it's currently scheduled for March.
Given the significance of this case retroactive treatment was a very important issue in the proceeding.
Next.
Just this month we announced that we reached a settlement on our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan update filing.
You'll recall that we filed the PSEP update application in the fall of 2013 after we finished validating the maximum allowable operating pressure of all 6 700 miles of our gas transmission pipelines.
Other parties to the proceeding proposed significant disallowances to that update.
The PSEP update settlement resulted in a $23 million reduction in the amounts we may recover from our customers.
Although this represents an increase in the shareholder funding to complete the PSEP work we still expect the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters to fall within the range of $250 million to $450 million that we provided for this year.
And by settling the case we eliminate the uncertainty and can focus our full efforts on the gas transmission and storage rate case.
Finally in electric transmission on July 15 we filed a settlement with FERC for our Transmission Owner 15 Rate Case.
This is a black-box settlement without a specific finding regarding authorized ROE.
The settlement resulted in an increase in the revenue requirement of about $22 million above the previous rates.
And we continue to target earning a return on our electric transmission business that's comparable to the amounts authorized by the CPUC for other parts of our business.
And yesterday we filed our next electric transmission rate case TO16 with FERC.
We're requesting an ROE of 11.26% along with an increased revenue requirement in that case.
And with that I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
Q2 was a pretty straightforward quarter in terms of our financials.
So I'll briefly walk you through that and then cover some implications of the proposed decision in our general rate case.
Slide 5 summarizes the results for the second quarter.
Earnings from operations were $0.69 and GAAP results were $0.57.
The item impacting comparability for natural gas matters totaled $0.12 negative and you can see our Q2 pipeline-related expenses of $97 million pretax in the table at the bottom.
We expect higher pipeline-related expenses in the second half of the year when the majority of the work is planned.
You can also see that we didn't report any insurance recoveries in Q2.
However we have been in discussions with insurers about recovery of our remaining claims.
Slide 6 shows the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations and the key differences from Q2 results last year.
About $0.04 negative is due to the fact that without a final decision in our pending general rate case we're not booking sufficient revenues to cover our capital-related expenses for much of the business.
You'll remember we had a similar impact in Q1.
After the commission issues a final decision in the general rate case which will be retroactive to January 1 we'd expect to recover the revenues associated with these costs plus earn a return on a larger authorized rate base in 2014.
Another $0.04 negative is due to the increase in shares outstanding.
And $0.03 is due to miscellaneous items including the absence of some regulatory pickups we had in Q2 last year.
We've actually included within the miscellaneous total a gain from the disposition of some shares in SolarCity which we obtained in connection with tax equity investments we made at the corporation a few years back.
So that's the summary of quarterly results.
As you know pending resolution of the general rate case and the gas investigations of the PUC we've not provided guidance for earnings from operations; but we have given you some key inputs such as ranges for CapEx and rate base.
I want to spend a few minutes talking about what the implications for those ranges would be if the proposed decision in the general rate case were approved as is.
If you turn to Slide 7 I'll start with CapEx.
Our guidance range for our 2014 CapEx has been $5 billion to $6 billion.
The upper end of that range reflects the CapEx level requested in our various regulatory filings and the lower end of the range reflects our 2013 spend with a few adjustments for things like the conclusion of our Cornerstone Program and our utility-owned photovoltaic program.
Compared to that range the General Rate Case proposed decision would imply total CapEx of about $5.3 billion for this year.
To the right you see the same information for authorized rate base.
Compared to an original range of $28 billion to $28.5 billion the proposed decision would imply a 2014 rate base at the lower end of that range right about $28 billion.
The main reason for this is that the proposed decision assumes a lower level of 2013 CapEx than we forecasted resulting in a lower starting point for rate base in 2014.
If the proposed decision is approved as is we wouldn't expect to true-up this difference until our next General Rate Case.
A heads-up because it's confused some people.
If you actually look at the proposed decision the rate base numbers for electric distribution and electric generation will not match this table here since we've included some items that are not -- that are recovered outside of the General Rate Case such as the remaining rate base on the conventional meters that we have replaced with SmartMeters and our utility-owned photovoltaic installation.
Finally at the bottom right we've previously highlighted the underearning on our gas transmission business which when netted against other factors such as incentive revenues for energy efficiency programs was expected to negatively affect 2014 operating earnings by roughly $0.10.
We now hope to fully offset this impact in 2014 and eliminate this negative $0.10.
The drivers for this change include higher gas transmission revenues resulting from increased gas-fired generation given our dry hydro conditions in the state and the disposition of SolarCity shares I mentioned before.
Turning to Slide 8.
You'll see the estimated range for our item impacting comparability for natural gas matters in 2014 which we're maintaining at $350 million to $450 million pretax.
The settlement we reached in connection with the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan update filing which Chris mentioned by itself would increase our unrecovered expenses by about $23 million this year.
However we continue to believe that total unrecovered expenses including the PSEP settlement will fall within our guidance range of $350 million to $450 million.
At the bottom of the slide is a reminder that these figures exclude future insurance recoveries which of course we would net against these costs and any additional fines or penalties resulting from the gas investigations that we've not yet accrued.
Moving on to Slide 9.
We continue to target between $800 million and $1 billion of equity issuance this year.
This range excludes any additional fines or penalties resulting from the gas investigations which would be incremental to the range.
During Q2 we issued just under $300 million of common stock.
That brings to about $600 million through the first half of the year so we're well along on our financing plan for the year.
Finally on Slides 10 and 11 we've shown our guidance ranges for CapEx and rate base through 2016 and what the implications for those ranges would be if the proposed decision in the General Rate Case were approved as is.
In all cases the ranges implied by the proposed decision would fall within the ranges we've previously provided.
For example on Slide 11 the proposed decision would result in a range for 2016 authorized rate base of $34 billion -- $33 billion to $34 billion which compares to our existing range of $32 billion to $35 billion.
We would very much like to receive a final decision in the General Rate Case next month.
In the meantime we hope that this information is helpful to you in understanding the potential impact of the proposed decision.
I'm going to stop there and we can now open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> How many shares of SolarCity do you own and at what price? Greg this is Kent.
I'm going to answer that question as follows.
The disposition that we did in this past quarter represents roughly 1/3 of our total holdings so we will have additional dispositions in future periods.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're not at liberty to disclose your holdings or the value? We've chosen not to do so.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Can you restate -- I was distracted a little bit 7 companies reporting today -- what you said about there's a $0.10 expense this year that you're -- be able to offset? Can you restate that please? Yes Greg if you go back to Slide 7 this is really where I talked about this and it's the lower right-hand part of this slide and it was these other factors that affect our earnings from operations.
And previously we had provided the indication that when you look at all these other factors the underearning in our gas transmission and storage business but also other factors like energy efficiency revenues that we expect to receive when you look at all of that we've said it -- we expected it for this year to have roughly a negative $0.10 impact on earnings from operations in 2014.
And what I said earlier today is that in light of the fact that we are experiencing higher gas transmission revenues just given the really dry hydro conditions in the state and the fact that a lot of the gas-fired generators are being -- are experiencing higher demand than was previously expected and the fact that we're monetizing some shares in SolarCity those are a few of the factors that we hope will allow us to offset that negative $0.10 for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But should -- and I know you haven't given guidance for this year or for future years but should we assume in a base case that you're unable to offset that negative $0.10 in future years and that this is sort of an anomaly? Well Greg our objective next year is when we hope to resolve the Gas Transmission &amp; Storage Rate Case and -- therefore our objective is to earn our authorized return next year at the gas transmission business going forward on an operating basis.
So that's what we expect will be different in future periods.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that could mitigate or eliminate the drag? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Can you comment on what the legal path is for resolving the accusations made by the City of San Bruno with regard to the emails whether that has to go through the ALJs writing the PODs or some other venue and what impact it might have on the timing of a final decision? Greg this is Chris.
Right now what the next steps in the timeline are is that barring any kind of ruling otherwise from the ALJs the parties will all file responses within about 15 days or by August 12.
And then following that it's really up to the ALJs or the commission and they could rule or issue a schedule for briefings and hearings if necessary.
So there's not a firm schedule until they decide what that would look like.
Right now nobody's asked for -- obviously a delay in the PODs and so it's hard to speculate as to what impact it might or might not have.
But we still believe that the commission will move forward with the proposed decisions as quickly as possible.
Research Division</strong> So the issuance of the proposed decisions is independent from what's going on with this issue? Or are they linked? I'm a little confused.
Well there's not necessarily an absolute link other than they are part -- they were filed as part of this process and the ALJs and the Commission have some discretion as to they could rule on this before they do the proposed decisions; they could include them in the proposed decisions and they potentially could keep them separate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the next step is within the next 15 days people will file a response? Yes that's the only thing that we know for sure.
The next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I want to first just get a little clarity here.
So you have range of equity and in light of the PD how are you thinking about that? Just if you could comment specifically with regards to depreciation and accelerated depreciation.
Is there any kind of thinking within that range you could provide perhaps? I'll leave it broad.
Julien this is Kent.
A couple of hundred million dollars range for our equity needs we think is kind of a reasonable range to have even halfway through the year.
So the fact that we got the proposed decision in the General Rate Case it provided some additional improvement in depreciation rate but certainly not our full request and our original range assumed no increase in the depreciation rate.
So there's a slight positive from that.
But another underlying assumption behind our original range of $800 million to $1 billion for equity needs was also that we get a timely resolution of the General Rate Case and obviously it's dragged on longer than we had anticipated.
And so it actually has not been reflected in our rates yet.
So as a result from a cash flow perspective that's been a slight negative.
And so those I would say are somewhat offsetting and that's one of the reasons why we're very comfortable still with our $800 million to $1 billion range.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And then if you could elaborate for a second.
On transmission obviously you have TO15 in the bag.
You're looking at the TO16.
If you could -- as you're thinking about the resolution of that case and looking forward in the context of the latest decision in New England has that changed your thinking at all? And how do you think about the median versus midpoint methodology that I suppose nominally is still out there? Well we do believe that the policy at the FERC is in transition.
And I think in the New England case the decision indicates that mechanically applying the DCF model has some shortcomings and that you do need to consider for example anomalies in the market and that the ultimate result should be reasonable.
So based on that we're hopeful that we can expect a little bit more flexibility than we've seen in the past.
But it's still early on.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And then lastly in your comments you've mentioned a couple times the impact of hydro.
Are you seeing much in terms of your own portfolio? And then specifically as you think about customer inflation et cetera I mean how much of an impact could -- does this have this year and more importantly could this have in subsequent years as you're seeing it? Yes Julien this is Chris.
In the last -- this last year has been third driest hydro season in the last 119 years.
And so what we've seen is an increase in the need to use the marketplace to obtain power for our customers during parts of the season.
We still have enough hydro to really hit at the extreme parts and use that to offset costs.
But what that has resulted in in conjunction also with some of the rising gas prices is is that we're seeing higher costs for electricity here.
And so obviously that will have an upward pressure on our rates with our customers either later this year or into next year.
Depending on timing we may just put it in as part of our next year annual true-up if it doesn't get too high.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
But I don't sense any over-worry about what that might do to end user rates.
It's probably...
We're obviously always concerned about our customers' rates and any impact on it but we have this in the General Rate Case.
And all of that we're trying to consider together what that looks like to our customers.
The next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> On the $0.10 that you have now offset with the transmission revenues and the SolarCity monetization can you split that out between the 2? I'd just say in terms of the SolarCity monetization it was worth a few cents during the quarter and I think -- the gas transmission revenue is more of a gradual thing during the year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I guess on the SolarCity thing it -- that's -- whatever your stake is it's not enough to meaningfully kind of impact on the cash side your financing needs? No it's not a huge driver from a cash perspective.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just on the San Bruno proposed decision I assume you've gotten no indication of when the ALJs may issue a proposed decision? Yes that's correct Steve.
Anything we'd say will be speculation.
But as I said the record has been closed now for 10 months and we certainly are hoping to get a decision sometime in the near future.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just -- could you maybe just talk a bit little more operationally how you're doing on your kind of overall electric gas reliability this year also on your pressure testing and all your other work? Yes this is Chris.
On the electric side we are in the midst of a sixth straight year of record-setting reliability for PG&amp;E.
We continue to make the appropriate investments and we're seeing great results in terms of reducing the number of outages and then the duration of those outages.
And then on the gas side we continue to do unparalleled work.
We're testing more pipes replacing more pipe putting in more valves validating the maximum allowable operating procedure than anybody in the country right now and that continues to move along very well.
We do our periodic updates of our PSEP program and we're on schedule.
There's a couple of projects smaller ones that may still slip into 2015.
But otherwise we're comfortable that we're on track.
The next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Curious.
So the SolarCity shares you said you acquired through a tax equity structure.
Do you have any other similar investments that have -- maybe might be comparable that you could also monetize? Jonathan this is Kent.
I mentioned that the disposition we did in this past quarter was roughly about 1/3 of our overall holdings.
And so in terms of -- there are additional shares SolarCity stock.
But other than that no I don't see anything comparable in terms of our holdings at the corporation.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's a non -- SolarCity is a sort of a one-off thing actually? That's correct.
The next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> If we look out kind of 3 to 5 years I wonder if you can give us the landscape for renewable energy development right now on the electric side in your service territory.
And then second to that with the other opportunities whether it's transmission distribution even owning some renewable generation what that outlook looks like and growth opportunities there.
Well I'll start off and then maybe Chris can follow up on some of the details.
But we are very optimistic and have said repeatedly we will hit the State goal of 33% renewables by 2020.
We're in the high 20% range now and we've done a lot of hard work to figure out how to integrate those renewables into the system.
Many of you have seen the famous or infamous duck curve that's out there and our folks have done a lot of work on figuring how to manage the system where we have renewables coming in that we don't control that depend upon whether the wind is blowing or the sun is out.
And I'm really pleased with operationally how we are managing this and I see the ability to get to that 33% number.
Chris you want to comment on opportunities we see in transmission and other things? Yes as we move forward we don't see ourselves investing in any renewables in any time in the future.
But they will still come online and we'll do most of that through contracting.
I think as you look down the road and you look where the industry is headed obviously we need to continue to modernize our infrastructure both on the transmission side and on the distributor side for electric and making sure that we're able to accommodate all the new rooftop solar panels the storage that's going to come online at some point electric vehicles.
And all of those things continue to provide us with opportunities to upgrade and modernize the system.
And so although we have not given any guidance as to what our CapEx looks like beyond this year and what you've seen in the proposals for our GT&amp;S case and our GRC we know that we're got an older infrastructure and it needs upgraded and we'll continue to do that so that we can make sure our customers can handle their energy needs in the way they'd like.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you piqued my interest.
What are some of the ways that you guys are managing that duck curve? Well it's a whole range of strategies.
One is more accurate forecasting.
So we've been developing models that give us a better idea of what to expect day-to-day.
We're also working with a number of the suppliers.
We conduct a periodic bidding process to get new renewables as we gradually work our way up to 33%.
And more and more we are trying to incorporate in those contracts the ability to curtail production when we don't need it so we can manage the matching of the demand with the available electricity.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just I want to touch base on things that when we get past this General Rate Case and past the GT&amp;S case won't necessarily be recovered in the rate structure until kind of the next round of either GRC or GT&amp;S rate cases.
Can you just kind of refresh us on what those items are expected to be? Michael this is Kent.
In terms of the General Rate Case Tony indicated based on the proposed decision we are -- assuming it is approved in the final form we do intend to earn our authorized return overall for those lines of business.
So I don't think there's anything significant in the General Rate Case portion of our business where there's any significant unrecovery.
I mentioned there's a small piece of our capital true-up for 2013.
It's probably a couple of hundred million dollars that isn't reflected in the proposed decision rate base for 2014 so that's capital from before this year.
But we did have a significant true-up request in that case and the large majority of it is reflected in the proposed decision.
In terms of the Gas Transmission &amp; Storage Case there's really just a few items that going in we did not seek recovery.
Of course the most significant one is our rights-of-way program that Chris talked about earlier on the call and we expect that to continue through 2017 so we have a few more years of that.
There's only 2 other smaller items that we didn't seek recovery of much smaller in scale.
And we said together they're roughly $50 million a year for the 3-year GT&amp;S rate case period.
One has to do with pressure testing on newer pipe and the other one has to do with a portion of our corrosion work which we believe was more remedial in nature.
So those are really the items I think that address your question.
Research Division</strong> And the pressure -- is it the combination of the rights-of-way and the pressure testing and corrosion? Is all of that $50 million or just the pressure testing and the corrosion? And then therefore how much is the rights-of-way on top of that? It's the latter.
In other words roughly $50 million a year on average during the 3-year period is the pressure testing and the corrosion work.
The rights-of-way work as you know is a 5-year program and we believe that it will come in at or less than $500 million.
So I would say really simplistically you could assume on average roughly $100 million a year.
Research Division</strong> And all of that is pretax? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in overall demand trends in Northern California relative to what your expectations for weather-normalized demand trends? What's differing? How -- and what are your kind of views on what happens to electricity demand going forward over the next couple of years like what you think the new normal for weather-normal demand is in Northern California? This is Tom Bottorff.
The forecasts that we filed recently in regulatory proceedings suggest an increase of about 0.3% per year going forward for several years.
That could obviously change in future years as we learn more about the deployment of DICHI [ph] and other technologies but that's the weather-normalized forecast for foreseeable future.
The next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Kent when it relates to the pipeline-related expenses how much insurance claim do you guys have in backlog that is prospectively available for recovery still? Well I'll give you a kind of all the kind of insurance numbers across the board so you can kind of understand it.
In terms of our accrual we've accrued $565 million.
In terms of the actual cash outlay we've made it's a little over $530 million so the vast majority has actually been paid out in cash.
We have incurred legal expenses related to third-party claims which is also recoverable from insurance which totals $88 million.
And our recoveries to date on insurance are $354 million I think is the number.
So there's still a couple hundred million dollars just in terms of getting up to our accrual and then there's also $88 million in legal expenses incurred to date.
Research Division</strong> And from an effective perspective you guys have been funding that shortfall with equity just to keep your capital structure balanced correct? That's correct.
The after tax amount with equity yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you guys just maybe give a couple of thoughts -- I know it's early -- but on 111 (d) and how that could a integrate with AB 32; and then b assuming there's a bit of a penalty for people who've done a lot of work in advance which you guys have how does that affect maybe how you guys comment or make future planning decisions? Yes let me start.
I think we are in good shape under 111(d).
We are still though trying to sort out how it will impact the California Cap and Trade regime.
It's been working successfully.
And that's an issue we've been talking to the California Air Resources Board working with EPA.
But by and large our take on that is that PG&amp;E is in very good shape given our current mix of generation.
Not only do we have over half of our generation now is -- on nonemitting sources when you include Diablo Canyon and our large hydro plants plus the renewables that qualify under the California program that's going to go to 65% by 2020.
And our own utility-owned generation are almost brand-new combined-cycle plants that have been built in the last 4 or 5 years so they're pretty much state-of-the-art so we feel like we're in good shape.
But obviously we've got to get understandings of how all these things are going to integrate and it's really too early to tell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there anything update-wise on kind of the process for looking at some of these net metering changes and how you guys are coming along with recalibrating rate structures and demand charges? Yes this is Tom Bottorff.
The commission did issue a proceeding this month that would launch a new rule-making to look at how the net metering tier should be revised and they have a timeline for resolving that by the end of 2015 so -- and it would become effective in the middle of 2017.
So that proceeding has been launched.
They have opportunities to comment that are due in the middle of August but there really isn't a decision anticipated until probably the latter part of 2015.
The next question comes of the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just -- most of my questions have been asked and answered.
Just on the superseding indictment.
Do you have any sense of how long that process is going to take to play out? And is there any possibility of a settlement? I guess I'm starting from the assumption that if you didn't settle before the indictment that settling after the indictment may not be in the cards.
But I'd like any sense you can give us of where we stand how long it'll take and what ultimately might occur.
So this is Hyun Park General Counsel.
The timeframe I think is it could take 1 or 2 or more years but the schedule just has not been set yet.
And in terms of settlement possibilities I would say at this point there have been no settlement discussions.
But obviously as Chris mentioned earlier we're always open to receive [ph] offers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just -- not that it probably matters a whole lot at this point but why does the U.S.
Attorney issue a superseding indictment like that? I mean what -- was there something that came out in -- during year 4 that had an impact on what the indictments look like? What -- did they know anything later that they didn't know before? Or was it just a matter of they discovered some new law books? Or how does that work? Yes so I don't think it's completely uncommon for prosecutors to commend and occasionally file a superseding indictment.
But as we see the superseding indictment we don't think that any new facts have emerged.
I mean it looks like it's more or less pretty much the same types of issues.
There are 28 counts that are now in the indictment and one relates to the obstruction charge that Tony described earlier.
And there are 27 other counts and they all relate to the same type of issues that were in the original indictment.
There's a new code section that's referenced that relates to pressure testing records but it looks like it's more of the same type of issues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fine.
I have one last unrelated question.
And that is with the -- on the gas transmission retroactive decision by the commission is -- how much of a change -- is that a change in policy? Or was that something you expected? Does that apply to future filings in gas transmission or other areas? Yes this is Tom Bottorff.
This practice is generally fairly common in these kinds of proceedings but you do have to initiate a request with each proceeding so it's not automatic but we've gotten similar treatment in our General Rate Cases.
We requested it in this TTF [ph] case and received it.
So my expectation -- should it be our expectation that decisions will be delayed in the future we will make a request to continue to ensure that they're retroactive to the date that we requested.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And would you take this as an indication that the commission would be of a mind to go along with your request to -- for retroactive treatment? Yes.
The next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on some of the questions regarding the superseding indictment.
You mentioned that there had been no effort to enter into settlement discussions.
I would like to know what are the consequences of a conviction? Are there consequences for your ability to recover under your insurance policies? Are there consequences for your ability to continue to provide services under some of your franchise agreements? Can you explore the possible negative consequences of a conviction? Sure.
So I think with respect to the 2 specific questions that you mentioned with respect to insurance our ability to serve our customers I think the answer is we don't think a negative consequence in the criminal indictment will have a negative impact on those 2 issues.
And I can't remember what was the third question that you asked? LLC.
Research Division</strong> Well if there are no serious commercial implications of a conviction what was the thinking that got you to engage in settlement discussions? It seems to me that this is a potentially very large penalty which will create uncertainty for a period of years.
It almost replicates the environment that we've been in for the last 2 years on the San Bruno CPUC penalty.
Would there not be a strong incentive to try to put this behind you as well earlier rather than later? Yes let me comment on it.
This is Tony.
Of course we've only seen the superseding indictment here a day or so.
If you'll recall the original indictment the 12 counts amounted to $6 million so we've just got this larger amount that we have to look at.
We still believe as Hyun said the new indictment doesn't really allege any new facts.
And in the past he said we've looked at this and we've admitted in other proceedings that the company may have been negligent and in fact that's how we settled all of the civil cases.
But there's no evidence that we've seen that somebody willfully and knowingly violated the Pipeline Safety Act.
So first of all it's difficult to admit to something you just have no evidence that would support that.
Second there's a difference between how a conviction -- so a conviction in federal court has a different standard.
And if we admitted that we have willfully and knowingly violated that Pipeline Safety Act and that could have had consequences in the ongoing proceedings that we have.
So given those facts we've decided that we just can't see that we should admit to violations of those proceedings -- of those acts.
The next question comes from the line of Jim von Reisemann with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> I could use a bit of a math tutorial if you don't mind.
So do you have any general understanding directionally as to how the U.S.
Attorney calculated this $281 million gain they allege you made from the San Bruno incident even though you said you haven't seen any sort of specifics? And the second question is in the event there is a guilty verdict is there a potential for insurance recovery clawbacks? And what I'm getting at there in the second question is how does the math actually work here meaning is the investment community possibly double-counting meaning that you might get credit for settlements already reached? Or for lack of a better word could there actually be some sort of double jeopardy meaning that if you've already paid out the third-party settlements for this $565 million exclusive of these insurance recoveries would you still be obligated to pay say 2 times the $565 million so the dollar amount is actually significantly higher than what the U.S.
Attorney is saying? Well Jim I'll start off here.
We don't know how they were calculated because all of this is one line at the end of the indictment that these are the numbers for the gain and here's the number for the losses caused.
So we'd be just speculating on how those numbers were calculated.
Hyun in terms of mechanically how this works? So as I said in --at I think the last earnings call to get to the alternative fine there are a number of hurdles that the prosecutors have to overcome.
They have to prove the criminal act beyond a reasonable doubt and then they have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that that criminal conduct caused the loss or the gain; and then they also have to prove the amount of the loss or the gain beyond a reasonable doubt.
They also have to try to prove that the alternative fine would not unduly complicate or prolong the sentencing process.
And we're just not aware of any situation where an alternative fine was based on the amounts paid to settle personal injury fees.
So I think it just remains to be seen how the prosecutors are going to try to demonstrate the link of the $281 million in gain or the $565 million that they have referenced in their indictment.
And the $281 million I just don't know where they came up with that.
The next question comes the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just want to know if you could provide sort of a range in the amount of deferred taxes you think you'd book in 2015 and maybe '16.
I know previously you said you don't expect to be a cash taxpayer in '14 and I guess for most of I believe '15.
And I guess you go back to paying taxes in '16.
I wonder if you could give a range? And also lastly do your rate base assumptions include deferred taxes and bonus depreciation in there? This is Dinyar Mistry the Controller.
Previously we had said that we are in an NOL position so we don't expect to pay cash taxes in 2014 possibly going into 2015.
We have looked at our range of deferred taxes and they're embedded in the rate base forecasts that are in the slides that we've given you.
So all of those numbers are already implied in the rate base and in the equity numbers that we have provided for 2014.
The next question comes from the line of Shahriar Pourreza from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A little bit more of an obscure question.
Most of my other questions were answered.
When you -- there's some chatter and headlines that we've seen where Mexico may join CAISO's imbalanced market.
Kind of wondering if whether you've done any work on what the potential impact could be for reliability as well as any opportunities that you can come about from additional transmission build? Well I think that's a new one for -- we've not heard that Mexico's going to join that imbalanced market.
So I can't answer the question about impacts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll follow up offline on that.
And just one last question.
Is there still any chatter or any kind of a push to increase the RPS standard above what it is currently by 2020? Well there have been questions of so what do we do next after we get to 2020.
It also gets wrapped up in what happens with the 111 (d) things that EPA is working on.
And here in California I mean we've had some discussions among the utilities and some of the State folks around clean energy standards rather than renewable energy standards but it's all still in a formative status of discussion right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And currently as far as the net metering cap can you just remind us what the cap is and whether you can potentially surpass that at a new point? Yes.
They give the cap as currently at 5%.
We don't anticipate it being surpassed before 2016.
There's some uncertainty about when it could occur but our guess is 2016 to 2017.
The next question comes of the line of Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been asked and answered.
Is there one more question? Yes the next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Yes I just -- Kent just a small question.
What would be the share count at the end of the year based on your current share issuance program? That one's going to depend on the price and stuff like that.
So I'll just tell you the average shares in Q2 were 469 million.
The average.
And what were they at the end of the year end of the quarter? Do you have that? Well I only have the Q1 average which was 460 million in Q1.
That was the average share count.
I don't have the end of the quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks Josh.
Thanks everyone.
I think we'll wrap it up.
Thanks for participating today and please don't hesitate to call us if you have any follow-up questions.
And have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for attending the PG&amp;E Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This now concludes the conference.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to introduce your host Mr.
Dinyar Mistry.
You may proceed.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey I'll remind you that our discussion will include forward-looking statements about our outlook for future financial results based on assumptions forecast expectations and information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's actual financial results are described on the second page of today's slide deck.
We also encourage you to review the Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today and the discussion of risk factors that appears there and in the 2013 annual report.
And with that I'll hand it over to Tony.
Thank you Dinyar and good morning everyone.
This quarter had a number of significant developments in PG&amp;E and I know you're all interested in the impacts of the recent self-reports concerning ex parte communications.
I'll get to that in a minute but I also want to highlight several other key developments in the quarter.
After a long wait the presiding officer's decision has finally issued in the gas investigations an important step in resolving the gas issues.
We also received a final decision on our 2014 General Rate Case which positions us well for the next few years.
We had a strong quarter operationally and financially.
Chris and Kent will cover those aspects of the business on the call this morning.
So getting back to our regulatory issues.
We've also had some setbacks in recent weeks in that very important area.
We regret these developments.
When I arrived 3 years ago we knew that we had gaps in our performance particularly in our gas business and we launched major efforts to focus on operational excellence.
We committed to seek out problems and to deal with them in a very transparent manner.
Unfortunately what we did not know was that we also had a gap in our CPUC communications protocols.
All of this became apparent as a result of a voluntary review of communications between the company and the CPUC that we undertook after allegations of improper communications were raised this summer.
We were disappointed to discover communications that we believe violated the CPUC's rules regarding ex parte communications including in a pending Gas Transmission &amp; Storage rate case.
As you know we took decisive action.
We self-reported these violations.
We held individuals accountable.
And we're taking meaningful steps to put in place a best-in-class regulatory compliance model to prevent another incident.
As you would expect these ex parte violations have had a negative impact on the regulatory environment.
Two commissioners have recused themselves from the pending decisions on both the San Bruno penalty and the Gas Transmission &amp; Storage rate case.
Also in the gas transmission case the administrative law judge has been replaced and the schedule has been suspended.
The commission also launched an order to show cause calling for PG&amp;E to demonstrate why it should not be penalized for the ex parte communications related to the initial assignment of the judge.
The ALJ issued a proposed decision and Commissioner Peterman issued an alternate decision.
Both called for extended restrictions on our ability to interact with the commission and advisory staff except at all party meetings and require a notification of even routine interactions such as data responses.
Additionally Commissioner Peterman proposed a $1 million fine and a disallowance of up to half the revenue requirement increase that would've been recovered during the delay in the gas transmission case.
We've taken responsibility for the violations and understand that PG&amp;E should be penalized but we disagree strongly with these proposals.
Silencing the company is not the answer.
We believe it's a bad regulatory practice particularly since the company self-reported and has taken responsibility for the actions.
As a regulated utility it's imperative that we be able to communicate appropriately with our regulators.
And the CPUC must be able to communicate with utilities and other parties to reach informed decisions.
We look to the commission to establish rules that strike the right balance going forward.
But whatever their ultimate decision we're committed to complying with it and we will work through these issues.
In addition to the CPUC both the U.S.
Attorney's Office in San Francisco and the state attorney general's office have indicated they are investigating this matter.
We are cooperating with the investigations and our expectation is that this issue is going to take some time to be fully resolved.
However long it takes we're going to continue to do the right thing for our customers for the communities that we serve and for our shareholders.
That means first of all insisting on accountability transparency and compliance with regulations and policies that govern our operations.
It means continuing to strengthen and modernize our infrastructure and advance our operational performance through our continuous improvement efforts.
We've made tremendous progress on both the electric and gas sides and we will not let up.
It means advocating for resolution of the gas pipeline investigations and for penalties that are fair and proportionate.
Yesterday we filed our reply comments in the proceeding aimed at getting to that result.
And it means rebuilding trust and an appropriate working relationship with the commission and other parties.
We know this is going to take some time but we are committed to it.
The strength of the California regulatory model lies in the structures and policies that have been formalized over the last decade or more.
It has been very successful and I don't see that changing.
So with that introduction let me turn it over to Chris to update you on our operational performance.
Thanks Tony and good morning everyone.
As you can see on Slide 4 I'll begin my remarks with an update on our operations and then touch on an additional regulatory development for the quarter.
For the last several years we've been focused on strengthening and modernizing our infrastructure across our business.
We saw some of the benefits of these investments in August when a 6.0 magnitude earthquake hit Napa Valley and resulted in significant property damage with more than 70 000 of our customers experiencing outages.
Using the data from the SmartMeters we've deployed over the last several years our teams were able to quickly determine the extent of the outage and dispatch mobile command vehicles to rapidly establish an on-site presence.
Technologies like fault location and isolation devices minimized the duration and impact of power outages on our customers and our employees worked around the clock to restore power to all of our impacted customers generally within 24 hours.
On the gas side we addressed almost 6 000 customer calls regarding gas odors leaks and re-lights and completed 2 500 courtesy gas safety checks in the following days.
We also used our state of the art leak detection vehicles to patrol more than 200 miles of gas transmission pipeline.
Individuals in the communities we serve as well as local and state officials expressed significant appreciation for our concerted efforts following the earthquake.
It's clear that the investments we've made over the past few years on both our electric and gas infrastructure really made a difference in Napa as did the work we've been doing on emergency preparedness.
Shifting briefly to regulatory matters.
Tony covered the general rate case and the pending gas investigations as well as the current state of the Gas Transmission &amp; Storage rate case.
I'll just add that on September 30 the FERC accepted our Transmission Owner 16 rate case for our electric transmission business and suspended the rates until March 1 2015 subject to refund.
As a reminder in that case we proposed an ROE of 11.26% along with an increased revenue requirement as we continue to make investments in our electric transmission infrastructure.
So with that I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thank you Chris.
I have a lot to cover this morning.
First I plan to go through our Q3 results which were significantly impacted by the final decision in our general rate case.
I'll walk you through all of that.
And then I plan to spend some time on our outlook going forward.
I'll start on Slide 5 with the overall results for Q3.
Earnings from operations for the quarter were $1.73 and GAAP results were $1.71.
Before I get to earnings from operations let me just quickly address the items impacting comparability.
Natural gas matters totaled $0.03 negative for the quarter and you can see from the table at the bottom that was comprised of pipeline-related expenses of $108 million pretax offset by insurance recoveries of $86 million during the quarter.
Back to the table to the top you'll also see that we booked $0.01 positive in environmental-related costs for the quarter a small pickup in connection with our efforts at Hinkley which have been treated as an item impacting comparability in prior years.
Moving on to earnings from operations.
Slide 6 shows the quarter-over-quarter comparison with last year.
As I said the 2014 general rate case was a big driver because we booked the year-to-date impact all in Q3 when we received the final decision.
The first 4 items here relate primarily to the GRC and they total $0.77.
I'm going to go through each of them.
First as a result of the GRC our expense recovery increased $0.28 quarter-over-quarter.
As you know the past couple of years we've been spending at levels higher than authorized across the utility to improve operations.
This item represents the impact of now recovering this higher spending level for the first 3 quarters of this year.
It also offsets the negative item you saw for GRC expense recovery in Qs 1 and 2.
Second we recorded earnings on a higher authorized rate base and this totaled $0.14.
Again this is the year-to-date impact all recorded in Q3.
Third we had a positive $0.18 in the quarter resulting from tax benefits related to our federal tax deduction for repairs cost.
As with one of the other California utilities our general rate case decision authorized flow-through treatment of the federal repairs deduction.
The $0.18 booked to this quarter reflects the fact that our estimate of this deduction has increased due to recent IRS guidance as well as other factors affecting the size of the deduction.
Again we recorded the year-to-date impact of these benefits all in Q3.
Fourth we had an additional $0.17 pickup mainly related to the timing of taxes and other expenses.
This item was driven by the delay in the general rate case decision.
And unlike the first 3 items I've covered we expect this one to reverse in Q4.
So those are the 4 components that related primarily to the GRC decision.
As you see we also had some smaller items in the quarter another gain on SolarCity stock and a small pickup on some regulatory matters.
There also was a host of miscellaneous items totaling $0.08 in the quarter however on a year-to-date basis our miscellaneous items net to a negligible amount.
And finally we had share dilution of $0.05 negative.
That gets you to $1.73.
Suffice it to say we had an unusual quarter with a lot going on mostly related to the final decision in our general rate case.
Now I'd like to move on to our outlook going forward.
The GRC decision resolved a lot of uncertainty for the company for this year.
Of course the final outcome of the gas investigations is still pending and we anticipate the ultimate impact will be significant.
But at this point in the year it's unlikely to be a big driver of our average share count for 2014.
Therefore with the GRC resolved we believe it now makes sense to provide 2014 guidance for earnings from operations.
On Slide 7 you'll see updates to some of our key assumptions underlying guidance such as CapEx and authorized rate base.
These primarily reflect the changes we previewed last quarter based on the proposed GRC decision although we've made some other updates as well.
In the upper left you see we're assuming CapEx of roughly $5 billion this year.
And in the upper right weighted average authorized rate base of about $28 billion.
There haven't been any changes in our assumptions regarding authorized return on equity and equity ratio shown in the lower left.
In terms of the other factors affecting earnings from operations this year shown in the lower right we've previously indicated that these factors should roughly net to 0 for the year.
However that was without the impact of the tax benefits associated with the repairs deduction.
With these tax benefits included we now believe that these factors taken together should result in an overall positive of roughly $0.25 per share for the year.
By the way we expect this impact to be fairly similar next year as well.
Turning to Slide 8.
You'll see that these assumptions lead us to provide a guidance range for earnings from operations in 2014 of between $3.45 and $3.55 per share.
Again the primary driver is the resolution of our general rate case which provides us the opportunity to earn our authorized return on equity on a higher level of rate base in 2014.
Additionally we expect 2014 earnings from operations to reflect the impact of the tax benefits related to the repairs deductions and the other factors covered on Slide 7 which together should total roughly $0.25 this year.
Moving on to Slide 9.
You'll see we've narrowed our 2014 guidance range for the item impacting comparability for natural gas matters of between $350 million and $400 million pretax.
Our previous range was $350 million to $450 million.
At this stage in the year we've tightened our range for PSEP expenses.
We've also reduced and narrowed the range for non-PSEP expenses in part due to the delays we've experienced in clearing encroachments on our pipeline rights-of-way.
We've also narrowed our estimates of legal costs.
As an aside although our PSEP expense work for pressure testing is going well we continue to find our PSEP capital work mainly pipeline replacement a challenge.
We expect some of our PSEP capital work to be completed in 2015 rather than this year mainly due to permitting delays.
We continue to work hard to manage a variety of cost pressures affecting our capital work.
On Slide 10 you can see we've narrowed our estimates for 2014 equity issuance between $800 million and $900 million excluding resolution of the gas investigation.
Our previous estimate was $800 million to $1 billion.
We're bringing the estimate down a bit due to the net impact of the various items shown on this Slide 10.
During Q3 we issued about $160 million of common stock and that brought us to about $760 million issued through the end of Q3.
We are not providing earnings guidance today for future years but on Slides 11 and 12 we've updated our guidance ranges for CapEx and rate base through 2016 to reflect the final decision in our general rate case as well as current expectations of other cases.
As you can see we expect to maintain a robust capital program into the future as we continue to replace aging infrastructure as well as overlay technology on the grid.
Our total CapEx is expected to remain north of $5 billion annually during this period.
Our average rate base of about $28 billion in 2014 is expected to grow to more than $33 billion in 2016 and that represents a CAGR in the 9% range.
I think that's it for the financials.
So I'm going to stop here and we will open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Listen just kind of on the -- I know that we're not getting into 2015 guidance and there's a lot that has to happen before then but is it still fair to assume with the GT&amp;S prospective delays that you remain confident concerning your -- a lot of ROEs of both the utilities and the gas businesses next year? Or is that a little more in question at this moment? That's still our objective for 2015 yes.
Research Division</strong> And then the timing of equity the $800 million $900 million for this year that is adjusted to assume no additional resolution on the San Bruno expenses or fines between now and year end is that correct? Well our previous guidance on equity issuance actually did not include resolution of the San Bruno penalty.
It's mainly adjusted for the items we've shown on Slide 10.
So we do have slightly lower CapEx just mainly given the timing of the general rate case.
Some CapEx will probably see next year as compared to this year.
And remember our original guidance for CapEx was slightly different.
It was -- excuse me for equity issuance was based on the midpoint of our prior CapEx range and the range we're providing now is somewhat lower for 2014.
We also have somewhat lower unrecovered gas costs.
I just went through our guidance there for the unrecovered gas costs coming down slightly.
We did get a depreciation rate change not what we asked for in the general rate case but some improvement in depreciation rate.
And then on the other hand there was -- somewhat mitigating that was the GRC decision was delayed.
So we've gotten less cash now through revenues this year as compared to what we had originally contemplated.
So the net of all that is to bring down the upper end of the range a bit.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just on the interveners last night with their comments on the pod.
There seems to be a huge amount of debate ultimately on the total amount of money they would like for you to hand over.
What do you guys see as kind of the next steps from here? And if the number ends are coming at where the pod recommended how are you guys evaluating your kind of legal recourse as next steps given the significant penalties associated? Well obviously we've got to see the numbers.
We yesterday filed additional comments objecting to pieces of the decision.
But quite honestly on the flip side there is some benefit to getting finality and getting things done.
So we -- the way we've been playing is we'll take a look at the totality the circumstances when we get that decision and then have to decide whether we want to appeal pieces of it or whether we just try and move on from there.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first question if you could clarify just a little bit is the 2015 -- I want to use the word guidance but the view on taxes shall we say can you break that out a little bit more granularly in terms of what the $0.25 is comprised of? And then subsequently not to read too far further but 2016 as well is there expectation for that as well just given the timeline associated with rate cases? Julien this is Kent.
The $0.25 that I provided on the call the roughly $0.25 is for the combination of all the factors that are listed on Slide 7.
Those other factors affecting earnings from operations but the big change from last quarter are the tax benefits.
The tax benefits we do see them being triggered by the outcome of the general rate case and so we do see them existing through the rate case periods so that's through 2016.
We haven't broken down the other items for you previously and I don't intend to at this point in the year either.
We've not -- I'm not providing a specific number for next year but I was indicating that we thought of a similar order of magnitude for next year.
Research Division</strong> But no necessary composition should we say? No.
I don't think it makes sense.
We really need to see what those other factors are going to look like next year on that slide.
And the tax benefits again similar order of magnitude next year or this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then secondly just a little different.
On the transmission ROE front you provided some commentary here briefly in the slide.
Can you elaborate a little bit what kind of ROE should we be thinking about going forward coming out of this? Well Julien our guidance for this year was assuming essentially on average for our whole business 10 4 [ph].
As Chris indicated we've requested a higher amount from the FERC in our TO16 filing 11 26 [ph].
We have to see how that case proceeds but in general I would expect when we do get around to providing guidance for next year I would say overall for our company assuming something around 10 4 [ph] probably makes sense.
We don't know how the FERC stuff is going to come out.
It's still early in that process.
Research Division</strong> So you're not reading necessarily out of the FERC decisions in the last quarter any new changes to the request that you put in? That's really what I was getting at.
Yes.
Not at this point.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the rate base and CapEx numbers.
First I was just curious sort of versus the last quarter's numbers the generation rate base seemed to kicked up a couple of hundred million dollars in 2014.
Any explanation sort of what drove that? I thought the number last quarter was going to -- what you were expecting from the GRC.
Yes Jonathan this is Kent.
You're right.
It is a bit different.
I think one of the factors there was we had some adjustments related to our utility-owned photovoltaic.
So that program kind of completed but we had to true up some numbers in that.
Otherwise we didn't see any significant changes in our overall results.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
My second one if I look at the rate base forecast the CapEx forecast.
The CapEx is obviously a little bit lower this year but then it's $400 million or $500 million higher of the midpoint versus sort of GRC midpoint from the last quarter slides in both '15 and '16 and yet your rate base forecast is essentially unchanged a tiny bit higher in '16 but -- so you seem to be spending $0.5 billion more of CapEx each year but ending up at the same place on rate base.
Can you explain what's going on there? Yes Jonathan this is Dinyar.
We're actually a little lower on CapEx in 2014 because of the delay in the general rate case.
And also the way the attrition revenues come out they don't result in kind of like an even CapEx program but the way we spend our capital is a little more even.
So that's what's causing that phenomenon that you're seeing.
Research Division</strong> But why would that be a change versus what you showed us last quarter for the GRC sort of estimate? Well last quarter what we showed you is what the CapEx would have been with the -- implied by the general rate case decision.
So it would've been really tracking whatever the revenues that were implied in the GRC whereas here we're showing you what we think our CapEx spending profile is going to be.
So over the 3-year rate case cycle they should be pretty much the same.
It's just that in each year they look a little different.
Research Division</strong> So is it essentially the kind of delay effectively compounds a little into the future? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow on John's question a little bit because if I just look at it on a cumulative basis and I'm comparing Slide 10 from your last quarter's deck to Slide 11 of today's deck.
The total CapEx number if I just kind of sum it up is actually a higher number in today's deck than it was in Slide 10.
That would almost make it seem like rate base by the end of the period would be a higher number unless there's some other offset like D&amp;A or maybe an assumption around bonus or higher add set.
I just want to make sure I understand that.
It's one thing if it's lower in '14 and higher in '16 but if I just do the sum of the 3 it seems like it's a higher number in terms of the total CapEx over the 3-year period and yet the rate base number isn't up by nearly the same amount.
Well Michael we actually recalculated our rate base based on the GRC and all of the other factors in there.
And one of the things we did do is we did take -- we did kind of relook at our deferred taxes as well.
So that is the component of the adjustments.
We can go over it in more detail but essentially the way to think about it is that what we showed previously is what would have been implied by the GRC PD but we didn't adjust for anything else.
And this time around we've pretty much looked at the totality of the things that we see coming up and we've made those changes.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay I'll follow up off-line.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Hopefully we'll get the main San Bruno penalty result soon but there's still kind of reverberations in the coming years.
I wanted to try to get a little bit of clarity on those.
Is there any update on the federal case that was brought by the U.S.
attorney? Let me ask Hyun Park to comment on it our General Counsel.
There is really not much update.
We have a status conference that's scheduled for November 13.
And at that status conference we may get a better sense of the schedule for the case going forward.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Have you been notified of any legal action related to the ex parte communications? We're aware that both the U.S.
Attorney's Office and the California Attorney General's office are investigating the circumstances.
I said we're fully cooperating with both those investigations.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Could you just update us briefly on the extent of delay in the GT&amp;S case that you expect as a result of the ex parte? We can't speculate on the extent of the delay.
We did get a new administrative law judge in the case but the case had not gone to hearings the formal hearings yet.
So we're early on in the process -- I don't know if we have any further information on the exact days but I think we expect that shortly we'll get a schedule.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question on the PSEP expenditures.
Do you have any estimates of what we'll been looking at? Well I shouldn't say PSEP but unrecovered expenditures related to the gas work.
Do you have any estimates of what we'll be looking at next year? Hugh this is Kent.
Really the items that we have talked about continuing into next year and frankly through 2017 is the costs associated with our efforts to clear our rights-of-way.
We do anticipate that we'll have some continuing legal costs.
Obviously these proceedings have gone on for some time.
And then the significant question mark is really sort of the outcome of the fines and penalties part of it for the natural gas matters because it's looking like those could be booked beyond this year or 2 it just depends on the timing.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the rights-of-way what's your latest view in terms of outlet? Chris do you want to...
Yes.
We've -- we continue to move forward with that program and really we're in the same position that we were in the second quarter when we said that we don't anticipate exceeding the $500 million number that we've given.
There's some timing issues that we've got right now but we still anticipate to being able to complete the plan on our original schedule.
I just want to make one correction.
I said November 13 for the status conference.
It's actually November 3.
Our next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you guys have any sense if the commission feels that they should await a replacement for President Peevey before making decisions in either? Well obviously there will be a replacement before the GT&amp;S case but before the San Bruno issues are resolved? Well from a legal standpoint the commission can make a decision with the 3 commissioners need a majority vote so 2 commissioners can vote out a case.
We have no indication that they're going to wait until they get a replacement.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And has there been any discussion publicly of who the new commissioner might be appointed to replace Peevey and/or if the governor would be interested in any of the current commissioners as the new President? Or would we expect the President and a replacement to be named at the same time? Again from a legal standpoint the governor can select one of the sitting commissioners and name him or her chair but we're just not going to speculate on who might be the replacements.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one final question on financing.
Kent can you give us any sense of the timing of equity issuance over the rest of this year and then into next year? I assume it's dependent on the outcome of several of these cases.
Can you give us a sense of how much is dependent on what? Well Kit for this year we've issued $760 million through the end of the third quarter.
So I would anticipate putting aside the resolution of the gas investigations that we would just rely on our internal programs for the remainder of the year in order to achieve our range of $800 million to $900 million.
So we're pretty far along in that program for this year.
The uncertainty really is the timing and the form of the resolution of the gas investigations.
And as we've previously talked about depending upon the variety of how that can play out the timing and the form of our financing can be very very different.
And so we're just going to have to see if the presiding officer decision is voted out or something different.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Yes I just sort of wanted to follow-up on that.
One of the transmission pipeline operations proposed deadline extension.
A lot of the issues that they sort of mentioned there would seem to maybe apply to San Bruno.
When do you think we might get more clarity as to what they might do with respect to the review process? And just in general do we have any other sense about how the San Bruno case itself might -- with the timing associated with it? Paul could you clarify what you're telling me.
In terms of the San Bruno case all of the materials now have been submitted by the parties so it's ripe for decision.
Right.
I understand but I mean it seems that there were 2 commissioners who've recused themselves.
You have a couple of commissioners asking for reviews right? I'm just wondering whether or not that might lead to more of a delay? Or do you guys think that that won't have an impact? The reviews -- the requests there are around [ph] alternate decisions and that's a fairly normal process.
Commissioners can in fact propose alternatives and the commission generally works through those whether it's days weeks or longer it's hard to speculate but I think the commission generally when they get to this stage moves along pretty quickly but we can't predict how long it's going to be.
I mean I just wanted to follow-up on that because it's a little unusual just the case itself but okay.
And then just in terms of the ex parte and all that stuff is it correct that you guys -- is my understanding correct that you guys have done your internal review subject to pretty much all of the proceedings that are going on at the PG -- that you guys have going at the CPUC and at least yourself investigation is over and we're not going to probably hear much more from that at least? Yes so -- I mean we've reviewed a huge number of e-mail communications focusing on those between the PG&amp;E and the commission because that's where you'd have an ex parte communication.
But as I said before there are investigations underway.
We're cooperating with those investigations and it's likely we're going to have to undertake additional reviews that will be necessary in the context of those investigations.
So I can't say we're not reviewing any further e-mails.
It's going to take some time to get through that full resolution as we work through those investigations.
I can't say in the meantime we've taken the appropriate actions to self-report all the violations that we've identified.
We held people accountable and we're working to create a best-in-class regulatory compliance program so we don't have incidents of this kind in the future.
I'm sure you are Tony.
I guess what I was wondering was -- so in other words the investigation -- I guess the investigation continues insofar as your cooperation with these other investigations are going on? Or are you guys having a separate internal investigation that's continuing with respect to the CPUC interaction? I think the way I'd characterize is what we're looking at is trying to stay ahead of those investigations.
You don't want to be surprised and -- either in direct response or drawing some conclusions about where those questions may come.
That's what we're looking at largely.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering about the $0.77 the catch-up from the GRC.
How much of that was third quarter such that we get a real comp against the $0.88? So we see that kind of year-over-year impact in terms of the appreciation from the GRC decision? This is Dinyar.
I think the best way to think about it let's go through each of those components.
The first one the 2014 GRC expense recovery that is a 3-quarter catch-up.
So that is really for 3 quarters worth.
So we should expect to see one more quarter of that in Q4.
And again the way to think about this is that this represents overspending that we were doing in previous years to improve operations and so it's just getting revenues to recover those costs.
I will say embedded in that $0.28 is about $0.08 worth of previously kind of like a timing delay from the previous 2 quarters as Kent mentioned.
So if you kind of look at it it's on a year-to-date basis $0.21.
The next item the growth in rate base earnings.
Again that's a 3-quarters catch-up.
And so you can expect to see one more quarter of that next quarter.
Similarly with the tax benefit of the $0.18.
On the $0.17 as Kent said of timing of taxes and other expenses we expect that to fully reverse in Q4.
So that will be the way to think of each of those components.
Research Division</strong> And are each of these components just about evenly spread such that we could take say the $0.28 net of that $0.08 adjustment and just divide it by 3 to get an idea of what Q4 would be and to get an idea what your third quarter was? That's true for the second and the third component.
The first one remember we actually had some under recovery in Q1 and Q2.
But the way to think about the first one the $0.28 is that it's $0.21 on a year-to-date basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay right.
And then with the FERC proposal TO16.
Given we've had the ISO New England and the MISO thoughts at least from FERC what's your thinking now regarding TO16? What's the nature of the conversations now that we have some more recent I don't want to say precedent but certainly thoughts from the FERC? This is Kent Travis.
I just think it's still -- I view it as still fairly early on in the FERC process.
I think there's been a reasonably encouraging trend at the FERC.
And certainly with the New England case it seems as if the FERC is open to not applying the DCF model so mechanically.
There's an acknowledgment that there are shortcomings and there are always anomalies in the market and those need to be considered.
And so there's an overall sort of question about reasonableness and I think that's really healthy and I hope we're going to end up with more reasonable outcomes going forward but we haven't gone through our case and we haven't seen a whole lot of cases yet post these developments at the FERC so we'll see how that goes.
Research Division</strong> Did you use the DCF primarily the 11 26 [ph]? We do use the DCF in our analysis.
Our next question comes from the line of Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
As it relates to the tax benefits that you're seeing in '14 and you pointed to them showing up in '15 will they continue into '16? Or is it just going through '15? This is Kent Rajeev.
Yes we do expect that the tax benefits will continue through this general rate case cycle which is through 2016.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would the amount be similar to what you noted in '15 for '16? I would say kind of on an order of magnitude but I wouldn't want to get more precise on that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kent this is another question for you.
As it relates to providing an updated longer-term financial outlook what are you envisioning once you're hopefully done with the investigation on San Bruno and the penalties et cetera as well as maybe the GT&amp;S case? I continue to believe that the key milestone for us is the resolution of the San Bruno penalties.
And so that's really the milestone that I'm looking for before I would consider doing more of a longer-term outlook at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
Tough to ask in the complexity of the issue.
As it relates to the proposed decision on the ex parte issue did that cover just what you disclosed on the GT&amp;S side? Or does it cover on all e-mails that you disclosed in ex parte communications if that makes sense? Yes.
And the judge -- administrative law judge made it clear the focus that was just the GT&amp;S issues.
I think we submitted the second round of issues just right before the hearing in that case so they kept that segregated.
We don't know what they're going to do with the other filing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no idea on timeline et cetera as it relates to resolving that aspect? We don't have any timeline on that.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I was just -- when you look at 2015 CapEx it's a pretty tight range $5.4 billion to $5.6 billion.
Is there a way you could give us the I guess equity issuance forecast for '15 as you did -- you gave us for '14 which does not reflect the resolution of the gas investigation since it's a pretty tight range and if you just exclude the gas investigation what you think the equity needs would be? Anthony this is Kent.
We're not at this stage yet for giving equity issuance for 2015 but I would point you to something we have been suggesting to people as sort of a shorthand way of understanding sort of the underlying equity needs resulting from our rate base growth and that is to look at our year-over-year growth in rate base and taking that difference and looking at 52% of it.
That's the amount that needs to be financed with equity.
You'd want to take away from that the fact that we retain some of our earnings.
So you'd want to look at our earnings less the dividends for that year and what remains after you net that amount is generally the equity that needs to be raised externally.
And so that gives you a good ballpark estimate when you look year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Does that exclude then -- is that calculation -- you don't really then include any benefit from deferred taxes right? Well it does essentially because the rate base figure reflects changes in deferred taxes.
I think implicitly it's in there.
So it's just an easier approach to take.
The other thing to just keep in mind is whatever unrecovered costs we have that's usually the other increment of equity needs.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Kent I just wanted to -- I guess just so I understand.
So you came up with the guidance range and from that you're saying that $0.25 of it are related to certain tax matters primarily and others but that $0.25 or roughly approximate to that would remain there for '14 '15 and '16 through this rate case cycle? Yes I indicated a similar order of magnitude for the tax piece in '15 and '16.
On Slide 7 however we show a number of factors that in 2014 are affecting earnings from operations.
Those will change year-over-year.
And so you'd want to look at those as well and make your own assessment.
Well is there anything in one of those that reverses itself? Because it seems to be -- like the way you went over them right was basically majority of them were relating to picking things up on the GRC which seems like to be a normal part of picking up the rate case.
Some of the other factors that are shown on the bottom right part of Slide 7 include under earning on our Gas Transmission &amp; Storage business which were hoped to address through the GT&amp;S case.
We also have the monetizing of the shares of SolarCity and to date we've done about 2/3 of those shares this year.
So you shouldn't expect that that continues at the same pace in subsequent years.
Those are just some examples of how some of these items will change year-over-year.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Kent sorry just a bit on the same topic.
I just want to clarify.
Previously you've said you're not asking for -- about -- for recovery of about $50 million of annual expense in the GT&amp;S and that you would -- you would hope to be able to offset that.
Is the sort of $0.25 part of how you offset that under earning? Or is that -- is it sort of -- is the $0.25 net of that starting point? Well let me just unpack that a little bit.
So again what I'm saying for 2014 is all of those factors in the lower right on average should be roughly $0.25 for this year.
Since you know that last quarter we had a guidance for those factors of roughly net to 0 your conclusion is that the tax benefits are the main driver there of that $0.25 and I think that's reasonable.
I've also indicated that in subsequent years 2015 and 2016 that magnitude of the tax benefits will be comparable similar order of magnitude.
And so I'm tracking with you to that point.
I do agree that we have not requested all of our costs in the Gas Transmission &amp; Storage case and your estimate of roughly $50 million is reasonable to me as well.
So I think it follows that the tax benefits could offset that amount but there are a lot of other items in our financial results that could also offset it.
So I wouldn't necessarily just pair those but I think that that's a reasonable way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> Slightly differently.
I mean are you intending to offset that $50-odd million of unrecovered expense absent tax benefits? Yes.
I mean we'd like to overall be able to earn our authorized return.
The tax benefits we'd like to have as an increment but we have to -- we still haven't actually gotten through the Gas Transmission &amp; Storage case.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
I thought I was clear on this tax thing but now I actually have a question.
So just to kind of ask the question another way.
So really all year you were saying that 2015 you should be able to earn your allowed return and whether you do or not we'll see and I have faith that you will be able to.
But when you said that earlier in the year did it contemplate this tax benefit from the repairs method? Andy I don't know if it did or not at this point.
The tax benefit is a fairly recent development so probably not.
I guess you guys are asking similar questions multiple ways and to me it's pushing me more and more towards sort of guidance of earnings and I'd like to sort of leave things the way I've said them to date which is that we would expect that the benefit from the taxes going forward should be roughly comparable to this year and the next couple of years and that we do still hope to earn our overall authorized return for the company.
Okay.
And let me just follow-up.
So again I'll ask it one other way just to torture you.
So let's -- it doesn't matter what the number was.
I assume $3 in earnings for next year it doesn't matter whether that's correct or incorrect and it had not contemplated this tax benefit.
I would just basically add that to whatever number I thought it was because it's incremental to whatever that number is -- I mean is that kind of the way to think about it? The tax benefit is a significant change from last quarter on the list of the other factors that are on Slide 7.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think I got it now.
Our next question comes from the line of Jesse Laudon with Nexus Asset Management.
It's actually Craig Lucas.
I just wanted to ask a question about this ex parte communication issue.
Just -- I'm sorry that if it's redundant I apologize for that but I just want to be sure about something that -- so right now the case centers around the GPS case and the ex parte communication there and that's because it was only really there and regarding the gas pressure issue that you found in the ex parte communication when you reviewed all the e-mails is that correct? That's correct.
We've reported all the ex parte communications that we have discovered in our review.
There are currently no additional questions waiting from the phone line.
Okay if that's the case thank you all for your interest and for joining us this morning.
[Operator Instruction] Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Julien Smith with UBS.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Hi so congrats again on a good and decent quarter here.
And just wanted to kind of kick it off with the question on bonus D&amp;A here.
If you don’t mind rehashing.
It didn’t look like the rate base has shifted all that much versus what you last projected here.
How does that flow through if you can kind of realigned [ph] it? This is Dinyar Mistry the controller.
So as you know bonus was past all the way at the end of 2014 and in our general rate case we have a mechanism that similar to what we had in the past it’s called Tama.
And it basically provides for us to use that bonus benefit for additional CapEx.
Since we got bonus all the way at the end of the year it really didn’t have very much impact and we factored that into the rate base numbers that you see here.
Got you.
So no real negative impact here for 2015 earnings as far as it goes.
No it should not be and additionally we’re in an annualized situation.
So that dampens the impact.
Great and then secondly for bigger picture here.
As you look at the renewable portfolio standard and the potential shift to 50%.
What is that mean near-term in terms of spend just broadly speaking the renewables and secondly your specific spend whether would be directly in renewable technologies broadly or frankly from a T&amp;B perspective what does this mean in terms of accelerated deployment.
Well this is Tony.
I’ll start off.
First of all there is a long way to go between where we’re today and a specific plan for California the governor person stated the state speech outlined some long-term objectives the utilities here in California are all working together and want to work with the state to develop.
What those policies are clearly will be going above 33% we think that a clean energy standard that gives us some flexibility going forward make sense but in any event even assuming we’re going to be continuing to develop our renewable portfolio.
Most of the renewables now are part of our purchase power portfolio.
We did do some utility owned seller early on decided that wasn’t strength for us.
So I would anticipate that in the future as our renewables go up that just we’ll slow through our purchase power accounts rather than being investment in capital.
Although we continue to look at new technologies but it will do as this renewables go up the grid becomes more complex to manage and as Chris said in number of speeches that’s our investment opportunity to invest in going from the traditional one way flow of power on the grid to multi flow power that is not as predictable.
And that’s going to be where we think their growth opportunities.
Great.
Could you elaborate just a little bit about the growth opportunity has been what’s the timeline here which you think the 50% moves happen if you will? What could we see the dollars flowing and how do we get from A to Z here if you will? Yes.
This is Chris.
First of all we don’t know again as Tony said on the timing of what the 50% would look like and again we would most likely wouldn’t be making investments in any of the facilities themselves.
But as far as the future of the grid we’ve actually already started that we’ve been working on it for last several years you may remember our Cornerstone project that helped us start to make investments in modernizing the grid and we’re going to continue to do that.
We don’t have projections out there throughout the dollars look like but those are dollars that we’ve already started to put in place.
And some of our projections that you already see here around 2015 and 2016 include some dollars for continuing to modernize.
So as we’ve continue to move forward with making sure that we’re in a position to be able to hook up the solar panels in the batteries in the plug-in vehicles into our system we’ve continued to evaluate not just replacing old wire but modernizing the entirety of the system in putting more technology into it.
And that’s what you’ll continue to see from us and we’ll just continue to build them into our rate base growth.
Great thank you.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Greg.
Hi Greg.
The tax benefits should we assume that they will repeat but at a lower level n 2016 and then sort of work – and then be gone post 2016 or - I remember [indiscernible] you’ve given any guidance with regard to the trajectory post 2015? Greg this is Kent.
We’ve really just indicated that the tax benefits were really in connection with our General Rate Case which is a three-year proceeding.
So yes you should expect them through 2016.
Okay.
And then you have a rate case in 2016 and the rates in 2017 and so that would get… That would be reflected in that proceeding that’s correct.
Okay energy efficiency revenues you booked – so I think you booked $0.04 in fiscal year 2014.
Based on the new scheme should we expect that you have an opportunity annually to continue to book earnings in that order of magnitude? And how should we think about that? Well last year we did book in December the award was for a year and a half.
So it’s a little unusual.
It wasn’t just a single year.
And again it’s with significant lags these awards.
So the awards we just got were for 2012 I think and half of 2013.
So I think what we’ll be booking this year will probably be for subsequent to that.
The new scheme will be in place after that.
Okay.
And then finally on page eight of your handout you pointed out there’s a place holder for fines and penalties.
Just to make sure I have this right that’s for potential fines and penalties in the San Bruno cases.
You also potentially be disallowed some revenue requirement in the GT&amp;S case? And then should we also sort of notionally have a place holder there for the potential for financial impacts from criminal indictment? Is there anything else out there that I’m missing that would sort of go into that catch-all? Well right now it’s hard to know what is going to happen with all the ex parte stuff because there is a lot of stuff that we have filed at the commission.
And we’re not really clear what will come out of that.
In addition we do know that there are investigations related to the regulatory communications by the State Attorney General as well as Federal prosecutors and that’s also unclear.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Just maybe as a follow-on to Julien’s questions can you give us a little more explanation of all the things that are going into the grid of things project that’s going on how much CapEx is going into that right now and kind of the scalability of that.
How long you think it would be before that was more broadly deployed on the system? Yes Dan we haven’t broken out the specific capital investments associated with the grid but you see our capital budgets next year about 5.5 billion I think is our spend.
We haven’t given guidance for future years but we have said that you can expect comparable levels of capital investment.
Now within that a big - there is a big chunk for upgrading the grid.
So you go back a couple years and you start with going to virtually 100% smart meters.
We’ve talked about then automating switches on the system.
So that we can automatically shift when we have outages and that has paid tremendous benefits.
The Napa earthquake and the storms that we had at the end of 2014 in fact just last week we had some major storms here in California and had really superb results because we’re able to immediately detect where the outages are and then automatically reconfigure the system.
So we’re doing that.
And then the other future investments will be control systems A to monitor the state of the grid as you’ve got all of these renewables dumping into the system at points that we never anticipated when the system was built.
So to be able to detect and then to be able to control voltages on those systems.
And that’s an ongoing program.
Chris I don’t know if you want to comment on the specifics.
But I think that’s going to be something that’s going to be in every capital budget going forward.
Yes I agree.
And again we haven’t put out what those dollars look like on a forecast basis but they are included to the extent we’re working on them in 2015 and 2016 and the numbers you see in front of you… I mean one other point I’ll make is our filing this week proposing about a $100 million a year investment in charging is also part of that.
I mean our view is that as we go forward as we renovate different circuits we ought to be installing EV charging at appropriate places within that renovated circuit because that’s what the grid ought to look like going forward.
Tony just on the charging release how was the approval process going to work from that and the other is what people who are trying to do it on a merchant basis who know that will challenge you? How do you guys kind of defend this as utility and investment opportunity? Let me start off with the issue around challenging as a merchant activity.
I mean California for a number of years did not allow utilities to participate in the public charging market.
We could build charging stations for our own fleet but not for the public.
On the theory that entrepreneurs would jump in and provide this service I can tell you not only from our experience here in California my experience at DT where we had unregulated subsidiaries that at times would look at this.
The entrepreneurial model just isn’t going to work.
There isn’t enough margin in that business where at my work is for some of those entrepreneurs that actually produce the charging stations to partner with us and we’ll install the infrastructure.
Let me ask Steve Malnight is here with me to talk about what the regulatory process looks like for going forward.
Hi this is Steven Malnight from the Regulatory Affairs team.
So we filed our application and we will be looking for the commission to issue schedule for that proceeding.
As you know Southern California Edison and San Diego also have proceedings that are going on at the same time.
So we’ll wait to see what that schedule will look like as it comes out.
And the only other thing Dan that I would add to that this is Chris is that our filing we are only looking at about 25% of the marketplace.
So there is still huge amount of room for competitors if they want to try to continue to operate in that market there’s plenty of opportunity for them.
Got it.
And I guess one last question just on I guess your challenger your appeal to the delayed revenue recovery because they are ex parte communications on GT&amp;S.
Can you just walk through the process and the schedule for that to get resolved? And this is just something that could be said with some other number rather than having to go through it fully adjudicated process? Let me let’s say Hyun Park General Counsel talk about the schedule for that.
Yes Dan we filed an application for rehearing of that decision.
That was filed on December 26 and all the briefings have been submitted by all the parties so it remains to be seen when the commission will act on that rehearing and as you know the GT&amp;S case is currently going through hearings right now.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Hi good morning I guess I want to ask the same question.
What is 2017 CapEx looks like so? Is moving toward a different you’ve seen like you punch it on the first two.
I guess just a two quick questions.
One is you’ve given us equity guidance in 2015 I mean any thoughts to doing converts or something else something other than equity going forward with this large CapEx forecast? And the second the GT&amp;S rate case is delayed but I think there’s a GT&amp;S 2 that’s down the pipe.
When does that get filed? Anthony this is Kent.
Let me take the first one.
In terms of our equity needs you can see they are more modest this year for our normal CapEx program.
The uncertainty that we really have obviously from a financing perspective are when are the gas matters really resolved with the OII.
And that’s really what’s going to drive our financing needs.
And as I’ve said in the past depending upon the nature of that the timing of it the magnitude and the various components that there are alternatives such as such as mandatory converts that we would consider.
It all just depends on the details of the final decision.
The second part of your question.
This is Chris.
Your second one I’m not sure there is a specific GT&amp;S Phase 2 that you’re thinking of but the next rate case with GT&amp;S would be filed in 2017 or 2018 because it’s a three year cycle.
Okay.
So I guess just in – in your electric case ends in 2016 new electric rates I guess in 2017 and then new gas rates would be in 2018 is that correct? Before the pipeline that is correct.
Before the pipeline great thank you.
And do you sure you don’t want to give us the 2017 CapEx or? Let us make it better.
All right.
Thank you.
Yes.
A couple of questions first of all I know somebody ask about bonus D&amp;A in terms of what it means for rate base.
But can you talk about what it means for cash flow in 2015? Hi Michael this is Dinyar again.
So as I mentioned we’re in an annual situation so it really doesn’t mean much for cash flow.
Okay.
Can you talk about expectations kind of the spread do you expect which mean kind of gap in cash taxes meaning the fact you’ve got such as sizable NOL does that imply that you’re not really - you’re not much of a federal cash taxpayer this year and how far out in the future do you expect that to extend? Yes that’s correct.
We don’t anticipate being a federal cash taxpayer in 2015 or 2016.
So I think it will extend out into 2017.
Got it.
Thank you guys and one thing on CapEx.
Michael I just wanted to add that – that’s already embedded in the equity assumptions that we’ve given out.
Right.
Okay.
So it already impacts the financing.
When we look out at CapEx can you talk about the variability as part of the GT&amp;S case meaning how much – how much from the GT&amp;S case outcomes win your expected CapEx in either 2015 or 2016? Well you can actually see on the Slide 7 that we show for gas transmission a couple of $100 million of potential variability.
Okay.
So that’s both 2015 and for 2016? Well we’re showing that as the as for 2015 because that’s the year that we’re providing line of business guidance like that.
But you could expect probably a similar type of impact in two years depending upon how the rate comes out.
Got it.
Thanks guys much appreciated.
Good morning can you hear me? Okay.
We can hear Paul.
With respect to San Bruno I know you guys were thinking that was going to be done by the end of the year.
I’m just wondering what do you think if cause the delay and how should we think about the conclusion of this process going forward? Well I think it’s fairly obviously the delay was caused by the issues around the ex parte communications.
And then with the departure of President Peevey getting a new President appointed and then a new commissioner in.
But we now have all of those pieces in place with President Picker there and a new commissioner so.
Everything is now in the hands of the commission they’ve got the recommended decision and so I think it’s now in their hands to go ahead and make a decision we don’t think there is anything more the parties need to do in the case.
Okay but you haven’t had any word or anything about how of any sort of template and data or anything like that is to – we should be thinking about? No we haven’t.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the ex partes I realized that there is several proceedings going on and we don’t know how those are going to necessarily go or how long they are going to take but is pretty much most of the ex parte communications to that to your knowledge now out there? I mean is that should we I mean in terms of discovery and stuff are we sort of finished with that do you think? As I said in the past we have done a comprehensive search of all of the places where we believe there is some – there is a possibility that there would be ex parte communications And I have disclosed to everyone that – every instance that we are aware of.
That said there are multiple proceedings going on.
There are lots of requests for more access to company records and e-mails.
When you put it in perspective we got 22 000 employees if they produce 10 e-mails a day that’s a million e-mails every five days.
Yes.
I get asked all the time have you looked at every e-mails my answer is no.
Have we looked where we think it’s likely to have an ex parte communication absolutely.
Fair enough.
Okay and then just on the criminal case.
Do we have a schedule now at this point or we still sort of where are we in the process? So this is Hyun Park.
So we have a hearing that’s scheduled for March 9 and I think the expectation is that’s when the motion schedule will be set.
Okay then back to sort of Dan’s question on the electric vehicles it looked to me I mean from what I read $654million and looked that there was going to be a charge for customers between 2018 and 2022.
And that’s what I’m piecing together.
I haven’t actually been able to look at the full filing.
Is there some sort of amortization that’s unique to this CapEx that would suggest that the recovery would be over that period of time or just to sort of get a flavor for what exactly is going into this.
I mean it looks like it would be $26 000 per station.
Is that a fair number? Or is that just also all the other stuff that’s sort of supporting this kind of effort? Do you follow me? Yes this is Steve Malnight yes the filing we’re anticipating putting that capital into rate base.
Normally as we do with our the rest of our capital and the total cost that we talked about is for all the cost associated with implementing that program.
Okay and then the amortization period or the collection period for customers that was mentioned between 2018 2022 sounds kind of slow sounds kind of shortened.
Is there something about these facilities that would suggest that their recovery should be over a short period of time or is that just how the release came out? Do you follow me? The period of time that looking at wasn’t meant to be what the recovery period time it’s just the expenditures in our implementation of them.
Okay.
So this is correct so the recovery would just a normal recovery period of time.
And I think that’s why it’s about I think $80 million annual revenue requirement stretching out beyond that five-year or that six-year period of time.
And you mentioned the margins were low just a quick clarify this how much if we would talk about the revenue requirement associated with these stations is being covered by customers versus what quote unquote the marketplace would be theoretically covering? Do you have a rough breakdown of that? Probably not to the level of detail that you’re asking for.
But we’re asking for the what would be included in the cover for the customer’s choice is the capital cost that is putting the infrastructure in place.
Then the meters would go on and the charges off of those meters would cover the cost of electricity and everything else%.
And we’re actually looking at having a third party manage that the process.
So we are not in that payment processing business.
Users would use their credit card and there is a third party would manage that process.
Okay thanks so much.
Hi good morning and congratulations on some of these achievements on the operational side.
I just wanted to address initially that I continue to be concerned about on the regulatory side which is the OII into the accuracy of record keeping on the gas distribution side of the business as opposed to gas transmission.
And I guess I’m still worried that if the commission really wanted to get grotty about this they could probably find enough inaccuracies in the records to come up with a substantial fund.
Can you give us any parameters for how that investigation is going what likely outcome you see what financial impact there might be? Huge this is Chris.
I wish I had more details for you but we don’t because we don’t have an information yet on the scope of the investigation.
So they haven’t - they’ve done just for reminder for everybody on November 20 of last year the commission issued an OII in order to show cause to look into the record keeping around the gas distribution system and they specifically reference six incidents from 2010 to 2014 where they were no fatalities or injuries.
But we’ve done a lot of work on a record keeping over the - since San Bruno not just the transmission pipe but also the distribution pipe.
And we continue to do that but they have not had a scoping meeting or scheduling meeting yet at all and so we filed our responses but otherwise we don’t have a lot of information as to where they may go on this.
We’re waiting for the pre-hearing conference and that has not even been scheduled yet.
Thank you.
As I recall there was a program of upgrading the gas distribution system that you conducted several years ago which fell under the items impacted comparability and because those expenditures were not recoverable.
Do you foresee the potential for any further unrecoverable capital expenditures on the distribution side of the business such as we’ve seen with the PSEP on the transmission side.
Yes I mean obviously again we don’t know what that record keeping OII would be about but otherwise we wouldn’t because we just went through our General Rate Case which addresses our gas distribution side of the business.
And we got the results of that and we’re going to be operating under that and so we don’t see anything on the horizon that would say we believe we’re at risk of non-recovery of things that we’re doing on our investments in the gas distribution piece of the business.
Great alright thank you very much.
Good morning thank you.
The TO 16 I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the key issues where you are the farthest apart suppose in the settlement conference that’s coming up.
And then second depending on that outcome how would that affects the $1 billion plus that you guys have tagged for CapEx and presumably a similar amount in 2016 and 2017.
Travis this is Kent.
Typically we go through a TO case every year.
This isn’t going to be any different than the other ones but we really don’t provide much commentary on it while it’s underway.
Okay.
And then would that affect if you were to get an unfavorable decision would that affect the transmission spend material those are those projects that kind of in the process in the ground type of projects.
Well we’ve had a pretty good track record in resolving TO cases and we’re hopeful that’s going to be the outcome this time as well.
Okay.
And this is Chris.
Along those lines as we do with all of our rate cases in regulatory orders we try to operate within what they rule.
So if there was something that wasn’t going to be a project that they didn’t think we need we would have to reevaluate whether we would do that or not.
Okay.
I think everybody asked my CapEx question is before so I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning Brian.
Just on the slide where you are talking about 2015 what things to think about even though you haven’t given guidance on the SolarCity monetizing SolarCity shares can you just give us a general sense of how big that should be.
I realize you’re not in a position to give full guidance but at least a sense of scale on that part would be helpful.
Brian it’s Kent.
Last year I believe it was in the third and fourth quarter we monetized SolarCity second and third.
We monetized shares and I think each of those pickups were about $0.03 for each of those quarters and that basically represents about two-thirds of the total.
So I think that gives you a pretty good indication of sort of roughly what we’d expect for this year.
Great.
And lastly my second question is when it comes to rights of way and surveying costs.
It’s been a little while since we’ve heard you guys talk about that in great detail.
Should we be at the level now where we feel relatively comfortable that there aren’t going to be unexpected additional costs there? Is there like a percentage of completion that we can think about going forward from here? This is Chris.
I think as we talked about last year we did experience some delays in the pathway program because of some vegetation issues in some of the cities but we still at this point in time are reiterating that we don’t - we believe we’ll be able to finish the program by the end of 2017 which was the original five-year schedule and that we still don’t expected to be in excess of the $500 million that we originally have put out there.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Hi good morning.
Hi Steve.
Hi so just on the TO case the transmission case you’re assuming kind of returns similar to what you get in the California regulated business.
Steve it’s Kent.
We have filed for 1126.
Over the last few years we’ve just been telling people when they think about guidance particularly given the relative size of electric transmission the rest of our business.
We’ve been telling people to do an approximation of comparable authorized return is that the PUC.
But the proceeding and the ROE is still under way at the FERC.
Okay.
And then just going back to the e-mails and communications side from kind of - I guess do you still owe anything per the process to anybody beyond the 65 000 e-mails you already filed? Is there something that you still have to provide? I’ll ask Hyun to answer that.
As I said we get discovery requests in all of our proceedings but we’re pretty much up to date on all the things we owe.
So Steve as Tony said to the request from various parties for discovery and information is ongoing so I would say we’re current but I’m not sure that we’re completely done with this.
Okay.
And then I guess Edison at times talk about kind of other programs that could add to their current rate base plan things like storage and the like.
Do you - and obviously something like this electric vehicle program you announced.
Do you have some of those that are out there that would be kind of additive to the plan as it is now? Well we do anticipate that we’ll be doing storage.
We just went out for bids for proposals on storage but we also have the opportunity to invest in storage.
Quite honestly we’re early on and trying to figure out what technologies make sense and what don’t.
We have not factored in any storage investments into our capital plans right now.
It’s just too early to do that.
The other things around upgrading the grid they are kind of built into our forecasts of as we upgrade our system will be upgrading to the newest technologies.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
You may proceed.
Hey guys just real quick on the electric transmission where do you think you are in the cycle in terms of the level of electric transmission capital spending each year meaning do you think 2015 is a normal level and kind of a good run rate longer-term do you think there’s strength that could make that number significantly higher going forward or significantly lower going forward? And if so what would those private drivers be? Michael its Kent.
We really only have guidance out to electric transmission for this year.
So I can’t really give you a view beyond 2015 at this point.
Yeah I’m just I’m not really looking for a number of more drivers like how do you think about - just kind a where in the cycle and may be not just for you but kind of for the industry or for the State of California? Yes Michael what I would say is of course the major projects are lumpy they come and go as the needs go.
I think you can assume if we continue to build the renewals portfolio in California to support that there’s going to be transmission investments whether we make those investments or not depends on a number of things.
There’s a bidding process in California and we did win a bid to jointly develop a new project that’s underway.
In the future we’ll look at opportunities as they come along.
But you can assume we’re going to do them maybe other parties that will build the transmission to support renewables then we just purchase the services.
Thank you Tony.
Much appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital Advisors.
You may proceed.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Andy.
Good morning.
I think most of my questions were after just I have two housekeeping.
But I did see that you must have ticked the top on that SolarCity stock when you sold it so very good on that one.
We’ll have to give you a job here too.
Yes.
Just two housekeeping things just on the $5.5 billion of CapEx for this year do we back out any of that that’s not recoverable? Like is part of that like PSEP costs or something like that so it’s not - doesn’t all go to rate base I guess is the question.
Yeah so this is Dinyar.
I think if you look at Slide 7 you’ll see that separately funded piece of a $100 million for PSEP that spending that we will be doing in 2015 associated with the charge we took in 2014.
So that would be the component.
And that’s the only piece.
Yes.
Like none of this stuff on Page 8 gets backed out one of those expense items.
So the way the accounting works is you take a charge for costs that you anticipate you will not recover on the capital side.
So we haven’t yet spent the capital but we’ve had to take a charge in 2014.
That capital will be spent in the future years.
Alright but that - for rate base purposes we should be adding $5.4 billion less depreciation in differed taxes to our rate base? You could think of it that way we’ve already given you a rate base guidance.
No I understand I understand.
Yes I just like to do it with myself too.
Sure.
Okay.
Sure yes that [indiscernible] would not be recoverable.
Okay.
And then the second question just on the insurance recoveries Kent is there like you’ve collected a 112 in 2014 I don’t know what the total amount is since the inception of the recoveries.
But it’s there - go ahead I’m sorry.
Andy the total was $466 million to date.
Okay $466 million and what’s the maximum you can recover? Well we can recover the full liability which we have booked at $557 million now I think  $558 million.
Excuse me and then also the litigation cost associated with the third party liability.
How much could that potentially [indiscernible]? That we haven’t separately disclosed.
Got it so it’s up to 558 plus whatever litigation costs.
And there’s no maximum on that litigation cost? That is our estimate of the litigation cost.
Oh excuse the litigation cost there is no maximum it’s whatever was required to pursue the clients.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium Asset Management.
You may proceed.
Good morning and great quarter.
Kent can you give us an idea like last year in the equity piece there was a component which came in because of late timing of the GRC.
So in this year’s equity $400 million to $600 million can you give us some rough estimates what could be the impact I’m assuming there is an impact for delayed GT&amp;S rate case which is coming in later than should have come in at the beginning of the year.
Is there’s somewhere you can guide us on that? Well I’ll say if you actually look at Slide 9 we give some of the drivers to lock you from last year to 2015 and the equity need.
And you’re right the first item is kind of a timing item to when during the year you actually do the financings but also in the case of last year the fact that the General Rate Case was delayed until fairly late means we had a lot of months during the year where we otherwise had to increase our equity component a little bit in order to manage our overall equity ratio.
What you really ask about is is there a similar phenomenon in 2015 for the gas transmission case? And there is.
That’s absolutely true.
It’s probably not the same magnitude but there is a similar phenomenon which otherwise will cause us to have a little more equity this year as compared to the subsequent year when you have the revenues throughout the year.
The other drivers up here just to quickly go over them we do have because of rate base growth we do have higher earnings in 2015.
So that slightly reduces the equity need this year.
We also have lower unrecovered costs we talked about that on the call similarly reduces the equity need.
But we have higher capital expenditures and that’s one factor that goes in the other direction.
All right we would like to thank everybody for participating today and we’ll end the call now.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Corporation Q1 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines will be muted during the presentation portion of the call with an opportunity for questions and answers at the end.
I would like to introduce your hostess Ms.
Janet Loduca.
You may proceed.
Thank you Monica.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey I'll remind you that our discussion today will include forward-looking statements about our outlook for future financial results based on assumptions forecasts expectations and information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's actual financial results are described on the second page of today's slide deck.
We also encourage you to review the Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today and the discussion of risk factors that appears there and in the 2014 Annual Report.
With that I'll turn it over to Tony.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Janet and good morning everyone.
I'm going to start with some opening remarks and then turn it over to Chris and Kent to provide more detail on both operational and financial issues.
As you know we received a final penalty decision in the gas transmission pipeline investigations earlier this month which is a significant milestone.
Following the San Bruno accident we worked hard to do the right thing for the victims their families and the community of San Bruno.
We've dedicated ourselves to becoming the safest and most reliable utility in the country.
We've been working to build a culture across the company that supports this mission and we've completed an unprecedented level of work to improve the safety of our systems much of it funded by our shareholders.
So although the final penalty assessed by the Commission is the largest in state history and certainly one of the largest in the country we've decided not to appeal.
We just don't feel that prolonging the proceeding is in anyone's interest.
As we move forward I can assure you that the lessons from San Bruno will continue to guide us.
The San Bruno accident has changed the way we look at everything from the way we plan what work we do to the way we execute and document work in the field.
Safety starts at the top.
It also requires the unequivocal commitment of every employee.
My management team our employees and the unions who represent them have all made that commitment and safety has been at the heart of our decisions and actions over the last several years.
I want to acknowledge that we still have a number of proceedings outstanding.
On the legal front a trial date in the federal criminal case has been set for March 8 2016.
As you know state and federal prosecutors have been investigating potential ex parte communications with the CPUC as well.
There are also still several investigations at the Commission including a new investigation of our safety culture that President Picker announced at the last Commission meeting.
And in fact we welcome a conversation about safety at PG&amp;E.
We're proud of the work we've done to date and we know we still have a lot of work to do to re-earn the trust of our customers and the Commission.
Over the past several years we've hired some of the best experts in the country to help guide our efforts.
Adding to that list this spring we announced that we've hired Julie Kane as our new Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer reporting directly to me.
Julie has deep compliance experience largely in the highly regulated pharmaceutical industry and her mandate is to work with our Board of Directors and our leadership team to build a best-in-class compliance program.
As Chris will discuss we had another solid quarter in our operations.
We're in the third year of a rigorous risk assessment program that we used to develop our five-year operational plan.
And I've been really pleased to see that these plans become more robust every year.
And we continue to see strong opportunities for growth as we work to build a better California.
In both gas and electric operations we'll continue to upgrade the system with a focus on reducing risk and enhancing safety and reliability through physical improvements like replacing pipes and wires and using technology to respond to our customers' changing needs.
We're also working on an integrated clean energy plan which we believe will offer strong support for Governor Brown's vision for reducing carbon emissions.
In the coming years we expect to see continued investment opportunities to support the interactive Grid of Things.
This will facilitate the state's increasing reliance on intermittent renewables electric vehicles demand-side management tools and energy storage.
We have a number of proceedings pending at the Commission to address these changes to the electric grid and you can expect to see more about this in the future.
So with that let me turn it over to Chris.
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</strong> Thanks Tony and good morning everyone.
I'll begin my remarks with an update on our operations and then touch on some additional regulatory developments.
I'm going to start with safety which is fundamental to the work that our crews do every day.
Over the past few years we've worked to create an environment where all employees feel comfortable speaking up when something doesn't look right or they identify a potential safety risk.
We were gratified to see that this was one of the areas where we received the most positive feedback in our employee survey last year.
By encouraging this "find it and fix it" mindset and recognizing employees who do speak up or stop jobs when safety is a concern we're identifying and addressing issues early.
We measure ourselves on a set of safety metrics associated with both public and employee safety and you can see several of those in our appendix in the slide deck.
For example we target responding to emergency gas calls within 21 minutes.
During the first quarter we had responders on site within an average of less than 20 minutes.
That's a level of performance toward the very top of the industry.
On the electric side we target improvement every year in the number of sustained outages caused by downed wires.
In the first quarter of this year our results showed a nearly 25% improvement.
Over the past five years safety metrics have been an increasing component of our variable compensation plan.
In gas operations we continue to do significant work on our pipeline system testing replacing and automating components.
For several years we have been diligently addressing the recommendations made by the NTSB following the San Bruno accident.
The NTSB has closed 9 of the 12 recommendations.
The remaining three recommendations which involve strength testing valve installation and control room procedures are longer-term multi-year efforts and they continue to be on track.
In electric operations we continue to see strong reliability performance with our customers experiencing fewer and shorter outages.
And the California ISO awarded us two of the three competitive transmission projects we submitted bids for last year both of which are in our service territory.
As California enters its fourth year of drought we're working hard to help the state meet this challenge by reducing water usage at our own facilities encouraging customers to conserve by offering rebates for more efficient washers and agricultural pumps.
We're stepping up our vegetation management activities to mitigate wildfire risk and improve access for firefighters and we're managing water in our own hydro system to help meet the peak load this summer.
Shifting to regulatory matters as Tony mentioned the Commission issued a $1.6 billion final penalty decision in the gas transmission pipeline investigation and Kent will take you through the specific components of that in a minute.
The Commission also announced two new investigations one on regulatory communications and one on our safety culture.
The work we've undertaken to improve our safety culture over the past 4.5 years has been informed by significant benchmarking and input from experts from the outside and we look forward to the opportunity to share our progress with the Commission.
Moving to the Gas Transmission and Storage rate case we completed hearings in March.
PG&amp;E presented a strong case informed by a detailed risk assessment of the assets across our system.
The next steps are opening briefs which will be filed today and then reply briefs on May 20.
The current schedule calls for a final decision in the rate case in August of 2015 with revenues retroactive to January 1.
It's unclear at this point how the final penalty decision will impact this schedule.
Last week we received a proposed decision in the Residential Rate Reform proceeding at the Commission.
The proposed decision acknowledges the need for fundamental rate reform and recommends reducing residential tiers from four to two over the next few years.
However we were disappointed that it failed in the near-term to adopt monthly charges to recover fixed costs.
Fixed charges are a common element of many utilities' rates and we continue to believe they can be implemented with minimal impact to customers and that the time is right to adopt them in California.
We'll be filing comments on the proposed decision in May.
And finally as we look forward in September of this year we'll be filing our next General Rate Case which will set forth our plans for gas and electric distribution and generation from 2017 through 2019.
So with that I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thanks and good morning.
Today I plan to cover our quarterly results including the impact of the final penalty decision in the gas transmission pipeline investigation.
I'll walk you through all of that and then I'll spend some time on our outlook for 2015.
First our quarterly results which are summarized on slide five.
Earnings from operations came in at $0.87 for the quarter.
GAAP earnings including our items impacting comparability came in at $0.06.
Obviously our items impacting comparability drove much of the story for the quarter so let me go through those.
Our pipeline related expenses came in at $17 million pre-tax or $10 million after tax as shown in the table.
And here we've included our costs to remediate encroachments on our pipeline rights of way and some remaining expense work for our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
Our legal and regulatory expenses were $14 million pre-tax or $8 million after tax in the table.
These include costs incurred in connection with litigation and enforcement activities related to natural gas matters and regulatory communication.
Fines and penalties for the quarter totaled $553 million as shown in the table below.
I'll walk you through the components of that.
First the $300 million fine payable to the state resulted in a $100 million accrual in Q1.
This is because we previously took a $200 million charge in 2011.
Second the $400 million customer bill credit was fully accrued in Q1.
This reflects our obligation now to provide a credit to customers in February 2016.
Third the Q1 impact of the shareholder-funded safety improvements was a $53 million charge for disallowed capital and I'm going to take a moment to explain that figure.
As you know the final penalty decision calls for shareholders to fund $850 million of safety improvements to be determined in our 2015 Gas Transmission and Storage rate case.
This will consist of about $160 million of expense work and about $690 million of capital work.
We expect to the CPUC to reduce the authorized revenues in the gas transmission rate case for these disallowed costs.
In Q1 you see nothing here for disallowed expense work.
This is because the item impacting comparability for the expense work will occur as the revenue is disallowed not as the expenses are incurred.
When we receive the final decision in the gas transmission rate case we expect to book revenues retroactive to January 1 and the impact of the revenue disallowance will be reflected as an item impacting comparability at that time.
What you do see here is a $53 million charge for disallowed capital work.
The item impacting comparability for capital occurs as the capital is incurred and written off.
I know that's complicated so I'll reiterate it.
Disallowed expense work will show up as an item impacting comparability when the revenues are disallowed in the gas transmission rate case.
Disallowed capital work will show up as an item impacting comparability when the capital is spent.
One more thing to keep in mind; the CPUC has not yet determined which costs will count towards the $850 million of shareholder-funded safety work so we've estimated which capital expenditures incurred during the quarter we think will qualify.
Once eligibility is determined in the gas transmission rate case we'll true up any differences as necessary.
Slide 6 shows our quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations.
As you can see we're going from $0.54 in Q1 last year to $0.87 in Q1 this year and there are a number of factors.
The largest impact $0.21 is due to the 2014 General Rate Case decision which we didn't receive until August last year.
The impact includes both higher cost recovery as well as the tax benefits associated with repairs.
In addition $0.05 of the Q1 increase was due to growth in rate base earnings and another $0.05 because we had a nuclear refueling outage in Q1 of last year but not this year.
There were $0.04 associated with tax timing.
We expect that to net to zero by year end.
You also see $0.03 for the disposition of the remaining SolarCity shares and miscellaneous of about $0.05.
These positive factors were partially offset by $0.08 of lower cost recovery due to the timing of the Gas Transmission rate case.
The case covers costs for work we previously included as items impacting comparability such as hydrostatic testing and integrity management.
Until we are authorized revenues in the Gas Transmission rate case this work will now reduce earnings from operations.
When we receive a final decision in the case the revenue increase will be retroactive to January 1.
And then finally we had $0.02 for higher shares during the quarter.
That completes my summary of the Q1 results and I'd now like to move on to our outlook going forward.
The final penalty decision resolved a significant uncertainty for the company particularly with respect to the fines and penalties to be borne by shareholders and our associated financing needs.
Therefore today we are providing guidance for 2015 earnings from operations of $3.50 to $3.70 per share.
I want to spend some time going through the key assumptions underlying our guidance which are shown on slide 7 and this should look familiar to you.
Starting in the upper left you see that we're still assuming capital expenditures of roughly $5.5 billion this year consistent with our last call.
In the upper right you see that our estimate of weighted average authorized rate base is still about $31 billion.
We've actually adjusted the gas transmission range down by about $200 million to reflect the estimated 2015 impact of the capital disallowance in the final penalty decision.
Remember this is average rate base for the year so you only see about half of the full year impact of the disallowance.
In the lower left you see there are no changes to our assumptions regarding authorized return on equity and equity ratio.
At the bottom right of the slide we list factors we believe will affect 2015 earnings from operations.
Our objective continues to be to earn our authorized return on rate base for the enterprise as a whole plus the net impact of the factors listed here.
The first bullet under the Gas Transmission and Storage rate case highlights a key assumption underlying our guidance; namely that we receive a reasonable decision in the case and that it is issued before the end of the year.
The current schedule calls for a final decision in August but the judge has yet to determine how to address the shareholder-funded safety improvements mandated in the final penalty decision and we don't know how that could impact the schedule.
If we do not receive a final decision in the Gas Transmission rate case before year end we would not record the incremental revenue for 2015 until next year.
If that were to occur we estimate that it would reduce this year's earnings from operations by roughly $0.60 per share.
The second bullet under the rate case is the reminder that we've not sought recovery of certain corrosion and strength testing work in 2015 and beyond and we previously indicated that these expenses should average roughly $50 million annually over the three-year period although the amount may vary year to year.
Next is the tax benefits associated with the federal repairs deduction.
Last year the net impact from this item was $0.24 and we expect it to be a similar order of magnitude this year.
After that are the incentive revenues for things like our customer energy efficiency program and the impact of monetizing the remaining SolarCity shares which occurred in Q1.
And finally like last year we expect earnings on construction work in progress to be roughly offset by below-the-line costs such as advertising charitable contributions environmental costs and so forth.
Slide 8 summarizes our overall guidance.
At the top you see our 2015 guidance for earnings from operations of $3.50 to $3.70 per share.
Guidance for our items impacting comparability is shown below that and is broken down into the three categories.
We've got more detail on these on slide 9 so let's go there now and I'll start at the top.
You can see that we're reaffirming the estimated range for pipeline-related expenses of $100 to $150 million.
We're also reaffirming the estimated range for legal and regulatory-related expenses of $25 to $75 million.
Next we're establishing an estimate of roughly $1 billion in 2015 for fines and penalties associated with the final decision in the gas transmission pipeline investigations.
You can see the key components in the table below.
The first two the fine payable to the State and the customer bill credit were accrued in the first quarter.
We estimate that charges for disallowed capital work will come to about $350 million for the year roughly half of the total disallowed capital.
We also believe we'll see the full $160 million of disallowed revenues for expense work in 2015 assuming we receive a final decision in the Gas Transmission rate case before year-end.
This estimate does not include potential fines and penalties in the future such as any revenues disallowed in the Gas Transmission rate case as a penalty for ex parte communications.
Slide 10 shows you how to get from this $1 billion estimate for 2015 to the total $1.6 billion of fines and penalties coming out of the gas investigations.
Going from left to right you see the costs incurred prior to this year the estimated impact for 2015 and then finally the costs we expect to incur in future periods.
The future items consist of charges for the disallowed capital next year as well as remedies specified in the final decision – final penalty decision.
Moving on to slide 11 we are now estimating our total equity needs for 2015 to be between $700 and $800 million.
This range is consistent with the guidance and assumptions I've walked you through this morning.
It compares with our prior estimate of $400 to $600 million which of course did not include the impact of the fines and penalties coming out of the gas investigation.
As the slide indicates the fines and penalties clearly drive up our equity needs for the year.
Going in the other direction though our overall cash flows are a bit stronger due to items such as balancing account activity and timing of expenditures during the year.
This has mitigated some of our equity need for 2015.
Keep in mind that we typically issue about $300 million annually using our internal programs – our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment programs.
In addition we issued $75 million in the first quarter using our continuous equity offering or dribble program.
That would leave our remaining equity needs for the year at roughly $300 million to $400 million and we're currently evaluating options for that.
By the way we've updated the equity factors slide in the appendix to align with the components of the final penalty decision.
Slides 12 and 13 summarize our assumptions for CapEx and rate base through 2016.
The CapEx numbers are the same you've seen before and you can see that we expect 2016 to look fairly similar to 2015 depending primarily on the outcome of the Gas Transmission rate case.
The authorized rate base numbers have been adjusted to reflect the capital disallowance resulting from the final penalty decision.
The impact on 2016 average rate base is a reduction of about $500 million.
Our average rate base is expected to grow to right around $33 billion in 2016 and the adjustment for the final penalty decision results in an 8% CAGR over 2014 as compared to 9% previously.
We plan to provide you with CapEx and rate base numbers beyond 2016 once we file our 2017 General Rate Case this fall.
With that I'll stop here and we'll now open the lines for your questions.
Certainly.
Our first question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
You may proceed.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Steve.
Hey I guess this is for Kent.
So on the equity issuance needs and specifically these cash flows from balancing accounts and timing is there any way to kind of give us a sense of how much that lowered the equity need? And do those essentially kind of normalize back in future years so that – thus there's kind of like an equity need for it later on? Yeah Steve and let me get to that.
Let me just make sure everybody's got the overall picture clearly which is that the range is higher than we previously said because of the impact of the final penalty decision but these other factors mainly cash flows have somewhat mitigated the overall increase.
And our cash flows have improved somewhat and those do reduce our financing requirements.
And really a key factor is within our balancing account activities and in particular our energy procurement costs which are lower primarily due to lower gas prices.
They've stayed very low this year lower than was reflected in previous expectations.
And then the other thing is really kind of timing of our CapEx and our other expenditures.
And together those have really improved the cash flow forecast and reduced our requirement.
Those will essentially normalize over time and play out over what is usually a several year period particularly balancing account stuff gets trued up usually over a several year period.
Okay.
Maybe kind of asking the question then a different way is there a way to get a sense of if you look at the totality of the $1.6 billion and didn't focus on the exact timing of the equity needs but just at overall what the equity need would be to fund the $1.6 billion? Yeah the key thing I would rely on is slide 20 that has our equity factors.
I think you'll be able to essentially take the components in the final penalty decision and translate them into financing requirements.
And I'll just say we haven't provided guidance for equity issuance beyond this year and I don't plan to today but I'll kind of – I can give you some observations about it overall.
I think you know our equity needs are a function of a lot of variables in any one period but two key ones are our capital expenditure levels and then our unrecovered costs and penalties and that latter one can affect both our capital structure and our cash flow.
And so it can trigger equity needs at different times and that's really what this slide 20 helps you sort through.
In terms of those two factors I'll just make the observation on the CapEx front we expect 2016 to be pretty comparable to 2015 and you have those numbers.
In terms of the penalties we estimate that about two-thirds of our equity needs associated with the final penalty decision will be addressed this year as compared to next year and you should be able to derive that using the equity factors that we've put in slide 20.
The only other thing I'll say I'll just remind you that all of this depends on how the disallowed safety-related expenditures end up being treated in the Gas Transmission rate case and we just won't know that for a while yet.
Okay.
One other question I guess maybe more for Tony.
Just the – there was a lot of commentary when the final San Bruno order came out about issues with management and whether the company should stay as one company; should the gas business be split.
Anything – takeaways that you might have from that? And also I'd just like any comments on just clarifying what happened with this – the fire that occurred in Fresno and just clarifying whether you're seeing anything within your operations that concern you about that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah let me take the first piece and I'll let Chris talk about the Fresno event.
So with respect to the first issue the commentary around the issuance of the OII clearly it tells us we have a lot of work to do to build trust and a relationship at the Commission.
And we've had restrictions placed on us but it's our intent to have the maximum amount of communications with the Commission at all levels that are appropriate consistent with all of the restrictions.
And that's one of the things we know we need to work on.
We're proud of the work we've done and we think we need to spend more time sharing some of the things that we've done and time will tell whether we're able to develop that sort of trusting relationship.
With that let me ask Chris to comment on the incident that occurred in Fresno.
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Yeah hi Steve.
First of all our hearts are out for the victims – or the folks that were injured there and we always are concerned about making sure that we're doing what we can to increase our public safety.
Obviously we did not have anybody that was on-site when the accident occurred and so we don't know exactly what happened but we do know some things.
First of all we do know that there was no 811 call made for that area where work was being done.
We do know that there were a couple pipeline markers in place right around where the accident occurred.
We do know that there was earth-moving construction equipment that was present at the time of the incident.
Also we know that we've surveyed that area several times over the last several months.
We do it about every two weeks both with walking by and flying over and in fact we had photos from the day before when we had last surveyed that and did not see any construction going on at that time.
So we've been – worked with the CPUC who is the lead regulatory agency on this item and on the investigation as to what happened and they've authorized us to hire Exponent who is a third party to perform a thorough analysis of the damaged pipe so that we can determine exactly what did happen there and that'll be available in the next month or so.
So that's where we're at with that.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
You may proceed.
Morning guys.
Just following up on Steve's equity questions but if we – obviously timing will have an effect on this in the balancing accounts and that sort of thing but should we assume that you're going to target something like a 52% or close to a 52% equity ratio at corporate over time? Dan this is Kent.
Yeah that is our requirement is a 52% minimum equity common equity ratio at the utility.
And there isn't a whole lot at the corporate level so I think that's an appropriate assumption.
So calibrating that way will probably help us get to the answer.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then I guess just with the...
Dan just one other thing.
Just remember when you do the calculations you exclude short-term debt.
That's not included as part of the authorized capital structure.
Right.
Thank you.
I guess next question I guess now that San Bruno is resolved the dividend hasn't been addressed in an awfully long time.
Tony how are you going to plan to have that conversation with the Board and what kind of advice are you going to give them as you go into that next meeting? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we obviously recognize the dividend is an important piece of how shareholders value us and it's my intention to start having those discussions with our Board.
And as I said in the past my focus is to get our payout ratio in line with those of our peers.
Obviously we'll have to talk about the timing with our Board but we're going to be starting those discussions.
It will take some time to take all the variables into account but we understand that's very important.
Okay.
So does that mean it – I guess you have a May Board meeting.
Does that conversation now start now that this is behind you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'm not going to go into the details of our agenda for our Board meetings but I think it's fair to say this will be one of our priorities to discuss.
Okay.
And I guess just one last question.
When you guys file the GRC the next GRC how will you guys incorporate the Grid of Things-type of spending priorities in that budget? Will they be included in at that point in time or do you think you need to see more clarity after the July 1 filing before you start to put them into a formal capital program? Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Dan this is Chris.
We will start that process.
We are doing our annual planning process which is a look out for five years and so there's some beginning of that spend during that five year plan on the Grid of Things and that will feed into what we'll have in the GRC.
I don't think in this GRC we see some huge explosion of investments there but you'll start to see some investments in some of the ideas.
Don't forget we've already made huge investments in our Grid of Things with our SmartMeter program and with a lot of the switches the Cornerstone program a lot of that has already laid out the foundation for where we're going to go with it.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with Evercore.
You may proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So just reviewing your commentary earlier on how we think about equity if I look at page 10 I look at the different line items what's been previously incurred versus estimated for 2015 versus estimated for future periods and then I look at page – I believe it was page 20 and I use the equity factors that should get me to what the equity needs are in estimated 2015 and beyond correct? Yeah Greg this is Kent.
I think that's the best way to go.
Okay.
So when I do that I get the difference between what you're issuing in equity on the margin today versus your prior disclosure is smaller than that number so presumably the rest of that cash flow is coming in from the reversal and balancing accounts and other cash flows correct? Those are the two primary drivers that I've articulated on the call so I could see how you come to that conclusion.
Okay.
I just wanted to make sure my algebra was right and there wasn't some other factor to consider.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
You may proceed.
Hey good morning.
Just – I feel bad not asking an equity question.
If I just look at what your CapEx forecast I think that's the biggest driver in your equity needs the CapEx forecasts for 2015 and 2016 are near identical.
Is it reasonable to assume the range that you gave not including the San Bruno fine is a reasonable gauge of what your equity needs would be you know a $5.5 billion CapEx in 2016? Anthony this is Kent.
I don't want to get into providing guidance for 2016 and so I'm a little tentative about how to respond to that.
But I indicated before on one of the earlier questions that the CapEx profile is the same so that basic underlying driver will look very comparable.
And then what you'll want to do is look at differences in some of the other variables that affect our equity needs one of which obviously is unrecovered costs or fines and penalties.
And I think we've laid out the data for you to do that pretty well today.
Okay great.
And just lastly I think on Monday – and I may have this wrong – the company had filed a response in the federal indictment.
Is there any color you could give on that filing that you made on Monday? Sure.
This is Hyun Park.
So we made four motions for discovery of various materials.
So for example the government is obligated to provide us with what's called Brady materials.
Those are evidence that are favorable to the company and so we've asked for discovery of those materials as well as certain portions of the grand jury transcript.
And we've also asked for witness interview notes as well as recordings of interviews.
And we've also asked them to specify what other acts or incidents that they intend to introduce at trial.
And so all of this will get heard according to the current schedule on June 1 at the federal court.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
You may proceed.
Good morning.
Morning Michael.
I have questions on the $1.6 billion chart; trying to understand exactly what's included and what's not included.
Is rights of way in there? Is any of corrosion or hydro-strength testing is in there or is any of the costs of GT&amp;S delayed the five months? Are any of those things in the $1.6 billion? No they're not.
So these are the components that were included in the PUC's final penalty decision.
I separately went through in the guidance for our items impacting comparability: the impact of the rights of way work as well as there's some remaining PSEP work.
And then I also indicated in the guidance for earnings from operations the assumptions there that the additional gas-related costs that we've not sought recovery for which are certain corrosion work as well as certain hydrostatic testing work that we expected that to average about $50 million a year for each of the three years that that would be embedded in our earnings from operations.
Right right right.
I agree with all of those I just wanted to be crystal clear that that's not included.
So is there any way you can put a number holistically if we – you keep referring us to slide 20 but I guess two things that I didn't appreciate that $200 of the $300 million fine that will not need equity issuance right? Because that was already – since you already took a hit for that you don't need equity issuance that's number one.
And number two so is there any way to put the amount of dollars for this cash flow benefit from balancing accounts? So let me parse through those two.
In the first comment you made which was your conclusion that we don't need equity needs associated with the first $200 million that we accrued a while back that's actually not quite the case.
And when you look at the equity factors because to date that's been a non-cash accrual roughly half of that essentially has been financed and...
Okay.
...the remaining half gets financed at the time we actually pay the fine.
So there is some remaining need that comes from that fine payable the original $200 million.
Okay that makes sense.
Okay.
Okay.
Second – what was the second part of your question again? The second part was...
is there any – a way to predict the dollar amount on this cash flow benefit from regulatory from balancing? Well what I would suggest you think about is go to our old guidance for equity look at – which did not include any of the equity needs associated with the final penalty decision use the equity factors on slide 20 to estimate what the incremental equity needs are.
And there'll be a difference between that and the guidance that we're currently giving you for our overall equity needs and one of the key drivers of that will be those factors related to cash flows.
Okay.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
You may proceed.
Yeah hey guys.
One question about 2015 guidance.
If you just like back of the envelope rate base math I'll use Greg Gordon's algebra for an example here.
If I do $31 billion at a 52% equity ratio and at a 10.4% authorized ROE using your current share count I get a number that's actually below your guidance range.
So can you just walk me through what the delta there is? And then does that delta does that difference do you expect that to continue multiple years going forward or is that something that's a 2015 event only? Yeah so this is Kent.
I'd suggest you focus on slide 7.
And on slide 7 essentially the math you just went through is for all intents and purposes the upper part of the chart and the lower left part of the chart you did the math on it.
The other part though is the lower right part of the chart the other factors affecting our earnings from operations.
And I sort of gave commentary on each of those factors.
The biggest driver is related to the net benefits of the repairs the tax benefit.
And we've indicated that we would expect it this year to have an impact that's comparable same order of magnitude to last year when it was $0.24 a share.
Okay.
And then beyond this year meaning that stops after the – in 2016 or does that carry forward into 2016 and beyond? That item relates to our 2014 General Rate Case so we would expect it to be in place through 2016.
At a comparable level meaning at that $0.24 level? Similar order of magnitude.
Got it.
Thank you Kent.
Much appreciated.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with AllianceBernstein.
You may proceed.
Hi.
I was hoping to get some clarity on the pending investigations and cases that may result in future fines and perhaps get your view on the maximum amount of those fines.
Is it correct to say that we have the federal case the ex parte withholding of GT&amp;S revenue the OII into the safety records on the gas distribution side and then the investigation into the – the OII into the safety culture of PG&amp;E or are there other investigations and cases that we need to be aware of in addition to those four? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Hugh I think that covers the list that we're aware of.
I'm looking at Hyun Park our General Counsel.
I think he's accurately covered the list.
Hugh and Tony mentioned earlier that the State AG as well as the federal prosecutors are looking at ex parte issues so that investigation is still ongoing.
Okay.
And then just kind of a is it bigger than a breadbox type of estimates here.
The maximum penalty in the federal case I think the federal attorney said that she was seeking up to $1.1 billion.
Is that correct? Is there any color you can give us on that? Yes so it's $1.13 billion is what they've alleged and the color is that we disagree with that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And remember the $1.13 billion is the alternative fine provision where you calculate either gain that we got or losses that were incurred.
But of course with respect to that we settled all of the civil cases so they're – arguably there are no losses left to cover.
Certainly there wasn't gain to the company.
I mean look at the size of this penalty and you'd know that there was no gain to the company.
So if you go back to the fundamental provisions of the Pipeline Safety Act under which that case was brought the fines I think are $500 000 a count and there are 20-some counts and so you can run the numbers that way as what we believe would be a more likely – if in fact there is liability which of course we contest fairly strongly.
Okay.
So you're basically pushing us in the direction of a nominal fine maybe $1 million because of the inability to apply the more onerous metrics for calculating a larger fine? So Hugh if you do the math under the more conventional fine method it's $500 000 per count 28 counts so that adds up to I believe $14 million.
$14 million okay.
Yeah.
And then they've alleged the alternative fines which Tony described.
And by the way some of this is discussed in some of the motions that we filed on Monday so you can see some of the discussion on that.
On the ex parte communication is it correct to say that the CPUC is still reserving the right to withhold approximately $230 million from the GT&amp;S revenue or is there some new benchmark there? Hugh this is Kent.
I think what they said that they would fine us up to 5 months of whatever the ultimate revenue increase coming out of the case is and we don't know what that is yet.
Right.
So that's still – the final determination there is still pending but it could be 5 months of GT&amp;S revenue increase as a result of the case.
That will be determined at the end of the case.
Okay.
On the distribution safety OII are there any parameters we can use? Should we make reference to the OII into the transmission system or is this going to be a different order of magnitude? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah that's one – the case is just getting under way.
We can't even give you an order of magnitude of what might come out of that if in fact there is any liability at all.
And what about the OII into safety culture? That seems a very intangible OII to me and I wonder is it – do we expect penalties to be sought there or is that a different type of investigation? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And again it's very early.
I mean the way I heard it it sounds like a different type of investigation around what we've done with respect to our safety culture.
And as I said before that's an area we actually feel very good about.
We've spent a lot of effort on safety culture issues starting with doing some very significant benchmarking of other companies to look at what they do and I will tell you that we've learned a lot from that benchmark but we also learned that we compare quite favorably to our peers with respect to what we're doing.
We hired a number of third-party experts to come in and look at safety culture from a former head of the NTSB to Lloyd's Registry (sic) [Register] (48:24) in London who's done work under ISO 55000 and things like changing our discipline policy to encourage employees to identify safety issues to a program to identify near-hits as we call them on safety.
That has greatly expanded our understanding of where the rifts are in the company.
And a number of other things; training of all of our leaders on safety culture.
So we've done a lot that hasn't shown up in specific proceedings and we think this will be an opportunity at some point when the OII gets underway to talk about what we've done.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just one final question.
Are you considering as a matter of strategy trying to settle these various cases and investigations so that the hit to equity can be known or do you feel it's in the best interest of shareholders just to kind of fight these out to the bitter end and let the adversarial process take its course? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You know I think that what our recent decisions show is we want to aggressively defend the shareholders' interests but at some point certainty is in the shareholders' interest.
And that was kind of behind our decision not to appeal the San Bruno OIIs even though there were some issues we thought might be appealable.
In the end it was better to have certainty so we can continue to focus on improving the system.
We're always open to settlements in these cases.
We're not open to admitting to things that just didn't occur.
I think that's our position in the criminal case that we don't see anyone who didn't – who made any intentional decisions to violate the Pipeline Safety Act.
But we will continue to look for opportunities to get certainty by resolving some of these proceedings.
Great.
Thank you very much for the color.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
You may proceed.
Hi guys.
I was wondering if you could talk about what's the normalized tax rate that you expect to have in the next GRC you know once the repair benefits are absorbed? This is Dinyar Mistry the Controller.
We expect the repairs flow through rate making to continue in the next General Rate Case and so it should have a similar order of magnitude on our effective tax rate.
What you have been seeing in this year the $0.24 that Kent mentioned is the difference between the repairs that was forecasted in the last General Rate Case and the repairs that we are experiencing as we file our tax returns but that should be trued-up in the 2017 rate case.
Right.
And once it's trued-up what will the normalized tax rate be? So the...
The 35% or no? No.
35% is the statutory rate.
If you go to our financial statements at the end of last year you'll see that our effective rate was roughly 20% and it should be probably similar.
I don't know how it's going to shake out because it is a technical calculation.
But it does not mean that there's a benefit to the bottom line because there's an associated reduction on the revenue side.
I see.
So you will be effectively earning at the 35% rate even if your GAAP rate is 20%? I think the better way to think about it is that there is no benefit or harm from the effective tax rate being different from the statutory tax rate.
It's just a calculation.
Okay.
We'll follow up offline on that.
The other question I had was about future CapEx growth profile after 2016? The Edison call they discussed kind of having a flat profile for the next decade at the $4 billion level and that includes presumably the – well it might exclude the benefits that might come from investing in the distribution resource plan that's coming out in July.
So I'm just wondering if you guys have a similar view of the next decade especially considering the EV filing that you made that your CapEx profile will be growing or will it be kind of flattish over the next decade or not? This is Kent.
We will be providing you with numbers when we get to the fall.
I would say our observations is that we are doing a lot of infrastructure investment essentially hardening our system replacing a lot of stuff that was put in post-World War II and so forth.
And we don't expect that program to finish by the time we're done with 2016 so we'll continue to see I think a healthy CapEx profile going forward.
But we're not prepared to actually provide you numbers at this point until we finish up on our GRC filing.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Merrill Lynch.
You may proceed.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Morning Brian.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Is there an implied timing of the equity issuance embedded in the 2015 guidance that you can give a little more color on? No there isn't.
As I indicated before we're still evaluating our options for the financing and that's with respect to about the timing and the approach.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
The rest of my questions were asked and answered.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
You may proceed.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Obviously a lot of talk – plenty of talk about the equity side.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the credit side and the timing there in terms of issues and needs? Well Travis this is Kent again.
I think if you look last year our net debt issuance was about $1.4 billion.
That's net of maturities and that's probably not far off from what we've done the last several years.
So I would say similar order of magnitude given similar CapEx program.
We have a little bit higher CapEx this year.
So similar profile but we're not going to be talking about timing until we're closer to actually starting a transaction.
Okay.
Remind me real quick when do you need to have the capital structure in place for rate making purposes? What's the timing on that? Yeah it's essentially over the period during which the capital structure is authorized.
So for us it's over this cost of capital period which has been – essentially will end up being a four-year period right now.
Okay.
One other real quick one.
The talk about the tax deductions and debate there with the CPUC if they were to disallow some of that tax write-off how does that change that slide 20? So this is Dinyar Mistry again the Controller and let's just go through the components of the penalty that you see on slide 20.
And if you look at that the fine payable to the State general fund is not tax deductible but we continue to believe the other disallowances included in the Commission's final decision are tax deductible.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
You may proceed.
Good morning again.
I just wanted to confirm when you guys talk about equity issuance do you just talk about straight equity or are you considering other options? Michael this is Kent and we are in general as you know for these unrecovered fines and penalties we've been saying that primarily we're relying on equity issuance.
And over the past couple years I've had conversations with investors and certainly with you about options such as mandatory converts for example.
But I will say at this point I think that option is probably less likely now just given the size of our remaining equity need for this year.
Hey Monique I think we have time for one more question.
Our next question will come from the line of John Apgar with Balyasny Asset Management.
You may proceed.
L.P.
(U.S.)</span></strong> Good morning.
Michael asked my question but I just wanted you to elaborate a bit more on the equity needs for 2015 and your options.
I mean you have a $300 million DRIP and can you remind us of the size of the ATM program that you have in place? So yeah the equity options that we have used in the past include our internal programs which are both the DRIP and the 401(k) program.
We typically have issued roughly $300 million a year from those programs.
We have had a continuous equity offering and we have a program there for $500 million and I believe in the first quarter we did approximately $80 million of that through the dribble program.
So those are the two components you are relying on – or you are referencing.
L.P.
(U.S.)</span></strong> So between the continuous equity and the DRIP program you have $800 million of total capacity? Is that the right way to look at it? That's correct.
Of course the continuous equity offering is not limited to $500 million that's just our current program and we've actually renewed that program several times over the last few years.
L.P.
(U.S.)</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then regarding the balancing accounts can you quantify that at all as far as the cash impact? You know I think I've had several folks take a run at me on that one on this call and I think I pretty much laid out how you can get rough estimates of the various factors driving our equity previously on the Q&amp;A and I'll...
L.P.
(U.S.)</span></strong> Well it's ...
...
sit tight with what I've already indicated.
L.P.
(U.S.)</span></strong> Well I was just looking at your net receivable balance off of the balancing accounts and it's $1.2 billion in 2014 much higher than it was in 2013.
So is it right to look at it as a big cash outflow in 2014 and that is reversing in 2015? And then once that net receivable goes to zero it's not necessarily a net cash outflow next year right? It just stays at zero? Is that the right way to look at it? There are a lot of factors and complexity in all of our various balancing accounts so I think that actually if you're starting with those numbers on the balance sheet you could spend a lot of time trying to figure out the timing during which different ones amortize and I'm not sure they get you where you really need to be.
So I would suggest a simpler way is to go back to our prior estimates of equity look at the new estimates of equity and look at our equity factors for the fines and penalties and you'll at least know how much the equity factors are driving the change from our prior estimate to our new estimate.
And...
L.P.
(U.S.)</span></strong> Okay.
...any difference you see there I've indicated on the call a significant driver of that has been our cash flows forecast.
L.P.
(U.S.)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning and have a safe day.
Good morning and welcome to the PG&amp;E Second Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines will be muted during the presentation portions of our call with an opportunity for questions and answers at the end.
At this time I would like to turn it over to our host Janet Loduca.
Thanks and enjoy your conference.
You may proceed.
Great.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before you hear from Tony Earley Chris Johns and Kent Harvey I'll remind you that our discussion today includes forward-looking statements about our outlook for future financial results based on assumptions forecasts expectations and information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's actual financial results are described on the second page of today's slide presentation.
We also encourage you to review the Form 10-Q that will be filed with the SEC later today and the discussion of risk factors that appears there and in the 2014 Annual Report.
And with that I'll turn it over to Tony.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thank you Janet and good morning everyone.
I'm going to start by covering the leadership changes that we announced recently and also provide some regulatory updates.
Chris will talk about operational results and Kent will cover our financials later.
So a couple weeks ago we announced that Geisha Williams and Nick Stavropoulos will be assuming the roles of Presidents of Electric Operations and Gas Operations respectively effective August 17.
First I really do want to thank Chris for his leadership at PG&amp;E.
Chris has been a passionate sponsor of our efforts to improve the safety culture at PG&amp;E.
And since I arrived almost four years ago he has been a great partner for me in improving PG&amp;E's operations.
So thank you Chris for all that you have done.
Geisha Williams joined PG&amp;E in 2007 from Florida Power &amp; Light.
And under her leadership PG&amp;E has dramatically improved its electric reliability while managing the increasingly complex demands in our group.
Nick Stavropoulos joined PG&amp;E in 2011 from National Grid and under his leadership PG&amp;E has completed an unprecedented amount of work to improve the safety of our gas system and has employed new innovative technologies that are literally changing the industry.
Geisha and Nick are both here with us today and they'll be available to answer any questions that you've got.
While we're proud of the progress we've made to date we also know that we have more work to do.
We remain focused on continuing to strengthen our safety culture resolving the remaining San Bruno related proceedings and rebuilding trust with our stakeholders including the CPUC.
We're also focused on planning for California's clean energy future and we've had a number of significant developments on that front since our last call that I'd like to touch on now.
Earlier this month we filed our electric distribution resources plan.
This plan outlined our strategy for continuing to enable California's ambitious environmental goals by building a flexible reliable grid that meets the growing demand for distributed generation electric vehicles energy efficiency and energy storage.
We've been investing in grid modernization for several years now and will include the next round of investments in our 2017 General Rate Case filing that will come in September.
Earlier this month the CPUC also approved changes to our residential rates that will reduce the number of tiers from 4 tiers to 2 tiers decrease the differential between the tiers and establish a $10 minimum bill for most customers.
While this is an important first step we believe that additional rate reform is critical to fully realize the state's objectives and ensure that all customers are appropriately paying for the use of the electric grid.
We were a little disappointed that the commission didn't adopt fixed charges but we are encouraged that the final decision recognized the importance of cost-based rates to send the appropriate price signals.
We'll be proposing additional enhancements in the future to bring us closer to that goal.
We'll also be submitting our proposal for new net energy metering rates next week which is another important component of aligning rates with costs.
Solar is an essential part of California's clean energy future but we need smart energy reform for it to grow sustainably.
The CPUC also issued a revised schedule in our Gas Transmission and Storage rate case.
We'll now have two separate decisions one that decides what costs are authorized and then a second decision that decides how we will apply the $850 million San Bruno penalty for safety related work.
And Kent is going to discuss the financial implications of that new schedule in just a minute.
Finally today we filed our TO17 rate case.
Our request was about $300 million higher than TO16.
So with that let me turn it over to Chris.
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</strong> Great.
Thanks Tony and good morning everyone.
We had another strong quarter in operations.
We continue to perform well in our public safety metrics in fact we reduced the numbers of wires down and gas dig-ins across our system and we're responding to emergencies at an industry leading pace.
Inline pipeline inspections and upgrades are a little behind due to permitting delays but we anticipate catching up by the end of the year and Diablo Canyon continues to perform very well.
You can see our overall performance on key metrics in the appendices.
In May we successfully conducted a two day large scale exercise to test our preparedness and response plans for a major earthquake.
It was our most ambitious exercise to date with over 750 employees and nearly a dozen external stakeholders participating across our service territory.
Exercises like these along with our many other emergency preparedness efforts help us to be ready to respond quickly and effectively when an event happens.
With California in its fourth year of severe drought our electric operations team has significantly enhanced our efforts to prevent wildfires.
We're conducting daily aerial fire patrols across our service territory and we've partnered with federal and state agencies like CAL FIRE and the U.S.
Forest Service to create more firebreaks improve emergency response and fund the cameras that will help detect wildfires in remote locations.
We're also continuing to manage water in our own hydro system to help meet the peak load this summer.
In early July the CPUC released the results of an independent report on the Fresno pipeline incident which found that the pipeline ruptured when it was struck by third party construction equipment.
The report also confirmed that the pipe met all industry specifications and that the construction activity significantly reduced the depth of soil around the pipeline.
This incident highlights the importance of calling 811 before digging and we've been working hard to make sure all our customers are aware of this free service.
We're continuing to cooperate with the CPUC in its ongoing investigation.
And our thoughts remain with the victims and families of this accident.
Finally earlier this quarter the National Transportation Safety Board announced that PG&amp;E has successfully completed the tenth of 12 safety recommendations for the improvements we've made to the system that monitors and provides real-time data about our gas pipelines.
The two remaining recommendations which involve strength testing and valve installation are proceeding appropriately.
And with that I'll turn it over to Kent.
Thank you Chris.
And good morning.
I'll start with our quarterly results which are summarized on slide five.
Earnings from operations came in at $0.91 in the second quarter.
GAAP earnings which include our items impacting comparability were $0.83.
Our pipeline-related expenses totaled $15 million pre-tax or $9 million after tax as shown in the table.
This includes our costs to remediate encroachments on our pipeline rights of way and some remaining expense work for our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
Our legal and regulatory-related expenses totaled $16 million pre-tax or $10 million after tax in the table.
Here we have our costs for litigation and enforcement activities related to natural gas matters and regulatory communications.
Fines and penalties for the second quarter totaled $75 million pre-tax as shown in the table below.
You can see the Q2 charge was for disallowed capital work coming out of the final penalty decision in the San Bruno investigations.
Disallowed capital work will continue to be recorded as an item impacting comparability in future periods as the capital is spent.
But disallowed expense work won't be reflected as an item impacting comparability until the revenues are disallowed in the gas transmission rate case.
So the timing there will be linked to the final decision.
Finally as you can see in the table above we received insurance recoveries during the quarter of $39 million pre-tax or $23 million after-tax in the table.
This brings our total insurance recoveries for third-party claims to $505 million pre-tax.
Slide six shows the quarter-over-quarter comparison for earnings from operations and the key factors that take us from $0.69 in Q2 last year to $0.91 in Q2 this year.
$0.21 of the increase was due to the 2014 General Rate Case decision which you'll remember we didn't receive until Q3 of last year.
In addition $0.05 of the increase was due to growth in rate base earnings and $0.04 was associated with tax timing.
We expect the tax timing to reverse to zero by year end.
We also had $0.06 positive in miscellaneous smaller items.
These factors were partially offset by $0.09 of lower cost recovery due to the timing of the gas transmission rate case.
As you know the revenue increase from a final decision in the case will be retroactive to January 1.
There was also $0.03 attributable to the disposition of stock in SolarCity in Q2 last year.
And $0.02 attributable to an increase in shares outstanding.
That's it for our Q2 results.
I'll now move on to our 2015 guidance summarized on slide seven.
As Tony mentioned the CPUC issued a revised schedule in the gas transmission rate case.
Since it now appears likely that the case will not be resolved until 2016 we don't expect to be able to book additional gas transmission revenues this year.
I indicated on our last call that not receiving a final rate case decision in 2015 would impact earnings from operations this year by about $0.60 per share.
Accordingly we're adjusting our guidance for 2015 earnings from operations to reflect this delay which takes us to a range of $2.90 to $3.10 for this year.
The prior range was $3.50 to $3.70.
Since the final decision will be retroactive to January 1 2015 this is just a timing issue.
And next year we would expect to book incremental revenues for both 2015 and 2016.
We plan to treat the 2015 amount as an item impacting comparability next year and the 2016 amount will be included in our operating results.
The delay in the rate case decision affects two of the assumptions underlying our 2015 earnings guidance.
So I want to just briefly touch on those and then we'll come back to the items impacting comparability.
On slide eight we've adjusted our 2015 CapEx for gas transmission given the delay in the case.
We're now showing $650 million versus a previous range of $600 million to $800 million.
We've also reduced our 2015 authorized rate base for gas transmission to $1.8 billion since the increase in authorized rate base won't occur until next year when we get a final decision.
The other assumptions here are unchanged from last quarter.
Moving to slide nine the ranges for the items impacting comparability are also unchanged from last quarter with the exception of the fines and penalties which we've reduced from roughly $1 billion to about $900 million for 2015.
The delay in the gas transmission rate case means we'll not report disallowed expense work until next year when we get the decision.
We previously had $160 million in 2015 guidance for that.
Partially offsetting that change we've increased our 2015 estimate for disallowed capital by about $50 million to $400 million.
The net of these two changes is a reduction in 2015 fines and penalties of about $100 million.
I also need to remind you here that our estimate does not include other potential fines and penalties such as any revenues disallowed in the gas transmission rate case as a penalty for ex parte communications.
Finally in the table above we've also updated it to reflect the receipt of the insurance recoveries that we booked in Q2.
Slide 10 just shows you how you get from the roughly $900 million estimate for 2015 to the total $1.6 billion of fines and penalties coming out of the gas investigations.
This table has been updated to reflect the timing changes I just covered.
Moving on to slide 11 our total equity needs for 2015 remained unchanged at between $700 and $800 million.
In the second quarter we issued about $100 million of equity through our internal programs which include our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment programs.
And we expect to issue a total of roughly $300 million through these programs for the full year.
We previously issued about $75 million through our continuous equity offering leaving the remaining need for the year at about $300 million to $400 million and that's unchanged from last quarter.
Slides 12 and 13 just summarize our assumptions for CapEx and rate base through 2016.
Other than the change to 2015 authorized rate base which I've already covered the numbers are unchanged from last quarter.
With that I'll stop here and we can open-up the lines for your questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
You may proceed.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dan.
Hey just on the – just to make sure I had this right.
So in 2016 you guys will not include the $0.60 in recurring numbers.
So a 2016 estimate was recently published and what you're going to talk about then would look like some sort of a function of a return on rate base plus any tax benefits you guys get from the manufacturing deductions? Yes Dan.
I think you have that correct.
We just – we want to make sure that we're pulling out the 2015 amount as we think it makes next year more comparable.
Okay.
And then on the – just on the timing of GT&amp;S kind of if you look at the proceedings as laid out and where flex points or where debates are going to be when do you guys anticipate us getting to a clean number? And when will you give guidance for 2016 in that context? Hi Dan.
This is Dinyar Mistry the Controller.
I think when we look at the procedural schedule it seems that early 2016 maybe around the January timeframe is when we would expect to see the first decision and the second decision will probably follow maybe a couple of months or three months after that.
And when do you guys think about giving guidance around those numbers? So when are you going to give 2016 guidance I guess? Don't know for sure Dan but on a normal schedule we probably do that in February when we announce year-end earnings.
Would you be comfortable doing that before GT&amp;S is done? Well if the schedule ends up playing out as Dinyar just described you would at least have the first part of the decision which is authorized revenues which you wouldn't really have it how they're treating all the fines and penalties I think we could make our way through that.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with Evercore.
Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Greg.
So when we think about the guidance origin for this year very simply it's the not getting the revenues from the GT&amp;S case offset by the tweaks and the timing on the fines and penalties to get to that new range everything else is basically the same? Yes.
I think that's pretty much it.
Okay great.
The second question was on – you're not presuming any incremental equity need this year versus your last update clearly the one big change is going to be a cash flow deferral of recovery of these cash flows through these cases done should we just assume your funding with short-term debt until you get the money in? Well Greg this is Kent again.
There's kind of two things that have happened in terms of a few factors that result in not really a material change in our equity needs.
One is you're right the GT&amp;S case has been delayed until early next year.
But we weren't anticipating it to actually happen anyway until very late this year.
So it really only affected our equity balances for a few months this year.
So moving it out of this year isn't a big 2015 impact on our equity.
And then in the other direction of course we're not expecting to have the charge for the disallowed expense work this year and previously we were.
So that actually helps the equity balances a little this year and the net of those two is not a significant change.
Okay.
So the – and to the extent those cash flows are pushed out a few months you have obviously sufficient balance sheet capacity to fund that right? Yeah and there's really no cash flow impact this year it will all be in the next year just in terms of the timing of when the actual decision is made and we start collecting the revenues through cash rates.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr.
Gordon.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
You may proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jonathan.
Inc.</span></strong> Quick one and just the pushback with the GT&amp;S case change you're thinking at all Tony about timing for revisiting the dividend? And then just give us an update on that process? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I mean let me reiterate.
I mean we know the dividend is very important we've been focused on that.
Obviously with the change in the timing of that case that does change things.
Our commitment is to continue to figure out what would be an appropriate time to deal with the dividend we're having ongoing discussions here internally but I don't have a projection of exactly when that might be yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But is it reasonable to expect it's more like a 2016 event now and then given more you've just said? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's a reasonable assumption for you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then just on the miscellaneous items in the quarter I mean it seems to add up to quite a big number.
Was there anything particularly worth calling out? Yeah.
Jonathan this is Kent.
The miscellaneous by definition usually ends up being lots of small items and some of them can be timing and some of them aren't necessarily timing.
In Q2 we did have a couple of settlements with contractors litigation settlements so that added to the quarter compared to what we would normally see and then there are some smaller items in there too.
And I would say overall it's always hard for us to forecast miscellaneous by their very nature but we expect we may have a few offsets in miscellaneous later this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Kent.
On the similar subject you said you thought the tax item would reverse by the end of the year would that be in Q3 and Q4 or sort of between the two quarters? This is Dinyar Jonathan.
They should reverse over the next set of quarters.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
As in the next – the next two quarters or is it some of it slip into next year? No it should all reverse this year.
So the reason that we have it is that accounting rules require companies to use a consistent effective tax rate every quarter but your income isn't consistent each quarter.
And so you have this timing issue that reverses itself out by the end of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for the clarity.
Thank you Mr.
Arnold.
Our next question comes from the line of Leslie Rich with JPMorgan.
You may proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I wondered if you could talk a bit about some of the rate design issues you mentioned I know you've got a final decision on that did not allow an immediate fixed charge but you said you were going to submit a new proposal for net metering I wondered what that might look like? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the decision that came down moved this in the right direction cutting down the number of tiers.
It did go with a minimum bill charge rather than a fixed charge.
We of course had advocated for a fixed charge.
But we're moving in the right direction.
The next step will be a net energy meter rate filing.
And in that filing we're going to make sure that we underscore that we continue to support rooftop solar.
We have the largest number of rooftop solar installations in the country.
It's now over 175 000 installations.
But we also need to keep investing in the grid.
So we'll submit a proposal that will allow us to reinvest in the grid at the same time we're supporting rooftop solar.
And that filing should be coming out in the next week or so.
Inc.</span></strong> And then did you make a filing in July maybe you call it the Grid of Things there's a bullet point there on sort of longer-term grid infrastructure improvement and I think you said you would lump that in with your next rate case.
Have you quantified that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We haven't yet I mean our distribution resource plan filing kind of outlines our strategy on the grid.
And as I think we said in prior calls we've already made lots of investments starting with virtually 100% coverage on our automated meter reading program.
And our next filing will have a substantial chunk of investment for continuing the transformation of the grid to a 21st Century grid.
I can't really quantify how much of it is grid development versus how much of it is going to be routine maintenance of existing equipment yet.
Inc.</span></strong> But it's fair to say that spending would be 2017 and beyond? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Ms.
Rich.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
You may proceed.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
Just first on the equity issuance.
So it seems like you've only done about a third of the equity for the year.
Is there any reason that you kind of haven't done it more prorated? And how should we think about the way you're likely to do the $300 million to $400 million not through programs? Steve as you might imagine I am reluctant to really comment a lot on what our equity plans are.
I just don't think that's going to serve us well.
So I will tell you I'm very confident we have more than adequate tools and the amount that we need to raise this year is quite manageable.
Okay.
And any more clarity on – I know this year there was a lot of that tax cash flow coming in.
And is there any more sense on kind of tax cash flows in 2016 that you can provide us? Or at least are the cash flows that are coming this year going to reverse next year going to stay stable or continue to be a positive? Steve I think you're referring to balancing account activities which was one of many drivers maybe in our cash flows.
That's correct.
I don't really have anything to add to what was discussed on the last call since then.
And I just continue to point out that our balancing accounts are very complex.
It's very hard to look on our balance sheet and really decipher all the things that are going on because we have longer term balancing accounts and shorter term ones.
Sometimes the trends have to do with prior years and then you're reversing them.
Sometimes they have to do with what's going on in the current period and they amortize over different periods.
So I just think it's going to be a very difficult path to try to do analytics to figure out how that drives our financing needs.
And so I think that the easiest way to get to the big picture is to focus on year-over-year CapEx changes.
And obviously we've had the fines and penalties we're financing and those are a few of the key drivers.
Okay.
Last question is just for Tony.
Obviously you announced some management responsibility changes a few weeks ago.
Could you maybe talk a little bit in context of Chris leaving and then I'm not sure you're going to be there till you're 100.
So thoughts on kind of succession planning? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
When I came I said I thought it would be three years to five years.
Obviously with Chris' announcement things have changed.
What I am committed to is making sure that we have a strong leadership team in place.
I think with the changes that we announced a few weeks ago.
We've got some great leaders now in place going forward.
But I'm committed to make sure that we've got a good plan.
I continue to discuss that with our board.
Plus my wife and I like it here.
Sarah and I just bought a place here in San Francisco which I've got to move into later this week which I'm not looking forward to the move.
But I'm committed to making sure that we've got strong leadership to continue the momentum we've got in place.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr.
Fleishman.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning.
It's Julien here.
Hey Julien.
So first question just going back to tax issues.
In terms of the deductibility from any penalties could you talk to some of the proposed state legislations specifically the state taxes? Hi Julien this is Dinyar again.
So you're right that there was a proposal that was introduced in the California Legislature I think it was in the last week of June and what that would do would potentially disallow the deduction for the penalty for the San Bruno penalty for California tax purposes.
Right.
Do you have any sense of what that would be in terms of the total bill? I know that it's not the federal number it's the state number so it's also considerably smaller? Yeah yeah.
So on a really high level it's up to a $1.6 billion penalty; $300 million was a fine.
So that would not be deductible anyway and our state tax rate is roughly 10%.
Okay.
So it's fair to just take 10%? Yeah.
Got it.
And then going back to Leslie's question and trying to get a little bit more of a holistic understanding on how you're thinking about net energy metering and compensation as we go into the second stage or second round here.
Broadly is the thought process here to bring down compensation to the solar sector in tandem with the cost structure declines that we're seeing? I'm just kind of getting a sense as to how you're thinking about at least structurally approaching the question? Would there be some kind of or is the thought process devising some kind of tracker to bring down NEM over time? I know you can't exactly say what the NEM rate would be but just holistically how we think about that next year and in subsequent years? Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Yeah hi this is Steve Malnight from the Regulatory Affairs team.
I think Tony talked a little bit about the approach on NEM and I think you know it's important to recognize that the existing structure allows customers to get credits at a full retail rate.
I think it's been very successful in California in helping the solar market grow and advance.
And as we now look forward our goal would be to better balance both ensuring we have sustainable opportunities for solar to grow in the state which I think is an option customers want and that we think is a vital part of meeting the energy goals in the state and at the same time start to shift that – shift the way we structure our compensation for NEM customers.
So we'll be filing an updated tariff in the new proposal I think we'll see a lot of proposals from multiple parties and the commission will work through that and make that decision and we'll participate in that proceeding.
But nothing necessarily formulaic.
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> I think we'll have to see how all the different proposals come out I think there will be a lot and there will be opportunities for the commission to look for how we make changes now and into the future.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr.
Weinstein.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
You may proceed.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Real quick question for you – just one on slide 12 related to CapEx.
I want to make sure I understand this the $5.5 billion in 2015 and the range you give in 2016 that includes the funds you'll spend the $400 million in 2015 and $300 million in 2016 that will get disallowed? Michael this is Kent; that's correct.
Okay.
Second any update on the insurance recoveries in terms of what you think you might be able to recover or what you've requested for recovery versus what you've recovered to date.
I'm just trying to kind of think about that from a cash on cash impact? Michael we're not totally done with insurance recoveries but the vast majority of the claims are resolved at this point.
Got it.
And one final one when you get the GT&amp;S case and we get to February at the yearend earnings call and you think about giving 2016 guidance is your thought process you'll give a multiyear view at that stage? Michael we're still working through that on our end exactly what we're going to do for guidance next year.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Once again congrats.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you Mr.
Lapides.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Stephen.
Wanted to touch on the longer term in terms of you think about your total growth outlook in spending.
You obviously laid out a lot of interesting information in your filing about the long-term resource need.
At a high level as you think about the growth outlook that that provides you how do you think about that compared to historical levels of spend? What could be the key sort of up and down drivers that could take you lower than you expect or higher than you expect when we think about it's a little challenging given all the possible areas of spend in the future given all the greatest change I'm just curious if you could speak to that at a high level.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah as Kent said we're not giving future guidance yet.
But I think it's fair to say and we said this in the past that our capital investments going forward will be higher than our historic levels and consistent with what we've had in the last two or three years where we've been investing in our electric grid.
We've been investing in our gas system.
And while there are obviously going to be changes as we see particularly the Grid of Things develop and how fast we need to invest in the grid.
But I think you can – you will see a significant amount of capital investment going forward.
You can see that slide12 shows our estimate for 2016.
Beyond that I think we're going to see some things that are comparable to it and we'll talk as we get further out as to more specifics.
Understood.
And then shifting over to solar and thinking about the outlook there as you've looked at bill increases over time what have you been thinking of in turn as you think about the changes to your customers' bills what kind of growth in solar do you expect and what have you factored into your thinking on where the bill goes just given obviously that there is a shift in costs from the solar customers to the remaining customers? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me start off by saying one of the key focus areas that I've had since I've been here.
I talked about safety affordability clean safety reliability clean energy and affordability.
And so we have a very aggressive continuous improvement program in place and our teams are delivering on that to mitigate the cost of the investment.
But obviously given the capital investments that we're making we continue to see upward movement on our rates.
But we're sensitive to the subsidies that I think the net energy metering proposal that we'll make we'll try and bring more in line the amount we're paying for the solar that we're receiving in line with the value to the rest of the customers so that it reduces the subsidies.
But we continue to see very healthy growth of solar in California both at the utility scale and at the rooftop distributed generation to solar scale.
Steve I don't know if you want to add any more about to that.
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Tony I'll just say again I think that we've recognized throughout that solar is a vital part of achieving a lot of goals that California has for our energy policy.
We're supportive of that and as we do look at rate changes be it in the residential rates or in the NEM proceeding one of the goals is to make sure that solar can continue to grow sustainably.
And I think that's the goal and that's something we see going into the future.
Okay.
Understood.
And it sounds like you do continue to forecast in a fairly rapid growth in solar as you think about the overall customer bill but obviously you're going to try that modify how things are working to make it more rational and have costs bear things appropriately for solar? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well that's correct.
And then as I said before we've actually made progress on the rate structure.
So reducing the number of tiers from four to two is helpful and we'll continue to keep working the rate issue because I think everyone agrees that we need to get to more cost base rates in fact in the commission decision they reaffirmed the belief in cost based rates to just – we may have disagreements over how fast we get there.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Mr.
Byrd.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Bernstein Research.
You may proceed.
Hi.
I'd like to also follow up on some of the previous questions.
Especially what is your target for annual increases in the per kilowatt-hour rate and then the average customer bill.
You have a rate of increase relative to the rate of inflation that you would like to achieve? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Our target over the long-term is to track the rate of inflation for our rate increases.
Obviously it's chunky and we're on a three-year rate cycle with our GRC our General Rate Case and so you tend to see a spike up.
And then it slows down and then you get the next filing.
We will make our next GRC filing here this fall.
And that won't go into effect for more than a year.
So you see those kind of bumps.
But our long-range target is to get that those rate increases around the rate of inflation over a longer period of time.
Okay.
And then also following up on the prior discussion of the net energy metering case would it be possible for you to maybe just sketch out the positions that you believe will be put forward in that case? I'm interested in your views for example whether you believe that they'll be focused solely on a net energy metering construct? Or whether parties in the case will look to move in the direction of a value for energy supplied? Whether others will look for a feed-in tariff? Can you perhaps discuss where you think the different proposals will fall out? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm reluctant to speculate on what others are doing.
I think we'll probably see all of those things included in the various filings.
As I said before our focus is going to be on the value we get for electricity that is being supplied to us and getting it more aligned with the value to other customers.
But I'm sure we're going to see a range of proposals from the various parties.
But I can't speculate on exactly which ones.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Mr.
Wynne.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Orrill with Barclays.
You may proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up on slide 10.
You talked about essentially moving $100 million of shareholder impact is from the disallowed capital and pipeline safety expenses out into future periods.
Is it possible to lay out how that would track 2016 and beyond? This is Kent.
A you know because we discussed it on the last call all of our estimates here about timing and the actual costs we're incurring they're based on estimates because the PUC has not yet decided specifically which costs will account as safety related.
So we've been using our best estimates of which categories and this chart reflects that.
And based on our estimates we would expect that most of what you see there in estimated future periods is what would actually happened in 2016.
Again whether or not it plays out that way will largely depend on the final PUC determination of which ones count.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann with Mizuho.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning everyone.
A simple question following up on the dividend.
In 2016 do you think your GAAP earnings per share will exceed your current dividend level? Jim this is Kent.
We're not giving you a GAAP guidance for 2016.
So you can do that calculation yourself.
I tried.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
You may proceed.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Just a couple of quick questions.
On the felony case there's a story about you guys making efforts under statute of limitations basically that you guys are arguing that under the statute of limitation the whole bunch of these charges don't apply – or violations.
Could you elaborate on that and how much that might change the outcome of the course of the case if you guys succeed with that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'll let Hyun Park comment in a minute.
But between now and of course the scheduled trial date is next spring.
And obviously those sorts of things can change.
But between now and then you're going to see a lot of legal wrangling and the lawyers and the number of different motions filed but Hyun you want to comment on this one that we recently filed? Sure.
this past Monday we filed a motion based on statute of limitation and our request was that seven counts out of 28 counts should be dismissed on statute of limitation grounds.
And the seven counts all relate to record keeping.
And the motion is publicly available and if you'd like a copy we'd happy to send that to you.
Okay.
But then I mean in terms of – is there any way of estimating what the impact would be if that position was taken one-third of the request or maybe a little less would be taken away? So if we were to succeed it's seven counts out of 28 counts that would be dismissed.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And the penalty its $0.5 million per count.
Okay.
I got you.
And then the second thing that I'd like to ask is in the Safe Harbor disclosure I saw a new bullet point at least I don't remember seeing it before about the impact of the reductions in customer demand for electricity and natural gas have on the utility's ability to recover investments through rates and to earn its operating ROE et cetera.
Is there any reason why that showed up this quarter? Is there anything you could point to that why this is now an issue? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's a trend we've been seeing that electricity sales continue to be soft particularly here in California we've been so successful with our energy efficiency programs.
Of course now we're getting a large number of rooftop solar installations that are starting to get to be more than just trivial numbers and we've got 175 000 of them.
And as we look ahead we don't see electricity growth getting back to our historic levels.
And what that means because here in California of course in that we're fully decoupled our costs stay the same to operate the grid and the risk that we referred to here is that at some point you're going to be spreading those costs over a smaller number of kilowatt hours.
I mean that's precisely why we're looking at pushing hard on the rates reform we really need a 21st century rate design not a 19th century or 20th century.
And we thought given all of those trends it's appropriate to add that as a caveat but there is no one thing that contributed to it.
Okay.
So it's just still recognizing it trying to get it recognized for some time but like for whatever reason you guys decided to include it this time correct? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean the various factors have been developing and we just decided it's probably appropriate to start including this.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then finally there is a bunch of legislative initiatives concerning CPUC forum the administration of energy efficiency you guys know that more than I do and I won't list them.
But are there any – is there one or two bills that you think are particularly are of significance for investors that we should be perhaps paying more attention to or focusing on with respect to this or is there anything you'd like to comment on in terms of sort of the political environment that sort of that's separate from you guys to a certain degree now at this point.
It's not – it's migrated from San Bruno et cetera to other things.
Just in general I mean is there any legislative initiative or changes at the CPUC you think we should be thinking about? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I've learned in my four years not to predict what happens here in this horse race to the end of the legislative session.
You can never tell exactly what's going to come out of it.
But the one that we're really focused on is a bill called SB 350 which is focusing on the renewable portfolio standard issues.
And looking at whether we increase the renewable portfolio standard to 50% we are very actively involved in those discussions.
We're working with all of the legislative leaders to see what comes out of that.
And that's one I think you could be taking a look at as having some impact.
We are going to hit the 33% renewable standard by 2020.
And we know we can go above that 33%.
It's a matter of how fast we get there and also how much it would cost to get there.
And we're actively involved in those discussions.
Okay.
But on the CPUC reform legislation or efforts thereof is there any thoughts about what 660 or 825 might or might not mean? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I wouldn't want to handicap any of them right now.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
You may proceed.
Good morning.
Thank you.
On the transmission side in the TO-16 in that settlement is there anything in that settlement that would lead you to believe that it wouldn't be a rubberstamp type of approval from FERC anything debatable in there? Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> This is Steve Malnight again from Regulatory Affairs.
We feel it's a good settlement with multiple parties.
We submitted that to FERC and we'll just have to see how FERC processes that but.
I think we have good experience with FERC approving settlements.
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
And then just in general for TO17 and even perhaps TO16 amendment what's the risk of an ROE cut like we've seen in some other transmission areas? Well we are just filing TO17 today.
We're requesting $10.96 that includes a 50 basis point adder in our request.
And we have to go through the proceedings.
Okay.
Great.
Fair thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Feliks Kerman with Visium.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning.
My questions were previously answered.
Thank you.
Thank you.
There are currently no additional questions waiting from the phone lines.
All right great.
Thank you everyone.
Appreciate your participation today and have a safe day.
Thank you so much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for attending today's conference.
This now concludes our call.
Thank you and enjoy the rest of your day.
Our first question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jonathan.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> A quick question just on the CapEx and I guess therefore the rate base ranges.
Could you talk to what it is in the base the bottom-end of the range? Is that just authorized spending? And then the other things that you mentioned are what defines the shaded sections or is there some other way of being a little more clear about what exactly is in and out of the two pieces two different levels? So Jonathan this is Kent.
Let me kind of go through by parts of the business which really relate to the regulatory proceedings.
So for the electric and gas distribution and generation which is our General Rate Case the high end reflects the amounts that we've requested in the 2017 General Rate Case.
For gas transmission the high end in 2017 reflects the amount that we requested in the gas transmission rate case.
And then in 2018 and 2019 we've just kept that amount flat with the 2017 request.
And then for electric transmission which is our TO Case we've really only requested an amount through 2016 our TO17 case.
And so our 2017 through 2019 levels are flat at the 2016 request.
For the low end basically it's consistent with the low end that we've had out there already for 2016 across the board.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And how about your distributions resource plan for example? Where does that fit into this – the range? Is that in the high end or not? We did not have a specific ask in that proceeding but a lot of those types of investments for automating the system and so forth are included in our General Rate Case.
So those components are included in the overall ask and therefore in the overall range the upper end of the range.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So put simply if you got everything you've asked for in both of the big outstanding cases you would come in at the high end? That's correct.
And then of course we'll have updates because at some point we'll file another gas transmission case for beyond 2017 and we'll also file additional transmission owner cases for beyond 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Kent.
That was my question.
Thanks.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Can I just ask about with the El Niño concerns about the storms in the preparations there? How do you guys address cost recovery if you end up with some disproportionally high storm costs this year I guess next year? And how would that affect the numbers as we think about ongoing earnings estimates? This is Kent.
We do have the balancing account treatment in our current General Rate Case for major storms.
In addition for things like the wildfires we just had where – in cases where the Governor declares a disaster area we also have the ability to seek recovery through a catastrophic event memorandum account.
So there is a few different mechanisms that are in place in California.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I guess the next question Tony with the electric vehicle charging station decision it was kind of a deviation from what you guys seem have been messaged from the Governor as far as his priorities are concerned A how do think this is going to work out from meeting the Governor's rules on vehicles? But second when you look at the DRP is there a disconnect between the goals of the Governor and what the Commission's proving to be supportive of you guys investing in? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well obviously we thought that our initial proposal was totally consistent with the Governor's goals on electric vehicles.
I think the Commission felt it was overly aggressive and wants to phase it in and in terms of our spending estimates since it takes a while to gear up it really doesn't affect any of the numbers that Kent is talking about.
We just want to get the program up and running and we think that once we get it running we'll show that it's very well received and is consistent with the electric vehicle strategy in California.
So it was disappointing we didn't get the full green light but we're going to continue to work to get still a fairly aggressive program out there.
And then I guess just what it means as far as the pacing of DRP capital.
Is there going to be more of a test for each one of these new initiatives along the way rather than maybe a more wholesale buy in of what you need to do to accomplish the bigger state goals? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think as Kent just said a minute ago that the DRP capital is spread among the various regulatory cases.
So our General Rate Case has some of it in – and that's where it will be addressed and it's being addressed now.
We've submitted that case and it will go through the hearing process.
So I don't expect a separate rate making proceeding for DRP.
DRP expenditures will just be rolled into various other proceedings.
Okay.
And I guess one last question just with the Edison case where the manufacturing tax deductions are they're trying to slap them as a reduction in rate base and the next rate case to claw back those earnings.
How is that affecting you guys from maybe the way you're thinking about recognizing those earnings those benefits during this GRC process and if there was a precedent that the Commission was pulling those back would you guys need to change how you're recognizing them in your numbers? Hi Dan.
This is Dinyar Mistry the Controller.
We've taken a look at the Edison PD and we think that our situation is different from Edison.
We just filed our 2017 GRC so prospectively the Commission will consider our request over there.
But at this point in time we don't anticipate changing our treatment.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
So first of all Kent I guess an early good-bye.
We will miss you.
Secondly on the similar question regarding the Edison PD on their GRC.
Is there any policy issues there that concern you at all relative to your case? The major issue we've seen has been the repairs issue which Dinyar just addressed and we do think we are in a little bit different situation.
That's the biggest one that we've been watching.
Great.
And then the – maybe just on the criminal case.
I know there has been a lot of activity.
Can you maybe just give us an update on whether any of the allegations have been thrown out at this point and do we still have some kind of trial in March of next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Tony.
Let me start off and then I'll let Hyun jump in.
Those of you who have been involved in major litigations this is just the pre-trial motions stage there is a lot of activity going on there will continue to be more activity leading up to the trial.
The trial is still scheduled for next spring.
We'll see what happens as we get closer to it but Hyun why don't you comment on where we are.
Yeah.
So Steve we did file a number of motions and all the motions have been submitted to the Judge so we're just waiting for the Judge to issue his ruling on our motions.
Okay.
Great.
And then on the GT&amp;S case I know there is oral arguments today but in terms of – is any relevant updates there in terms of potential outcomes we should be aware of? Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Hi this is Steve Malnight from Reg Affairs.
Really we don't have any additional updates timing still looks like next year for the case.
We'll look forward to the oral argument later today.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hi guys.
Congratulations Kent by the way.
Thanks Mike.
Hey when do you guys think you will be in a position to discuss 2016 guidance and dividend policy? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well that's something that we look at every time I'm with my board of directors.
We discussed that dividend policy.
We've not tied it to any specific outcome at the Commission what we are focusing on is what is the right time to address that.
I'm well aware that our investors have been very patient on this.
We're committed to getting our dividend in line with our peers but it's got to be at the right time and we continue to assess that.
In terms of timing of guidance I'd just say we're looking towards hopefully getting back in a regular rhythm with guidance.
And I'd like to think we'll be in a position to do that in the first quarter.
Great.
And just one follow-up question on the repairs deduction issue.
Can you just refresh how are you guys treating it and how – is there any simple way to explain why your situation is different than the Edison's? Yeah.
This is Dinyar again.
So the rate making for repairs is that customer rates are reduced for taxes that aren't currently paid to the IRS.
That's the fundamental principle of the flow through rate making and to the extent that there is a forecast difference between what was in the rate case and what actually occur during that rate case period up or down that forecast difference affects the bottom line.
I would say the primary difference between us and the Edison Case is that in the Edison PD it's indicated that its previous GRC request was based on a different methodology for calculating the tax repairs than was actually applied during that period.
But for us we've applied the same methodology for our actuals that we used to develop the forecast and so I think that's probably the key difference.
That's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Yeah guys.
Just curious when you think about longer-term do you expect to be a company that winds up growing earnings kind of in pace with rate base growth? Is there anything structural that can make it something different than that over time? Michael this is Kent.
I think at the levels of rate base growth and CapEx frankly that we are having right now they do require some equity issuance.
And so generally you'll see earnings grow with rate base but you'd have to net out whatever equity issuance you need to support that level of CapEx.
At lower levels you could see that but we're at higher levels and I do think that requires some level of equity issuance.
Got it.
Okay.
Second Tony you made the comment about you talked to the board about dividend and dividend policy.
Can you dive a little bit into the – when you think about dividend policy are we talking a payout ratio a growth rate a dividend yield target relative to the peer group? I'm just going to think about what are the metrics you and the board are looking at when you all have the discussions about dividend policy.
This is Kent.
I'll just say generally probably the primary metric we look at is payout ratio.
We look at the industry and it's pretty nicely clumped.
So it's pretty easy to see where the industry is and we're a bit below that.
And so that's the primary issue we'll be addressing.
Got it.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Much appreciated.
Hi.
Thank you.
Two questions.
One I was just wondering if you might bring us up to date on any developments that could shed light on potential outcomes of the Gas Distribution Records OII? And then similarly whether there been any developments with respect to the CAL FIRE investigation into the origins of the Butte bush fire? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah let me comment on the CAL FIRE.
Their investigation is ongoing we're cooperating with it we don't have any updates.
Traditionally those investigations take quite some time because it's hard because all the evidence is burned up.
So it takes a lot of work to figure out exactly what happened.
With respect to other proceedings Steve you – I don't think we have any updates there.
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> No we don't really have any updates on the OII.
We saw the SED filing as was mentioned earlier we'll file our rebuttal testimony in November and then we'd expect hearings on that in January first part of the year.
Great.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
Question on dividend going back to that.
Given some of the changes that will take place in the C-Suite over the next 12 months does that to some degree make you think that you ought to maintain flexibility on the dividend until the next set of C-Suite executives comes in or does that not factor into your thinking about how you think about the timing of a dividend policy going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think it has any connection at all to dividend policy.
Dividend policy is based upon our financial situation and our assessment of what's going on on the regulatory front and doesn't have anything to do with the C-Suite changes.
Okay.
Understood.
Secondly on the cost of capital mechanism and the proceedings that will come up next year it seems like mechanically the numbers are shaping out where an extension perhaps may not be too difficult of a suggestion to different stakeholders.
I guess what I'm wondering is are you aware of any issues out there that may prevent some of the stakeholders from wanting to consider an extension of the current mechanism any issues that may need to be worked through that could prevent that and instead make a full-blown cost of capital proceeding take place? Brian this is Kent.
So as you alluded to the normal process would have us file a cost of capital application next spring and that would be for rates effective January 2017.
And I think what you are alluding to I think everybody knows that last year we and the other parties all agreed to extend the existing cost of capital as well as trigger mechanism by one year.
And so the question is will that happen again this year.
And I'd just say we are open to exploring that again given that as you said forecast bond rates haven't changed all that much since the proceeding was originally litigated but whether or not that occurs depends on the extent to which all the parties are able to reach agreement.
So I guess at this point you're not aware of any specific issues that may cause one or two of the stakeholders to say we really ought to revisit this despite the mathematics looking fairly similar versus last year? Brian if I were I wouldn't be talking about it with investors.
Understood.
And then lastly there has been a lot of consolidation happening in the industry.
If Tony you could give just your quick thoughts on consolidation how you think about it in the industry here.
A lot of your peers have been using their balance sheets and I think it's safe to say that the California utilities are in a much better balance sheet position than others.
Just your latest thoughts there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean generally we don't comment on specifics on M&amp;A opportunities.
I will say one interesting observation though is everyone is buying a gas company we've already got 4.5 million gas customers.
I think we're in a pretty good shape.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
You mentioned that as you get out to 2017 and 2018 your forecast for rate base on – your forecast includes flat assumptions for the gas and electric transmission.
Is there maybe since you are going to update it at some point is there a better modeling assumption that we might use? Or with those updates maybe get you to the higher end of rate base growth that you are thinking about? This is Kent.
We've just done that because it's a fairly mechanical way to do it and we don't want to call future cases that we've not yet filed so but you can apply judgment to it you can look at our historic track record what we've done over the last few years adjust that.
Whatever you think is appropriate we just try to keep it simple and objective when we present it to you for your consideration.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Thank you for taking my follow-up.
Real quick on the rate base chart or exhibit slide 12 that still excludes the incremental CWIP that actually generates some earnings.
I think that is the number of around $1 billion $1.7 billion $1.8 billion somewhere in that range.
You have commented historically that that earnings from CWIP while not in rate base would largely be offset by corporate costs that aren't recoverable in rates.
Do you still see that trend or is there the potential to manage some of those corporate costs down over time? This is Kent again.
No I think nothing has really changed there.
I think that's a reasonable assumption to make going forward.
I think I've said several times a lot of the stuff we do that is below the line is really important to the longer-term success of the company and our financials.
It includes our advertising a lot of our charitable contribution just bread and butter for a utility and we're going to continue to make those necessary investments.
Got it.
Thank you Kent.
Once again congratulations.
Thanks Michael.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Going back to the long-term outlook for CapEx and that discussion what is the impact from SB 350? How long out and is that included in any kind of near-term CapEx or GRC? Just your thoughts around that.
Well SB 350 really one of the primary components of it is the RPS requirements in the state.
And generally we have already been on track to meet the 33% RPS this would now take us to 50% eventually.
We do that primarily through long-term contracting.
So it doesn't have a direct implication for our own CapEx which are primarily our distribution and transmission businesses.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Although I will add one place we may see some opportunities is in additional transmission out there.
We've been successful in the competitive transmission bidding process here in California in the last couple of years we continue to intend to stay involved in that process.
But all of that is outside any of the years that we've been showing on the slides because recall that the current 33% is a 2020 objective.
And so the new SB 350 requirements will start showing up in the 2020s and you'd see transmission in that timeframe.
So I think the only conclusion you can draw is given California's commitment to a clean energy environment it's going to require the utilities to have continued investment to upgrade the system.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then different subject what is your appetite right now for ex-California outside of California or unregulated type of investments? Obviously the SolarCity moves you have made here seem to be a pullback on that front.
What's your thoughts and appetites for that unregulated type of investment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We continue to look at those opportunities.
I think I've said this before the California affiliate rules make it very difficult to start from scratch because there is – it's very hard to take your utility expertise and without taking them away from the utility and moving into a totally separate company and they can't even talk to their colleagues back at the old business it's hard to justify when we've got so many growth opportunities in the utility right now.
Okay great.
Appreciate the thoughts.
All right.
This is Janet again.
I want to thank everyone for joining us and we hope you have a safe day.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good afternoon and welcome to the PG&amp;E 2015 Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines will be muted during the presentation portions of our call with an opportunity for questions and answers at the end.
At this time I'd like to turn over to our host Janet Loduca.
Thank you and enjoy your conference.
You may proceed.
Thank you Matt and thanks to those of you on the phone for joining us.
Before I turn it over to Tony Earley I want to remind you that our discussion today will include forward-looking statements about our outlook for future financial results which is based on assumptions forecasts expectations and information currently available to management.
Some of the important factors that could affect the company's actual financial results are described on the second page of today's slide deck.
We also encourage you to view the 2015 annual report that will be filed with the SEC later today and the discussion of the risk factors that appears there.
With that I'll hand it over to Tony.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well thank you Janet.
Hello everyone thanks for joining us today.
2015 was a really strong year for us both operationally and financially.
We continue to improve the safety and reliability of our gas and electric systems while delivering really solid financial results.
Our earnings from operations in 2015 were $3.12 a share which is slightly ahead of our guidance range.
So I'm going to spend a few minutes reviewing the operational and regulatory progress we've made and then I'm going to turn it over to Jason Wells to review our financial results in more detail.
We continue to believe that focusing on three key areas positioning the company for a clean energy economy delivering on customer expectations and addressing outstanding issues will provide the foundation for operational and financial success.
So let me start with how we're positioning the company for a clean energy economy.
PG&amp;E continues to be a recognized leader in supporting the nation's goals around clean energy.
In December several PG&amp;E team members and I joined Governor Brown for the Global Climate Summit in Paris.
We participated in a number of events and panels where we shared the actions PG&amp;E and California are taking to reduce carbon emissions advance clean energy technologies and spur economic growth.
We were very proud to represent the California utility perspective at such a significant global forum.
In 2015 nearly 30% of PG&amp;E's electric deliveries came from qualifying renewable resources and even more meaningfully nearly 60% of the energy that we delivered was carbon free.
We know that as our energy mix continues to evolve so do the needs of our electric grid.
To deliver on California's low carbon future we need to continue investing in a smarter more resilient grid and we need to ensure that rate structures are keeping up with these changes.
Although we didn't make as much progress on rate reform last year as we would have liked the Commission has started to address the issues through flattening our residential tiers and moving towards mandatory time-of-use rates and they've committed to review the rate structure again in 2019.
We look forward to continuing to work with all the parties to develop the appropriate rate structure to meet our customers' changing needs.
Turning to customer expectations on the electric side of the business last year we delivered a seventh straight year of improved electric reliability.
Our outage duration and frequency are now in the second quartile for the industry.
We also delivered first quartile performance in both our 911 Emergency Response and our wire down metrics.
On the gas side of the business we delivered top decile emergency response performance and broke ground on a new state-of-the-art gas training facility which we expect to open in 2017.
We're also the first company in the United States to be certified in meeting the American Petroleum Institute's Recommended Practice 1173 which is a new standard related to pipeline safety and safety culture.
We now have three external certifications recognizing the quality of our gas asset management and safety culture programs.
We also continue to make progress towards resolving our outstanding issues.
I'm pleased to report that we've closed out another one of the NTSB's recommendations by installing more than 200 automated and remote shut-off valves across our gas transmission system and we're well on the way to completing the final recommendation to strength test nearly 1 000 miles of transmission pipe.
In an important step forward the Commission has officially closed out the San Bruno investigation.
We've also completed hearings in the gas distribution record-keeping investigation and we look forward to resolution of that case this year.
In the criminal proceeding we received some positive rulings from the court late last year that narrowed the scope of the case.
Most significantly the court dismissed the government's Alternative Fines Act claim based on alleged losses.
The court is still considering whether to allow the government to proceed with an Alternative Fines Act claim based on alleged gains.
That determination will be made after the first phase of the trial where the government will have to prove that PG&amp;E employees knowingly and willfully violated the law.
We continue to believe that the evidence just does not support the charges.
So to sum up we had a really strong year in 2015 and we're committed to making additional progress in 2016.
Before I turn it over to Jason I want to reconfirm that we expect to address the dividend in 2016.
I'm committed to doing that this year although I don't have any specifics on timing for you yet.
I'm excited to continue to work with Jason in his new role as CFO.
He has been working closely with our finance and operational teams for a number of years so he knows the company extremely well and he provides a wealth of experience and will be instrumental in helping us move forward.
So Jason welcome and let me hand it over to you to discuss our financials.
Thank you Tony and hello everyone.
I've enjoyed meeting many of you already and I look forward to meeting more of you this spring.
I'll begin my remarks today by going through our Q4 and full year 2015 result and then I'll provide some insights regarding our 2016 outlook.
Slide five shows our 2015 results for Q4 and the full-year.
We had solid results in 2015 coming in slightly above our guidance range for the year due to some smaller positive miscellaneous items.
Earnings from operations came in at $0.50 for the quarter and $3.12 for the year.
GAAP earnings including the items impacting comparability are also shown here.
All items impacting comparability came in within our guidance ranges.
Pipeline-related expenses came in at $39 million pre-tax for the quarter and $103 million pre-tax for the year.
Our legal and regulatory-related expenses were $14 million pre-tax for the quarter and $58 million pre-tax for the year.
Fines and penalties were $137 million pre-tax for the quarter and $907 million pre-tax for the year.
The Q4 amount represents our estimate of the disallowed capital work coming out of the final San Bruno Penalty Decision which we are accruing as we complete that work.
Finally our annual results show insurance recoveries of $49 million pre-tax.
As we mentioned last quarter we have now resolved all insurance claims related to San Bruno recovering a total of $515 million.
Slide six shows our quarter-over-quarter comparison from earnings from operations of $0.53 in Q4 last year and $0.50 in Q4 this year.
You've seen most of these drivers in previous quarters so I'll cover them briefly.
The biggest item a decrease of $0.10 is associated with lower cost recovery in 2015 because we did not receive a decision in the Gas Transmission rate case during the year.
So we incurred those expenses but did not collect the associated revenues.
Next a nuclear refueling outage in the fourth quarter drove a $0.05 decrease over the same period last year.
There was a penny for regulatory and legal matters and $0.02 negative resulting from additional shares quarter-over-quarter.
These negative drivers were partially offset by three positive items; first we had $0.05 of growth in rate base earnings; second timing of taxes was also a small positive for the quarter and for the full year as we've said this item nets to zero; and finally we had $0.09 of smaller miscellaneous items.
For the full-year this line netted to $0.02 positive.
More detail around the annual results is available in the appendix of today's slide deck.
Moving to slide seven.
Today we're introducing guidance for 2016 earnings from operations of $3.65 to $3.85 per share.
We're also providing ranges for items impacting comparability which I'll come back to in a minute.
First I want to cover the assumptions behind the guidance on slide eight.
Starting in the upper left corner you'll see we are assuming capital expenditures of roughly $5.6 billion this year.
The breakdown by line of business is also included.
Importantly the gas transmission line assumes a range of $500 million to $700 million for the year and as you know we're still waiting on a proposed decision in that rate case.
This range includes about $300 million of safety related capital expenditures that we estimate will be disallowed as part of the CPUC's Penalty Decision last year.
In the upper right of the slide you'll see that our estimate of weighted average authorized rate base is about $32.6 billion for the year.
Both the CapEx and rate base assumptions are consistent with ranges we've previously provided.
In the lower left you'll see that we continue to assume a CPUC authorized equity ratio of 52% and a return on equity of 10.4% which we now have certainty on through 2017.
Finally at the bottom right we list some other factors we believe will affect 2016 earnings from operations.
Our objective is to earn the authorized return on rate base for the enterprise as a whole plus the net impact of the factors listed here.
Many of these probably look familiar to you from 2015 so I'll cover them briefly.
In terms of the Gas Transmission rate case the first bullet highlights a key assumption underlining our guidance which is that we will receive a reasonable outcome in the case this year.
The second bullet is a reminder that we haven't sought cost recovery for certain corrosion control and strength testing work in the Gas Transmission rate case.
We previously indicated these operating expenses should average a total of roughly $50 million annually over the three-year rate case period although the amount may vary year-to-year.
Next is the tax benefits associated with the repairs deduction.
The net impact of this continues to be roughly $0.25 per share in 2016.
The last item is incentive revenues for things like our customer energy efficiency programs.
Finally we continue to expect earnings on construction work in progress to be roughly offset by our below the line costs which include advertising charitable contributions some environmental costs and other items.
One more point before I move to the next slide.
Since we do not yet have a proposed decision in the Gas Transmission rate case we do not expect a final decision until at least the second quarter.
So while the timing should not affect our annual earnings from operations in 2016 it will continue to have an impact on our cash flows and quarterly results as you saw last year.
In 2015 that impact was roughly $0.60.
Now turning to slide nine the guidance for the items impacting comparability is $565 million to $665 million pre-tax.
You can see that most of these categories are consistent with last year pipeline-related expenses legal and regulatory related expenses and fines and penalties.
We will also have a new positive category relating to the 2015 portion of revenues from the Gas Transmission rate case.
We expect a final decision in the case this year with revenues retroactive to January 2015.
Since we'll be booking two year's worth of revenues in 2016 we'll pull out the 2015 portion as an item impacting comparability once we get that final decision.
The estimated range for pipeline-related expenses is $100 million to $150 million pre-tax.
This component relates to clearing our pipeline rights of way.
We are entering the fourth year of that program which we've estimated will not exceed $500 million from its start in 2013 through its planned completion in 2017.
The second component is legal and regulatory related expenses which we estimate to be between $25 million and $75 million pre-tax for the year.
This component represents costs incurred in connection with enforcement regulatory and litigation activities regarding natural gas matters and regulatory communications.
The third component is potential fines and penalties again related to natural gas matters or regulatory communications.
As you can see in the table at the bottom of the page our 2016 guidance of $440 million pre-tax for fines and penalties reflects our estimate of the remaining portion of the $850 million of safety related spending that the Commission disallowed as part of the San Bruno Penalty Decision last year.
This range does not include any other potential fines or penalties.
And last we have the new positive item for 2015 Gas Transmission revenues which we'll update after we receive a decision in that case.
Turning to slide 10.
We assume equity issuance of $600 million to $800 million in 2016.
That compares to equity issuance last year of right about $800 million.
The 2016 range reflects a number of assumptions including the timing and amount of revenues we will receive in the Gas Transmission rate case.
Moving to slides 11 and 12 we're providing updated CapEx and rate base ranges through 2019.
First on slide 11 as I mentioned earlier we're estimating about $5.6 billion in CapEx in 2016.
This is a little higher than the $5.4 billion we spent in 2015.
As you'll recall we had to defer some of our planned work last year due to wildfire response.
For 2017 through 2019 the $6.5 billion high-end of the range is the same as you saw last quarter.
As a reminder the high-end reflects the full request in our pending rate cases which are the 2017 through 2019 General Rate Case.
The 2015 through 2017 Gas Transmission rate case and the electric transmission TO17 rate case.
And for the outer years of the gas and electric transmission rate cases where we have not yet filed a request we've kept the high end of the range flat with our current request.
At the low end of the range we simply assume that capital expenditures through 2019 stay flat with 2015 spending of $5.4 billion.
Slide 12 shows our estimated rate base levels from 2016 through 2019.
Next week we will formally update our 2017 General Rate Case forecast to reflect the impact of the recent five-year extension of bonus appreciation.
The ranges shown here incorporate that update.
Before I go into the numbers I want to briefly discuss the impact of bonus depreciation on rate base and earnings per share.
While bonus depreciation results in higher deferred taxes which lowers rate base it also reduces our equity needs.
So while bonus depreciation has a noticeable impact on rate base it has a small impact on earnings per share because of the lower equity needs.
In 2016 bonus depreciation will not impact rate base because we are already in a net operating loss position through the end of the year.
In fact we now expect to be in NOL at the enterprise level through 2019.
However we are also required to perform separate NOL calculations for each of our rate cases.
As you know we've had significant unrecovered costs in our Gas Transmission business which has contributed to the enterprise level NOL.
But when we look at the lines of business covered by our General Rate Case which are our electric and gas distribution and electric generation businesses we do not expect to be in an NOL position beyond 2016.
As a result bonus depreciation will impact our rate base request in the GRC beginning in 2017.
The cumulative impact of bonus depreciation in 2019 is a rate base reduction of approximately $1 billion at the low end of the range and about $1.5 billion at the high end of the range compared to the guidance we provided in Q3.
There is a smaller impact in 2017 and 2018.
The majority of that relates to the 2017 through 2019 General Rate Case.
A smaller amount of that reduction relates to the electric transmission assets which are covered by our FERC Transmission Owner rate case.
The result is rate base grows at a compound annual growth rate of 5% to 7% from 2017 through 2019.
And again because bonus depreciation also reduces our equity needs that mitigates the impact on future earnings per share.
To help you with this we're providing a simple rule of thumb to estimate the net impact on earnings per share from both the reduction in authorized rate base and the lower equity needs.
On the margin a $500 million reduction in authorized rate base equates to roughly $0.02 in earnings per share.
One last note on CapEx and rate base before I open it up for questions.
Remember that the high-end of our CapEx range reflects only our currently filed rate cases.
So there is some potential upside as we file future rate cases.
Let me close by saying that I'm happy to be in the CFO role and I look forward to working with all of you.
This is an exciting time for PG&amp;E as we continue to see strong growth driven by California's policies and our focus on enhancing safety and reliability.
With that let's open up the lines for questions.
And our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Hey good morning you guys.
Jason just kind of going back in this bonus depreciation discussion a little bit.
So you guys will adjust the rate base as the slides show for the treatment at the Utility level but you will not be able to recover the cash until you get out of your NOL position at the corporate level? Right again yes that's a fair assumption.
So how do you get net cash in to avoid the equity issuance if you're not going to be able to generate more cash kind of in this interim three-year rate planning cycle? It's already factored in in the guidance that we provided the impact is really small in 2017 and 2019.
So it's really the 2019 period to concentrate on.
When you would actually start getting more bonus cash or perpetuate the cash tax position? That's correct.
Okay.
So the equity issuance kind of the $600 million base line the blue bar in the slides for 2016 and then you have the shaded area for contingencies.
Is that $600 million become the ongoing run rate number as your expectation in this guidance or does that number come down? We're not giving longer term equity guidance beyond 2016 but what I'll point to is the two main drivers of our equity needs and that really has been our strong CapEx profile which we've given you ranges where you can make your own assumption.
The second driver has been our need to finance our unrecovered costs.
One of the biggest drivers in 2016 for that unrecovered cost is financing the remainder of the San Bruno Penalty Decision which will be completed here in 2016.
In the past what we have said is that and as a quick reminder we've talked about the fact that our gas transmission right-of-way program will extend into 2017.
That was a five-year program that we said will not exceed $500 million and will end in 2017.
We've also said that we're not seeking approximately $50 million a year in certain costs as part of the Gas Transmission rate case.
So that will extend into 2017.
So you'll need to make your assumptions around these sort of unrecovered factors but that's what I would principally concentrate on as the drivers for our longer term equity needs.
Okay.
And I guess as Tony I know the board is going to consider the dividend as normal course but what factors do you think you and the board are looking at to help find a place where you're going to be comfortable to address the dividend things we can kind of follow along to think this will check off some boxes to get more comfortable? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Dan.
I think there are a couple of things to think about.
One is we don't want this to be a one-off decision.
So we want to make sure it's sustainable.
Second as you look at the changes that are going on in the Utility business we don't want to look backward at what historical payouts have been but we want to try and figure out what our companies – what ranges are companies going to use in the future and we'll be looking to then get ourselves in a comparable range so we're trying to figure that out.
And then the third thing on timing is obviously we still have a lot of things going on and we want to make sure that we don't make the change at a time that would not be appropriate given all the things that are going on.
So I think we are looking at all of those things.
I think the principal thing is making sure that our decision is sustainable.
And I guess Tony just on that payout ratio it seems like the industry has dropped the payout ratio over the last five years to 10 years.
Is that suggesting that you think the current level is where dividends should be or are you going more to the camp of say Duke today who talked about a payout ratio structurally higher than that 60% level? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think you're right the payout ratios have come down I mean years ago when I started this business 80% was considered where you ought to be and that obviously has come down.
And so we want to try and anticipate where things are going to be and what's appropriate.
So we'll be trying to sort that out and our board has asked for a number of different analyses but clearly we want to get ourselves to where we're comparable with some of our fellow utilities that are out there.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Hi guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Hey good morning.
I was wondering if you could comment a little bit more about the impact of the distribution rate plan DRP plan on possible increasing the CapEx forecast going forward and offsetting some of that bonus depreciation impact.
As well just wondering how much spending are you planning on doing under the rider that you currently have in between rate case? Yeah.
So a couple of questions there as it relates to the DRP I wouldn't necessarily look to that as a separate source of incremental capital.
As we said in the past our plans around modernizing our electric grid are incorporated in that 2017 through 2019 rate case and are reflected already in the CapEx that we filed.
As it relates to the mechanism something to consider there that regulatory mechanism which we call TAMA has really allowed us to spend additional capital previously to offset the extension of bonus.
That was really intended to address situations where the extension occurred after a rate case decision not when it's extended before the decision as it is in this case.
So that mechanism isn't necessarily analogous to the situation we have here.
Got you.
And another question about the time-of-use rates and the recent approval of Net metering rules.
Just wondering if is it possible that the time-of-use rates might actually make Net metering less valuable to solar players in your jurisdiction? I'm just wondering what you think the impact of time-of-use might have on solar growth in your jurisdiction? Regulatory Affairs PG&amp;E Corp.</span></strong> Hi this is Steve Malnight from regulatory affairs.
Let me comment quickly on that.
I do think there are several components of what we feel the rate structures need to move towards in the future and time-of-use rates is one of them.
So we were pleased to see in the NEM decision that we will be moving solar customers to time-of-use rate.
It's not the silver bullet that solves all the problems and in total that NEM decision we feel didn't really go far enough in addressing the issues that are caused by subsidization that happens with the NEM rate.
So we'll continue to look at that decision.
The Commission did decide that they will be revisiting it in 2019.
And I would just remind you between now and 2019 we have a lot of changes that are happening in base rates in California with collapsing of the tiers and with the potential to move customers all customers to time-of-use rate.
So we'll look forward to that conversation in 2019 as well.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Hugh Wynne with Bernstein.
Hi.
Thank you for taking the question.
Just going into page six and the quarter-over-quarter comparison the miscellaneous items this year of this quarter of $0.09 are equivalent to almost 20% of the Q4 earnings.
Just wondering if you can give us a little more clarity as to what the bigger items are in that if possible.
Sure.
Thanks Hugh.
Just as a quick reminder for the year miscellaneous items is at roughly about $0.02.
And so what I'll say is miscellaneous items generally have a number of factors both timing and non-timing related.
A couple of the things that have driven the Q4 results were higher gas transmission revenues as a result of the colder weather we experienced in the fourth quarter as well as we experienced some favorable settlements and employee benefit costs during that quarter which are reflected in those numbers.
But again these are really timing items and over the course of the year they netted out to a small amount.
Great.
And then on the item on the right the $0.10 GT&amp;S cost recovery item those are basically increased GT&amp;S costs that you've not been able to recover due to the delay in any revenue increase being granted in the case.
There's nothing in that number for rate base growth and return on equity associated with your request in the case right? That is excluded here.
That's correct.
That $0.10 really relates to our operating expenses for which we're not receiving recovery through the GT&amp;S rate case because of the delay in the decision.
But the full impact on a quarter basis is roughly $0.15 when you include the lack of return on rate base depreciation et cetera.
As I mentioned it's a total of roughly $0.60 for the full year is the full impact of not having the GT&amp;S decision.
$0.50 including the rate base growth and return on equity.
$0.15 for the quarter includes both the unrecovered costs of which that's $0.10 and then $0.05 is roughly the impact of the lack of the rate base return.
Okay.
And the number for the year of $0.50 is that right or did I miss hear? I'm sorry $0.60.
And that's including both as well.
That's right.
Okay.
And then Tony I wonder if I could just ask you for a quick update on where we stand in the distribution safety records case what we should be anticipating there what downside risk there might be and to the extent that there is any new information that's worth bringing out on the federal indictment or the investigation into the Bush (sic) [Butte] fire I'd appreciate that as well.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
We'll walk through those and I may hand off some of them for some more detail.
The distribution records cases it's in process there has been testimony given in the case.
So we've got a consultant's report and in a minute I'll let Steve Malnight just comment on exactly where that is.
With respect to the criminal case the trial has been pushed back to the end of March.
We continue to believe that there is no basis to conclude that any PG&amp;E employee willfully violated the Pipeline Safety Act and we are proceeding on that basis.
Obviously when it goes to trial there's going to be negative publicity but we still firmly believe that we've got a solid case there going forward.
And then you had one other case...
The Bush (sic) [Butte] fire.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah the Bush (sic) [Butte] fire.
Let me ask Geisha to comment on that.
Electric PG&amp;E Corp.</span></strong> Hi Hugh this is Geisha.
So as we've previously reported CAL FIRE is investigating whether in fact a live tree made contact with some of our power lines in the vicinity and near the ignition point.
It's a very detailed investigation it's continuing and we haven't heard anything additional.
So we really don't have any further updates at this point obviously cooperating with them providing them lots of information and we're hopeful that we'll hear something soon but our experience shows that this could take a while.
Okay.
Then just a quick follow up on that.
Tony remind us of the maximum amount of the penalty that the government could now seek on the federal indictment and whether – and if you have any guidance similar guidance on the safety distribution records case I'd appreciate that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Let me let Hyun Park comment on where we are now on the penalty.
Yeah hi Hugh.
So the court issued an order late last year basically eliminating the loss based Alternative Fines Act allegation.
So it could have been up to $1.13 billion and that fine possibility has now been eliminated.
So the other question that's under consideration right now is whether or not the Alternative Fines Act allegation based on gross gains can be admitted.
And the court just recently deferred decision on that and basically said that the court wants to see how the case comes in and if the company is convicted and if the alternative gains evidence is not going to unduly complicate the trial then the court will bifurcate the trial and consider that at the second phase.
What's the max there? That's $562 million so that's what's been deferred.
But you have to also recall that the court dismissed 15 counts so we're now down to 13 counts and if you don't have the Alternative Fines Act allegations that come in and if the government doesn't prevail on that then each count has a fine of $500 000.
So 13 counts would amount to $6.5 million.
Great.
And any similar guidance on the safety records case or is that not possible? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah let me let Steve comment on that safety records case.
Regulatory Affairs PG&amp;E Corp.</span></strong> So on the distribution records OII this is Steve Malnight again.
As Tony said we concluded the hearings in January.
I think we had good and successful hearings in that case.
So the case is now concluded.
I would just highlight a few things I think it's worth noting that even in SED's testimony they acknowledged that PG&amp;E has made a lot of improvements in our distribution record keeping and commended us for some extensive use of internal and external audits.
And we had the opportunity through the hearings to really comment about a number of the industry best practices that we've been implementing including our efforts our multi-year efforts to consolidate and digitize gas distribution records providing crews in the field with additional tools including electronic maps and tablets and really multiple layers of safety protections in place when we do work in the field.
So we thought that getting those things out was a successful conclusion to that case.
The next steps just to highlight for you next week we expect parties to file with – they'll be filing – sorry they'll be filing opening briefs next week including SED's so we'll see what that says.
And I guess just the last reminder is that we already were fined for the Carmel incident so we'll see what comes out after that remains.
Carmel was how big? Regulatory Affairs PG&amp;E Corp.</span></strong> That fine was $10.8 million.
Great.
Thank you for your time.
I appreciate that very much.
Next question comes from the line of Chris Turnure with JPMorgan.
Hi guys.
I just wanted to follow up on the criminal trial question and maybe you guys could elaborate on the timing there and the different scenarios of what could play out.
Are you saying that the gross gains fine could potentially be thrown out by the judge or is it just best case scenario there would be kind of together with the current trial as opposed to separated out into a separate proceeding and kind of in all of those cases what would we look at in terms of changes to the calendar? Yeah.
So this is Hyun Park again.
The court has not decided whether to admit the gross gains evidence.
So that's still under consideration.
So the trial is scheduled to start on the 22nd of March and barring any further continuance the parties have submitted an estimate and the estimate that's been submitted is that it may take approximately six weeks four weeks for the prosecution and two weeks for the defense but that's I think a very rough estimate at this point.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is Tony.
One other thing on the issue around the Alternative Fines because it's a criminal case it has to be proven beyond a reasonable doubt.
And I have trouble figuring how there would be any gain shown in fact the company sustained huge losses as a result of that.
So the suggestion that they're going to be able to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the company had $500 million in gains resulting from San Bruno it's hard for me to understand.
Okay.
And they could still kind of throw out the idea that there was $550 million of gains but still prove you guys guilty of having a deliberate attempt to thwart the law to achieve gains.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well they have to prove that first that's the first step is that they would have to prove that there was a willful and deliberate violation of the law that somebody decided I know what the law is but I'm just going to violate it anyway and then you don't even get to the alternative gains consideration unless you get that.
And then they would have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the number was the number whatever number they want to push.
Okay.
Got you.
And then what would be the potential final I guess jury decision point here in terms of when that would occur and then is there still I guess a chance on this point in the process for a settlement to occur? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me comment on the settlement.
I mean we're always open to a settlement if someone wants to make an offer.
We've made efforts in the past that haven't gone anywhere but we'd be open to it.
But Hyun why don't you comment on the timing that you think...
Yeah.
So I gave you the current estimate of how long the trial might take.
And then of course it's a question of how long it takes for the jury to deliberate and reach a decision.
And I can't tell you how long that will take.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But given a late March start you'd be looking at some time in probably the May timeframe.
Okay.
And then my second question relates to the GT&amp;S ALJ decision and final decision whenever that may kind of finally come here.
Is there a way that we can think about different buckets of CapEx that you have requested here and any kind of color into how those could come out in terms of approval or disapproval? And just how to think about the various scenarios of the outcome here even though you probably wouldn't want to forecast what actually happens? I really think it's probably premature to forecast what the decision will look like before we have it in hand.
What I will say though is the capital expenditures' forecast for the year that we've included the $700 million reflects what we filed in that case.
And so you'll have to make your own assumptions around where that case will ultimately end up.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Michael.
Good morning.
I wanted to understand better at the issue of bonus depreciation.
So I understand that mathematically how it works.
But I also do know that you have the mechanism that you kind of have and it can be applied for.
Does this take that – does the announcement that you've put forward take into consideration the fact that you may yet get this mechanism and reinvest the CapEx and you just don't have somewhere to invest or are you just assuming you're not going to get it or you're being conservative and just not incorporating it in? The ranges we provided do not reflect any incremental capital from that mechanism we've had in the past.
I really think it's important to point out that that regulatory mechanism which has allowed us to spend that additional capital when bonus was extended in the past it was really intended to address the situations where that extension occurred after we received the rate case decision.
In this case bonus was extended before we have a decision so it's not necessarily applicable in this case.
Are you not going to apply for it? We've requested the extension of that mechanism as part of our original 2017 GRC filing.
But again it really is intended to address situations where bonus was extended after we received a decision in the case.
So are you saying you're unlikely to get the treatment again? I would say that's a fair assumption.
It could be extended but since bonus has already been extended for five years I think that's a fair assumption.
And if you were to get it how would the numbers change? I really don't think the numbers change in this case.
I got you.
Thank you.
What I will point out though in the comment that I made is the high-end of our ranges reflect what we've currently filed in our rate cases.
And so just as a quick reminder over this 2016 through 2019 period our currently filed rate case for our electric transmission assets is only through 2016.
So we'll have to file an annual case for 2017 2018 and 2019.
As well our GT&amp;S case only covers up to 2017.
So we will file an additional rate case covering the period of 2018 and 2019.
There is an opportunity where we may spend additional capital or request additional capital in those rate cases that are not reflected in these ranges here.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Praful Mehta with Citigroup.
You may proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> A quick question on slide 12 where you're talking about your updated rate base.
And it seems like effectively because you're mitigating the need to issue equity or reducing the need to issue equity.
In your base case plan there was equity need literally in each of the years as 2017 2018 2019 is that fair? And secondly is it possible that due to bonus now you probably don't need any equity in any one of those years how should we think about that? What I'll come back to is the two main drivers of our equity needs have really been our CapEx program and so we provided ranges here.
You're going to have to make your assumptions about where we fallout in that range and what that incremental equity will be needed to fund those levels.
The other driver of our equity needs as I mentioned before is our unrecovered cost.
As I mentioned the majority of the unrecovered costs that are driving our equity needs in 2016 really relate to the financing of the remaining penalties of the San Bruno Penalty Decision.
We will complete the financing of that penalty this year in 2016.
So you can make your assumption about what those unrecovered costs will be post 2016.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got you.
And then secondly from a retail rate perspective as bonus depreciation reverses over time and rate base grows is there any concern that there is a concern for retail rates going up in the 2019 timeframe and what that means for pushback in terms of further CapEx spend? We're constantly focused on affordability of our service but there is a number of factors that are going to play out over the period of time with which bonus depreciation reverses.
So I don't think we can isolate that today as a driver or a concern about our rate levels.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Just a few quick ones the Community Choice Aggregation and Net metering issues are those sort of resolved now one-way or the other or do you expect further action in those areas? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> As Steve Malnight mentioned earlier Net Energy Metering is not fully resolved.
The Commission issued a decision I mean what we call Net Energy Metering 2.0 but now in 2019 they're going to take the issue up again.
I mean there is still this issue of cross subsidization.
We think there is still work to do to get the rate structure right.
So we don't have one group of customers subsidizing another and we're going to be continuing to work with not only the Commission but all of the parties on this.
So more to come on Net Energy Metering.
And so that's something we're going to be working on.
The other part...
Community Choice Aggregation.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah CCAs I mean CCAs are – that gives local communities the right to aggregate.
Now they are still PG&amp;E customers.
We deliver the energy to the customer.
The energy costs are a pass-through so we don't make money or lose money on CCAs.
One of the frustrations that we have is we want to make sure that customers understand what they're getting when they go to a CCA.
We want to make sure that from a cost standpoint and from a clean energy standpoint we are very competitive and we think we are.
But in the end right now it doesn't have an impact on our bottom line.
Well theoretically Net metering wouldn't either right? I mean in terms of...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
Yeah Net metering doesn't hurt us it hurts our customers.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Or a certain class of the customers.
Right.
I was just wondering if Community Choice Aggregation I think the Commission acted on this or at least one of the issues related to this whether or not that cost shifting is an issue similar to net metering or if that's been resolved I guess.
Do you follow what I'm saying? Regulatory Affairs PG&amp;E Corp.</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Steve Malnight again.
I think you're referring to the PCIA proceeding that occurred last year in our ERRA case.
And the Commission set – they finalized the ERRA case in December and really that sets our rates for this year.
They did announce they're going to have a workshop to look at the PCIA methodology going forward.
It's a very complex methodology by which we calculate what are the costs that when customers leave bundled customers have already procured on their behalf.
And as a part of the CCA mechanism they retain those costs when they go to CCA service.
So we'll have a workshop on that here coming up very shortly actually and we'll continue to work through that during the year but there's not another formal proceeding that's been opened on that.
Okay.
And then as you guys are well aware there's all this effort for CPUC reform.
I mean we've had legislation that's passed unanimously was vetoed last year and it looks like it's again showing up.
I think it just recently – some of the similar legislation and apparently they don't override vetoes with the Governor but their validation of efforts et cetera.
I mean just if you could comment a little bit on that or what opportunities or risks you see with – I mean with these rather – I don't know it just seems that there is a big push legislatively obviously to pass this unanimously for some form of reform and how we should think about that and how you guys are sort of handling it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean in California there are always lots of pieces of legislation and it's hard to handicap which ones are going to make it through the process and which ones aren't.
And quite honestly we've kind of stayed out of that issue.
I mean however the state wants to structure the CPUC we'll work with it.
The bottom-line though from a regulatory standpoint in California we still have really good regulatory structures in place and there's nothing that leads any of us to believe that the fundamental positive regulatory structures that we have in California is going to change.
Okay.
So these efforts and what have you it's a lot of noise but you don't see that as a threat to or risk to any potential change in that good constructive regulatory environment that you have.
I don't mean to put words in your mouth but am I understanding it correctly? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean we think from the Utility standpoint – we'll work within whatever regulatory structure and a lot of the proposals around governance at the CPUC but no one is proposing we change some of these very positive structures.
And the trends that we've had such as going to clean energy which means we got to modernize and make the grid more flexible which means we've got a lot of investments which is driving our capital needs.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just finally on the criminal case.
I guess I'm a little bit confused.
It seems like they are asking or they are seeking – the way you described it is that there has to be a finding of willful deliberate deceit and I would assume that that would be on the part of individuals.
But it doesn't seem like they are charging any individuals they are charging the company as a whole if I understand it correctly.
Is that unusual to be sort of saying hey instead of making a charge that there was a deliberate attempt to do something but not actually charging the individuals with it.
I guess I'm just a little bit confused about how that works or is that sort of typical in these cases? I just don't know.
Well that's something that we've obviously been pointing out to the court.
The requirement is knowing and willful violation of the Pipeline Safety Act regulation and there is also an obstruction charge as well.
And there is a theory out there called collective knowledge and we believe that's what the government is looking to but as you know corporations are entities and corporations as legal entities don't commit actions it's the individuals right? So these are issues that are very much at play and they are before the court right now.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
The next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Hey good morning.
Quickly earlier in the San Bruno proceeding you had reserved some funds for the state fine.
Have you guys reserved any funds for the potential of a federal fine? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We have not.
Okay.
And also I wanted to follow up on Mike Goldenberg's question just on bonus and if I follow it correctly understand it it lowers rate base.
Is there an appetite with intervenors or the regulators for maybe the company to spend more than it historically has because customers do – there's some type of shield – I wouldn't say – it minimizes the rate impact with bonus there.
Is there any appetite for that with intervenors or the regulators? I want to continue to emphasize that TAMA account or that regulatory mechanism that we had to increase our capital expenditures in the past really isn't applicable in this case for the extension of bonus.
So what I would really concentrate on is the potential opportunity for additional spending in our transmission rate cases which we will file over the next couple of years.
No.
I follow that that mechanism is not going to be like – doesn't really work here but when you make those filings do you get a feeling with intervenors now that they'd be willing to maybe spend more in CapEx because of bonus? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We haven't picked up that any of them are demanding we spend more money right now.
I mean and to just reiterate what Jason said in these later cases that we file we're going to be evaluating what our needs are and that will then be the subject of a hearing.
But no one's out there saying that I've heard has said yeah because of bonus depreciation being extended you guys ought to be spending more money.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Hi thanks.
I want to go back on the GT&amp;S.
I think I heard you correctly at the $0.60 cash benefit that you guys expect in 2016 obviously pending that decision.
If that's correct I heard you guys correctly how much of that is going into that equity reduction bucket and then how much would go to other uses perhaps reducing short-term debt or whatever financing you took out last year? Yeah.
So I want to clarify that $0.60 that really is sort of the full impact of not having a rate case decision.
The placeholder that we put in terms of a driver of our equity needs there is a number of assumptions that are going to go into that.
It includes things like what are the overall level of revenues that are going to be authorized in that case the timing of the decision when we will collect those additional revenues.
And so we're not providing guidance to this specific factors.
I'll leave that up to you.
But I wanted to point out that one of the drivers for the reduction in equity needs year-over-year is the fact that we anticipate the GT&amp;S decision this year.
Okay.
Would it be fair to assume it's somewhat in lines of that – of your authorized capital structure such that you expect probably half of that to go to equity and half to pay down whatever debt or other financing you used? I think that's a reasonable way to think about it.
Okay.
The second for Tony strategically you're looking ahead – a couple of years you talked about clean energy you talked about the next generation grid stuff.
What's your appetite for investing outside of the Utility in some of those projects or whether it's secondary third-party or even you guys yourselves directly? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a really good question.
And over the four-and-a-half years I have been here the focus has been on really focusing on back to basics getting the company running well getting through the regulatory proceedings things we've talked about on this call.
We do think that there are opportunities.
I will tell you the affiliate rules here in California make that very difficult.
In many states you can have your experts in various areas spend part of their time looking outside the Utility just divvy up their time to make sure that their time is being charged to the right place.
Whereas California it's very difficult to use the expertise you've developed in the Utility to work on things outside the Utility.
So you'd have to have a big enough opportunity to say all right I'm going to bite the bullet set up a whole separate organization to pursue these things.
But that said I don't think a week goes by where one of us on the team doesn't have somebody coming in and having some ideas about how technology can improve this business.
We actually look at them can we incorporate them within the Utility structure and be successful and help us they wouldn't help the bottom line necessarily but it might lower our costs to our customers which in the long run I think is a very positive thing.
So we are looking at those opportunities because we really do believe that we are as far if not farther along than most other Utility incorporating some of these technologies into the grid I mean as I said we've crossed over 30% on renewables now and as for the 33% requirement by 2020.
So we're way ahead of the curve going to 50% renewables we have confidence that we can manage 50% renewable.
Many of our colleagues in the industry are struggling with how do you handle 10% or 15% renewables on your system.
So we've put in place the mechanisms and the technology to do it.
So Matt I think we have time for one more question on the call today.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
Our question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Hey good morning and congrats.
Jason it would really help us because you gave us the rate base which was very very helpful and I think one thing would be very helpful if you can just tell us what would the 2016 equity needs have been on a normalized year.
If there was no funding of penalty or the extra costs that you incurred this year.
What would have that number been for the year 2016 that would help us to clear a lot of confusion regarding the growth rate.
We're not providing those individual factors but what I would say is we provided rate base out there.
So you have sort of the inputs to calculate it yourself and in addition we've got a couple of slides in the back of the deck which highlight the equity needs for the San Bruno Penalty Decision which you can also use to kind of back out sort of the equity needs related to that component of our equity drivers.
So the factors are there but we're not providing specific value.
So if my math is correct if I do that it would have been nearly half like $300 million to $400 million if you take all those extraneous factors out? I think I'll leave you to do that calculation.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning and have a safe day.