Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Public Service Enterprise Group First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded Thursday May 5 2011 and will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
May 5 2011 through May 12 2011.
It will be also available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Janisha.
Good morning.
Thank you for participating in PSEG's call this morning.
As you are aware we did release our first quarter 2011 earnings statement earlier today.
And as mentioned the release and attachments are posted on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended March 31 2011 will be filed later today.
I'm not going to read the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results.
As you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
Although we may elect to update our forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless required.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
I ask that you refer to today's 8-K or our other filings for a discussion of the factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations as well as for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I'm now going to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
And joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
Thank you Kathleen and thank you everyone for joining us today.
So earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2011 of $0.85 per share to be compared with operating earnings of $0.87 per share in 2010's first quarter.
Our results for the first quarter are strong in the face of difficult market conditions largely due to the fact that our employees continue to perform at the top of their professions.
Probably the best example of that performance is in our nuclear operations.
The PSEG Power team's responsiveness was ably demonstrated throughout the quarter as they maintain their commitment to safe reliable operations and met increased calls for information on nuclear reactor design and emergency response procedures following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that damaged several nuclear units at the Fukushima site.
Bill Levis our President of PSEG Power testified before the United States House of Representatives and Senate on behalf of the industry regarding its ability to respond to emergency situations as well as the operational improvements which have been added over the years.
Bill and his team have also accommodated numerous local state and federal requests for information on the effectiveness of the nuclear reactor design and emergency procedures in place at Salem and Hope Creek.
These efforts are an extension of Power's ongoing community outreach to ensure public trust in our ability to operate our nuclear units in a safe reliable manner.
It appears that the impact on nuclear reactors in Japan was caused by events which exceeded the limits supported by the reactor design.
Although it will take some time before the implications for the U.S.
nuclear industry are fully understood the industry has begun a thorough re-evaluation of safety planning and preparedness and we owe nothing less to the public.
And as you know we filed with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in August of 2009 for approval to extend the operating lives of our Salem and Hope Creek reactors.
The process is on schedule and we continue to expect to hear this summer from the NRC on our requests.
This timely response speaks to the community support enjoyed by Power in Salem County the preparedness of our workforce and the material condition of the facilities.
Now on a separate topic the economy in our service territory has stabilized and is showing signs of growth however slight.
Weather-normalized sales to the commercial customer base which is our largest customer segment has improved as unemployment although still high has declined.
A return of growth would be welcome as we confront the marketplace still challenged by lower pricing.
In addition to the economy the future marketplace will be influenced by environmental proposals which would affect clean air and clean water regulations at our generating stations.
Recently completed upgrades at our New Jersey coal stations support their operation under more stringent environmental rules.
We are evaluating the impact of the EPA's proposed rules related to the requirements under Section 316b of the Clean Water Act.
Most importantly the proposal doesn't necessarily require the installation of cooling towers as the best technology available.
But it's too early to say what form the proposed regulations may take when finalized over the next year.
Other market challenges were also clarified during the quarter.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission upheld critical rules governing the operation of the wholesale power market by requiring new generation to clear in the RPM capacity auction at competitive prices.
An action has also been filed at the U.S.
District Court for New Jersey by us and others challenging the constitutionality of the New Jersey LCAPP legislation under the supremacy and commerce clauses of the U.S.
Constitution.
The New Jersey Board of Public Utilities has moved forward with approval of 1 949 megawatts of new capacity.
However given FERC requirements to clear the capacity auctions as well as the contractual requirements to clear we do not expect to know for 1 to 2 years if this capacity will be built.
We understand the state's desire to implement policy that supports economic growth but we would prefer to find a solution that supports investment in the state and doesn't look to long-term above-market subsidies which are likely to have unintended consequences for the customers.
And we continue to work with the State in support of its economic growth agenda and we await BPU approval of a $400 million expansion in electric and gas infrastructure programs and investments in energy efficiency to advance the growth of the economy preserve system reliability and lower energy bills for targeted customer segments.
These programs will also provide appropriate risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders.
So we start 2011 with strong results.
We continue to forecast operating earnings for 2011 of $2.50 to $2.75 per share.
Although there are signs of economic recovery a decline in contracted energy and capacity prices from year-ago levels beginning in the second quarter will have an impact on our full-year operating earnings.
A strong balance sheet investment in projects that garner reasonable returns and a focus on operations will all support our long-term results.
With that I'll turn the call over to Caroline who will discuss our financials in greater detail.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2011 of $0.85 per share versus operating earnings of $0.87 per share in last year's first quarter.
Slide 4 provides a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter.
As you can see on Slide 8 PSEG Power is the largest contributor to our results.
For the quarter Power reported operating earnings of $0.53 per share compared with $0.62 per share last year.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings of $0.32 per share compared to $0.23 per share last year.
And Energy Holdings reported a small loss in operating earnings of $0.01 per share compared with positive operating earnings of $0.01 per share in the year ago quarter.
Parent company recorded earnings of $0.01 per share which was unchanged from year ago levels.
We have as always provided you a waterfall chart on Slide 9 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business.
I'll now review each company in more detail.
Let me start with Power by highlighting the key drivers of the $0.09 per share decline in Power's quarter-over-quarter operating earnings per share.
Power's first quarter generation margin results were impacted by a slight decline in non-PJM market prices which reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
An erosion of the margin on certain wholesale electric supply contracts that Power sources from the market also reduced earnings in the quarter by $0.03 per share.
An increase in operating and maintenance expense reduced earnings by $0.03 per share and this increase is largely tied to the timing of planned maintenance-related work at the combined cycle units and Power anticipates O&amp;M levels for the full year to show a slight increase from the levels experienced in 2010.
As we mentioned on our year-end earnings call the commercial operation of the back-end technology at the Hudson and Mercer coal units would result in an increase in depreciation expense and a decline in capitalized interest now that the units are in service.
For the first quarter these items reduced Power's operating earnings by $0.03 per share.
Finally the absence of a healthcare-related tax charge in the year-ago first quarter period improved results by $0.01 per share.
I'd now like to go into a little more detail on the change in output and price experienced in the different markets served by Power's generating fleet.
Total generating output for the fleet declined 1% in the first quarter and the biggest decline was experienced by our coal fleet.
A decline in dark spreads reduced the economic dispatch of coal and resulted in a 21% decline in coal-fired output.
This decline in coal-fired generation is the reason behind the decline in total output for the quarter.
And the decline in output was experienced primarily at Bridgeport Harbor in Connecticut as well as our New Jersey-based coal units Hudson and Mercer.
The nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 99% in the first quarter compared with 97% capacity factor in the year-ago period.
And this improvement resulted in a 1.9% increase in nuclear generation.
An improvement in spark spreads supported our gas-fired combined-cycle fleet and during the quarter output from the combined-cycle generating units increased 8%.
Power's New York and New England assets which provide about 9% of the output produced in the quarter experienced a 2% increase in volume and this improvement came from an increase in the output of the New York-based Bethlehem-combined cycle facility.
A decline in prices however offset the improvement in volume resulting in a net decline in Power's earnings of $0.02 per share from New York and New England.
Power's PJM-based assets which provided 91% of the output generated in the quarter experienced a 1.7% decline in output.
Lower output from the coal-fired generating facilities more than offset the increase in output from the PJM-based nuclear and gas-fired combined-cycle assets.
But the decline in volume had only a marginal negative impact on Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings given the increase in the output at nuclear.
Realized market prices within PJM however improved during the quarter.
And together with an increase in spark spreads resulted in a net improvement in operating earnings of $0.02 per share.
An increase in migration during the quarter partially offset this gain and reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
The average level of migration of BGS-related volume over the quarter was approximately 31% compared with migration levels of 28% at the end of 2010.
This level of customer migration was slightly less than expected for the quarter and in addition for your information headroom was flat versus levels experienced in the year-ago quarter.
So the overall net impact of all of these changes in volume and price during the quarter was a reduction in Power's operating earnings of $0.01 per share.
As you can see on Page 16 of the deck Power has taken advantage of market conditions to hedge increased amounts of its generation.
For the remainder of 2011 Power has hedged 100% of its base load output at an average price of $68 per megawatt hour with approximately 75% to 80% of total forecast generation for that period hedged at an average price of $68 per megawatt hour.
We continue to expect total generation of 53 terawatt hours this year.
Moving to 2012 hedges are in place for approximately 60% to 70% of base load generation of 36 terawatt hours at an average price of $66 per megawatt hour.
In 2012 this equates to 40% to 50% of forecast total generation of 54 terawatt hours hedged at an average price of $66 per megawatt hour.
Finally in 2013 Power has hedged approximately 25% of forecast base load output of 36 terawatt hours at an average price of $69 per megawatt hour.
And this results in approximately 10% to 20% of total forecast generation of 56 terawatt hours hedged at an average price of $69 per megawatt hour.
We are maintaining our forecast of Power's 2011 operating earnings at $765 million to $855 million.
Although wholesale market prices have been stronger than forecast operating earnings during the remainder of the year will be influenced by a decline in contracted energy and capacity prices with the June 1 implementation of both new BGS and RPM contracts at prices lower than year-ago levels.
Power's operating earnings in the second half of 2010 also benefited from extreme weather conditions which supported output and pricing and which we haven't assumed will repeat in our 2011 forecast.
Power's results during the remainder of 2011 will also continue to reflect an increase in depreciation expense.
Let me also make a comment about our wholesale Power trading contracts all of which are served from the market.
The losses experienced relate to current and expected migration from these load contracts and their impact on the mark-to-market for the remaining life of the contracts.
And going forward we will be limiting load contracting to transactions that provide hedges directly to our assets.
Let me now turn to PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2011 of $0.32 per share compared with $0.23 per share for the first quarter of 2010 as shown on Slide 20.
PSE&amp;G's earnings continue to benefit from higher rate levels an increase in investment that is earning a contemporaneous return and the ongoing management of operating and maintenance expense.
An increase in electric and gas rates that went into effect on June 7 and July 9 2010 respectively added $0.02 per share to operating earnings.
An annualized increase in transmission revenue of $45 million that went into effect on January 1 of this year added $0.01 per share to earnings.
An increase in revenues associated with investments in critical infrastructure and renewables also added $0.01 per share to operating earnings.
And PSE&amp;G's earnings also benefited from an increase in demand which added $0.01 per share to operating earnings.
Colder winter weather which was also colder than normal added $0.01 per share to operating earnings.
Weather-normalized electric sales were estimated to have increased about 0.3% for the quarter.
PSE&amp;G's quarterly results also benefited from a decline in pension expense and the absence of storm-related costs experienced in the year-ago period.
These items combined to improve operating earnings by $0.04 per share.
A higher level of invested capital resulted in an increase in depreciation expense which lowered operating earnings for PSE&amp;G by $0.01 per share.
PSE&amp;G is awaiting approval by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities for its request to increase investment in electric and gas distribution capital infrastructure and energy efficiency by approximately $400 million.
And we anticipate a decision on these filings during the summer.
PSE&amp;G has also filed a request with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC for incentive-rate making on five 230 Kv transmission projects amounting to an investment of $1.3 billion.
The request seeks construction work in progress in the rate base and 100% abandonment cost recovery with rates effective on June 14 of this year.
This represents a re-filing of a request for similar rate treatment on 4 of these projects which was previously denied without prejudice by FERC.
The current filing provides support for our request on a project-by-project basis.
We are maintaining our forecast of PSE&amp;G's 2011 operating earnings of $495 million to $520 million.
PSE&amp;G earned a return on consolidated equity inclusive of distribution and transmission for the 12 months ended March 31 of 2011 of 10.8%.
Our forecast of operating earnings for the full year assumes PSE&amp;G is able to maintain its returns given ongoing control of its expenses and a full year of electric and gas distribution and transmission rate increases.
Now let me comment on PSEG Energy Holdings.
Holdings reported a loss in operating earnings of $3 million or approximately $0.01 per share versus operating earnings of $7 million or $0.01 per share during the first quarter of 2010.
The results reflect the absence of a gain on the sale of a lease in the year-ago quarter of $0.01 per share and also a write-off of Holding's investments in the energy storage and Power joint venture during the quarter reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
Just a comment on financing before we move to the Q&amp;A.
On April 15 PSEG PSE&amp;G and Power each entered into 5-year credit facilities which in total represent $2.1 billion in credit capacity.
The company's total credit capacity is now $4.3 billion an increase of $650 million since year end.
And of this amount $4.17 billion was available on April 30 of this year.
PSEG ended the first quarter with $900 million in cash and this includes completing our annual funding of over $400 million to our pension trust this quarter which brings our funded ratio on a PBO basis to over 90%.
In April PSEG Power retired $606 million of maturing 7.75% Senior Notes using cash on hand.
The sale of Power's Guadalupe Texas combined-cycle plant closed during the first quarter for $351 million.
And the sale of the Odessa Texas combined-cycle plant is expected to close during the second quarter.
So our balance sheet remains strong.
The strength of PSEG's financial condition was recently recognized during the quarter with an improvement in S&amp;P's outlook for PSEG PSE&amp;G and PSEG Power from stable to positive as well as a positive outlook from Moody's for PSE&amp;G issued just yesterday together with a re-affirmation of our ratings.
As Ralph has indicated we are maintaining our forecast of 2011 operating earnings of $2.50 to $2.75 per share.
And with that we're now ready to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Could you remind us how much pension is expected to contribute in 2011 versus 2010 for the full year? Sure.
Paul it's Caroline.
So you may recall that we have experienced a decrease in pension expense since the increase we had between 2008 and 2009.
So we do anticipate a decrease in pension expense in the order of about $30 million between the 2 years.
That contributes to an overall slight decrease in our O&amp;M on a year-on-year basis.
If you excluded the decrease in pension O&amp;M is reasonably flat at pension.
Okay.
Great.
And then the RPM auction that's coming up with all the changes that have been made and what have you I was just wondering if you have any update on what your expectation is with what we might see pretty shortly I guess? So Paul as you know we don't project outcomes.
We are in the middle of the auction right now.
Data was being submitted this week and final results will be posted by PJM a week from Friday on May 13.
So that's about all we're prepared to say at this time.
Okay.
And migration it sounds like it was a little better than what was expected.
Is there any change in the outlook there? I know it's just been one quarter so I don't know if there's been any -- I don't know if that's enough of data point but just any thoughts about how that might be going going forward? Yes Paul it's Caroline.
Yes you're right.
It's a little too early to change any of our expectations and forecasts for the full year based on what we saw this year -- this quarter.
Pointing out not just the migration levels but also the headroom headroom was essentially flat to what headroom was last year in the first quarter.
And as you know as you think about this over a multi-quarter period it is the headroom that in the long term matters relative to the ability of retailers to garner customers.
So flat headroom year-over-year.
And by the way flat at not a very high amount.
You remember last year we saw headroom get very flat as we had a very very hot summer and high prices in the marketplace 2 years ago headroom was higher.
So that impression of real-time prices given what happens in the market either because of demand or driven by the economy or weather makes a difference to headroom and in the long term that's what drive the ultimate migration.
So it's a little too early from one quarter to modify our expectations at this point.
But so far a little bit better than what we were expecting.
Your next question comes from Ashar Khan.
[SAC Capital Advisors] My question was regarding the headrooms that's been answered.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Arnold from Deutsche Bank.
My question is on hedging and specifically 2013.
Last time I think I guess it was mid-April you put out that slide it was 20% to 30% at $72 on base load $72.
And now it's 20% to 30% at $69.
Have you just moved up the number within the range? Or have you added some off-peak hedges or is there something else going on in there? Yes Jonathan it's Caroline.
No nothing going on unusual in there.
Keep in mind when we provided the hedging data at the March 7 meeting or at the last call we had the BGS results that had a portion in there.
So now we're just adding some incremental hedging for 2013 as you normally would expect that we do and of course as you add those hedges prices come down slightly relative to what was embedded with the BGS hedges.
So nothing usual there really just layering on hedges.
And within that 20% to 30% range you're now more hedged than you were before? That's right.
That's correct.
You said 25%.
I guess that is not a partner that's just that you're saying you're just somewhere in that range? Yes.
We're just in that range.
We don't give the specifics within the range.
Okay.
And I guess if I may add if I could ask another one.
On the retirement of the debt of PEG Power should we anticipate that you'll be looking to refinance that or is this just part of an ongoing deleveraging? Yes.
So good question Jonathan.
We were able to pay down the debt in April from cash on hand as I mentioned given the strong performance through the first quarter.
Relative to refinancing obviously we look at those plans over the long term.
Don't have any immediate plans for refinancing.
And of course we watch the metrics for PEG Power and they're in very good shape in terms of where we ended the quarter debt to cap of 40%.
So no immediate plans.
The balance sheet's in very good shape over the long term.
You should anticipate obviously seeing us do some refinancing.
The next maturity actually for PEG Power doesn't come until later into 2012.
So we have a pretty stable balance sheet for Power right now.
So maybe over the long term but nothing coming up in the near term.
We don't need it.
Your next question comes from Paul Fremont from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Really 2 questions one the significant drop in volumes in New England.
Do you expect that to be permanent on a going-forward basis for the rest of the year? Or what are you expecting to see given the relatively low gas prices that we have? Right so Paul good question.
Relative to New England though it's really all about coal because as I mentioned what we have in New England of course is our Bridgeport Harbor Station.
And so given where prices are and where the spreads are it's a little hard to forecast at this period of time.
But we did have some obviously lower generation because of having the coal fleet and just the challenges right now for coal in that market relative to gas.
That trend should continue also with the generator tax I guess it was signed by both the House and the Senate.
I think the governor is expected to sign the legislation.
Do you have any plans to contest that tax? Or...
So yes we've joined with others in Connecticut in identifying the fact that that's really going to just increase customer bills in the state and is not in the state's best interest.
So we're an active participant in that right now Paul.
And then back on your question relative to longer term.
So obviously the economics of coal and dispatch are challenged right now and that's what Bridgeport is experiencing.
Over the longer term we do expect coal to return.
In fact if you look at our hedging data and the terawatt hours we expect to generate for the subsequent years you see increases over this year and that's from the expected improvement across the fleet from coal generation given that long-term expectation for some improvement in dark spreads.
Inc.</strong> I guess the last question I have is it looks like coal prices per megawatt hour actually decreased quarter-over-quarter.
Does that relate to contracts? Or are you seeing prices that are different than what we see quoted in the spot market? Right so remember Paul as we always talk about the prices quoted in the spot market and the prices that we pay for coal are different because you have to factor in transportation and of course the contracting that we have.
So if you think about what we have for coal and by the way we're relatively hedged for coal out through '11 and '12.
The prices that we pay -- keep in mind now that the BET's in service we're not using the Adaro coal at Hudson and that reduces prices on a per megawatt hour basis to about the mid-40s this year relative to having Adaro coal last year.
And by the way the pricing at Bridgeport Harbor with Adaro this year and you know we have a re-set that occurs at the end of each year is about the high 40s relative to Adaro.
And then for Mercer given the BET it actually also has prices that are around the mid-40s on a per megawatt hour basis as well.
And of course Key/Con continues to run the cheaper coal the NAPP coal.
But that hasn't changed on a year-on-year basis and that's the lowest priced coal.
And actually that's the unit that was running more -- the 2 units that were running more this quarter.
So if you compare quarter-over-quarter you're seeing less coal being run and it's the higher-priced coal if you will from the units last quarter -- last year's quarter like Bridgeport versus this quarter.
Less coal is running so there's a higher proportion that represents Key/Con which is the cheapest coal.
Your next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
I have a quick question about the New Jersey LCAPP new build.
Assuming comparable energy prices to last year through the balance of this year what would a mitigated bid from a combined cycle look like per unit akin to those proposed? Presumably that would be above clearing prices but I'd be curious to hear from yourselves.
Well let me make sure I understand the question right.
So the net coal number is a combination of the capacity of the construction coal and the energy price historically viewed over the prior 3 years.
So in this particular year we have 2 anomalous years in the history if you will Julien we have the $13 permit BTU days of 2008 and we have the incredibly hot summer of 2010.
So I believe the net CONE [Cost of New Entry] number this year for combined cycle is about $205 or $210 something of that sort.
And the minimum offer price rule says that you can bid no less than 90% of that which gets you down to $185 level.
So you have to have a summer in '11 that not likely to be driven by high gas prices just because of the fundamentals of the market.
But would have to be driven by the high weather of -- and even that probably doesn't get you to what we saw in 2008.
So our expectations would be that the net CONE number next year is likely to be higher for a combined cycle unit than it is this year.
What...
Any sense on magnitude there? I'm sorry to cut you off.
No I don't want to put that number out there but PJM will publish it in January of '12.
So we'll all know together.
All right great.
And then secondly with respect to the infrastructure stimulus projects I believe originally you had discussed getting approval call it in the April timeframe.
Just perhaps a little bit of commentary around it seemed like a little bit of a delay here.
And is that tied at all to the EMP delay? Is that sort of becoming meshed together? Or is it sort of a separate topic? So I think that our history of perhaps predicting regulatory schedules is one that lends itself more to coming out a little bit later rather than on time or sooner.
If you look overall many of these filings went in in November of last year.
So we're still within a 5-month window.
So I wouldn't read anything into this other than people are busy and they're tackling LCAPPs and SOCAs [standard offer capacity agreements] and infrastructure filings and we're having very productive conversations with the staff about the importance of these things.
And as we said April last time we appeared to have missed the deadline but we're not worried about the long- term acceptability of it.
Your question comes from Brian Chin from Citigroup.
Ralph we've seen now 2 companies in PJM merge.
Ostensibly part of the reasons why they merged is they’re merging their competitive Retail and Generation businesses and arguing that overlapping of business models is the right way to go.
To what extent do you think this changes PEG's positioning in the sort of competitive landscape just overall not just for retail but just overall.
Just how do you see the broader strategic picture unfolding for PEG here if it's changed over the last 2 quarters or so? So we talk about it all the time Brian but it has not changed.
We are terrific and getting even better at running power plants and making sure that the output of those power plants is there when needed to supply the market.
And the Retail business is fundamentally a different business.
So our strategy continues to be to have operational advantages operational broadly defined as cost advantages environmental advantages and those are related to each other in competitive markets.
And that's the business I think we're good at and that's where I think I still see value creation opportunities.
One follow-up question to this.
Many of the issues that investors have been thinking about with PEG over the last year I think it's fair to say have come from New Jersey-specific regulatory and political issues.
Any thoughts on whether diversification outside of New Jersey would in your mind help be the part of the value creation story potentially down the road? Or just extra thoughts there on how to think about that.
Well Brian that is something we have said consistently for a good number of years that we would like to see diversification outside of New Jersey-only footprint.
And the characteristics the features of markets we're looking for are competitive markets with the opportunity to demonstrate our operational capabilities and our -- so that we've been quite candid and straightforward on.
That has not changed either.
Next question comes from Steve Fleishman from Bank of America.
Be curious to get a sense of the reaction of the New Jersey political regulatory folks to the FERC ruling and kind of what should we be prepared to be watching over the next coming months with respect to their reaction? Well yes Steve it's always a little risky to give other people's reactions right? So I'll play back to you what we've seen reported in the press which is that the regulatory reaction has been one of disagreement and an intention to appeal to FERC and possibly to appeal in the courts.
So I think that speaks for itself.
And we'll –- at the risk of throwing a bit of a lifesaver to FERC not that they need one from me we too were slightly disappointed.
We thought that the clearing price should have been multiple years as opposed to one year.
So maybe FERC got it right but they didn't satisfy everybody with their decision.
But nonetheless we think at least that there was a very constructive decision and one that moved in the right direction.
So I'd rather not speak for others I guess is my bottom line there.
Okay.
And I guess one other question.
Just obviously the balance sheet's very strong and you've been getting some at least credit stability or upgrades.
It doesn't really appear that the stock market's kind of giving you any credit for the strength of the balance sheet.
And I don't know if it's just a point in time but just how are you thinking about that? So Steve we think about this over the long term I couldn't agree with you more.
It's perhaps in the DNA of the executive team to always believe the stock market's not giving you enough credit that's perhaps a separate conversation.
So we do have some investment opportunities we talked a minute ago when Julien asked a question about the stimulus funds and we'll have another round of RTEP [Regional Transmission Expansion Planning] to look to see what transmission needs are coming up.
And so we think we have good ideas to get fair risk-adjusted returns for that capital deployment.
And over the long term I think that we still are in basically a commodity business with its ups and downs and you want to have that strong balance sheet to protect you in the future.
So I think that over time we will get recognition for our capital discipline and for that strength that we value so highly.
And if that's not realized on a day-to-day basis by a couple of folks who are not long-term investors then that's a price we're willing to pay.
Next question comes from Marc de Croisset from FBR Capital Markets.
I just wanted to focus for a second back on that hedging update slides on 2012 and 2013 base load volumes.
You have about 36 terawatt hours there.
And it just occurred to me that in recent years that number's been in the 39- to 40-terawatt hour range.
And I just wanted to be clear about what the source of that difference is in the forecast between the history and the future here.
Well keep in mind when you look at the way we've now configured our slide just to make sure we kind of give you the detail on how we did the hedging.
We used to provide the hedging data for you on the basis of nuclear and coal and our hedging percentage of nuclear and coal and nothing else right? And that's where we would talk about how BGS layered in and went from being about 50% of the nuclear and coal to about 35% to where it is now with migration.
We've now split out the chart in a different way.
So when you look at base load on our chart so if you look at the chart that we've provided let's just go out to look at 2012 because it's a full year you see 36 terawatts hours but that's a different calculation of the total.
It is not total nuclear and coal.
It is nuclear and base load coal.
So it is nuclear and Keystone and Conemaugh.
The coal that we have Hudson and Mercer and Bridgeport is in the intermediate coal category which is now together with combined cycle and peaking.
So the numbers that you think of from the previous way we provided the slide was a different cut of the data.
We've now tried to cut it in a way that we hoped would be more helpful which is to give you base load those units that typically are running all the time and of course nuclear is one of those and Key/Con as I just mentioned earlier tends to run most of the time.
And then provide the rest of our fleet in the second category and then give you the breakout of the hedging between the 2 categories category by category and in total.
So in the aggregate there's not an expectation of a different expected total generation of the fleet at all.
And you see we moderated a little bit year by year as we run the forwards and look at the dispatch but we've tried to break the data out in a different way that we hoped would be more helpful to you.
And we'll update it as we've done this quarter on an ongoing basis inclusive of the total amount of hedging that moves into the intermediate fleet more than just coal if we're doing some nearer-term combined-cycle hedging.
So that's the reason for the difference and I hope that helps square the map from the prior charts.
That's actually very helpful.
So this is not a reflection of the impact of dark spreads on even base load volumes that is not at all a correct interpretation right? Right not on base load volumes because keep in mind that we haven’t base loaded since Key/Con and they have to run right? The dark spread impacts you're seeing as I talked about on the remarks related to the mid-merit coal in the current environment but we do expect more generation in the out years with the improvement in dark spreads and that's why you see the total terawatt hours climbing in the out years.
Your next question comes from Gregg Orrill from Barclays.
I was wondering if you could comment on the $1.3 billion in transmission opportunities on the 230 Kv projects that you're re-filing and sort of what the strategy is there and how you expect a different outcome when re-filing? So when we filed 4 projects originally we filed them as a single unit and FERC basically without prejudice refused to give us the incentive rate treatment and in this case incentive rate treatment is really construction work in progress and recovery of any costs that may have been incurred in the event of an abandonment.
And what FERC said is "You need to come back and simply file each of these projects on their individual merits." So we have gone back sometime -- mid-April I think we did and now instead of re-filing the 4 projects as a single unit we've re-filed 5 projects separately and we're asking for the 11.68% return on equity and the construction work in progress as well as the abandonment recovery.
And we ask for those rates to be effective on June 14.
Typically FERC takes about 60 days to decide these things and unfortunately you can't handicap them.
Well ask us on June 15 what we think the outcome will be because we probably will have had it in hand for 24 hours at that point.
Your next question comes from Reza Hatefi from Decade Capital.
I was just curious there were some questions on the balance sheet's strength.
The dividend now has been flat for I think 6 straight quarters.
What is the thought process there? And why not have an increase? Why has it been flat I guess for the prior couple quarters? Sure.
So thanks for the question.
Of course we did increase the dividend last year in the first quarter and what we announced this year was the dividend at the same level.
So we didn't have an increase this year.
And keep in mind as you know our guidance relative to the dividend is on a payout ratio target basis of between 40% and 50% of our operating earnings as our dividend payout.
Given the operating earnings forecast that we have provided and reconfirmed again on this call if you look at the midpoint approximately and look at our dividend you would get to a payout of about 52%.
So while we don't look at the 40% to 50% as an absolute and we're not at all uncomfortable with the 52% given the current challenges relative to pricing in the market we felt that the balance of always monitoring that payout so we can keep it in that range on a long-term level.
But given what's happening with prices right now it seemed appropriate to keep it at the same level at this point in time.
But of course we look to that over the long term as well.
And I guess just a follow-up on a prior question you mentioned having an interest in diversifying out of New Jersey.
Would that interest solely be in unregulated or even regulated would be of interest to you? So the focus would be in unregulated.
The approach we've taken on regulated growth has been an organic approach.
We're just uncomfortable with the valuation of purely regulated plays as the premium one has to pay for the regulated the play.
And then the giveback that occurs in terms of the regulatory approvals that are required whereas doing regulatory growth organically is something that we think has been a benefit to our shareholders as well as our customers in terms of meeting some of the policy objectives of the state.
And the unregulated space we would look for expansion both in terms of wholesale power generation as well as renewables growth.
The challenge there of course is not being bitten by the winner's curse.
And what we look to is to find assets that we can materially improve their operation or make capital improvements that are consistent with capital improvements we've made in the past so that we have an ability to differentiate ourselves other than simply having some unreasonable rosy forecast of what forward prices are going to be.
The next question comes from Nathan Judge from Atlantic Equities.
Could you give us an update on when you expect the BLM to provide your permit for Roseland-Susquehanna (sic) [Susquehanna-Roseland] please? So Nathan it's actually not the Bureau of Land Management it's the National Park Service.
They're one of the entities and we did -- we will be giving further detail in the Q but we did receive a letter from the National Park Service yesterday saying that they expect a 3-month delay in the issuance of that permit.
And because it was yesterday our construction team has not fully evaluated what that may or may not mean for the construction schedule.
So the new news is a 3-month delay but we've not analyzed what impact that could have on construction.
Hear that.
And I understand that the water the 316b rules are not finalized.
But as they're proposed currently do you expect to have to put in some type of water cooling towers at Salem or the Hope Creek plant? So we do not -- there's a little bit of work that has to be done there.
We're delighted by the fact that the proposed rules and as you're quick to point out they won't be made final for another year specifically mention the technology that we use at Salem as the best technology available or candidate -- one of the best technologies available I would say limits itself to one.
So that's a positive outcome.
The dilemma that we're faced with that we're trying to get our engineers to get their arms around is that the fact the impingement rate that is quoted in the proposed rule using that technology is lower than the impingement rate we've been able to achieve.
So we have some technical people trying to figure out if there's something operationally that others have done that gave EPA the confidence to go out with their impingement rate or is that perhaps a miscalculation where that number needs to be.
And our feeling with Hope Creek is already on a cooling tower operating basis.
Okay great.
And just as it relates to the contracts you signed under the LCAPP and obviously you signed them under protest and I think that they're for a kind of 2015 2016 period how does it work out given the FERC ruling? How do the generators actually build this? Are they liable now? Just give us a bit more about the contracts and how you see it all playing out? Yes well Nathan so what I will speak to is why PSE&amp;G signed those contracts under protest.
I mean we're just concerned that these contracts which we're not allowed to disclose the price of the contracts but they're above market and they're going to require billions of dollars in price guarantees in return for some untested claims of future benefits.
Now I'll let the developers speak to why they think that it's a reasonable risk on their part or why the contract is protective of them.
That's not for me to say.
Are there any details available? I know the commission declined to provide that until I believe next year but are there any available details that can be disclosed? I don't -- there are some public documents but I don't know -- I just have to be careful because as part of the utility we have access to information and I just don't recall the details of what is and isn't available and I'd rather just simply say you can get the agent’s report from the BPU and that's the right way to get the information.
I understand.
And just finally could you provide some more information on what was in other income I think for Power? This quarter I think there was about $60-some-odd million other income boost there and I just wanted to see if there's any further detail there.
Oh sure sure Nathan.
So in other income one of the things that is in that is the NDT the impact of the NDT Trust.
So we have 2 items that we pull out of our operating earnings and put if you will below the line for operating earnings purposes.
One is the mark-to-market on transactions that actually are not the Trading portfolio but transactions that relate to our assets.
That is in margins so that is not in other income.
But the NDT trust which is an over $1 billion trust that we have dedicated to reconditioning of our nuclear plants that is something that the results of which go into other income but then we take them out for operating earnings purposes.
You'll see some benefit relative on a year-on-year basis in the NDT portfolio this quarter and it relates to the fact that that portfolio is recognized in our income statement on the basis of realized gains when securities are sold not if you will on a mark-to-market basis when there are embedded gains.
It's sort of like holding a stock that's in your portfolio.
You don't recognize the gain until you sell it.
We did some portfolio modifications in terms of our managers long-term portfolio and equity in bonds and by virtue of making some manager changes some of the securities were liquidated.
Those gains roll through the NDT line comes into other income on the GAAP statement goes below operating earnings for purposes of our disclosures to you.
The next question comes from Angie Storozynski from McGuire Capital (sic) [Macquarie Research].
Two questions.
One I understand the subsidized gas capacity in New Jersey will be mill per [ph] into well not in this auction but next year's capacity auction.
But I also remember that New Jersey has the RACT rule the Reasonably Available Control Technology rule that kicks in 2014 or '15 which we could lose some of the older gas or oil units in the state.
So it is still possible that even with mill per [ph] in place this new capacity will actually clear in the next auction.
And we heard from some companies still pursuing the bill the gas bill even despite the mill per [ph].
I mean is your view that -- obviously there’s the pending appeals is your view that this is -- basically it is not going to distort both capacity and energy markets in New Jersey this additional capacity? So Angie just to make sure that we get our MACTs and RACTs and all that good stuff right so the MACT rule which would apply mostly to mercury emissions or SO2 and NOx are largely anticipated to have an effect in 2015 for coal-fired generation.
We're okay in that regard having made the improvements that we've made.
However there is an ozone issue surrounding high-energy delivery days that will affect some of the older peaking units that we possess as well as others possess that right now look like they will be withdrawn from the market more than likely in 2016.
Although as the rules are written out it's 2015 but there's been substantial discussion and some comments made by regulatory officials in the Department of Environmental Protection that they do anticipate that possibly moving out a year.
So as capacity is withdrawn for environmental reasons the market price will call for the need for additional capacity or the expansion of existing capacity.
And we think that's the right way for the market to allocate resources.
We've already in fact bid and cleared 2 new peakers in anticipation of that future.
Others are bidding DSM in anticipation of that future.
And what RPM is doing is making sure the lights stay on at the lowest possible price.
Where we tend to disagree is when government decides that it wants to be the one to manage supply and it agrees to 15 contracts that are above any market price that we've seen in the last 7 years.
So if supply is needed and these plants can fit underneath the market mechanisms established then that's great.
And we would expect ourselves to be full participants in that market.
It's when you start guaranteeing someone a price that's above market for a decade and a half that we think that's not fair to investors who have put their capital at risk nor to customers who have been on the hook for the long term.
Okay.
And the second issue you mentioned that the migration in the quarter came slightly below your expectations.
But we've seen one big merger just completed building a big retail operation.
And now we have another one just announced also potentially or in the future expanding their retail operations.
Is your stance still that you're not willing to get engaged in retail as a defensive strategy? You might be facing even more competition going forward for your customers at your utility.
You see you never say never Angie.
However what we're seeing is that the headroom is changing right? That as what seemed to be an anomaly of $13 or $14 gas prices now has resulted in a year of steady power prices with not a lot of movement in what those look like that it's not a question of Power being able to capture all of the margin that was lost if we're only selling its electricity at retail.
The benefit of competition is that the decline in margin appears to be something that is being garnered by the customer.
And that the low barriers to entry in the retail business appear to be resulting in a fairly competitive world where customers are being signed up for thin margins barely above wholesale.
So we're -- 2 years ago we saw headroom that was 3x what we saw this quarter.
And we think that's probably going to be a path in the future.
So I don't want to second-guess other people's strategies but given the different skill sets given the different requirements for participating in that market what I'd like to focus on is running power plants really really well and being the one that can be there when power prices reflect the needs of those retail customers and let others worry about whether or not there's an attractive margin to be gained by being an intermediary.
So I don't see right now the Retail business as being a hedge for the wholesale Power business the way others do.
But believe me we look at all sorts of data and all sorts of numbers and follow the performance of others to see if there's something we're missing.
And right now I just like the fact that [indiscernible] ran 2% more this quarter than we did last year this quarter.
And that's what we will pay attention to.
Operator we're slightly the past the hour that we have devoted to this so I'm going to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo for some closing comments.
Okay thank you Kathleen.
So thank you everyone for your interest for your listening in for your questions.
And despite the market conditions I hope that you're as pleased as we are with the first quarter results.
And I just want to reiterate that you can look forward to our "steady as you go" approach.
I mean we're going to continue to demonstrate a passion for operational excellence.
We're going to continue to have an ironclad commitment to preserving our financial strength and a highly disciplined approach to capital deployment.
So with that I will wish all of you a very very happy Cinco de Mayo and we'll see you again soon.
Take care.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Public Service Enterprise Group Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday August 3 2011 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time August 3 2011 until August 10 2011.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Natalia.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participating in our call this morning.
As you were aware PSEG released the second quarter 2011 earnings statement early this morning.
The release and attachments are posted on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors Section of the website.
We also posted a series of slides that detailed the operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended June 30 2011 is expected to be filed shortly in fact most likely by this evening.
I'm not going to read the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have made on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results.
As you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 10-K or other filings for a discussion of factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
Joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
We do ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up then we hope to have time for all.
Thank you.
Ralph? Thank you Kathleen.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2011 of $0.59 per share compared with operating earnings of $0.63 per share earned in 2010's second quarter.
The results for the quarter bring operating earnings for the first half of 2011 to $1.44 per share compared with the operating earnings of $1.50 per share earned in 2010's first half.
We have achieved significant operational and regulatory successes during the past quarter.
Although our results are being affected by lower realized energy prices we are seeing a benefits of increased levels of investment at PSE&amp;G as well as the benefits to cost control and reliability that come with the operational focus of a dedicated workforce.
Regulatory approval for several important initiatives should allow PSEG to maintain its position as a reliable supplier of low-cost clean energy for the long term.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission approved PSEG's nuclear request to extend the operating license of the Hope Creek generating station and both sale in units for an additional 20 years.
The approval was granted less than 2 years after PSEG Nuclear filed its request with the NRC in August 2009.
This timely response speaks to the community support enjoyed by Power in Salem County the preparedness of our workforce and the material condition and the facilities.
The license renewal of these generating stations means clean nuclear energy will be available for New Jersey for years to come.
The NRC has also released its assessment of the U.S.
nuclear industry in response to the events at Fukushima earlier this year.
We believe the report which finds the U.S.
plants are operated in safe manner to be objective.
Bill Levis President of PSEG Power and his team have worked closely with the NRC as well as with state and local officials to keep them informed about the operations at Salem and Hope Creek.
Also this quarter the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities approved $368 million of additional spending by PSE&amp;G on critical electric and gas infrastructure programs as well as energy efficiency.
These investments provide the opportunity to expand jobs at a time when the improvement in the economy appears to have stalled.
Similarly the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission granted approval for incentive rate treatment effective on June 14 2011 for 3 of the 5 230 kilovolt projects with a total investment of about $1 billion.
The incentive rates treatment covers approximately 80% of our request.
A history of continuous engagement with our employees has supported the resolution of a labor contract with one of our larger unions that balances the needs of all parties.
A focus on cost control helps us earn our returns and provides the opportunity for the growth implied by our investment program.
We have been saying for some time that the future marketplace for energy will be influenced by environmental regulations.
We are starting to see the forward market for energy begin to reflect the impact of EPA proposals.
Without an increase in price it won't be economic to maintain the operation of older coal-fire facilities.
Our investment in environmental upgrades and our coal stations supports their operation under the more stringent rules proposed by the EPA.
The recognition of a similar level of cost by other suppliers in the region will help to levelize the cost of supply between Connecticut New Jersey and surrounding states.
PSEG Power closed on the sale of the Odessa gas-fired generating plant in July for $335 million.
The closing of the Odessa sale completed the Texas asset sale process announced by Power earlier this year under which Power received a total of $687 million which includes the sale of Guadalupe as well.
We will use the proceeds from these asset sales and an already strong balance sheet to finance an expansion of our capital program while still preserving substantial financial flexibility.
PSEG's capital investment program for 2011 through 2013 is now $6.9 billion compared to our prior forecast of capital spending over this period of $6.7 billion.
As part of this revised forecast PSE&amp;G is now expected to invest $5.2 billion over this period an increase of 15% from prior year levels or the potential for growth in rate base of 11% to 12% per year.
We are also evaluating the potential for increased to invest been under the state of New Jersey's Energy Master Plan.
This could entail increase investment in our gas distribution system for enhanced reliability as well as the expansion of our investment in solar depending upon the state's evaluation of the ability to meet its renewables promise at the least cost.
And this growth both planned and potential capital spending can be financed without the need to access the equity markets.
We start 2011 with good results.
The energy markets have been strong than expected.
We are however maintaining our forecast of operating earnings for 2011 of $2.50 to $2.75 per share.
The expected decline in contracted energy and capacity prices with the year-ago levels that were effective on June 1 will continue to have an impact on our full-year operating earnings.
Over the long term a strong balance sheet an asset mix well-positioned to meet environmental regulations a longer life for our nuclear facilities and expanded capital program in areas that should provide the opportunity for good risk-adjusted growth and a focus on cost control should support our long-term objectives for top quartile shareholder returns.
And now Caroline will review our operating results in more detail.
Thank you Ralph.
And good morning everyone.
I will review our quarterly operating earnings as well as the outlook for full year operating results by subsidiary company.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2011 of $0.59 per share versus operating earnings of $0.63 per share in last year's second quarter.
Slide 4 and 5 provide a reconciliation of operating income to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter and the year-to-date.
We have provided you with a waterfall chart on Slide 11 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on Slide 13 that provides you with the changes in operating earnings by each business on a year-to-date basis.
So I'll now review each company in more detail starting with Power.
As shown on Slide 15 PSEG Power reported operating earnings for the second quarter of $0.36 per share compared with $0.45 per share a year ago.
Power's second quarter earnings were affected by a quarter-over-quarter decline in realized energy and capacity prices.
A decline in capacity prices to $110 per megawatt day from $174 per megawatt day on June 1 of this year reduced Power's earnings by $0.02 per share.
A decline in energy prices under the most recent BGS contract to $94.30 per megawatt hour from $111.50 per megawatt hour which was also effective on June 1 as well as the impact of other hedges reduced earnings by $0.03 per share.
A 6% decline in volume in comparison to abnormally warm conditions during the year-ago period reduced earnings by $0.02 per share.
An increase in customer migration from the BGS contract reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
As we said in the first quarter as well higher depreciation expense coupled with the decline in capitalized interest associated with the commercial operation of the back-end technology at Hudson and Mercer would have an impact on Power's earnings.
And in the second quarter these items reduced Power's earnings by $0.02 per share.
An increase in O&amp;M expense on the Fossil's stations reduced earnings by $0.01 a share.
The absence of trading related losses experienced in the year ago quarter and other miscellaneous items improved Power's earnings by $0.02 per share.
I'd now like to go into a little more detail on the change in output and price experienced in the market and the markets served by Power's generating fleet.
As I mentioned total output declined by 6% in the quarter.
This decline is partly the result of the more normal weather in June of this year compared with abnormally warm weather in the year ago quarter.
Coal-fired output declined by 15% in the quarter.
Our combined cycle units were also affected by the decline in weather-related demand and experienced a 5% decline in output during the quarter from relatively high levels last year.
The nuclear fleet experienced a 2% decline in output.
Power's nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 90.3% during the second quarter compared to an average capacity factor of 92.6% in the year ago quarter.
Power's PJM-based assets which provide 92% of the output generated in the quarter experienced a 3% decline in output.
The quarter-over-quarter reduction in output was mainly the result of a decline in output from our New Jersey based coal stations as output from the PJM-based combined cycle units actually increased by about 3%.
Although our results have been hurt by a decline and realized prices for hedged capacity and energy in the quarter market prices have improved with an expansion in heat rates.
And as I'll mention later in more detail we're poised to take advantage of that.
Importantly this improvement in market prices have also reduced the impact of migration on Power's earnings.
Approximately 33% of BGS related volume had migrated to third-party suppliers by end of June compared with 31% at the end of the first quarter.
This level of customer migration was slightly less than our forecast and a continuation of the pattern witnessed in the first quarter.
So we are as a result reducing our full year estimate of average customer migration to 34% from the prior 35%.
This estimate assumes between 37% and 39% of customer load will have migrated from BGS by the end of the year.
Most importantly however headroom has declined during the quarter versus year ago levels and our expectations.
A continuation of these trends would result in headroom for the full year at levels experienced in 2010.
Remember that abnormal conditions experienced in the second half of 2010 caused headroom to completely collapse during 2 months of that second half period.
The improved environment for pricing over the short term is partly the result of very warm weather conditions.
As many of you may be aware Newark hit a high of 108 degrees on July 22 and experienced a weeklong period of sustained hot and humid weather.
And of course you'll see these results as part of our third quarter earnings.
Prices in the forward market also appear to anticipate the impact of new EPA rules governing the emission of sulfur and nitrous oxides.
EPA's Cross-State Air Pollution Rules often called CSAPR which are the replacement for the Clean Air Transport Rule proposes a greater reduction in SO2 and NOx for our New Jersey facilities and under the preliminary draft of the rule.
The rule also exempts Connecticut and allows some trading of emission credits among the states subject to CSAPR specifically among all the CSAPR states for NOx and among the 16 Group 1 states for SO2 New Jersey's part of that 16 Group 1 states.
Given the capital of investments made by Power over the past 5 years and equipment to reduce the emission of sulfur and nitrous oxides Power is in good position in New Jersey and Pennsylvania to meet the requirements of CSAPR.
Let me move now briefly to our hedge position.
On Slide 20 we provide you with an update of Power's hedge position.
For the balance of 2011 Power's base load output is fully hedged at an average price of $68 per megawatt hour.
With 30% to 35% of our intermediate load hedged approximately 70% to 75% of total expected generation for that period is hedged at an average price of $68 per megawatt hour.
Power's assets by staying partially long in the summer as a result are well-positioned to capture the improvement in margin from current pricing as well as over the long term as we typically hedged with this type of strategy.
For 2012 hedges are in place for approximately 75% to 80% of expected base load generation of 36 terawatt hours at an average price of $64 per megawatt hour.
This equates to approximately 45% to 50% of expected total 2012 generation of 56 terawatt hours hedged at an average price of $64 per megawatt hour.
For 2013 approximately 35% to 40% of anticipated base load output is hedged at an average price of $63 per megawatt hour.
Again equating to hedges on approximately 20% to 25% of estimated total generation of 56 to 58 terawatt hours at the average price of $63 per megawatt hour.
Our total hedged position for 2012 and '13 is slightly higher than our prior positions if you're comparing to first quarter.
The prior positions were about 40% to 50% of total generation for 2012 hedged at $66 per megawatt hour and 10% to 20% of 2013's total generation hedged at $69 per megawatt hour.
We're maintaining our forecast of Power's 2011 operating earnings at $765 million to $855 million.
Although wholesale market prices have been stronger than forecast Power's earnings during the remainder of the year will be influenced by a decline in contracted energy and capacity prices with the implementation of the new BGS and RPM capacity contracts at prices lower than year ago levels.
Power's operating earnings in the second half of 2010 also benefited from those extreme weather conditions which supported output.
While we've seen some of that in July it's too early to forecast anything other than normal weather for the rest of the year.
Power's results during the remainder of 2011 will also continue to reflect the increase in depreciation expense that we have noted in the first and second quarters of the year.
Let's now turn to PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2011 of $0.21 per share compared with $0.15 per share for the second quarter of 2010 as you see on Slide 23.
PSE&amp;G's results were driven by rate release and improved returns on higher levels of capital investment.
An increase in electric and gas rates that went into effect on June 7 and July 9 2010 respectively improved earnings by $0.01 per share.
An annualized increase in transmission revenue of $45 million effective on January 1 2011 added $0.01 per share to results.
And return on investments made under capital adjustment clauses supporting our investments in renewables and energy and gas infrastructure programs added $0.02 per share to earnings.
Quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons were also aided by weather in the heating season and by the implementation as part of the rate case settlement of the gas weather normalization clause.
In the second quarter heating season it was cooler than last year but still warmer than normal.
So this outcome added $0.02 per share to earnings.
Lower volumes quarter-over-quarter reduced earnings by $0.01 a share and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense as well as a result of the decline in pension costs and the absence of a write-off that occurred in the second quarter of 2010 combined to add $0.03 per share to earnings from O&amp;M.
An increase in depreciation expense as a result of an increase in capital spending reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
Other miscellaneous items combine to reduce earnings by $0.01 per share.
As Ralph mentioned PSE&amp;G received important regulatory support for its investment programs.
FERC granted approval for incentive rate treatment effective on June 14 of this year the 3 of the 5 230 kV projects with a total investment of about $1 billion.
The incentive rate treatment covers 80% of our request and provides for a recovery of construction work in progress and 100% recovery of prudently incurred abandonment costs.
These projects are authorized to earn a return on equity of 11.68 under formula rates.
In addition the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities recently approved an increase in PSE&amp;G's spending on energy efficiency programs and electric and gas infrastructure of about $368 million.
The BPU order also requires an additional $96 million of base capital spending on electric and gas distribution.
So PSE&amp;G as a result of the supportive regulatory treatment as well as an update of forecast spending on transmission has increased its capital spending for the period 2011 through 2013 to $5.2 billion from the previous estimate of $4.6 billion.
The revised capital program will provide the opportunity for annual rate based growth as Ralph mentioned of 11% to 12% from the year end 2010 period through the end of 2013.
PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission represents more than 50% of the proposed capital spending program over this period.
We're maintaining our forecast for PSE&amp;G's 2011 operating earnings of $495 million to $520 million.
PSE&amp;G is expected to earn its authorized return on equity in both the distribution and transmission businesses.
The return is a result of full year of electric and gas rate relief granted in 2010 as well as increased transmission revenue.
Our forecast of operating earnings for the full year assumes PSE&amp;G is able to maintain its returns given a control of its expenses as well as increased levels of capital investments.
Now let me turn to PSEG Energy Holdings.
Holdings reported operating earnings of $0.01 per share the second quarter of 2011 versus operating earnings of $0.02 per share during the second quarter of 2010.
The decline in operating earnings for the quarter reflects the absence of tax benefits recognized in the second quarter of 2010 associated with the startup of the solar projects in Ohio and Florida.
We're maintaining our full year estimate of operating earnings for Holdings at 0 to $5 million.
Holdings remained focused on investing in renewable projects that provide a reasonable return and scaling back its investments in non-core areas.
Holdings currently has approximately $115 million invested in 3 solar projects with the capacity of 29 megawatts that meet our financial and operational goals.
Our assessment is that it's difficult in the current market to find projects that meet our threshold for adequate returns and Holdings is therefore scaling back its planned level of capital spending over the 2011 to 2013 period to $40 million from $570 million.
I'd also like to provide you with an update on one leverage lease investment within the portfolio of assets held by PSEG Energy Resources which is a subsidiary of Holdings.
Roseton LLC and Danskammer LLC indirect subsidiaries of PSEG are the owner Le Sueurs of the Roseton and Danskammer electric generating facilities which are leased to indirect subsidiaries of Dynegy and Dynegy Holdings Inc.
or DHI.
DHI has guaranteed the payment obligation of the leases to these PSEG entities.
As a result of DHI's proposed transfer of substantially all of its coal and natural gas-fired generation assets other than the Roseton and Danskammer facilities to new quote "bankruptcy remote subsidiaries " the PSEG entities filed suit against DHI in the Delaware Court of Chancery to halt DHI's proposed transfer and protect our rights under the DHI guarantees.
The PSEG entities request for a temporary restraining order was denied on Friday July 29 and we have since sought review with the Delaware Supreme Court.
As of June 30 2011 the PSEG entity had a gross investment in these leases of $264 million.
A foreclosure event could result in an after-tax charge between $170 million and $180 million.
As part of this potential foreclosure event PSEG could be required to pay approximately $100 million to satisfy income tax obligations.
This potential cash tax obligation is fully reflected in the overall estimate of the aggregate after-tax charge that I just mentioned.
Please keep in mind that the numbers that I'm giving you here are worst-case scenarios and it is not a forecast of the outcome as we continue to pursue our rights in this matter.
Please also note however that given the active litigation status we won't be able to answer any questions related to the Dynegy matter in the Q&amp;A.
Finally let me just briefly mention what's happening on the financing side.
PSEG ended the second quarter with $159 million in cash.
As a reminder PSEG Power retired $606 million of maturing 7.75% senior notes in April using our cash on hand.
And of course cash at quarter end doesn't reflect the receipt of the proceeds from the sale of Odessa which occurred in July.
Also in April PSEG PSE&amp;G and Power each entered into 5-year credit facilities totaling $2.1 billion in credit capacity.
The company's total credit capacity is now $4.3 billion an increase of $650 million since year end.
And of this amount approximately $3.7 billion was available at the end of June.
Powers and PSE&amp;G's operating cash flows have improved in 2011 primarily due to a decline in tax payments related to the benefits of bonus tax depreciation which we've spoken about before.
The improvement in operating cash flow and the proceeds from asset sales have supported our financial strength.
At the end of June debt represented 42% of PSEG's capitalization and 35% of Power's capitalization providing the corporation with significant financial flexibility to meet the planned expansion in capital spending.
So overall we're very pleased with the quarter and maintain our operating earnings guidance of $2.50 to $2.75 for 2011.
Beyond being pleased with the quarter we're also pleased with the operational progress that we believe positions us for future financial success specifically the nuclear license extension; the success of our environmental program which positions us to benefit from the upcoming regulations; the continued success of our cost management efforts; and the future opportunity to make significant regulated investments which support reliability for our customers and can be accomplished with the balance sheet that supports a good return to our shareholders.
As Power markets appear to improve we can take advantage of that while delivering at the same time a growing utility.
With that we're now ready to take your questions.
So Natalia I'll turn it back over to you to introduce the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
I was wondering if you could just shed a little more light maybe on kind of what's going on in New Jersey with the reviews on the Commission on the need for new generation resource on a long run planning basis and kind of what your input has been where you see that process playing through? And then kind of given all that happened with LCAPP this year are there mechanisms the state has available that if they wanted to force new generation outside of the RPM process that you see their ability to do that? Dan I think there's been an announced schedule I don't have specific dates I believe there's another hearing expected in September.
But what's planned is that by the end of the year the state would like to reach some kind of conclusion as to whether or not additional capacity is needed and how it can be secured in a least cost manner.
I think the big question in the state's mind is what happens to the HEDD units that are under some ground-level ozone challenges in the 2015 timeframe.
And in particular our concern about PS North zone which fairly consistently prices higher in RPM than other areas.
The approach we're taking is that the sensible way to introduce new capacity into the region is by improving the efficiency of markets by making them more transparent and by reducing the risk of investors.
And our advocacy has been to make some changes to the RPM process that are pretty straightforward linking up the timeframe for RPM with the RTEP process allowing a mechanism whereby people can get multiyear pricing as opposed to 1 year price 3 years out clarifying the interconnection process so that there's a little greater certainty for investors who are proposing new generation plants so they're not wondering what their interconnection cost will be.
All of those things de-risk new investment and therefore I believe are a win for both the investor and the customer.
And it's quite contrary to the approach the state took in the LCAPP process which exacerbated the risk for investors because you didn't know as an incumbent whether or not somebody was going to intervene in markets.
And I think that that approach is going to have a chilling effect on new investments until we come to some agreement on what the rules will be.
So I think that there's a legitimate concern on the part of the state about future supply and a genuine effort on their part to see how to incent that new supply and an intelligent dialogue going on among all players about how do that in a way that's fair to existing investors and future investors.
And that will play itself out over the next 6 month or so.
But we are very active participants in that discussion.
And as is always the case look to do what's best for our customers as well as investors.
Now do you -- kind of given that your government moves in one direction they tend to get focused on one direction unfortunately.
When you think about kind of a revision of the PJM planning process and the time horizon to meet resource needs relative to the plant closures at the end of '15 can a solution be found in a timely fashion that meets the goals of where the state is headed or is there going to be a -- is this going to become a more difficult process as the year moves on? Well I think you're going to have a couple of processes in parallel that I'm optimistic will converge.
I mean PJM recognizing that it has next May another base residual auction coming up.
It seems to me to be quite committed to a stakeholder process resulting in whatever modifications are needed to RPM sometime late this fall I would say more of an October timeframe.
The question then will be whether or not as in any stakeholder process the stakeholders who don't get everything they want are satisfied with that and then clearly a principle stakeholder that processes is the one we've talked about in New Jersey.
I'm encouraged by the fact that in this multi-participant dialogue which by the way focus on important constituency there appears to be a recognition that a lot of good stuff has come from the market.
One of the things we didn't talk about in our prepared remarks is that in some pretty significant heat we've not set all-time peaks.
That's probably coming from the fact that DSM has brought to the market and on much lower cost than new generation.
So you're seeing RPM which is a nondiscriminatory method for bringing in all solutions on both the supply and the demand side really having a quite a powerful effect from a consumer point of view.
And we like that approach because quite candidly we're in modest enough to think that we're very strong competitors and what we don't like is interventions in that that favor people who are not strong competitors.
So I do think that there are several processes going on underway at the same time there's the PJM stakeholder process and there's the BPU process.
And I would like to believe and I do believe that those processes will convert if we allow them to play out in a rational way.
And one last question Ralph just on the peakers that are scheduled to close at '15 is there a potential real potential that that closure date can get extended for some period in time is there a process going on right now? Or is that realistically those are going to be done at the end of '15? So there is a discussion underway right now with the Environmental Protection Agency.
I mean this is a classic example being of cost benefit.
I'm not going to stand here and say that those peakers are the cleanest units in the fleet and that there aren't new capacity that doesn't have the potential to be cleaner.
Clearly those are 40-year-old FP4 [ph] units that are not the pride and joy of a company that talks about its environmental friendliness.
On the other hand they are a hell of a lot cheaper insurance policy than building new peakers or being replaced by combined cycle units which would have a grossly underutilized capacity factor.
So the real question becomes do you want to get a little bit more benefit out of the cost promised by those units for a couple of years in an economy that's really limping along or do you want to be more aggressive on your environmental impact and retirement in '15 and that's a discussion we're having with all the relevant party.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Fremont with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I guess my first question is the lower coal volumes that we're seeing in Connecticut is that -- should we assume that that's going to continue going forward and why such a steep drop off in output level in Connecticut? Keep in mind one of the things that you always have to look at in the year-over-year is the weather impact right? And so we have a significant weather impact in the business on a year-over-year basis in the second quarter.
June was very warm last year and in fact if you look at our generation output it was much higher than normal last year.
So when you compare last year with this year with normal weather versus very very hot weather you have that reduction that you would expect to see.
It's a little tricky right Paul because we've had a warmer than normal June this year but compared to the extremely warmer than normal June last year when we do the year-over-year comparisons that output is down.
Inc.</strong> And when I look at utility O&amp;M levels and the reduction in the second quarter I mean are we going to see similar reductions in the second half of the year that you experienced in this quarter? Right.
So you remember that the utility post the rate case started some significant management as it always has but with renewed bigger on O&amp;M management.
But 2 things keep in mind so this year versus last year we recently announced some changes to our pension program and that has a significant benefit to the utility.
You expect to see that continue and we just announced that in this quarter.
But also keep in mind last year when we settled the rate case one of the things that we did was we took a write-off for some costs for our new customer system in the second quarter specifically that had an impact negative impact to O&amp;M in the second quarter of 2010.
So when you compare that quarter-over-quarter we look more favorable now because we took a hit in the second quarter and it was $0.02.
So you will continue to see the utility's O&amp;M management.
You will continue to see good compares O&amp;M on a year-over-year basis but you won't see replicated the kind of quarter-over-quarter because of that one-time effect that resulted from the rate case settlement.
Inc.</strong> And last question would be I mean if one of the New Jersey plants were to succeed in next year's auction I mean can you give me a sense of what that would do to your pricing expectations in the auction? The answer to that Paul is no because we don't predict the future auction.
But it's pretty safe to say however when those that succeeded that would mean the capacity prices would have to be equal to or greater than 0.9x MOPR because you can rest assured that everyone of those plants will be bidding the minimum price they could possibly bid which would be a number of PJM will publish in January.
Inc.</strong> Any thoughts in terms of directionally in terms of MOPR next year versus this year? Would it be roughly the same slightly higher? Sir what you have to ask yourself is what's happening to energy prices in '11 and we saw this important months ago versus what were energy prices doing in '08.
And in '08 while we didn't have this kind of weather we did have a fairly high gas price and so '08 will be dropping off and '11 will be picking up.
And then the coal will be updated and typically that does tick up a modest amount.
So those are the factors you have to factor in.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
On Slide 25 the weather versus normal I was wondering if -- I mean sorry if I missed it but is there any quantification as to what weather year-to-date versus normal was in terms of a bottom line impact? I can sort of see where the utility is but sort of a little more color maybe on the generation side.
On the generation side? Yes.
So it's $0.01 for weather on the generation side of the business.
And keep in mind Paul as we talk about weather in each of our businesses we have 2 different things going on right? So in the weather for the utility we're often very focused on the gas business because the gas business supports the heating season and that's a big contributor from a weather perspective to PSE&amp;G.
And so that's the gas discussion that I commented on earlier in my remarks of a $0.02 impact from the weather.
For PSEG Power we're typically talking about the electric side and the air-conditioning season right? So even in this quarter I'm effectively talking about both right? I'm having an impact for the air-conditioning season in June not being as robust as last year's June.
And then for PSE&amp;G I'm talking about the heating season at the beginning of the second quarter.
So if you look at the kind of the overall for the businesses if you look at our waterfall on Page 11 you can see that for PSEG Power for the quarter it's a $0.02 negative in total for volume and weather.
And then if you look at PSE&amp;G for volume and weather you have a positive $0.01.
And whether this aggregation from volume can be a little bit tricky.
So if you think about that together you've got a little bit of positive for the gas business in PSE&amp;G.
Right I guess what I'm thinking is I'm wondering versus normal? Oh so well for Power weather this year was closer to normal particularly in the second quarter closer to normal.
And as I mentioned relative to PSE&amp;G it was cooler than last year but still a little warmer than normal for the heating season.
So it's normal on the things on the electric side relative to air-conditioning if you will for this quarter.
And still a little warmer than normal so that's sort of a negative on the heating season side for PSE&amp;G.
So the generation wasn't impacted by weather that much? The generation was impacted by weather and volume to the extent of about $0.02 for the quarter.
For the quarter versus the other quarter but I guess versus normal I'm just looking at this it didn't have a big impact versus normal? Not a big impact versus normal.
Remember when we do quarter-over-quarter the compare to last year's second quarter was an extraordinarily warm quarter and therefore a lot of weather based air-conditioning utilization.
And then just finally we've got more clarity on EPA obviously on your CapEx program.
And we have a pretty accommodating debt market it seems.
Is there any thought about maybe changing the debt equity mix going forward or what are your thoughts when you look at sort of the future here and your strong balance sheet and what have you and opportunities that might be there? I think Paul we're still marching to the same tune in terms of volume preserve FFO to debt ratios at Power in the mid-30s and preserving the utility capital structure as per the regulatory agreements.
And clearly we're strong those measures right now at Power but we do think we have some opportunities for further investment.
We talked about some of them on the call today we're looking forward to the six-month discussion on finalizing the Energy Master Plan and what that might mean.
And we're looking forward to further clarification on some of the EPA rules and what that could mean for transmission enhancements going forward to preserve reliabilities and units to come out.
So we're not at this point interested in changing the capital structure of the business and how we run it.
But we do think the $670 million increase in PSE&amp;G investment from the last time we spoke may hold the opportunity for the revisits as the E&amp;P plays out.
Carol do you want to add anything to that? Just to add we're having the financial flexibility on the balance sheet gives us the opportunity to consider all of this of course without issuing equity.
And when you look at the increases in the capital expenditures for PSE&amp;G as Ralph mentioned the $670 million from what we last discussed keep in mind that although transmission is the significant portion -- the single biggest portion of the 3 items there as we talked about a lot of our transmission capital expenditures as we talk about programs like Susquehanna-Roseland and the Northeast grid outside the 2013 period if you looked at our total CapEx by those particular projects we've still got slightly in excess of $900 million in completion of those projects particularly Susquehanna-Roseland and the Northeast grid that are outside the forecast we've given you through 2013.
So there's a lot of money that we expect to be putting to work in the utility and our balance sheet supports our ability to do that not just what we forecast through '13 but that additional amount that goes from completing these important reliability projects that we've been talking about for quite a while.
Your next question from the line of Jonathan Arnold from Deutsche Bank.
Just a quick clarification.
What is your CapEx forecast assumed for the timing of specifically Susquehanna-Roseland? Sure so for Susquehanna-Roseland we're basically still on the same timing that we've talked about before.
And that is the eastern portion done by the mid '14 and the western portion meaning the part with the transferred capacity from Susquehanna-Roseland done by mid '15.
And based on discussions that have been underway at various forums including with the federal government we're still keeping with that timeline.
And is that commensurate with sort of a decision being pushed into early '13 which is what I think your last disclosure was? No.
We talked about the fact that we had just gotten notified last quarter when we were on the call relative to reconsideration.
But we're still working on the expected timeline of a decision by the Parks Department relative to the route by October 2012 which we still think is a fair way to think about how that program will roll out.
If that doesn't occur -- if there is further slippage that would affect the dates we just talked about? It could.
I mean always slippage could affect the dates.
But at this point we don't have any information that suggests to us that we need to change the expected dates at this point.
Okay.
And then on the capital discussion that you were just having it seems like you've kind of dialed back a decent amount of spending that was going to happen at Holdings.
And then most of the additional is going into the utility which we imagine kind of primarily financed at the utility level.
What's the -- the incremental kind of reason for the holding back is there more spending you see potentially out of some of the things you talked about at Power or outside of PSE&amp;G or is it using the flexibility to bolster of the utilities? I'm just kind of not fully clear.
No that's a good question Jonathan.
So the way we think of it is we look at the opportunities and one of the things that we always talked about is the disciplined investment strategy maturing that we can put our capital to work and good risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders.
So when we look at the 3 businesses we look at the opportunity to see any and each of those businesses.
So for Power we've not adjusted the forecast because the significant CapEx for EPA related or environmental is basically completed as you know.
The things that are still in for Power's capital spending are things like the peakers that we've bid and cleared in previous capacity auctions and things like the nuclear operated Peach Bottom which we still forecast which you know has a good return for us.
When we look at PSE&amp;G we increased this capital spending because of the opportunities we saw to put money to work at a good risk-adjusted return whether it's formula rate for transmission or incremental spending that was authorized by the BPU that enhances customer reliability.
When we look at holdings it's not a matter of saying that because we had the opportunity to increase PSE&amp;G that we had to decrease Holdings because as we just talked about on the last question our balance sheet gives us the strength to really pursue those areas across our businesses that have good returns.
What we're saying at this point is in the Holdings business some of the returns that we see some of these solar projects clearing at are not the kinds of returns that we think makes sense from a shareholder perspective on a risk-adjusted basis.
So it's not about we have to reduce one to increase the other because we have the balance sheet to pursue these 3 businesses robustly it's really about where are the opportunities and where might the opportunities appear to be at this point less robust.
I just want to add one thought to your comment about the utility financing.
Keep in mind of course that when we talk about these utility capital expenditures you should always assume in your model that the financing of them is consistent with the utility's capital structure; i.e.
an equity ratio of 51:2 which means that you've got half of them being -- half of the spending financed by debt and the other half is financed by the company overall.
So what that effectively means is the utilities get to keep its earnings and cash flow to reinvest in its business because Power is generating cash flow in excess of its needs and that cash flow supports our ability to support the shareholder dividend and to make other investments in the business.
So each business keeps an appropriate capital structure it's opportunistic across all 3 based on opportunities not a bad place to be when you have a balance sheet that allows you to say you can increase one without having to take down the other but just pursue opportunities across your businesses wherever you find them.
Is it fair to say the utility plan to you have now is self-financing as in the equity is coming out of retained earnings and the debt you'll finance in the market? No so we finance the debt in the market to keep that capital structure right? And then the utility generates cash flow keeps its cash flow and we put money in or take money out just depending on how to spend rolls out over time to enable us to keep that capital structure.
So I think the way I would suggest you think about it is Power has the excess cash flow that supports the shareholder dividend and putting money into the other business as need be and the utility rose its debt consistent with its capital structure and keeps its cash flow and then we balance whether there's net money moving up or down from the utility based on the progression of the capital expenditures and based on the cash flow.
Based off the sort of next 3-year forecast that you have before us now is the utility consuming some cash or is it actually still self-financing? On this period that we're talking about here utility is net cash consumer to some extent.
But remember one of the other things that's positive for both of our businesses over this period is bonus depreciation.
So don't forget as you think about the forecast that we've given before and we've given that stacked bar chart for cash flow both of our businesses both Power and Utility significantly benefit from bonus depreciation and you may recall that we talked about its impact over this period actually out through 2013 to be a net impact in both businesses net of $800 million about $900 million this year and next offset by about $100 million going the other way if you will with tax depreciation unwinds versus normal.
And that benefit was a little more than half to the utility and a little less than half the Power.
So versus what you would normally think of when you put capital to work the cash flow benefits from tax depreciation make that a higher number than your models might otherwise normally assume.
But Jonathan just to be sure Carol has already said it a couple of times PSEG is self-financing.
I thought she just said it wasn't.
PSEG the parent.
The parent versus PSE&amp;G.
And within the competitive businesses for want of a better term should we think that you have dry powder currently within the plan that you could deploy without incremental equity needs you're holding back for things we don't yet know about or how should we think about that? So the first part of your question in terms of dry powder the answer is yes.
Those kinds of debt to cap ratios that I mentioned in my prepared remarks that's 42% for the company and about 35% for Power right? In terms of debt to cap give us FFO ratios for Power for example that are well in excess of what we need on the floor for our solid BBB rating.
So we have dry powder that we can put incremental financing in Power but it's not to do things that we're holding back or not telling you about it's when we see good opportunities that provide good returns I think the real bottom line to that is we have the balance sheet that if we see those we can go get them.
And we can go get opportunities if we see them in Power and Holdings without putting anything at risk on the ability to execute the PSE&amp;G plan.
Your next question comes the line of Gregg Orrill with Barclays Capital.
Just wanted to follow up on capacity rules.
There was for a FERC technical conference last week technical conference at FERC about PJM and one of the things that PJM brought up was 5 to 9-year timeline for new capacity in the auction.
Where do you see that consensus developing and discussion right now? Gregg that's an impossible question to answer.
I don't think there is a consensus right now.
Except to say that most folks realized at a 40-year asset life was the 1-year price signal we could do better than that.
So whether it's going to be 3 or 5 or 7 it's not going to be 9 or 15.
But my prediction and it's just that -- maybe I do want Kathleen to read the disclaimer statement now -- is that it will be something greater than 1 in the 3 to 5-year timeframe is just an educated guess.
And then maybe just touching on the hedge rules.
Again is there any way to know or what is your view maybe on how much of that capacity has been taken in PJM auctions such that if the rules did come down 2015 how would that have a financial impact? It's pretty been much all of it so you can think of it as about 2000 megawatts or thereabouts.
So that has cleared in prior auctions.
And keep in mind we're replacing that with our peakers 270 megawatts that is being replaced by the peakers that we've previously bid and cleared that goes against that 2100.
Your next question is from the line of Andy Levy with Caris &amp; Company.
As far as M&amp;A what I mean by M&amp;A just more -- just looking at your Power assets are you looking to add any Power assets whether it's in your region or outside? I mean obviously I know you just got rid of the Texas assets but what are your thoughts there on just keeping what you got changing around what you've got adding to what you got? Andy so relative to Texas you're right we did just complete the Odessa transaction and so that completes the sale of both of our assets both Odessa and Guadalupe in the first and the third quarter and we're pleased with the those results as I'm sure you know.
We are always looking for asset opportunities focus more if you will on our core markets so PJM New York New England.
I mean I said we just talked about in the last 2 questions ago we certainly have the balance sheet to do that.
What we look at are obviously those assets where we can see the opportunity for a positive NPV when we look at the long-term cash flows.
So what that means is either assets where we see that opportunity just by doing the modeling using 4 curve assumptions or assets where we see opportunities that we can perhaps bring some of the operational excellence focus and we have the Power to either run those units better or put them in the market through our hedging capabilities better so we see our way clear to that money can be put to work at a positive NPV.
So we left Texas because it wasn't core market but also because as we were looking at other assets in that market we saw clearing prices that seemed to be much higher than we would ever want to spend to buy.
And after you see that enough times you ask yourself whether it might makes sense to sell given the value that might be there.
So we're pleased with that result.
But that should not be interpreted as we're not always looking for opportunities where were could assets in our core markets.
We absolutely are.
They just have to meet our financial hurdles.
Your next question comes on the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
In light of what you guys have discussed thus far for Power I just want to make it explicit you wouldn't expect paying down any further data at Power right? It seems that you've achieved your 35% FFO targets respectively? Right.
So in terms of Power debt paydown really the only major Power notes that's up for maturity is not until next year.
So the pay down that we made of the $600 million in April we don't have anything close to that until next year.
The next maturity is June of next year for significant dollars of the $600 million.
And wouldn't you anticipate refinancing that more likely than paying it down correct? Well I mean if you look at the capital structure and the cash needs you would expect that Power would be doing refinancing over the planning horizon that would just be consistent with the way we fund the business.
Remember that our ability to pay down this debt in April was in part the reflection of the fact that we had Texas proceeds so we're not expecting to have something like that in upcoming periods.
We always try to keep appropriate capital structure not be too under levered.
And then maybe just a follow-up to that you've kind of discussed or alluded to EMP opportunities on the gas side.
Any kind of timing around that sizing around that? Anything we should pay attention to in terms of getting sort of the next data point around the CapEx cycle? I wouldn't want to be precise about timing Julien but I think you're seeing a series of dialogues taking place.
It really began with the water companies in New Jersey who had been in a position -- I'm not an expert on this so I may use words that are a little bit more aggressive than they need to be.
But it had appeared under investment in their infrastructure and a recognition by the Board of public utilities that this was partly a result of the regulatory lag that they were experiencing and the desire to engage in the conversation around clause type of recovery mechanisms for their business.
Then fast-forward to this year where we've had the benefit of 2 years of significant declines in gas prices I think PSE&amp;G has reduced the gas supply rates by over 30% in that period of time and yet has an aging infrastructure.
So the rational thinking point of both the BPU staff and us in the direction of Okay if we have an aging infrastructure and we have an opportunity here with the availability of construction labor and greatly reduced gas prices to reinvest in that system to preserve its reliability going forward now is a good time to be thinking of that.
So I believe all that gas utilities collectively are going in in the not-too-distant future with a similar proposal to what the water utilities have done.
So we don't see ourselves as unique in terms of regular treatment with respect to that group.
What makes us a little different is just the size of our system compared to the others.
And I think that's part and parcel of that EMP dialogue that's going on right now.
So I do want to say it's a September or December event but it's an active discussion and one that's more out of the confluence of lower gas prices availability of construction labor and an aging infrastructure that could use some help.
And the Energy Master Plan itself is expected to be finalized by the end of this year.
Operator since we're over the time we're going to just conclude with some remarks from Ralph.
Thank you Kathleen.
So thanks again everyone for being on the call.
Look I'm not going to pretend that I don't wish I could report on fuel commodity price rise but I can't report on that.
But I can tell you that we're beginning to see the expected effects of long overdue EPA regulations driven by the Clean Air Act and the benefits what this means to us given our advanced positioning with respect to environmental impact.
We also take pride in the long-term implications of our Salem and Hope Creek life extensions the focus and discipline we implied to our investment portfolio which is reflected most recently in the successful sale of our Texas assets and the recasting of our capital program.
Now you can see an even greater emphasis on regulated investments and they range from energy efficiency to electric and gas distribution to transmission.
And all of these at fair risk-adjusted returns and all of them yielding important customer benefits.
So all of this progress continues forward with a healthy balance sheet ensuring continued financial flexibility.
So thank you for being with us and I wish you all very happy remainder of the summer.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect and thank you for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Public Service Enterprise Group Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday November 1 2011 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
November 1 2011 to November 7 2011.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over the Kathleen Lally Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ashley.
Thank you and good morning to everyone who is participating in our earnings call this morning.
As you know we released third quarter 2011 earnings statements earlier today.
And as mentioned the release and attachments are posted on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail the operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended September 30 2011 is expected to be filed shortly.
I don't intend to read the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results.
But as you know the earnings release and the other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless we are required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K which contains our earnings release and attachments or other filings for a discussion of factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
Joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Thanks.
Thank you Kathleen.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the third quarter 2011 of $0.83 per share compared with operating earnings of $1.03 per share earned in 2010's third quarter.
We achieved solid operating earnings for the third quarter in spite of daunting challenges.
Our biggest challenge remains the low price of electricity.
The effects of our earnings are realized primarily through reductions in BGS and RPM prices effective on June 1 of this year.
During the quarter however we were also faced with the need to respond to the biggest storm to hit our service territory in our 108-year history.
We experienced a historic number of customer outages and level of system damage in the wake of Hurricane Irene.
As usual our employees met the challenge.
Thousands of employees from around the entire enterprise banded together with a common purpose: to help our customers when they needed us most.
Utility counted on and received the assistance of everyone in PSEG who could lend a much-needed hand.
The employees of PSEG Power also met the challenge.
Their efforts to maintain the material condition of our generating units assured their availability during that critical time.
Our 3 New Jersey nuclear units remained online during the hurricane and that strong storm performance was typical of the quarter as a whole.
The Hope Creek nuclear station operated at a 97 capacity -- 97% capacity factor during the quarter resulting in our nuclear fleet operating at a better-than-expected capacity factor of 93% year-to-date.
Our fossil fleet met the demands of the system during this summer's historically high temperatures.
Our combined cycle fleet continues to reduce its forced outage rate with all units operating during the July heat wave.
Our workforce was called upon again this past weekend in response to a north-easter that resulted in substantial damage and customer outages.
We expect to restore power to approximately 95% of the 500 000 customers who lost power by this Thursday evening.
And we have already restored 87% of the affected customers.
I expect to have more to say about our employees' efforts in this storm during our next quarterly call.
We remain on track with our major capital programs at PSE&amp;G and PSEG Power.
Please recall that our budgets call for spending $6.9 billion over 2011 '12 and '13 with '11's capital outlays at $2.3 billion.
Our $750 million Susquehanna-Roseland 500 KV transmission project which we are building in conjunction with PPL energy has been placed on a list of projects for oversight from a new Federal rapid response team with the aim of coordinating and expediting the Federal permitting process.
This line is scheduled to be fully in-service in June of 2015.
Our other major transmission projects the $895 million Northeast grid reliability project and the $336 million north-central reliability project are in the midst of the siting approval process.
The north-central reliability project is scheduled to be in service in mid-2014 with the Northeast grid project scheduled to be online a year later.
These 3 projects represent 31% of our planned transmission investment program of $2.9 billion over the period 2011 through 2013.
And the capital improvements will not end in the next 2 years.
Approximately $600 million of spending on these projects alone extends beyond 2013.
The construction of new peaking capacity by PSEG Power in New Jersey and Connecticut is on schedule.
These facilities which represent approximately 400 megawatts of more efficient clean capacity are scheduled to be placed into operation by mid-2012.
Our $270 million investment in the 2 new peaking units in New Jersey will replace older less efficient units that we plan to retire in 2012.
During the past 5 years we have invested more than $2 billion to replace inefficient older generating units and to upgrade our existing facilities to meet new environmental restrictions.
PSEG is a long-time advocate of the Clean Air Act Regulations.
We view the EPA's recent technical adjustments to the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule more commonly referred to as CSAPR as favorable for our fleet.
We are also well-positioned to meet the anticipated requirements under EPA's HAPs/MACT regulation which is scheduled to be issued on December 16.
We believe these regulations are long overdue.
Our experience shows that it is possible to clean the air create jobs and power the economy all at the same time.
The issuance of these regulations will also provide the industry with much-needed certainty to invest in long lived capital intensive projects such as power plants.
The investment we have made in our coal fleet will also maintain the fuel flexibility which has been important to power.
In another important matter litigation challenging New Jersey's attempt to subsidize generation is moving forward.
The Federal District Court of New Jersey issued a ruling on October 19 rejecting the Board of Public Utilities' motion to dismiss our LCAPP complaint.
This action permits us to pursue all claims filed in the complaints.
The motion by the New Jersey Division of Rate Counsel to dismiss the electric distribution company's appeal of the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities order approving the standard offer capacity agreements was also denied.
We understand and fully support the state's desire to implement policy that fosters economic growth.
But the LCAPP legislation will not achieve that end.
We will prefer to find a solution to the challenge of economic growth that supports investment in the state and doesn't look to long-term above-market subsidies as the answer.
Government interference in a market that's working as we've seen in the past is likely to have unintended consequences for the customer and we have early evidence that the situation is no different this time around.
Our operating earnings for the first nine months of 2011 of $2.27 per share while down from last year's operating earnings of $2.53 per share were stronger than expected.
We have benefited from higher than anticipated wholesale market prices for power and a tight control on expenses.
We have also benefited from the lower pension expense this year versus last year.
The year-to-date results support operating earnings for the full year at the upper end of our earnings guidance of $2.50 $2.75 per share.
I must add that although 2011 has benefited from a reduction in pension expense recent volatility in the financial markets make it difficult to predict the year-end funded status of our pension obligation which could result in increased pension expense in 2012.
These issues aren't easy to forecast.
We've seen markets improve since the end of September notwithstanding yesterday and today's early moves.
Also the discount rate on our pension plans is established on the last day of the year.
On another matter during the quarter we established the reserve against the value of our Dynegy leases.
This reserve resulted in a non-cash charge of $170 million or $0.34 per share.
We fully intend to assert all claims against Dynegy but can't be certain of success.
Our financial condition remains strong.
We are focused on providing value to our shareholders through increased investments that earn competitive returns.
We're able to focus our capital program almost exclusively on growth opportunities now that the investment we made to upgrade the environmental equipment on our generating units is behind us.
And we can finance this growth without diluting our existing holders.
I'll now turn the call over to Caroline to review our operating results in greater detail.
Thank you Ralph and good morning.
I'll now review our quarterly operating results as well as the outlook for our full-year operating results by subsidiary company.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2011 of $0.83 per share versus operating earnings of $1.3 per share in last year's third quarter.
Slides 4 and 5 provided reconciliation of operating income to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter and year-to-date.
We've provided you with a waterfall chart on Slide 12 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on Slide 13 provides you with changes in operating earnings by each business on a year-to-date basis.
So let's review each company in a little more detail starting with Power.
As shown on Slide 15 PSEG Power reported operating earnings for the third quarter of $0.51 per share compared with $0.67 per share a year ago.
Power's third quarter earnings were affected primarily by a quarter-over-quarter decline in realized energy and capacity prices.
Recall that capacity prices declined to $110 per megawatt day on June 1 2011 from $174 dollars per megawatt day in the prior 12-month period.
This decline reduced Power's earnings in the quarter by $0.07 per share.
A decline in energy prices under the Basic Generation Service or BGS contract to $94.30 per megawatt hour also effective on June 1 from the prior contract price of $111.50 per megawatt hour as well as the impact of other re-contracting efforts together reduced earnings in the quarter by $0.07 per share.
Quarter-over-quarter output declined 7% given the decline in weather-related demand versus last year.
The decline in volume lowered Power's earnings comparison by $0.02 per share.
Although weather conditions experienced in the third quarter were a bit above normal the summer of 2011 was cooler than last year's record heat.
As was the case in our first 2 quarters earnings comparisons at Power were also affected by an increase in depreciation expense and a decline in capitalized interest associated with the start up of the back-end technologies at the Hudson and Mercer coal units.
Together these items reduced earnings by $0.03 per share.
Power has taken advantage of the flexibility available under the terms of one of its coal contracts to sell supply on the open market.
The sale of coal in the third quarter of 2011 coupled with the absence of freight cancellation costs occurring in the year -- incurred in the year-ago quarter benefited Power's third quarter 2011 earnings by $0.03 per share.
An increase in operation and maintenance expense due to the timing of planned outages at the fossil stations reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
Power's earnings were also affected by the absence of trading-related losses in the prior year of $0.03 per share and other miscellaneous items which together reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
You'll notice that I didn't mention migration in the quarterly earnings comparisons.
Power's third quarter earnings comparisons were not affected by customer migration away from the BGS contract.
Although the level of customer migration grew during the quarter versus year ago levels headroom continued to decline.
The reduction in headroom is a function of both the decline in the average price charged customers under the BGS rate that I just mentioned as well as an increase from the market price of Power.
Therefore as a result of those 2 factors an increase in net migration with a decrease in the cost of each migrated customer migration resulted in no net impact on earnings quarter-over-quarter.
Customer migration represented an estimated 33% of BGS volumes at the end of the third quarter of 2011 compared with about 26% at the end of September 2010.
And note that on a sequential quarter basis migration is essentially flat.
Due to a slowing in the rate of growth of customer migration a continuation of the pattern witnessed earlier in the year we've lowered our full-year estimate of customer migration to an average of 32% to 33% from the prior estimate of 34%.
Our updated estimate also assumed year-end customer migration levels of about 33% to 35% versus our previous forecast of 37% to 39%.
The net impact of lower hedge prices for capacity and energy offset in part by higher wholesale market prices and lower fuel costs than experienced a year ago resulted in a $3 per megawatt hour or about 5.5% reduction in Power's gross margin rate during the quarter to approximately $54 per megawatt hour.
As I mentioned earlier total output was 7% lower in the quarter.
Power's PJM-based assets which provided about 90% of the output generated in the quarter experienced the 5% decline in output.
The decline is primarily the result of more normal weather experienced in this quarter compared with the abnormally warm weather in the year-ago quarter.
And the dispatch of our fossil generation has also been affected by an increase in the operating costs at our New Jersey-based coal stations following the start up of the back-end technology.
As a result of these 2 factors our coal units experienced a reduction in output of 19% but our combined cycle units experienced only a 6% reduction in output during the quarter from the relatively high levels of output in the year-ago period.
The nuclear fleet experienced an improvement in output.
Power's nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 90.6% during the third quarter compared to an average capacity factor of 89.4% in the year-ago quarter.
The Hope Creek station which we own fully operated at a 97% capacity factor in the quarter.
Hope Creek's performance more than offset a reduction in output at the Salem station.
Salem's performance was affected by high levels of debris in the Delaware River following Hurricane Irene and a 5-day outage of Salem 2 to repair a coolant leak.
Power in addition to selling excess coal supply on the market has restructured the coal supply contract for Bridgeport Station to more closely matched supply with future coal requirements.
The sale of supply added about $0.03 per share to Power's earnings in the third quarter and provided about $0.06 per share to Power's operating results for the first nine months of the year.
Our current coal supply is adequate to meet demand expectations and we don't anticipate this level of sales continuing into 2012.
As I just mentioned the dispatch of our coal units in 2011 has been affected by a reduction in demand relative to year-ago levels and an increase in the operating cost of our New Jersey-based coal units with the installation of the back-end technology.
If we take a moment to analyze dispatch economics solely on the basis of cost of fuel our gas units are dispatched before our coal units when gas is about $4 to $4.50 range per mmBTU.
The additional cost of the back-end technology increases this dispatch break-even analysis by about $0.75.
This change in operating costs coupled with the decline in weather-related demand were the primarily reasons behind a reduction in output from our coal units.
The availability of our combined cycle capacity provides flexibility for us to meet demand in the most economic way.
We estimate the CSAPR rules would increase the cost of operating unscrubbed coal units in the region by a similar amount and would increase the costs of operating a clean coal unit but by only a fraction of that amount.
We think the market is responding well to the potential for increased emission cost and Power is well-placed to participate over the long term.
As shown on Page 19 Power's output for the remainder of 2011 is hedged approximately at 80% levels at an average price of $68 per megawatt hour.
For 2012 hedges are in place for approximately 50% to 55% of expected total 2012 generation of 58 terawatt hours at an average price of about $63 per megawatt hour.
For 2013 approximately 25% to 30% of expected total generation of 57 terawatt hours is hedged at an average price of $61 per megawatt hour.
Remember that when we refer to our hedge prices BGS prices are full requirements less capacity other hedges are at blocked prices not full requirements.
And BGS represents about 1/3 of 2012's hedge value and about 1/2 of 2013's hedge value.
Let's turn now to PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2011 of $0.30 per share compared with $0.30 per share for the third quarter of 2010 as we show on Slide 24.
PSE&amp;G's results were affected by increased capital investment and the cost of responding to hurricane-related outages.
An annualized increase in transmission revenue of $45 million effective on January 1 of this year added $0.01 per share to results.
A return on investments made under capital adjustment clauses supporting investments and renewables and an electric and gas infrastructure program added $0.02 per share to earnings.
These improvements to earnings were offset by an increase in operation and maintenance expenses.
Storm-related costs associated with Hurricane Irene and higher tree trimming expense in the quarter amounted to about $0.03 per share.
This cost offset a reduction in pension related costs resulting in a net increase in O&amp;M expense of about a $0.01 per share.
An increase in depreciation expense and the absence of gains in the year-ago quarter reduced earnings by $0.02 per share.
PSE&amp;G's service territory experienced days of record-breaking temperatures during the month of July and although temperatures reached new highs during several days the number of hours in the quarter experiencing peak temperatures was lower than the levels experienced in the year-ago period.
As a result weather had little impact on PSE&amp;G's quarter-over-quarter earnings comparison.
Weather-normalized sales remain week as residential customers conserve in response to economic conditions.
For the quarter we estimate weather-normalized sales declined by about 2.7% resulting in a decline in weather-normalized electric demand of about 1.7% for the first 9 months of the year.
In early October PSE&amp;G filed at the FERC for an increase in transmission revenues under its formula rate mechanism.
If approved PSE&amp;G's transmission revenues would increase $94 million on an annualized basis effective January 1 of next year.
The request reflects in part the forecast step-up in PSE&amp;G's transmission-related capital spending and related costs.
PSE&amp;G files an incentive rate filing at FERC on October 31 2011 for the North East grid project.
The filing request approval for recovery of construction work in progress are quick in the rate base 100% of abandonment cost and an incentive return on equity of 100 basis points.
PSE&amp;G also filed at the New Jersey BPU for approval to defer expenses incurred during the quarter in response to Hurricane Irene.
PSE&amp;G expensed $13 million of hurricane-related restoration cost in the quarter and requested approval to defer $29 million of incremental costs with recovery at a future date.
The deferrals represent one-time extraordinary costs such as mutual aid and they're consistent with our prior practice.
Let me now turn to PSEG Energy Holdings.
Holdings reported operating earnings of $0.01 per share for the third quarter of 2011 versus operating earnings of $0.05 per share during the third quarter of 2010.
The decline in operating earnings for the quarter reflects the absence of gains in the third quarter of 2010 from the termination of leases and the absence of revenues from asset sale.
Let me just spend a moment on Dynegy.
Our results for the third quarter reflect a full reserve for Energy Holdings' $264 million equity investment in the lease receivable from subsidiaries of Dynegy Holdings LLC.
The reserve resulted in an after-tax noncash charge against PSEG's earnings in the third quarter of $170 million or $0.34 per share.
In the event of nonpayment of the lease obligation Energy Holdings intends to with -- fully assert its claims against Dynegy Holdings or DH its directors and Dynegy affiliates including its claims under a tax indemnity agreement designed to protect Energy Holdings from adverse tax consequences should the lease structure not be maintained and should any cash taxes be due.
Please keep in mind that this reserve is noncash but it does reflect the full extent of the charge of any future possible cash payment.
Let me spend just a moment on financings.
PSEG ended the third quarter with slightly more than $1.2 billion in cash.
Cash at quarter end reflects receipt on the proceeds from the sale of Odessa which occurred in July.
Also cash tends to be higher at the end of the third quarter reflecting the impact of demand in the seasonally strong third quarter.
Power and PSEG's operating cash flows have also improved in 2011 due to a decline in tax payments related to the benefits of bonus depreciation.
As we mentioned last quarter we are still on track to receive about $800 million of cash in 2011 related to bonus depreciation and our cash position reflects receipt of that on an ongoing basis.
Power and PSE&amp;G both took advantage of low interest rates last quarter.
During the quarter Power issued $500 million of new debt consisting of $250 million of 2.75% senior notes due in September of 2016 and $250 million of 4.15% senior notes due in September of 2021.
PSE&amp;G issued $250 million of three-year medium-term notes at 0.85%.
These financings of course also improved quarter end cash on hand.
At the end of September debt represented 43.8% of PSEG's total capitalization and 38% of Power's capitalization providing the Corporation with significant financial flexibility to meet capital requirements and seek new opportunities without any need to issue equity.
Although we're not ready to discuss 2012 guidance which you know we always do on our fourth quarter earnings call there was one other thing we'd like you to keep in mind as you look ahead and that's pension expense.
Pension costs are affected by returns on the portfolio and interest rates.
As Ralph earlier mentioned both key variables have experienced a great deal of volatility within a period of months.
Pension expense will be affected by the year-end values for both and recall that we don't smooth our year end asset values for purposes of calculating next year's expense.
This potential for year-over-year increase in pension expense would differ from the assumption that we've shown in our investor material that pension expense would decline slightly in 2012 from 2011 levels.
Again too early to forecast but I just want to point that out as we come towards year-end.
That said for 2011 given the strength of operating results for the first 9 months as Ralph indicated we expect operating earnings for the full year to be at the upper end of our guidance range of $2.50 to $2.75 per share this year.
With that I'll turn it back over to Ashley for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers would Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Ralph I know you talked it a little bit earlier in the call but clearly New Jersey seems to have a pretty high focus on getting new generation built in the state kind of independent of what happens with the LCAPP process.
Can you just talk a little more about what kind of position in alternatives that the state might pursue to try and get generation built or things that you guys think you could do in conjunction with PJM to try and get generation built while keeping the constructive competitive framework for RPM in place? Sure Dan.
So I know there's been a lot of attention paid to this issue and it's really -- you've accurately summarized the way in which it's portrayed.
I do have a slightly different view of it however.
I believe what the state is trying to do and what the governor particularly is trying to do is make New Jersey as competitive as it can possibly be.
So new generation is really a means by which New Jersey's Power prices will be more competitive with the region.
And in the conversations we have been having with policymakers is that there are certain things New Jersey cannot compensate for.
We cannot compensate for our population density.
We cannot compensate for our lack of indigenous fuel.
We cannot compensate for our environmental regulations which are more progressive or aggressive depending upon your perspective and others.
Having said that if we can work together to make markets even more efficient by reducing the risk for investors and therefore on a risk-adjusted basis make investments flow more readily so that power plants get built when needed and you see less of the differentiation other than the factors I mentioned a moment ago then I think everybody wins.
And that's the kind of conversation we're having with folks right now.
So that's leading to specific discussions around how interconnections are planned.
What is the timeframe of which RPM prices future capacity.
What are the constraints that should or should not be placed on access to new shale gas deposits in the region.
So I think as long as we stay focused on meaningful improvements in competitive markets and steer away from counterproductive subsidies of government that interfere with markets there's a wealth of opportunities to find common ground.
Your next question is from the line of Kit Konolige with Ticonderoga.
Research Division</strong> A question on another area where there's been litigation the Power markets.
Can you update us on your sense of the outlook for any decisions by the courts or EPA on CSAPR on our HAPs/MACT for that matter? It's Ralph again.
We are talking here about the implementation of the Clean Air Act amendments of 1990.
They have been promulgated by EPA.
They've been contested in the courts candidly all too often by colleagues in our industry.
Although they have been contested by others as well.
They've been up and down the judiciary system.
I believe they've been at the Supreme Court at least once.
I don't -- I think that's accurate.
And now EPA is narrowing the oscillations in terms of re-promulgation of rules.
And we're confident that they will stick.
And I think others are confident they will stick.
At last count I believe EEI had 48 gigawatts of coal retirements that have been announced which is a clear indication that people expect the CSAPR rules and the HAPs/MACT rules to be final in some close form that approximates the proposals.
As you know the CSAPR rules are final.
There were some technical changes made some recently.
Yes there are a couple of states who believe they were surprised I can't speak for them who have filed lawsuits.
In general however we have been quite supportive.
We've actually supported these rules for quite some time and have been outspoken in the fact that we have coal units we've made the investments and we are ready to compete and others should be ready to do the same.
Research Division</strong> And if I can follow with -- in that general area.
I think Caroline mentioned that if I wrote it down correctly that markets are responding well to higher environmental requirements or the prospect or the likelihood.
Can you guys give us any color on your view of forward power markets with regard to environmental whatever the impacts are.
Just some sense of the next few years what you've been seeing? So as I mentioned we did see the markets respond.
In fact if you recall when the CSAPR rules came out you saw market prices move up about $2.
And then you are seeing some of that.
At least our sense is you see that when you look out across the forward curve.
Of course we don't forecast beyond the forward curve.
I wouldn't say that we have a crystal ball on that.
We think that about perhaps maybe 2/3 or so of the price move might be factored into what we see in the forward curve.
At the end of the day people like to see rules go final right? So prospects are good final rules are better.
And of course we look forward to the HAPs/MACT rules as Ralph mentioned being issued in December.
So we think we see some of that in the forward curve.
We think we see it sustained.
But of course we need to see those final rules issued for HAPs/MACT and we hope December.
Your next question is from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask on customer migration.
I think in the past and correct me if I'm wrong you guys have talked about $0.01 per share for every 1% of customer migration? Given what you saw in the quarter is there an update to that or can we still generally think about that going forward? Thanks for your question.
I'm glad you asked it because I think one of the things that we've been talking a lot about is the fact that when you think about migration and its impact on our earnings you have to think about 2 parts.
Not just the amount of migration or how many customers have moved but in fact what that cost you.
What is the difference in what they pay if they're in BGS versus if they are not on BGS.
So in prior years that difference which we call the headroom has been a relatively larger number.
It's that much larger than it is today and that was the result of the fact that BGS prices were still coming off higher levels and there was also still a summer premium which now is actually only one of the remaining years of BGS prices as well as lower prices in the market.
So that differential was bigger.
And when you have a bigger differential then as you lose the customer or you lose a customer or a group of customers that cost you dollars for each customer that leaves.
The reason that I said that the migration amounts that we have this year quarter-over-quarter in fact don't result in any EPS quarter-over-quarter comparisons is that while you still have some incremental customers moving and we saw that move from about 26% to about 33% the headroom is so much lower than it was.
It's lower than last year and in fact it's only about 1/4 of the level it was when we first saw migration really take hold in the summer of 2009.
So what happens is when you have an incremental amount of customers moving but in fact every customer including those who have already left you cost you less and you run out the math sort of a price x quantity if you will we end up now in the circumstance with a slowing level of migration on top of a lower headroom amount for everyone who's migrated leading to 0 impact quarter-over-quarter.
You might think of this in a sense in the extreme.
If you had a 0 headroom if the prices effectively converged we would be indifferent as to where the customers were because the impact for us would be the same in terms of dollars.
So we watched the headroom come down.
It means every customer if you will is worth less on a differential basis and that's why I wouldn't use the estimates we had given in past years because they are related to past levels of headroom.
Research Division</strong> Thanks a lot.
And one quick follow-up then.
If you guys project customer migration either shrinking or getting larger would that affect your bidding strategy into the BGS? No it wouldn't.
Because we don't bid into BGS thinking about that.
We bid into BGS based on the parameters of course that we're given in terms of the composition of the customers as well as our expectations for forward prices capacity and the other risk premium that we don't get into on the call for competitive reasons.
Your next question is from Paul Fremont with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It looks as if there's some margin improvement that's taking place particularly in New England and New York.
What -- can you give an indication given the fact that gas prices were low both quarters as to what's driving that particularly in New England? So sure Paul.
Keep in mind for -- particularly for New England if you look at the margin there as I mentioned we did the coal sales this quarter and those coal sales fall into the results that we have for New England.
So that's really the biggest driver of the difference that you see.
Not much going on in New York but New England is going to be driven by coal.
And as I mentioned we had coal sales this quarter.
We also had a little bit in the earlier quarters.
So as I said $0.06 for the year to date $0.03 quarter-over-quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And can you give us major milestones in the LCAPP court case? There is no schedule that's been published on that Paul so the 2 beneficial outcomes we've seen are the denial of the motion to dismiss of the BPU -- on the part of the Federal court of the BPU motion to dismiss.
And then the denial of the rate payer advocate's motion to dismiss on the EDC case.
But there is no scheduled time for the court to act.
We are in discovery however right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the next thing to look for is scheduling the trial date? Yes.
I mean there's lots of things to look to right? I mean there's -- from the court point of view that's accurate.
But I think that you'll want to look at PJM's filing of how it's going to respond to the Mopar implementation at the end of November you'll want to look to the early part of next year where PJM publishes the parameters for the RPM auctions.
There are various motions that we will be filing in the litigation that you would look to in the coming weeks and months.
So there's a continuous stream of activity.
I don't think there is any one date that one wants to latch on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And sort of the last question there.
Perhaps the I guess they filed to reverse the interconnect charges with the FERC.
Do they need to win on that in order to bid in the upcoming auctions? That's -- I believe your referring to Hess' filing at FERC and I am in no position to comment on what they need or don't need.
PJM sets the planning parameters we operate the assets and we'll operate those assets in the best interest of the customer base and the reliability that PJM is accustomed to delivering.
Your next question is from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the coal sales and then -- could you break down Caroline at all this $0.03 item.
Was it primarily the sales or more weighted to the absence of cancel freight costs and is there any ongoing expectation around those canceled freight expenses as you move forward into the coming quarters? Right.
Sure Jonathan.
So it's primarily the sales relative to the cancellation.
We had cancellation costs last year in the third quarter because we still actually have those charges.
We actually restructured the agreement midyear this year so we no longer have those costs.
So really what you're seeing most of what you've got here is the sales about 3/4 of it or so is the sales relative to the cancellation charges.
In terms of going forward as I've mentioned we have adequate supplies of coal.
And since we have the restructured agreement that no longer has the cancellation charges if we don't want to take shipments we are in a better position.
That being said because we have made the sales that we've made to date we really shouldn't think about that as really being anything material as we come into 2012 in terms of future sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was what you did earlier in the year I guess there was another $0.03 similar in makeup? Right.
In the first 2 quarters kind of spread-out between the 2 quarters.
We highlighted that this year -- this quarter because it was just $0.03 just for this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I may on one other the topic you have reasonably high cash balance currently versus I guess part of that may be seasonal.
Is this some CapEx timing and then just -- how should we think about what the plan is for deployment? Right.
So in terms of capital as you know and as Ralph mentioned in his remarks we do have $2.3 billion in capital expenditures for the year.
To date we've spent about $1.5 billion in capital so we still have a good chunk to go.
It typically gets a little bit more weighted to the final quarter of the year as we typically ramp-up.
In terms of really beyond that I think keep in mind we're just continuing to look for new opportunities.
And then next year we have some debt coming due.
We have some maturities happening both at Power and the utility so we have some flexibility there.
What we really did in addition to the sale of Texas of course which you know is new for this quarter we really took advantage of market rates and I think we've got good levels for the debt and that just gives us lots of flexibility and then we can reconfigure our financing plan going forward knowing about our upcoming maturities.
Your next question is from Jack D'Angelo with Catapult Capital.
Can you just comment a little further on the weather-normalized sales trends you're seeing at PSE&amp;G? Kind of your thoughts on the local economy and maybe when you see the sales trend turning the corner back towards a growth trajectory? Sure.
Yes it's been challenging this year.
I think earlier in this year we thought we were seeing the bottom and perhaps same things turn up but things have continued to be a challenge for the state.
As it is obviously for the country.
So the numbers that I mentioned in my remarks were the -- are estimates of weather-normalized and of course that is more art than science.
But we do see downtrends on a weather-normalized basis.
We do think people are conserving more maybe not turning on the air conditioner quite as quickly in the heat of the summer.
We'll see what happens when we get into the heating season.
In terms of employment data we do see a little bit of good news in looking at data August versus August from 2011 versus 2010 seem to see some upturn in net employment in the state.
But again I'm talking 10 000 15 000 in total.
What appears to be some private sector benefit offset by some decreases at the government level.
But if you look at things like housing starts or jobless claims they seem to be bouncing around that level.
It's not inconsistent with what we saw last year.
So things don't appear to be getting worse.
From the economic perspective they don't appear to be turning around.
We do think we're seeing that manifest in what customers are doing in trying to conserve before they turn on the air conditioner or use a little bit more power.
So it's not getting worse but unfortunately you can't really say that we see it getting a lot better at this point.
Okay.
So when we think about '12 probably pretty flat to where -- to what you guys are seeing at '11? Yes.
It's hard to forecast all the way out but I wouldn't forecast a lot of growth at this point given where we are.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Really quick just on the pension commentary.
When you -- how should we get our arms around what this means for O&amp;M as how much pension expenses is a percent of your total O&amp;M and you guys have been one of the better companies in terms of managing total O&amp;M across the board.
What kind of -- how should we think about like the sensitivities of pension costs relative to total O&amp;M contributions going forward? Sure.
So you may recall Michael when we we're talking about pension expense a couple of years ago we talked about it moving up after 2008 to levels in 2009 of about $160 million for total pension expense.
It's come down significantly since 2009 into '10 and '11 so you are looking at numbers that are around the levels slightly less than say $100 million or so.
The real question for us is at levels like less than $100 million in total for the company how do we think about the year-on-year? So if you think back to our investor materials we had the bar charts where we show total O&amp;M and then we show pension as a piece of total O&amp;M.
In those bar charts we were expecting to see a small decrease in pension expense on a year-on-year basis when we looked at it.
But given where we are now and given how things have changed I think it's hard to think about being certain of a small decrease.
Because when we think of where both interest rates are -- lower interest rates increase pension expense as you know as well as lower returns which increase pension expense -- that puts the challenge there.
So total O&amp;M for us you may recall when you looked at our numbers we were looking at total O&amp;M for this year of about $2.1 billion and we were talking about kind of flat over the '10 to '13 period.
The pension expense is a little less than $100 million out of that.
Got to think of it next year as maybe being a little higher than that.
So on a base of about $2.1 billion you are looking at a number that's a little less than $100 million or somewhere around there for next year.
Can't give you a better estimate because we can't set it until we get to the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Do you believe you have other opportunities to offset pension expense and O&amp;M elsewhere within the broader O&amp;M budget? Well obviously as you know and we've talked about before we do our O&amp;M budgeting on a bottoms-up basis really looking at every site every part of the organization.
But when you think about the kind of swings that pension expense can provide when you have.
For example the market's being up almost 8% or 9% when we were in the May time frame to the S&amp;P being down about 4% by the end of September and now with positive territory by the end of October those kind of things can consist -- and combined with very sharp moves in rates make it pretty hard to overcome what could be pension expense volatility by the end of the year.
Not that we haven't -- not that we aren't continuing to try but that's why we want to flag it for you now because it might be something that becomes a higher number in 2012 versus our expectations of O&amp;M and net higher than we would've otherwise be able to offset.
Your next question is from Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just have one more question around kind of resource supply.
One of the issues in the environmental rules is that you have those peakers that are supposed to be retired at the end of '15.
Are you guys making any progress in these conversations moving forward as far as maybe extending the useful life of those just to help keep the cost in New Jersey customers down a bit over the next few years? So Dan we still have an application in front of the DEP.
Candidly time is getting short for the DEP to respond to that and us to be able to have confidence to keep them in the next RPM auction.
The trade-off there is just what you said.
Clearly keeping those peakers in would have the -- a maximum benefit for customers in terms of keeping capacity prices down.
However they are not the finest units in the point of view of ground-level ozone and OX emissions and therein lies the trade-off that the state is grappling with.
I'd say that we won't know the final outcome of that until early or at the latest middle of the first quarter of next year.
The application is still alive but we don't have a clear answer yet.
Your next question is from Ashar Com [ph] with Bizium [ph].
Ralph just playing over the Central District Court case.
Is it fair to assume that once that the case should be decided by just before the next auction? No Ashar.
I don't think we should make any assumptions about the schedule on the case.
And the judge has the information and he's proceeding as he deems appropriate and we are not putting ourselves in a position to predict time tables.
Okay but let me ask it another way.
If the participants take part in the next auction and the case hasn't been decided we would have claims against them if we win the case and they have taken part in the auction? Is that fair to say? I'd think that speaking for myself not speaking for others I would not want to enter into an expectation that my contract is going to be allowed to continue for the 15 years until that case is decided.
But that's speaking for myself and we actually approached the LCAPP process with that as a consideration.
But others may have a completely different point of view as to whether or not those contracts will continue to be honest.
And do you have anything information whether we're going to have any more hearings or anything on this going forward 'til the end of the year? No.
As far as I know the BPU held a hearing a few weeks ago and there is discussion of likely staff recommendation and how to proceed sometime in the mid-December time frame and that's all that I believe has been stated publicly or at least that's all I'm aware of has stated publicly.
Your next question is from Gregg Orrill with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> The recommendations in the Mopar case PJM is going to make.
Would those be effective for the next auction you think? Or is there really no way to know that at this point? You never want to say something with 100% certainty Greg.
But I'm fairly confident that anything PJM does in the November timeframe or soon thereafter would be with the intention of having it effective -- in the next RPM of May.
Yes I'd put a high degree of confidence on that.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of New Jersey legislation.
Do you see anything getting done this year that would affect you? No I do not.
I do not not legislatively.
Mr.
Izzo Ms.
Dorsa there are no further questions at this time please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.
Thank you Ashley.
So for those who have joined us I extend once again my thanks for being with us and I sincerely hope you're as pleased as we are with our operating earnings through the third quarter and our expectations for where we believe the year will end.
Similarly I hope you're as gratified as we are that our environmental strategy appears poised to deliver anticipated benefits.
And we have to be sure while the first 9 months have been strong and the long term strategy appears to be paying dividends there are some challenges that remain and chief among them are ensuring the continued functioning of competitive wholesale markets free of government's discriminatory subsidies.
But as I mentioned a moment ago I believe these challenges are manageable with ongoing dialogue and I can assure you if you're not aware of that already we are quite actively engaged in that ongoing dialogue.
So we look forward to seeing you next week at EEI and thank you for being with us today.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may disconnect and thank you for participating.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Brent and I am your event operator today.
I'd like to welcome everyone to today's conference Public Service Enterprise Group Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Thursday February 23 2012 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern on March 1 2012.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Brent and good morning everyone.
Thanks for participating this morning in our earnings call.
As you are aware we released our fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings statements earlier this morning.
The release and attachments are posted on our website which is www.pseg.com under the Investor section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail the operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-K for the period ended December 31 2011 is expected to be filed shortly.
I won't go through the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results but I do ask that you read all those comments contained in our slides and on our website.
The disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements details the number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements made therein.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change unless required by applicable securities laws.
We also present a commentary with regard to the difference between operating earnings and net income reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
PSEG believes that the non-GAAP financial measure of operating earnings provides a consistent and comparable measure of performance of metrics to help shareholders understand the trends in our performance.
I am now going to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and CEO of Public Service Enterprise Group.
Joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for their questions and we do ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Thanks.
Thank you Kathleen and thanks everyone for joining us today on this call.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
Our operating earnings of $0.47 per share in the fourth quarter brought operating earnings for the full year to $2.74 per share at the upper end of our guidance for the year of $2.50 to $2.75 per share and consistent with what we shared with you on our last quarterly call.
Despite challenging conditions the past year was one of significant accomplishment as we made progress in our investments designed to continually improve New Jersey's energy infrastructure.
We received approval to extend and renew the Nuclear Regulatory Commission operating licenses for our Hope Creek and Salem stations.
Performance at our new nuclear facilities remained strong.
Hope Creek exceeded its best annual generation in 2011 by operating at a 98.7% capacity factor.
Extension of what we call the operating excellence model that has been in place at Power's nuclear fleet has been applied to the operational Power's  fossil fleet which resulted in improved availability and record generation.
The availability of 3 200 megawatts of natural gas combined cycle capacity overcame weakness in our coal-fired generation once again highlighting both the benefits of the fleet's fuel diversity and our efforts to run the fleet with the maximum efficiency.
Our employees performed heroically in responding to 2 of the most devastating storms in PSE&amp;G's history.
an accomplishment that was saluted by state and municipal officials as well as customers demonstrating what we have seen so many times before that our people remain the foundation of our success.
In the face of lower natural gas prices we are not standing still.
We made significant progress in our capital programs investing $2.1 billion in 2011 as we near completion of 400 megawatts of new peaking capacity in New Jersey and Connecticut while major transmission projects that will modernize the Northeast grid remain on track for service in 2014 and 2015.
Our $750 million Susquehanna-Roseland transmission project which we are building in conjunction with PPL Energy is scheduled to be in-service in June of 2015.
Our other major transmission projects North Central Reliability and Northeast Grid Reliability are undergoing siding approval and is scheduled to be in-service in 2014 and 2015 respectively.
We also received approval at year end for incentive rate treatment on the $895 million Northeast Grid project which includes a 25-basis-point adder to our normal formula rate authorized return on equity.
These investments support our local economy with jobs they support our customers with an improvement in system reliability and with the operation of the Northeast Grid a reduction in congestion and they benefit our shareholders by providing fair and reasonable risk-adjusted returns on capital.
We also received approval in New Jersey in 2011 to spend an additional $368 million on improving the reliability of our electric and gas distribution systems and to expand investment in energy efficiency programs.
We've also increased our interest in solar with the $75 million investment in a 25-megawatt facility located in Arizona that will go into service later this year.
This investment as with our prior solar investments outside the Utility is supported by a long-term power purchase agreement with a creditworthy counterparty.
Our reputation for reliability opened new business opportunities.
We were awarded a 10-year contract by the Long Island Power Authority to manage their electric transmission and distribution system.
The contract is effective beginning in January 2014.
We have 2 years to prepare.
I have no doubt our team will dedicate themselves to making this a success.
These operational and capital investment success stories have been accompanied by a strong and improving balance sheet and a reduction in risk.
We have reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service that resolves all tax-related issues with regard to our LILO/SILO leases in a manner consistent with our expectations.
We have also reached a settlement with Dynegy and we continue to monetize holdings portfolio of assets.
Unfortunately these accomplishments won't shield PSEG from the impact of lower natural gas prices on wholesale power markets.
We are introducing operating earnings guidance for 2012 of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
The contribution to earnings from our regulated business is expected to grow year-over-year.
However it will not be enough to offset the impact of lower power prices on Power's earnings and our consolidated results.
PSE&amp;G is forecast to contribute 45% to 2012's operating earnings compared with 38% in 2011 and 25% as recently as 2008.
The increased contribution to earnings from our more stable regulated business as well as the continued strength of Power's cash flow and Power's strong credit metrics provided the support for our Board of Directors' recent decision to increase the indicated annual dividend rate of the common dividend 3.6% to $1.42 per share from $1.37 per share.
The decision represents a reset of the common dividend and a revision of our dividend policy.
We will pay out a greater percentage of earnings as dividends under the new policy.
You can expect future increases in the dividend based on growth from our regulated business and cash flow at power.
We are keenly aware of the importance you place in the dividend as a critical part of the return you expect from an investment in PSEG.
The board's action represents the 105th year that PSEG has indicated will pay a dividend.
We are proud of our record of returning cash to our shareholders and recognize the importance of maintaining a strong financial position that supports both the common dividend and our investment plans for growth.
Our focus on environmental responsibility has also positioned us well for the future.
The delay in the implementation of the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule often referred to as CSAPR along with lower prices for natural gas has had a negative impact on power prices since the start of the year.
We don't believe current power prices fully reflect the impact of the cost of meeting new environmental requirements and we would expect over time to see a response in the marketplace.
We believe the progress we have made on our operational capital investment and financial goals will take us through this period of low power prices and provide for sustainable growth in value over the long term.
I will now turn the call over to Caroline for more details on our results and will be available to answer your questions at the close of the call.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $0.47 per share versus operating earnings of $0.60 per share in last year's fourth quarter.
Our earnings for the quarter brought operating earnings for the full year to $2.74 per share versus operating earnings of $3.12 per share last year.
These results were at the upper end of our 2011 operating earnings guidance of $2.50 to $2.75 per share.
On Slide 4 we have provided you with a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter.
As you can see on Slide 10 PSEG Power provides the largest contribution to earnings.
For the quarter Power reported operating earnings of $0.27 per share compared with $0.42 per share last year.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings of $0.19 per share up from $0.16 per share last year.
PSEG Energy Holdings contributed a small loss in operating earnings compared with operating earnings of $0.01 per share in the year-ago quarter and the parent company reported earnings of $0.01 per share compared with earnings of $0.01 per share in last year's fourth quarter.
We've provided you with waterfall charts on Slide 11 and Slides 12 and 13 that take you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year operating earnings by major business.
I'll now review each company in more detail starting with Power.
As shown on Slide 16 PSEG Power reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $0.27 per share compared with $0.42 per share a year ago.
The results for the quarter brought Power's full year operating earnings to $1.67 per share Power's full year 2011 results were at the upper end of guidance for the year.
Power's results in the fourth quarter were affected primarily by a quarter-over-quarter decline in realized energy and capacity prices.
Recall that capacity prices declined to $110 per megawatt day on June 1 of 2011 from the prior $174 per megawatt day.
The decrease in capacity revenues reduced Power's earnings in the quarter by $0.07 per share.
A decline in energy prices under the Basic Generation Service or BGS contract to $94.30 per megawatt hour also effective on June 1 2011 from the prior contract price of $111.50 per megawatt hour as well as migration and other re-contracting reduced earnings in the quarter by $0.05 per share.
Demand in the 2011 fourth quarter was affected by above normal temperatures which compared unfavorably with below normal temperatures in the year-ago quarter.
A 4.8% decline in volume lowered earnings comparisons by about $0.01 a share.
Higher depreciation expense and lower capitalized interest reduced Power's earnings by $0.02 per share.
Power reduced its debt in the fourth quarter with the early redemption of $600 million of senior notes due in June of 2012.
The premium paid on the early extinguishment of debt resulted in higher other expense in the quarter and reduced earnings by $0.02 per share.
An increase in operating and maintenance expense reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
And included in Power's operating and maintenance expense in the fourth quarter is a onetime cost of $0.03 per share associated with the cancellation and renegotiation of a major contractual arrangement for parts and services at our combined cycle facilities.
The renegotiated services agreement is expected to yield net savings starting immediately in 2012 and will contribute to Power's efforts to control growth in O&amp;M over the long term.
Other miscellaneous items added $0.01 per share to earnings.
Customer migration away from the BGS contract represented an estimated 34% of BGS volumes at year end.
This level of migration was in line with expectations and compares with migration levels of 33% at the end of September of 2011 and 27% at the end of 2010.
Overall average migration for 2011 was approximately 32%.
We attribute approximately $0.02 per share of the reduction in Power's energy margin in the quarter to migration.
The impact of the result of warmer-than-normal temperatures in December 2011 compared with colder-than-normal temperatures experienced in the year-ago period which increased the effective headroom in the fourth quarter compared to year-ago level.
PSEG Power's nuclear and combined cycle fleet continued their strong performance with output for both improving quarter-over-quarter.
This strength offset the decline in the dispatch of Power's intermediate load coal units which continue to be affected by a decline in spark spreads.
Power's ability to meet demand from its 3 200 megawatts of combined cycle capacity has been an important support of margins in this current environment.
The continued improvement in the forced outage rates at our combined cycle facilities helped produce record output from these facilities in 2011.
This increase in output coupled with market spark spreads provided more profit from our combined cycle fleet than we've seen in the recent past.
PSEG Power's nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 91.3% during the quarter resulting in a capacity factor for 2011 of 92.8%.
The Hope Creek nuclear facility 100% owned by Power produced record levels of generation in 2011 operating in an annual capacity factor of 98.7%.
The combined cycle fleet's strong fourth quarter operations resulted in an average capacity factor of 54%.
This enhanced Power's profitability as Power was able to take advantage of the expansion in spark spreads in the quarter as they have all year.
The reduction in market pricing during the quarter and year resulted in average gross margins for 2011 of $52 per megawatt hour compared with $54.30 per megawatt hour for 2010.
Following the completion of New Jersey's BGS option in early February Power's output for 2012 is approximately 75% to 80% hedged at an average price of $59 per megawatt hour compared with an average hedged price in 2011 of $68 per megawatt hour.
For 2013 approximately 55% to 60% of Power's forecast output is hedged at an average price of $53 per megawatt hour.
These figures reflect assumed customer migration levels of between 36% and 40% at the end of 2012 versus 34% at the end of 2011 followed by a further expected small increase in 2013.
Our hedging data is based on a forecast decline in output in 2012 to 53 terawatt hours from 2011's output of 54 terawatt hours.
For 2013 we're currently assuming a further decline in output to 52 terawatt hours before a rebound in 2014 to 54 terawatt hours.
Since our last update in November of 2011 the market price for gas has declined more sharply than the cost of coal.
This discrepancy has widened the cost of operating our coal units versus our gas units by approximately $8 per megawatt hour.
And this is before we factor in the cost of operating the back-end technology.
We would need to see an increase in the price of gas of about $2 per mmBTU or a decline in the cost of coal to correct the economic differential in dispatching our gas fleet versus our coal fleet.
Keep in mind that this gas price change is from today's levels so it is really a snapshot at the point in time and not a forecast of the long-term differential nor does it reflect seasonality that we would expect to see.
But it is in fact exactly these market dynamics which frankly makes us pleased to have the largest fleet of combined cycle gas units that operate in PJM.
Power's operating earnings for 2012 are forecast at $575 million to $665 million.
The decline in forecast operating earnings is due to lower energy prices in 2012 due to the roll off of high-priced legacy hedges.
The recently completed BGS auction which cleared in the PSE&amp;G zone at a price of $83.88 per megawatt hour will be effective on June 1 of this year and replace the contract for $103.72 per megawatt hour which expires on May 31.
As I indicated we are also assuming an increase in the level of migration during 2012 from 2011 as well as an expansion in headroom.
Capacity revenues are expected to be flat with year-ago levels as contracts priced at an average revenue of $152 per megawatt day are scheduled to replace contracts with an average price of $110 per megawatt day on June 1 of this year.
Let's now turn to PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of 2011 of $0.19 per share compared with $0.16 per share for the fourth quarter of 2010 as we show on Slide 25.
PSE&amp;G's full year 2011 operating earnings were $521 million or $1.03 per share slightly in excess of guidance compared with operating earnings of $430 million or $0.85 per share for 2010.
PSE&amp;G's results benefited from increased levels of capital investment and a tight control on operating expenses which offset the revenue impact of warmer-than-normal weather and the cost of storm-related outages.
An annualized increase in transmission revenue of $45 million effective at the start of the year added $0.02 per share to earnings in the quarter.
Return on investments made under capital adjustment clauses supporting investments in energy efficiency solar and electric and gas infrastructure programs added $0.01 per share to results.
Warmer-than-normal weather compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 reduced earnings by $0.02 per share.
A decline in pension cost pension-related cost more than offset the impact of the October 2011 snowstorm and increased tree-trimming work on operating expenses.
Higher levels of capital investment led to an increase in depreciation expense which reduced quarterly earnings comparisons by $0.01 per share and the year-end adjustment to PSE&amp;G's tax rate and other items added $0.03 per share to results.
Electric and gas sales comparisons in the fourth quarter were affected by warm weather and weak economic conditions.
Heating degree days in the fourth quarter were 24% below the level experienced in 2010's fourth quarter and 18% below normal.
Weather normalized electric sales declined 4.4% in the quarter from year-ago levels resulting in a 2.3% decline in weather-normalized electric sales for the full year.
The decline was led by reduced demand from the commercial and industrial sectors.
On a weather-normalized basis gas sales increased by 0.8% in the fourth quarter resulting in a 1.9% growth for the year.
The improvement here in the quarter as well as for the year was led by the commercial and industrial sector.
Gas sales to the residential sector improved.
And while this does not necessarily indicate a rebound in the economy it does suggest that customers may not have increased conservation efforts in response to low economic growth.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC granted incentive rate making treatment for the $895 million Northeast Grid Reliability project at the end of 2011.
The rate-making treatment which is effective on January 1 of this year provides for construction work in progress in rate base recovery of abandonment costs and a 25-basis-point adder to return on equity.
The adder brings the allowed return on equity for this project to 11.93%.
So just to recap approximately $1.8 billion of our plan's transmission-related spending over the 2012 to 2014 period is receiving incentive rate treatment that provides for recognition of in-rate base in the construction work in progress is allowed to recover abandonment and is allowed to return a return on equity of 12.9% for the Susquehanna-Roseland project and a return on equity of 11.9% for Northeast Grid.
The remainder of the investment in transmission is allowed to earn a return of 11.7% again under formula rate treatment.
PSE&amp;G also received approval under its formula rate program to implement its requested increase in transmission revenue of $94 million effective on January 1 of this year.
PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2012 are forecast of $530 million to $560 million compared to 2011's operating earnings of $521 million.
Anticipated operating earnings growth reflects an increase in transmission revenue and capital infrastructure investments which are expected to offset a forecast increase in pension expense and higher depreciation levels.
The forecast also assumes that PSE&amp;G continues to return to earn its authorized return on equity.
Let's move now to PSEG Energy Holdings.
Energy Holdings reported a small loss in operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $1 million compared to operating earnings of $5 million or $0.01 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The results for the fourth quarter brought Energy Holdings' full year 2011 operating earnings to $5 million or $0.01 per share which were at the upper end of expectations.
The results for 2011 compare with 2010's operating earnings of $49 million or $0.10 per share.
Energy Holdings' fourth quarter operating earnings reflect lower asset sale gains than those recorded in the year-ago quarter.
We will be consolidating Energy Holdings' operating earnings in 2012 with the parent company.
And for both together we forecast operating earnings in 2012 of $35 million to $45 million compared with 2011's operating earnings of both together of $23 million.
I'll address a few other items of interest before we close out the call.
We closed out a number of items which bring clarity and represent a reduction in financial risk.
First we entered into a definitive agreement with the Internal Revenue Service in January 2012 that settles the tax treatment for our cross-border leases for all tax years.
In addition we closed tax audit years through 2003.
And together those 2 agreements were consistent with our expectations and will have no material impact on earnings which should eventually yield a net refund of approximately $100 million.
Second Energy Holdings reached a settlement agreement in December of 2011 with Dynegy in regard to the lease arrangements for the Roseton and Danskammer facilities leased to subsidiaries of Dynegy Holdings LLC.
As you may recall we recorded a full reserve for Energy Holdings investment in the lease receivable from that entity in the third quarter.
Under the settlement we received $7.5 million in January 2012 and we expect to receive an agreed-upon $110 million claim payable through a mix of cash and securities upon final approval of the reorganization by the bankruptcy court.
Keep in mind that this amount may be modified as the final settlement addresses the claims of all parties.
Therefore our forecast of operating earnings doesn't reflect the $7.5 million received in January or any assumptions for the potential settlement and ultimate value of securities we may receive.
All settlement values received will be recorded below our operating earnings line consistent with our recording for the full reserve in 2011.
Energy Holdings also sold its investment in an office building in Denver Colorado in December of 2011 for $215 million which resulted in an after-tax gain of $34 million recorded below the operating earnings line given it's nonrecurring nature.
Our forecast in capital spending for 2012 through 2014 is contained on Slide 33.
As you can see we anticipate capital spending for this period of approximately $6.9 billion.
Of this amount more than 50% our transmission investments at PSE&amp;G for which we get contemporaneous recovery given FERC-approved formula rate treatment.
In addition recall that we have state-approved capital cost recovery mechanisms for our Solar 4 All energy efficiency and capital infrastructure spending.
And Power's capital program is devoted to our completion of new peaking capacity in New Jersey and Connecticut as well as its share of the upgrade cost at Peach Bottom.
We ended 2011 with a strong balance sheet.
At year end we had cash of $834 million on the balance sheet and debt represented 41% of consolidated capital.
During the quarter PSEG Power redeemed $600 million of senior notes with an interest rate of 6.95% that were due in 2012.
And with this reduction debt represented 34% of PSEG Power's capitalization at year end.
The company's financial strength and low-cost asset portfolio position it well in this period of low energy prices.
We have the financial strength to finance our capital program without the need to access the equity markets and strong cash flow generation from Power as well as expectations for growth from PSE&amp;G also as Ralph mentioned supports our announced growth in the common dividend.
As Ralph indicated we are guiding toward operating earnings for 2012 of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
For the long term we have a well-positioned fleet of competitive generating units that provide upside amid stronger markets.
And with that which closes out my remarks but not your questions I turn it back over to Brent for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I wanted to touch base with you on the HEDD ruling and there was a notification that was put out by PJM last week regarding that and the EPA and sort of I guess concern by stakeholders about what the impact might be.
Do you have any sense as to the issues that they're looking at or what that impact might be in terms of the HEDD decision by the government? I think Paul it's Ralph.
PJM always has made it clear that they try to give parameters prior to the RPM auction.
And in prior years those parameters have come out at different stages.
But you typically by the end of by the beginning of February we pretty much know what the conditions are for the auction.
But PJM has always had the ability to come out with additional parameters I think in the early April timeframe.
And all they're doing this year is saying: "Look in light of all the changes in terms of the courts staying CSAPR and in terms of the MACT Rule having a little bit of a low bar for a fourth-year extension" a fairly sharp drop in prices in terms of gas and what that may or may not mean for coal units that I think what they're signaling is it's very likely that they will come out with some notification in early April that may revisit the planning parameters.
So it's really not a change in what they've been able to do in the past but I think what they're signaling through all this is that we've better check the website in early April to see what if any changes exist in the planning parameters and HEDD is part of that overall environmental mix.
Also in the same timeframe the Independent Market Monitor filed at FERC some concerns regarding the minima price rule and the methodology that might be used by some to effectively get around the minima per price rule rendering it ineffective is what he stated.
Do you guys share those concerns? Or I mean I don't remember seeing anything like this really from anyone else.
Yes.
I think we do share those concerns in the following way right? I mean there are all kinds of assumptions that one can make in coming up with a need for revenue streams capacity being one of those to make a commercially logical investment decision.
And I think what the Monitor is doing is saying "Look we have a Brattle Report that has a reasonable set." And what we want to do is differentiate on the basis of true construction efficiency picking appropriate sites that have ready access to the grid as opposed to someone coming in and saying 'look interest rates are at an all-time low so I think I can finance at this set a cost of capital of 5% " as opposed to I think Brattle has an 8.5% number in there.
So what he's trying to do is make sure that we narrow the set of parameters to those that truly differentiate one  project from another.
And quite candidly I think that's doubly important at this point in time because as you know there are some projects that really don't care what the clearing price is because they have guaranteed payments that are above reasonable market expectations.
So I think he's doing a good job of trying to make sure that we preserve the integrity of the competitive marketplace.
What if FERC doesn't clarify it? I mean in other words what if the ruling stands as it is now? Do you know what happens? No I don't know what happens we'll have to stayed tune to [indiscernible] I mean the risk you have is that people have less to lose by bidding low i.e.
those who are subsidized distort the market but don't care because they get their subsidy payments and that I think is very bad for customers over the long term.
Just finally the life of the contract is there a new strategy here or is there -- I mean.
How does it fit your entire strategy? Is there any sort of EPS outlook or sort of financial fall process we should be thinking about with respect to that? Life is 2014.
We don't guide beyond '12.
But life is similar to the Queen's Creek investment that we're making on the PPA-supported solar project.
We look for opportunities to deploy our capital consistent with our expertise.
But I think Paul by my count were pretty high above the one question per...
Ask accounting before I start getting stressed.
Next question comes from the line of Paul Fremont with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When I look at the lower volume guidance for '12 and '13 is it reasonable to assume that most of that lower volume is coming from reduced coal output? And my second question is is there any expected contribution from the sale of coal in your 2012 guidance? I think it amounted to about $0.08 in 2011? Paul it's Caroline.
So relative to the first part of your question and how to think about the lower output you're correct.
It's essentially the lower assumptions relative to coal volumes as we roll out during the period.
Keep in mind as we give you the terawatt hour forecast that you're seeing on our hedge page they are estimates.
And you may recall as we update the hedges we often update the terawatt hours just depending on where the curves are at the moment.
So they're our best estimates at this time but we'll obviously keep them updated for you as we go.
Relative to coal sales you're right we had about $0.07 for coal sales in the full year with about $0.02 this quarter and we've talked about the rest in the prior quarters.
Relative to coal sales we're looking at that opportunistically so there may be a little bit we can do in 2012.
But we're not putting in any kind of a specific forecast at the levels at which we have in 2011.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We should assume the guidance excludes coal sales right? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Judge with Atlantic Equities.
Just wanted to inquire a bit more into the volume assumptions just kind of following up the last question.
With regard to capacity factors what assumptions are you making regarding capacity factors for your natural gas plants? I think those Nathan are in the 50% to 60% range.
It varies.
The Linden units and Bergen units have slightly different numbers.
But consistent with what they were in the past year and consistent with our current price curve for 2012 and '13.
And as a follow-up to that if gas prices were to perhaps remain at the level they are today in the front month throughout the remainder of the year is there a reason why those gas plants wouldn't be able to run more in the 85% or so range? Physically they're quite capable of putting out additional megawatt hours.
It's just the question what's the demand? Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One question I have just relates to the amount of weather headwind you have versus normal in 2011? You didn't call it out as a factor in the outlook unless I missed it.
And it seems to be flattish versus 2010 but 2010 was decently above normal so is that -- what is the number embedded in guidance for kind of weather returning to normal effectively? Oh sure Jonathan this is Caroline.
You're right we talked about weather for the quarter you saw some warmer-than-normal weather which obviously had a little bit of a negative but keep in mind when we forecast and what we put in for guidance we always assume normal weather because it's too dangerous to assume anything other than that.
So when you think about our results for the full year right? Remember we had a warmer-than-normal winter in the last few months we had a hotter-than-normal summer this year but cooler than last year and again you had a little bit cooler than normal earlier in the year so when we roll that together if you look at the full year numbers for 2013 I'm sorry on Page 13 for 2011 you can see that it's a net $0.01 for PSE&amp;G and then you see for PEG Power $0.03 which is all volume some of which may have some implications for weather but it's a little hard to disaggregate.
But as we forecast forward as we always do we always forecast normal weather.
Just to remind you the gas part of the utility it does have a weather normalization clause.
Research Division</strong> So your forecasting based on normal for this year and that's a headwind of $0.03 or $0.04 did I hear that right? From last year.
Research Division</strong> From last year yes okay.
And then one thing we noticed was that you had a seasonally what looked like a much higher-than-normal operating cash flow in Q4 over $1 billion.
Did something unusual happen in the cash flow statement operating in the end of the year or was that just more normal? Given what the I guess the weather story I guess may have some something to do with it.
Good question Jonathan.
Relative to cash flow we had very good cash flow for the full year.
And keep in mind the full year cash flow for the total company if you look at cash from ops for example significantly higher than cash from ops for 2010 so we'll just give you the full number.
It's about $3.6 billion in cash from ops this year versus $2.2 billion in cash from ops in 2010.
What you're seeing through the year in fourth quarter is just another piece of the full year picture.
Remember we had a significant amount of bonus depreciation impact which was slightly in excess of $800 million.
And so when you look at that that's a big adder to what's happening in cash from ops versus prior periods.
Other things of course that contribute to overall cash even though they're not in cash from ops keep in mind we sold the Texas plants earlier this year and so those things have an effect as well so when you think about going forward although the cash from ops this year is terrific and we're very pleased to have it obviously it's not the run rate that you should expect as we think about cash from ops going forward because while we do intend and expect to have an impact from bonus depreciation in 2012 that estimate is about $300 million to $350 million.
Keep in mind bonus depreciation this year is at 50% not the 100% we had in 2011.
And then of course you're going to see that effectively reversed relative to what the tax depreciation would've been in the out years.
Just take a point to point out that one of the things that is interesting to look at relative to our cash from ops is you're seeing the Utility being a very significant contributor now to cash from operations.
So when you disaggregate our $3.6 billion you find that $1.9 billion is from Power and $1.6 billion is from the Utility.
Of course the Utility finances itself of half its debt for its CapEx and it's CapEx is very significant but you're seeing strong cash generation from both of the businesses.
Research Division</strong> If I may could I just revisit on the HEDD rules about do you have specific number of what you think you retire versus retrofit? Jonathan it's Ralph.
So we're looking at exploring several options in terms of the HEDD units.
Clearly they will not be allowed to operate with the water injection improvements we've made.
But we're going to look at different uses for those assets and perhaps the possibility of different environmental upgrades for them and we're going to factor that all into our thinking in the next 3 to 4 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay but wouldn't that have to be sooner than that because I guess you have to decide before the auction? Right.
That's what I meant.
Research Division</strong> I just felt that you had to make -- and may be have to make a decision kind of slightly sooner than that.
Yes.
No the May auction is the key date.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
LLC</strong> I'm having difficulty calculating maybe you have these numbers ready.
Because the total output is changing how many terawatt hours did you contract in Q4 for base of '13 and '14 and at what price? I don't know if you have these numbers ready but if you do that'll be helpful.
Yes.
We didn't give the numbers on a per quarter basis so we don't typically do that.
We tend to give you the updated values for the current period and the subsequent 2.
Keep in mind sort of 2 things that are going on here last time we reported we reported for the end of Q3.
Now we're reporting for the '12 '13 and '14 not the end of Q4? So you've got the quarterly hedges plus what we've done in January through BGS.
So it's really trying to make you as most up-to-date as possible given the fact that the size of BGS.
So these numbers relative to if you go back to our prior quarter disclosure they wouldn't be 3 months of hedging they would be 3 months of hedging plus BGS and this is probably the best place to start as you do your hedging calculations and estimates for us going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay one other thing then I wanted to ask.
I'm looking at the BGS auction results premiums the $47 $48 $46 on Slide 22.
Okay so...
That's not all premium Michael.
Before we go any further I wish you were right but I know what you're referring to.
LLC</strong> Yes so the part of that I'm confused about historically I understand some of these line items were not pure dollars but more of a percentage premium over the round-the-clock price.
And I see round-the-clock price have fallen substantially yet that premium or whatever you want to call that figure hasn't declined nearly as much even though I believe some of the components were percentage based not raw-dollar based.
Can you explain why that is? Michael I don't know of anything that was percentage based.
But if we just pick a couple of them the capacity number you can get from the RPM auction and that's oscillated a bit.
The green cost quite candidly is the renewable portfolio standard inches up towards its target has increased.
Our transmission investments while it's reduced congestion in overall net gain to the customer and has enhanced reliability nonetheless that is an increasing portion of the customer bill and the risk premium is obviously highly sensitive and competitive information and varies upon your perspective of what the predominant risk is.
Is it credit risk? Is it migration risk? So we've never broken that out I'm not today going to do it today.
But I will go so far as to say under penalty of nasty looks from Caroline that we never valuated on a percentage basis we put dollars and cents into that green box.
LLC</strong> I guess what I was trying to say for example such thing as East-West differential or load shaping.
Those numbers will be smaller if round-the-clock price is 40 than if round-the-clock price is 100 for example.
Well they'll also be affected by whether or not the marginal unit is coal or gas and what's the relative value of those 2.
So the answer to your question is yes but it's not limited to what you just said.
LLC</strong> Would it be fair...
Keep in mind for others listening as you took off these items remember that a number of these are pass-throughs like transmission like capacity like green-nose or cost to serve and so when we talk about risk premium right it's embedded in the green but as Ralph said isn't -- by far not the entire green.
LLC</strong> Absolutely.
Would it be fair to say that as headroom increases or switching becomes easier for customers the risk premium portion will grow? We've typically said that our expectation is that what's priced in has a higher risk premium for migration.
Remember you priced all those up as you think about BGS.
But of course what comes out is one number.
So then you really have to kind of disaggregate based on your own expectations.
But I think as we've talked about for a number of years a few years ago we anticipated risk premium would increase for credit when credit was very challenged from the '08 to the '09 period and after that as '09 saw that significant ramp up really from almost ambient level of 0 of migration you started to see what we anticipated as risk premium relative to migration.
For this past year as you know we saw migration level continued to increase although headroom was decreasing until we got to the recent period in the fourth quarter.
So how people think about risk premiums from migration in general we think people price that in hard to tell what people would price in any particular auction given some of the frankly changing market dynamics of migration throughout 2011 versus where we ended at the end of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Actually couple of questions one and this is a little bit small but just trying to understand the strategic intent the solar investments.
Where does that fit in to your broader or near-term and long-term corporate strategy as well as how you think about allocation of capital and how you think about having economies of scale in certain businesses versus others? Michael it's Ralph.
I think your preface was exactly right.
It is a smaller item.
We've been anticipating solar being competitive with commercial technology probably for 3 or 4 decades now.
And while the cost curve has come down on solar it's been continued to be outdistanced by the improvements in combined cycle units and gas-extraction technologies and so forth.
So I put it in the category of remaining a potential participant in the future but we would not based on corporate strategy on a space that require subsidies for sustainability.
I'm just not in...
Research Division</strong> And then a follow-on.
This is also a little bit of a  capital allocation question.
When we look at your CapEx for '13 and '14 and the forward commodity curve with also the BGS contract that was just layered on is it safe to assume that Power will be still upstreaming enough cash to fund the E&amp;G's rate-based growth and CapEx trajectory along with whatever cash E&amp;G creates in kind of senior secured bonds at E&amp;G or are there other alternatives that have to be thought about? And I ask that only with bill 3 or so of CapEx per year in '13 and '14 that's a pretty decent step up.
And I thank you very much for that question.
Caroline and I were remiss at our favorite comment to make that all of these capital upgrades and growth investments can be internally funded.
And there's no need for any outside equity.
So yes Power has plenty of cash to the dividend up to parents so that it can provide the equity for E&amp;G.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Can I just I guess if I can ask a question which Michael asked in a different way the '14 hedges that you kind of gave us the information about the price level do you think they are above market or below market or at market? So think about the 2014 hedges that we show you on Page 19 of the deck.
Keep in mind that as we go out in 2014 most of what you're seeing here is BGS right? Because when you get into that third year out and you know BGS is obviously a 3-year rolling hedge program markets are not very liquid as you go out to '14 and most of what we've got in these data are BGS.
So now when you think about BGS combined with some market hedges keep in mind that the BGS price that we record here for hedging purposes is the total BGS price that we were just talking about in the PSE&amp;G zone for example the $83.88 less the capacity dollarized to a per megawatt hour we pulled that out because people model that separately for us.
So it's mostly BGS it's the result of the market of the BGS clear less capacity plus some smaller amount of the hedges that we're doing at market over the recent period but it's not going to be from too long ago because there isn't a liquid market to hedge in 2014 if you go back before us few months ago so it's market.
So what you're saying is if I can assume that the price that you give us on the slide which is the $83.88 for the '12 auction the only thing that you take out when you put in your energy component on the other slide is you only take out capacity that's only thing that did take out from there? That's right.
So if you compare that slide for BGS to what you see on 19 for all years in which we put in BGS which for whatever hedges we have for BGS in '12 '13 and '14 each year's layer is the BGS price that you see on 22 and for each year's layer we take out capacity and of course those are different prices in the different years depending on the capacity clears we put those into the numbers on 19 together with all of our other hedges whenever they were done at market at that time we roll those together and that's what you see here on 19.
Okay so it's a combination of BGS and non-BGS hedges.
That's right.
And Caroline just based on I guess because you know you each BGS the way you do things are different and migration and all that what would be a good rule of thumb to have per year of how much would be BGS and non-BGS? So good question you're right.
As migration has come up over the past few years we've tried to guide people to think about BGS as about 15 terawatt hours when you're in the year where the BGS is full.
So for example 2012 of course BGS hedges as you get out to '13 and '14 you haven't layered in all the years.
So in a given year so in the current year as you look at our total terawatt hours and our total terawatt hours hedged think of BGS as about 15 terawatt hours.
15 out of the 53 right? That's right.
And of course 53 is the total volume keep in mind you'll never see us hedge to 100% because we would never be hedging up the stack for the high intermediate and the peaking that's where we obviously dynamical put our units to market  given market conditions and weather.
So you'd never see us be 100%.
If I can end up with the last one you've given us some indication of fuel cost going forward you had it in other slides I guess you haven't.
Could you just -- I don't if you can give us any kind of headwind as to what fuel cost would be if the changes from what you presented in previous slides from the nuclear or coal site going forward for '12 and '13? Yes.
Coal costs when we look at the average coal cost for this year versus last year and that we were giving out in some of the slides that I know you're referring to relatively similar on a year-on-year basis.
And keep in mind you've got different types of coal you've got the Adora coal for Bridgeport Harbor on in the high 40s and you've got the other types of met coal that we use in Hudson and Mercer that's mid-40s and then you've got the 20s High load mid-20s for Keystone and Conemaugh.
Not big changes there.
Our dollar contract reprices at the end of the year as you may remember but not a lot of changes going on there.
Of course gas you know what's happening in the market and nuclear fuel contracted over the very long term as we've I think indicated to you pretty consistently and that is going up over time.
And nuclear would be the same right? What you provided in the slides if I'm right.
That's slightly higher over the period but not dramatically so.
Your next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question relates to your revised dividend policy.
If I understand correctly you intend to grow the dividend going forward primarily off BPS growth at PSE&amp;G coupled some with Power's cash flows versus your historic more typical pad ratio.
Given the new strategy what would you think about future growth of the dividend particularly given that the dividend itself is structurally higher than the PSE&amp;G earnings? Should we think about linearly PSE&amp;G grows some percentage off of that we'll see some dividend increase going forward or just in light of compressing Power cash flows we should think about relatively flat in the near term? Yes Julien it's Ralph.
I wouldn't -- I think number one message you should take away is that we do expect to grow in the future but not formulaically.
So we're going to take into consideration the things that we've talked about so many -- with all of you in our meetings which is that we look at where we are in the power cycle and the commodity cycle and what Power's cash flows are we look at the relative mix of the 2 businesses clearly the Utility being a growing portion of it not just because Power's shrinking which obviously is not the way we wanted to become a bigger portion but because the Utility itself is growing and it being a more stable mix so not formulaic room for growth in the future we will with our board look at the relative mix of businesses and where we are in the commodity cycle and what that means for Power's cash flows.
-- Research Division</strong> Great.
Just more a structural question on demand response.
Looking at the recent settlement between the DR guys and the EPA on behind-the-meter generation it seems like that could be kind of a bigger deal particularly if that's overturned ultimately.
Do you guys have any comments expectations around what that could do to capacity pricing DR participation et cetera? We'll add to the mix.
No I think that goes back to some of the early questions that Paul Patterson and others have asked right? Which is we'll see how it shakes out in May.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Touché.
Maybe a quick follow-up if you'll let me a third here on the HEDD rules going back to it.
Could you kind of comment broadly speaking I know you can't comment on the units per se but what kind of retro fit cost would you imagine generically speaking to comply with the rules? Is there any kind of rule of thumb we can use to look at your portfolio and say X Y and Z units may or may not choose to comply? No there really aren't Julien so we're looking at operating options and we're looking at FCR that kind of stretches the credibility of what you would do for some of these units given their size so we have a small team of people looking at all kinds of costs to factor into what might be a reasonable bid but we just can't say right now.
Okay I think  Kathleen is pointing at her watch.
So I think she's trying to tell me that we have to wrap up the call and I hope it is evident that we continue to work hard to ensure both the long-term operational and the financial success of PSEG.
So the increase in the common dividend is but one indicator of our confidence in the strength of the portfolio and our prospects for growth in the long term.
We've only had an hour to spend with you today so we hope you'll be able to join us in New York on March 9 for what will be a full morning of discussion on these and other issues in our typical annual review of the business.
So thanks for being with us today and I hope to see you in about a week and a half.
Thank you all.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect and thank you again for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Public Service Enterprise Group First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Wednesday May 2 2012 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
May 2 2012 to May 16 2012.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for participating in our call this morning.
As you are aware we released our first quarter 2012 earnings statements earlier this morning.
The release and attachments are posted on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended March 31 2012 is expected to be filed shortly.
I won't go through the full disclaimer statements or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results but as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
Although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or other filings for a discussion of the factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
Joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
Thank you Kathleen and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2012 of $0.85 per share which equaled the operating earnings from 2011's first quarter.
Our results for the first quarter are strong in the face of a continued sharp decline in the price of natural gas and a very mild winter.
The date indicates that the first quarter of 2012 was the warmest since 1970 and that March of 2012 tied March of 1945 in terms of average temperature as the mildest March since 1895.
Let me remind you that this is the earliest the national weather service began keeping records.
And if you can follow all those years that basically says this is the tie for first as the warmest March in history.
So our results were very strong in the face of these headwinds.
In a few minutes Caroline will review our earnings in greater detail.
At the end of the call you will have an understanding of our first quarter and outlook and how we've been able to report better-than-expected earnings.
As always our competitiveness is greatly aided by our employees who continued to perform at the top of their profession.
At PSEG Power this was exhibited in the quarter by our Fossil employees who took cost control to a new level.
The alignment of expenses with operations demonstrates their understanding of the need to control costs in the current price environment.
The focus on operating efficiency and the increased availability from our combined cycle assets positions us well in the power markets.
Turning my attention to the utility.
PSE&amp;G's execution on its capital investment program as it maintains a focus on meeting needs of its customers is providing a growing source of earnings.
PSE&amp;G received good news in March from the National Park Service that identified our route for the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line as its preferred alternative for the portion of the line that runs through the Delaware Water Gap Recreational Area.
This is the route that was approved by state regulators including the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities.
A final decision is expected by October of this year.
This $790 million dollar project is scheduled to enter service in June 2015.
We are awaiting the BPU's approval for the $390 million North Central transmission line.
This line is scheduled to enter service in 2014.
Over the next 3 years PSE&amp;G plans to invest $5.4 billion on transmission as well as energy efficiency solar power and upgrading the reliability of the distribution system.
In addition to the obvious customer and shareholder benefits these capital programs will provide important jobs and support the state's economy.
PSEG Power is adding 270 megawatts of new peaking capacity at its Kearny station in June 2012 in place of older less efficient capacity that it will retire.
It will also be adding 130 megawatts of new peaking capacity in Connecticut.
The energy markets are in the midst of a major transformation.
Today's low natural gas prices and the cost of meeting new environmental requirements will drive decision-making on the retirement of capacity.
Capacity prices under PJM's reliability pricing model or RPM as it's most often referred to reflect that markets have been well supplied.
The upcoming PJM capacity auction should provide better insight into the future availability of supply.
We have been focused on operating in an environment of low power prices for several years.
The recent collapse in natural gas prices has been greater than we would have expected.
But the benefits from the strategy we have pursued are clear.
Operating efficiency in our power plants has improved.
At the same time directing capital investments at PSE&amp;G has reduced the impact of lower energy prices on our operating earnings improved the contribution to earnings from our regulated business and improved service to customers all the while lowering their bill.
And we have a strong balance sheet to finance our growth objectives and provide our shareholders with a meaningful cash return with the opportunity for future growth.
Our efforts continue to support our guidance for 2012's operating earnings of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
With that I'll turn the call over to Caroline who'll discuss our financials in greater detail.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2012 of $0.85 per share versus operating earnings of $0.85 per share in last year's first quarter.
Slide 4 provides a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter.
I'm sure you've noted the impact of taxes on our results and I will discuss these impacts which relate to significant closure of 10 years of tax audits as we go through the numbers.
As you can see on Slide 8 the contribution from PSE&amp;G and Power to the quarter's operating earnings were similar.
For the quarter PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings of $0.39 per share compared with $0.32 per share last year.
Power reported operating earnings of $0.39 per share compared with $0.53 per share last year.
PSEG Energy Holdings and Enterprise or the parent together contribute operating earnings of $0.07 per share compared with operating earnings of less than a $0.01 per share during the first quarter of 2011.
So now I'll review each company in more detail starting with Power.
As I just said PSEG Power recorded operating earnings of $0.39 per share for the quarter of 2012 compared with operating earnings of $0.53 for the first quarter of 2011.
Power's results in the first quarter were affected primarily by low gas prices a very mild winter weather compared with more normal weather in the year-ago quarter and a decline in realized energy and capacity prices.
The output from Power's fleet declined 6.3% in the quarter.
The reduction in output was heavily influenced by a lack of a normal winter which Ralph just spoke about.
Heating degree days if you followed them were approximately 21% below normal in the quarter and versus the year-ago quarter.
Over all this decline in volume reduced earnings by $0.02 per share quarter-over-quarter.
Production from the nuclear fleet increased slightly from very strong levels in the year-ago quarter with the fleet operating at an average capacity factor of 98.2% during the quarter and output from Power's combined cycle natural gas fleet increased 8.3% in the quarter.
The combined cycle fleet's availability improved in the quarter and the fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 56.6% versus 52.9% in the year-ago period.
The decline in the price of gas across the curve since the start of the year has been accompanied by an almost equal expansion in market heat rates and this improvement drives the economics of the combined cycle fleet.
However the coal fleet was rarely called upon during the quarter and when our New Jersey coal units were dispatched primarily Hudson they were operating part of that time on gas.
Since our last update in February of 2012 the market price for gas has declined more sharply than the cost of coal.
The discrepancy has further widened the cost of operating our coal unit on coal versus our gas units.
In fact gas would need to increase in price by approximately $3 per mcf or coal declined by $2 per mmBTU.
When demand is evident therefore it has become more economic to run the coal units on gas.
Lower realized pricing reduced earnings by $0.08 per share quarter-over-quarter.
This reflects a reduction in the average price of our hedges and the impact of the sharp decline in the price of gas on wholesale power prices.
The decline in price for gas has affected pricing in our regions as well as our zones.
This had an impact on our Eastern combined cycle units which was offset by higher volumes and higher market spreads.
A decline in average PJM capacity prices to $110 per megawatt-day on June 1 2011 from $174 per megawatt-day reduced earnings in the quarter by $0.07 per share.
Keep in mind the $110 per megawatt-day price roll off on June 1 of this year to be replaced by a weighted average price for our fleet of $152.60 per megawatt day.
Customer migration away from the BGS contract represented approximately 36% of BGS volumes in the quarter.
This level of migration was in line with our expectations and compares with migration levels of 34% at the end of 2011.
And we attribute approximately $0.04 per share of the reduction in Power's energy margin and earnings in the quarter to migration.
Of this $0.04 total amount an estimated $0.03 per share was the result of an expansion in headroom associated with the collapse in natural gas prices and the warmer than normal temperatures in this quarter.
This headroom is expected to decline with the scheduled reduction in the BGS contract price on June 1 2012.
For the year we continue to forecast customer migration in the range of 36% to 40%.
The decline in the pricing -- declining pricing in the quarter was partially offset by a reduction in Power's fuel costs given increased reliance on natural gas.
On average Power's gross margins in the quarter declined to $46 per megawatt hour from last year's quarter of $55 per megawatt hour.
In response to the market conditions Power has reduced the operating and maintenance expense at its fossil stations.
This reduction in expense improved earnings in the quarter by $0.04 per share.
You won't see the same improvement each quarter due to timing but we do expect to capture most of that Q1 savings for the year.
A decline in debt levels of Power coupled with the reduction in financing cost improved earnings comparisons quarter-over-quarter by $0.02 per share.
And the absence of losses on wholesale energy contracts recognized in the year-ago quarter more than offset the impact of lower volumes and prices on gas supply contracts and net added $0.01 per share to earnings.
Power continues to forecast output for 2012 in the range of 53 to 54 terawatt hours.
Output for the remainder of the year is approximately 70% to 75% hedged at an average hedge price of $59 per megawatt hour.
For 2013 forecast output of 52 to 54 terawatt hours is approximately 55% to 60% hedged and has an average price of $53 per megawatt hour.
We continue to forecast the slight improvement in outlook for 2014 with the range of 53 to 55 terawatt hours.
Of this amount approximately 20% to 25% is hedged at an average price of $55 per megawatt hour.
I recall some questions last quarter about small changes to the terawatt hour forecast and since they do move a bit as we update our models we've moved to giving a range which we think is a better way to look at these estimates since they do change over time.
Our forecast of Power's 2012 operating earnings remains at $575 million to $665 million.
The year will be influenced by a decline in average realized energy prices.
For the full year capacity prices however are expected to be flat with 2011 given the scheduled increase in capacity prices in June of this year that I just mentioned.
Power's full-year results will also benefit from a decline in financing costs and continued strong control of operating and maintenance expenses.
Let's now turn to PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G as shown on Slide 20 reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2012 of $0.39 per share compared with $0.32 per share for the first quarter of 2011.
PSE&amp;G's results in the quarter were influenced by higher transmission rates increased investment levels warmer than normal weather and an adjustment in tax for this quarter due to the settlement of the tax audit.
An annualized increase in transmission formula rates of $94 million was effective on January 1 of this year and added $0.03 per share to earnings.
The return on investments in energy efficiency solar and infrastructure investment programs added $0.01 per share to earnings.
Warmer than normal weather reduced electric and gas sales and lowered earnings by $0.02 per share.
As I mentioned earlier winter weather was the warmest in our record.
So obviously warmer than 2011.
In addition weak economic conditions continue to have an impact on demand.
In terms of weather normalized demand PSE&amp;G appears to experience about a 1.9% decline in electric sales during the quarter and weather normalized sales to gas customers declined about 0.7% quarter-over-quarter.
Our estimates of weather normalized demand are imprecise.
It's difficult to determine whether the decline is related to the weather if people just turn off their heat or is it somewhat of a function of conservation.
The impact on earnings from this decline in demand is small given PSE&amp;G's rate structure.
Higher levels of capital investment led to an increase in depreciation expense which reduced quarterly earnings comparison by $0.01 per share higher operating and maintenance expense of $0.01 per share was offset by other miscellaneous items also $0.01 per share in both net.
PSE&amp;G's quarterly earnings also benefited from lower tax expense and this added $0.06 per share to earnings.
The decrease in PSE&amp;G's effective tax rate was due primarily to tax audit settlements with the IRS which covered all audit issues for a 10-year period 1997 to 2006.
The estimated full-year impact on earnings from these settlements was all recognized in the first quarter.
PSE&amp;G recognized less revenue and therefore less gross margin in the first quarter of 2012 under the gas weather normalization clause than would have been expected given the mild winter.
The clause which has a bottom line earnings test was somewhat limited by the impact of the reduction in taxes on the company's earned return on equity.
The gas weather normalization clause which we've talked about before allows PSE&amp;G to accrue revenues based on the impact of weather up to its authorized return on equity of 10.3%.
If the reduction in taxes from the audit settlements didn't occur we would have been able to accrue additional revenue under the gas weather normalization clause resulting in the same operating earnings for our Gas business.
We estimate that approximately $0.03 per share would have been available to us under the gas weather normalization clause had there been no tax settlement compared with the $0.06 per share proven in earnings associated with the reduction in taxes.
Effectively the other $0.03 per share was allocated to the Electric business.
You may want to keep this in mind as you think about utility earnings opportunity under the gas weather normalization clause as you do your modeling.
It's still correct to model gas margin generally consistent with normal weather as you think ahead to the next heating season.
As Ralph mentioned the National Park Service issued a preliminary decision in March that identified our route for the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line as a preferred alternative.
The preliminary assessment was supported by the proposed mitigation offered by PSE&amp;G and PPL Energy.
We've updated our estimated capital cost for the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line to reflect changes in a number of factors.
S-R is now forecast to cost up to $790 million from our prior estimate of up to $750 million.
We continue to forecast PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2012 will fall within the $530 million to $560 million range.
Results for the full year will be influenced by an increase in transmission rates.
In addition for the full year we continue to forecast an increase in operation and maintenance expense as compared to the prior year.
The increase is associated with higher pension costs and transmission-related expenditures and keep in mind that the forecast increase in transmission O&amp;M is factored into our estimate of revenue requirements under the formula rate treatment.
Let me now turn to PSEG Energy Holdings and Enterprise.
PSEG Energy Holdings and Enterprise reported operating earnings of $39 million or $0.07 per share compared with operating earnings of $1 million during the first quarter of 2011.
The improvement in operating earnings is due to the settlement with the Internal Revenue Service of the cross-border lease transactions for all tax years and the settlement of all federal audit issues for tax years 1997 through 2006.
A reduction in the effective tax rate improved operating earnings by $38 million or $0.08 per share.
A small reduction in leased earnings in 2012's first quarter at Holdings was approximately equal to a small asset impairment recognized in 2011's first quarter.
The reduction in tax has occurred earlier in the year than expected but is in line with the full-year guidance we provided on our Fourth Quarter Earnings Call and was the primary driver behind our forecasted improvement in PSEG Energy Holding and Enterprise operating earnings expectations for the full-year of $35 million to $45 million.
PSEG had established conservative financial statement tax reserves with respect to the tax years covered by the settlement which were greater than the actual and very substantial increase in taxes and interest associated with the final agreement.
We expect the effective tax rate for the full year to be closer to 37% to 38% versus the 30% tax rate in the first quarter which of course reflects the settlements.
The conclusion of the tax audits and settlement of the cross-border lease transactions will result in a net return of approximately $170 million in cash.
We're extremely pleased that we were able to come to agreement on the substance of tax issues for this period of time.
PSEG Energy Holdings and Enterprise now remains focused on the development of its $75 million investment in the 25-megawatt solar plant in Arizona scheduled for operation later this year.
The operation of its existing solar plant at Holdings as well as the integration of the LIPA contract which you'll recall is scheduled to start in 2014.
The business team also continues its focus on and management of its legacy domestic lease portfolio.
Finally a word on financing.
Our capital position remains strong.
We ended the quarter with $931 million of cash on the balance sheet and debt represented 40% of our capitalization.
We've made our planned contributions for 2012 to the pension and other postretirement benefit programs totaling $135 million and we replaced $1.5 billion of credit facilities at Power and $475 million at PSEG that were set to expire in December of this year with $1.6 billion and $500 million respectively both of which now don't expire until December of 2017.
With the end of March our credit capacity in total was $4.3 billion.
Our capital position and forecast of earnings and cash flows place us in a strong position to finance our $6.7 billion capital program through 2013 and provides the ability to expand our capital expenditures without any new equity issuance.
As Ralph said we continue to forecast operating earnings for the full year of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
That concludes my comments and I'll now turn the call back over to Alvis to open the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Fremont with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify then when you originally gave guidance for 2012 you were expecting the tax benefits to be roughly $0.14 per share so that was already incorporated into the original guidance that you gave for this year right? So let me just clarify how to think about that relative to guidance.
So as I mentioned when we talked about the holdings and enterprise guidance as you may recall when we gave that guidance it was higher than the guidance we've given in the prior year even though we've done some things obviously to terminate some leases.
So that was effectively reflecting a range of our expectations of possible overall settlements with the IRS for the tax years including LILO/SILO and everything else in that period.
Related to the remainder that I talked about related to PSE&amp;G which is where most of the rest of the tax related events occurred.
We forecast a range of things for many things whether it's tax or O&amp;M certainly we had some thoughts relative to where things stood with the 10 years of open audits but I would say you should think about it not as explicitly incorporating a particular number.
It's really a range of things as we think about tax versus anything else and keep in mind when you go into PSE&amp;G's numbers that $0.06 that ended up occurring for PSE&amp;G for taxes $0.03 of that if it hadn't happened for tax would have been there for you through the weather normalization clause.
So one just substitutes for the other for the same bottom-line.
So when I pull that apart I look at Enterprise and Holdings and say there was a range of what we hopefully would see in the final tax settlement.
When you go into PSE&amp;G $0.03 of those $0.06 would have been there with weather normalization so you're really only looking at what we were trying to range around $0.03 maybe a little less as we were thinking about guidance that was different from what you would've expected.
We're actually quite happy frankly to have 10 years of audits closed at this point and earlier in the year than we thought it might have occurred.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my second question would be just based on the types of margins that we've seen out of New England and New York recently is the company current -- should we assume that the company is currently losing money on the New York and the New England investments? Carol and I are staring at each other Paul.
No that's not the case.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just to make sure I understand the weather normalization correctly.
It affects the first quarter results do they look at a full-year number also so that if you're under-earning over the course of the year maybe some of that tax benefit gets spread out over more quarters or is it just a quarter-specific adjustment and the $0.03 of loss tax benefit is effectively lost for good? Right.
So let me just describe a little bit how the weather normalization clause works Dan.
The weather normalization clause looks at the earnings over a winter season.
So it starts late in the prior year and goes through May of this year.
And so what you look at is the total amount of how the weather is in terms of being above or below normal and then you either accrue if you are below normal in terms of what your earnings would be in other words if it's warmer than normal or you defer recognition if you've collected in excess if the weather is significantly colder than normal.
And so when you look at that you look at it over a period over a season and you true up as you go through the season which starts in October of the prior year and go through May of the current year.
So as we've looked at what we were accruing relative to weather normalization we were accruing a little bit.
We have accrued a little bit under the weather normalization clause to date during the season because the weather has been milder than normal all the way through the winter season starting in October.
So we've accrued a few pennies year-to-date through the weather normalization clause.
Now because we have the tax settlement it would -- basically it did not allow us to accrue all of the amount we would've been able to accrue because the first quarter was so warm.
There was a little bit of accrual that occurred late last year a little bit of accrual but not as much as we would've otherwise been able to accrue because the weather was so warm.
The other piece to keep in mind that I mentioned in my remarks is when you do all of this math and you have a for example a warmer than normal season you get to accrue but you don't always get to accrue 100% to normal weather you are stopped by earning of the 10.3%.
So when I described kind of where we were I mentioned that we didn't accrue $0.03 that we would've otherwise accrued because the tax settlement because that help us get to the 10.3% sooner.
If we haven't had tax we would've accrued $0.03 and we would've stopped because we would've been at the 10.3%.
So it's a full season test starts in the -- really the way to think about it is the late fall goes through May.
And then any true ups that you need in terms of whether -- if you're collecting get collected in cash in the subsequent period as to any returns of cash if you over-collect them.
Research Division</strong> I guess just looking at the coal generation fleet and kind of the sustained low performance and the huge amount of commodity price that would have to happen to make those plans economic seemingly.
Where are you guys on the coal -- your purchase obligation perspective where the inventories sit and is there more restructuring that needs to be done from a dispatch or a cost perspective as you kind of look at the forward curve right now? Yes.
So we certainly have plenty of coal onsite and offsite storage.
You may recall we restructured the Adaro contract last year so that it no longer has a fixed commitment.
It is a calculated price which will always be effectively a little bit below market that goes out through 2016 but we no longer have a penalty for canceling shipment so we no longer have to actually take coal.
We do have some purchase commitments for coal and related transportation that go through 2013 and we're in the process of trying to renegotiate some of those.
Research Division</strong> Is there going to be -- should we -- you look out at the curb is this the right expectation both from a cost structure perspective the costs you've taken out from the coal fleet and the dispatch perspective for the rest of this year and maybe '13 as you look out? So we've tried to give the total generation numbers for '13 Dan.
I think what Caroline tried to play out before is that the $0.04 that we had in Q1 we should not think of that as $0.16 for the year but by the same token it wasn't all $0.04 of timing and we think we'll be able to retain most if not all of those savings.
And of course folks have been looking out as they think about the longer term in terms of trying to make permanent somebody's kinds of operational changes.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You had a good development on Susquehanna-Roseland with the Park Service recent development.
In your mind does that put the degree of risk that the project won't meet targeted timing at a very low risk level? How do you think about sort of execution risk now that you continue to make more progress there? So we've posted to PJM that we expect the in service date to be June of 2015 and throughout that posting we anticipate the Parks Department's decision of October of this year.
So we still look to be on track to that Steven.
If that permit is delayed any significant amount of time at that point we would revisit the in-service date.
But right now all systems are the same as they've been for probably the better part of the last 6 to 9 months or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just going back to -- I know there's been a couple of questions on the coal units.
As I think about Hudson and Mercer we've seen other companies thinking about just the economic viability of some of the coal units and I'm just curious what those units the dispatch is obviously currently very low with low gas and low demand through the wintertime.
Is there a situation under which those units would be considered not economically viable and shut down candidates or is that relatively unlikely under sort of any scenario that you can think of? I think that you never say never right? Because there's always some sort of business one can envision.
However we've always benefited from fuel diversity.
The CapEx at those units is behind us.
Still we're pretty confident that given a return of normal demand which was anything but the last 6 months and some modest cooperation of prices that those units will be quite ready willing and available to meet the needs of the customers in this space.
And as I said in different periods of when they run this quarter although it hasn't been very often because they have the fuel flexibility they can run on gas and gas is more economic to run on than coal so that gives us even a little more than you would have with a normal coal unit.
Research Division</strong> Okay so I guess the capacity factor was 2% for the New Jersey coal and gas units? Yes it's pretty low.
Remember there was no demand from this such unusually mild winter.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And just lastly just anything new in terms of the ATDD units in terms of discussions with regulators or otherwise? Sure.
So relative to those units I think you remember because we've talked about that and given out that information relative to having given some notice for some of the units that we plan to retire which we talked about about 400 megawatts.
For the remainder of the megawatts which you may recall we've talked about and we've given the data on there's about 1 200 megawatts that are water injected and another 400 megawatts that we also identified on older peakers.
We continue to evaluate them.
We really haven't nothing more to say relative to we're thinking about them what we said before.
We continue to look at alternatives for those units but nothing else to signal at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson.
Just on the mark-to-market of about $52 million is that going to be -- I mean will that be realized in 2012 or will some of that show up next year? How should we think about that gain? Sure.
So you're talking about the mark-to-market in the reconciliation page right? Related -- Right on Page 11 Slide 11.
Forward positions right.
So that will be realized over time in our numbers and keep in mind we factor that in as we think about the net effect of our hedges as they roll off in '12 and '13.
So you've got piece of that rolling off in '12 and a small piece of it rolling off in '13.
Most of it rolls off in '12 but keep in mind it's embedded in our numbers because it reflects the market value of our hedges.
Given where the market prices are at this point in time that changes as you've seen it change in various quarters as the market prices change.
Eventually those hedges mature they come out and sort of get zeroed out of the mark-to-market and come above the line.
Sure.
And then with respect to this market monitor filing yesterday basically asking that the MOPR test be applied differently than a generator they don't -- an unnamed generator.
It mentions that if they don't get a response by FERC by the 11th that they might delay the auction results.
Or they might request that the auction results are delayed.
What is your sense about the timing of something like this having -- just any sense perceivably about how quickly FERC might actually act on this? All we're aware of is that as you know in RPM there are a series of exemptions for very different types of technologies in terms of MOPR requirements solar wind.
And what I think is in play now is a question regarding fuel cells which are going to be a tiny tiny portion of what RPM is all about.
So I am unaware of any desire to delay RPM results for the possibility that a couple of megawatts of fuel cells may want to bid in.
But we'll find out soon after this call.
There's nothing different that's occurred there.
And then finally on the sales growth weather adjusted of 1.9% decline.
You mentioned that obviously with the weather it's a kind of tricky business.
Could you give us any sense as to just sort of if you could elaborate a little bit on what you're seeing.
Is that weather normalized demand and just whether or not the leap year is in that 1.9% decline or not? So relative to the weather normalized demand and as we always say it's a little more art than science.
It appears from what we see that the decline in the weather normalized demand on the electric side was driven a little bit more by the commercial and the industrial relative to the residential and sometimes that moves around.
Obviously difficult employment situation in difficult economic situation and Jersey might not be that much of a surprise.
Not as much by the residential which was less than a percentage point weather normalized.
So it's really more of what you see what's going on with C&amp;I.
And then on the gas side of course it wasn't that much weather normalized.
Yes.
But is there a leap year impact in there or does that include the impact of the leap year or should we exclude -- I mean should we back that out of the number? The total number of kilowatt hours of therms usually include the leap year just because it has the extra day.
Didn't do the math to back that out and I'm not sure that would be really significant but it would be the total amount.
Your next question comes from the line of Leslie Rich.
Inc.</strong> I just had a question Carolyn on the IRS refund.
You said $170 million did you receive that yet or that's expected later this year or not until April of next year? So no we haven't received it yet just to be direct on that.
We have not received it yet we just finalized the settlement and I think we've talked about this before when we were talking about things like LILO/SILO.
But of course now we have everything LILO/SILO together with all the 10 years of tax audits.
The number I cited is net so that is the net of the refund for the 10 years of tax audits plus the incremental effect of having settled LILO/SILO for all years which means it goes beyond 2006.
It's LILO/SILO all the way through the lease terminations of 2010.
So what we're in the process of working on right now with the IRS is to if you will kind of effectively net although it won't all be in 1 number effectively net the fact that we've got some -- we've got audit related settlements for all issues for 10 years plus the pull-through if you will of LILO/SILO for the remaining 4 years after that.
And when I talk about the $170 million I'm talking about the net impact of all of those things.
Since the IRS has not audited all the years through 2010 what we're working on is have them effectively sort of break out LILO/SILO because remember we terminated a whole bunch all of our leases right in '09 and '10.
And those leases we paid those termination payments based on the receipts from the counter parties.
So now that we're settling LILO/SILO some of those payments for terminations need to come back to us.
So for the long-winded way of saying it's not a single dollar amount in 1 check that we expect to get but we're working on trying to get them to accelerate finishing all the things they need to do to recognize the refund that they owe us on the terminations and I would hope to be able to have all of that done and have the net number in our hands either this year or early next year.
Inc.</strong> And then are other -- any other pieces remaining to be resolved in terms of lease terminations or anything else? No.
In fact what we did with the IRS is what I characterize as 2 separate settlements.
One was the settlement of the audit years 1997 through 2006 for everything for the enterprise.
There was a separate and distinct settlement that settled and finalized the treatment of LILO/SILO-related leases for every year that they appear in our tax returns all the way out through the end of the termination.
So there on LILO/SILO absolutely nothing and that is in dispute now with the IRS.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on Hudson what kind of heat rate do you have on that plant when you're running it as a gas plant? Including about '10 and '11 it's about a half turn on heat rate loss when you run the coal plant on gas.
Alvis before we go to the next question I just -- thinking out loud Paul Patterson your question about MOPR and complaint by Joe Bower [ph] the only other thing we can think of is that it is possible that several people have been filing requests for below MOPR treatment.
In particular those beneficiaries of the standard offer contract agreements under LCAPP and we're not proving to any specific information on whether or not they were granted below MOPR prices and perhaps that could be part of what is being debated at FERC.
But we don't have any more information on that at this point in time.
In addition to the fuel cell which we do have information on.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> That is the issue by the way that something was -- the market monitor filed something last night to FERC regarding a agreement with one of the parties on that.
So that's I think what Paul was referring to.
But I actually don't have a question on that.
I have a question on your CCGT capacity factors.
I'm actually a little surprised that they are not higher.
We've seen a number of PJM-based CCGT's into the like 70s and 80s this quarter on capacity factor and I'm just curious is that a function of basis issues our congestion issues is that a function of being more in the East or what -- why didn't it actually move more? I think it's because there was just no demand Steve.
We were seeing days where nukes were carrying the whole load without any problems.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because I mean that obviously was the same issue in Western PJM and we're seeing them in the 70s and 80s.
So maybe just different market because there's more gas and less coal in your area.
And also we have a higher percentage of nukes in our area and we do have a higher percentage of gas.
I think both of those were conspired to give the mid-50s number that we see versus what you're seeing elsewhere.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also curious what you're seeing on basis in PJM both this quarter and for the -- on the forward curves.
So I think in this quarter we have seen some negative basis but the fourth curve is showing more $3 to $4 which is lower than we'd seen to start.
Right.
Which is lower than we've seen historically.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Positive $3 or $4? Positive $3 right.
Both on average days as Ralph said workings were negative and of course that relates specifically what was going with demand with the warm weather but we continue to think about the low levels of positive basis in the forecast period.
Research Division</strong> And one other question.
We did see that the commission I guess finally approved a surcharge for the water utilities.
It might have just been yesterday.
Yes it was.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Is there -- are you starting to -- is there any movement already to look at doing that on gas and electric? So the answer to that is yes and I believe 1 New Jersey gas utility has already put in a filing and we think the combination of what took place with water and how the staff is viewing the other filing that coming from the gas utility has allowed us to have conversations with the staff prior to submitting our filing about the types of things they like and would rather -- and as well as the types of things that they would rather not see into a filing.
So I would describe what you're seeing as progress in terms of infrastructure clauses and we're factoring all that into our preparation for our own filing.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Just to go over the year's tax items.
Is it fair to assume we should not expect any more of these items for the remaining 3 quarters in your assumptions for the year? Sure Ashar yes.
So as I mentioned we settled 10 years of tax audits and also the LILO/SILO matter.
That's the entirety of what you should expect us to settle in terms of IRS audits for the year.
You know they've been outstanding for quite a while so when I gave the expectations for the full year effective tax rate to be about 37% to 38% for Enterprise think of it as including the impact of everything recognized this first quarter for all the audit settlements bringing us to 30% with the subsequent 3 quarters being a more normal tax rate which for us is running the range of 40.5% to 41% that's where you get the weighted average effect.
But you're correct there's nothing else to assume that would be unusual or different for tax for the rest of the year.
It's really just because all the audits landed in this quarter.
And then the way you described the gas thing the way that you kind of mentioned is that out of the $0.06 we can really look at $0.03 as being normal right? Because if you hadn't had that your gas earnings would have been higher by $0.03 anyway.
Do you get a chance to get the remaining $0.03 as well as the year goes along or is $0.03 the maximum that you could have earned under the clause on a normalized basis which got impacted by this $0.06? Right.
So let me just repeat that because I think you haven't obviously have the $0.03 right.
Let me just identify how I would characterize it.
The $0.03 that we got for tax that relates to gas effectively substituted for $0.03 that you would have seen using this pre-tax equivalent in the gross margin line for gas.
The bottom line operating earnings for the gas business is the same in this quarter as they would've been if we hadn't had the IRS settlement.
You would've just had a different geographies if you will on the P&amp;L.
You would have had the pretax equivalent of $0.03 on the gas weather normalization clause in margin.
Instead you have a lower margin in gas than you would otherwise have.
You have a tax benefit and you have the very same bottom line operating earnings for the Gas business whether we had the settlement or we didn't have the settlement.
So that's the way I would encourage you to think about it.
In terms of was there more that we could otherwise do that's not related at all to tax.
That's related to the gas business and having its overall earnings tax for 10.3%.
And so when you bump up against that 10.3%% whether you have a little bit of warmer weather then you wouldn't be able to book anymore.
So we've booked the maximum up to 10.3% now.
It just happened in this quarter that instead of booking it the way you would normally expect us to book it which is on the gross margin line we book it through the tax line.
But the bottom line effect is the same for the operating earnings for the business for this quarter.
Okay and if I can just end up that discussion so as we look up for comparability purposes going forward this year going to next can we say like about $0.10 of this tax is something which would not repeat itself going forward into the next fiscal year? Yes.
So I'd say -- and this Ashar one way to think about it is the Holdings and Enterprise that total $39 million for this quarter is effectively the result of the 10-year audit settlements.
And as I said obviously we don't settle audits like that all the time.
So I would think of that as things that you would necessarily -- you wouldn't see us having in Enterprise and Holdings guidance for the subsequent year.
Related to PSE&amp;G as I said $0.03 of what happened for tax would otherwise be substituted for by gas weather normalization and then you've got about this $0.03 that was everything else for PSE&amp;G for the 10 years of tax which again you wouldn't think of in the subsequent years because we wouldn't be guiding to assume tax audit settlements.
Your next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with Konolige Research.
LLC</strong> So you were -- I wanted Caroline to review.
You talked a little bit about the O&amp;M savings that we were seeing at Power and I didn't quite catch your reference.
Should we -- did you say that we shouldn't expect this level of O&amp;M savings going forward? Sure Kit.
So what I said on the remarks was we have $0.04 savings on a quarter-over-quarter basis for Power's O&amp;M.
But of course we have things like timing.
So for example of course how quicker than this outage right now and of course there's incremental spend when there are things like outages.
So what I was signaling was you wouldn't expect to see us having O&amp;M savings quarter-over-quarter of the extent to which we had in the first quarter but our target is to have most of the $0.04 savings that we saw in this quarter carry through on a full-year basis to be better than our prior expectations.
But you're not going to see $0.03 $0.04 kind of savings every quarter through the year.
So the target is we have $0.04 I'm going to keep most of it as we go from a full-year basis but don't assume that replication every quarter.
LLC</strong> And can -- did you revise your thinking at all as a result of this level of O&amp;M savings in the quarter for how you're tracking for the year on overall profitability given market conditions at Power? So we haven't changed anything relative to our expectations for the full year if that's where you're going.
I think if you think about the other things that we just talked about in terms of lower generation given the weather and low gas prices kind of extraordinarily low gas prices.
I think it's too soon being in the first quarter and obviously coming into the shoulder season and before the Summer to change any full-year expectations at this point in time.
Next question comes from the line of Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
I wanted to ask a question about the head rule.
You mentioned that you're still actually considering your options with regards to any CapEx spending.
I find it a little bit surprising given the fact that we have the PJM capacity auction next week.
Wouldn't you be actually bidding some of this CapEx into the auction? So Angie you're actually right the auction is next week so we're not going to comment on what we are on bidding what we might bid as a CapEx improvement for environmental reasons or what we might do otherwise.
It's just a highly competitive auction and we'll all know what the outcome is in 16 days.
Secondly the price the hedged price for your 2014 output has come down even though the percentage hasn't changed and the output the projected output hasn't changed.
What happened there? So in the hedge price for 2014 keep in mind that when we put together the hedge prices for each of the periods they include both BGS and non-BGS.
And you may recall we've talked about before that when we put the hedge prices in for BGS we take the full BGS price we exclude capacity since we talk about capacity separately.
And then the remainder of the BGS price including some of the things that are essentially cost pass-throughs like transmission and green as well as premium which is not a cost pass through coming to that hedge price calculation.
When we put in other like flat lock and West Hub hedges they go in primarily just at an energy price.
So in 2014 if you're recalling what we had last quarter when we talked about the 2014 hedges were at about $57 versus $55.
At that point having just come out of BGS and having not done very hedging for 2014 BGS was coming close to about 70% of that total number of hedges for 2014.
Now that we've layered on some additional if you go back and look at our numbers last year's first quarter you can see exactly the same pattern.
Now that the BGS is essentially done for the year in terms of its effect on 2014 you layer in other hedges that are West Hub flat lock type hedges and you'll naturally see that number come down because the new hedges that go in don't have the BGS cost pass-throughs in them.
So BGS has come down to be just a little more than 1/2 of that number now versus 70% and everything that comes in normally as you would expect comes in at a net lower price than BGS.
So that's all that's going on there nothing sort of disorienting in terms of market price just a normal weighted average mix of BGS with everything else.
But using that rationale wouldn't you see an increase in the percentage of output hedge? Yes so remember we're talking about a range here of the 20% to 25%.
And so you're going from being at the lower end with the higher end still within the range because there's very little that's -- we're still in low numbers for 2014's hedges.
And then the last question what is the normal -- what are the normalized sales growth embedded in your utility assumptions for this year? So we typically assume normal weather and then for overall growth boy it's really pretty small.
It's just slightly less than 1% on the weather normalized basis consistent with if you look at long-term forecast for example from PJM as part of the RTEP they took that down this year to be less than 1% if I recall correctly it's like 0.8%.
We typically follow those sorts of guidelines for our weather normalized forecast.
Your next question comes from the line of Travis Miller.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to the earned ROE at PSE&amp;G.
Apart from that tax and the weather normalization at Gas are there other areas where you're outperforming and thus [Audio Gap] earning higher ROE's than you'd expect? No but we would encourage you Travis to realize that the utility is regulated at the 10.3% on the distribution side and 11.68% in general for formula rates on the transmission side with a couple of exceptions.
Those exceptions being the Susquehanna-Roseland line which I think is 150 basis points on top of that and the Northeast Grid project which is 125 basis points on top of it.
So if you do the weighted averaging it will all add up.
So if transmission comes out to be north of 11.68% and distribution stays at that 10.3%.
Research Division</strong> And then all that net gets to a 10.3%...
No.
See if you do 11.68% for transmission I think transmission is about a 1/3 or 40% of the rate base nowadays and then you then weight the distribution so it's in the 10.3%.
Right and then the transmission -- Research Division</strong> So on distribution side is there anything other than that tax issue that helps you earn that 10.3% right now? I mean yes a pretty good cost control and a fair regulatory treatment on capital recovery for expanded distribution programs that we have underway allow us to sustain near that 10.3%.
Research Division</strong> How are we thinking about next rate case timing given that you've done a good job earning that allowed ROE? We don't forecast far into the future but you won't hear anything about that between now and the next call I can guarantee you that for sure.
We don't see it in the near term.
Thank you operator.
I think with that we'll conclude the call and I'm going to turn it over to Ralph for some concluding remarks.
So we talked a lot about taxes understandably so and trying to understand the weather normalization clause.
But I hope through all that what you've seen is a very strong quarter and presumably it speaks for itself particularly in light of the headwinds that we've seen.
I often take these opportunities to highlight the performance of our employees but I must give special recognition to our Fossil team.
Not just for the last quarter but the last few years.
These are a group of folks who have broadened our back end technologies a well over $1 billion capital program on schedule and on budget something we don't highlight.
That have also put in 400 megawatts of peakers not only on budget but a year ahead of schedule for one of those peakers.
And the adjusted O&amp;M numbers this quarter to complicate for what's been going on in the marketplace as Caroline has mentioned contributing $0.04 most of which we expect to hold onto.
It's just a superb job by our folks in the Fossil organization.
So thank you to everyone who's on the call for joining us today and hopefully we'll see you all soon at the various venues that we expect to be attending.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may disconnect and thank you for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Keisha and I will be your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference Public Service Enterprise Group's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today July 31 2012 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 12:00 p.m.
Eastern today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern on August 14 2012.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Keisha.
Good morning everyone or good afternoon.
We appreciate your participating in our call this morning.
As you are aware we released the second quarter 2012 earnings earlier today and you can find the release and attachments posted on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors section of the website.
We have also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended June 30 2012 is expected to be filed shortly before the end of this week.
I'm not going to read the full disclaimer statements or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results.
But as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update these forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless we are required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or other filings for a discussion of factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I am now going to turn the call over to Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of Caroline's remarks there will be time for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Caroline? Thank you Kathleen and thank you everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate your patience with us as we adjusted the timing of the earnings conference call.
This change provided flexibility for Ralph to join Governor Christie at a press conference this morning to break ground on a renewable energy site in Hackensack New Jersey.
I hope you've also seen the announcement of PSE&amp;G's proposed plans to increase spending on solar energy by up to $883 million.
Our proposed investment if approved as filed will add 233 megawatts of renewable energy to the grid over the next 5 years.
And when added to our existing $700 million commitment to solar energy PSE&amp;G will have added approximately 395 megawatts of solar capacity to the system and we'll move closer to meeting the state's goals for renewable energy.
The program will assure the continuation of PSE&amp;G's successful organic growth strategy in this area.
And as we'll discuss later our balance sheet enables us to consider additional investments to grow the utility in other ways that benefit our customers.
Before we talk more about our proposed spending program let me address earnings for the quarter.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2012 of $0.43 per share compared with operating earnings of $0.59 per share in the second quarter of 2011.
The results for the quarter bring operating earnings for the first half of 2012 to $1.28 per share compared with operating earnings of $1.44 per share earned in 2011's first half.
Slides 4 and 5 of our webcast package contain the detail on the results for the quarter and the first half.
Our results for the quarter and the first half of the year are in line with our expectations and I think you will find -- show that our strategy is on track.
I could say that the results are strong in the face of issues which we don't control such as the weather.
This year started off as one of the warmest on record and the mild weather conditions continued to define our experience for the second quarter.
Although our weather normalization costs in our gas business enabled us to earn our authorized return.
Credits for meeting our operational and financial objectives goes to our employees.
Their dedication is evident in the continued availability for our gas-fired combined cycle fleet and the strong performance from nuclear which together support Power's market position.
The importance of setting and meeting high standards for reliability is also recognized by our utility customers as PSE&amp;G moved to second place on the J.D.
Power and Associates 2012 Electric Utility Residential Customer Satisfaction Survey for large utilities in the East from 10th place a year ago.
Let me now address the earnings for each company in a bit more detail.
The earnings contribution from each of our 2 major businesses is almost equal in both periods.
We have provided you with a waterfall chart on Slide 10 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on Slide 12 provides you with the changes in operating earnings by each business on a year-to-date basis.
So let's start with Power.
PSEG Power reported operating earnings of $0.22 per share for the second quarter of 2012 compared with operating earnings of $0.36 per share for the second quarter of 2011.
PSEG Power's earnings declined in line with our expectations given lower prices for energy and capacity during the quarter.
Operations were aided by the availability and increased dispatch of the combined cycle natural gas fleet and continued strong contribution from the nuclear fleet.
Lower realized priced reduced Power's earnings by $0.05 per share quarter-over-quarter.
The decline reflects lower prices under the BGS contract as well as lower wholesale sales prices.
Contract price for 1/3 of the BGS-related load declined from $104 per megawatt hour to approximately $84 per megawatt hour on June 1 2012.
The impact on earnings from the overall decline in price incorporates the impact of customer migration away from the BGS contract.
For your information customer migration levels were at about 38% during the quarter in line with our expectations and consistent with our full year guidance.
The market price for Power in the quarter was often set by low gas prices in the East where Power's units are located as opposed to coal in the West.
Bases however has improved from first quarter levels.
The return to service of the transmission lines and coal units in Western PJM which had experienced outages in the first quarter as well as an increase in the price of gas versus coal had a favorable impact on bases which remains positive as we look into the forward market.
A decline in average capacity prices reduced earnings in the quarter by $0.03 per share.
Although quarter-over-quarter we saw a decline in earnings from capacity recall that the weighted average price for capacity on our fleet increased from $152.60 per megawatt-day on June 1 of this year from $110 per megawatt-day earlier this year.
This increase in capacity prices will be in place through May 31 of next year.
Thus revenue from capacity on a full year basis is expected to be essentially flat versus 2011.
You may want to keep that in mind as you model the rest of the year.
Power cleared approximately 9 000 megawatts of capacity at a price of $167 per megawatt-day for the 2015 2016 years as part of the RPM auction conducted by PJM.
Several new combined cycle units to be built by other generators clear the auction at that price.
Efforts to improve the minimum offer price rule prior to the next auction are ongoing.
The output from Power's rate declined 4.6% in the quarter from year-ago levels.
This reduction in output was primarily influenced by a decline in the dispatch of our coal units.
The decline in output reduced earnings by about $0.02 per share.
The nuclear fleet experienced a 3% decline in output during the quarter from year-ago levels.
A planned refueling outage at the Hope Creek nuclear station is borne completely by Power given 100% ownership of the unit compared to the impact in the year ago quarter of the refueling outage at the 57% owned sale on 2 units.
The nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 92.7% during the first half of the year and is consistent with our expectations for the fleet to operate at approximately 91% to 92% of capacity for the full year 2012.
Production from the natural gas combined cycle fleet increased approximately 10% in the quarter and now represented 32% of generation.
Output was aided by continued strong availability of 88% as the fleet's capacity factor expanded from 52% to 57% in the quarter.
Power's 270 megawatts of new efficient peaking capacity at Kearny went into service on June 1 and was picked up by PJM on Day 1 to assure reliability and they've been available to meet the summer demand.
An additional 130 megawatts of new peaking capacity at New Haven Connecticut was also brought into service by Power to be ready for the summer season.
And the market experienced an improvement in gas prices toward the end of the quarter in response to demand.
During the quarter however our dual fueled Hudson and Mercer units continued to be dispatched primarily on gas when called upon to run.
An increase in the price of gas in early July narrowed the cost discrepancy between operating our coal and natural gas units.
In fact Hudson and Mercer has been running on coal in July given weather-related demand and higher gas prices.
In general gas prices would need to improve further by another approximately $1.50 to $2 per mmBTU for coal to be competitive with the dispatch economics of our combined cycle units.
A net increase in O&amp;M costs associated with the planned refueling outage at Hope Creek reduced Power's earnings in the quarter by $0.02 per share.
Power continues to carefully monitor its operating expenses and benefits from its ability to optimize its labor force in reaction to market conditions.
For the full year Power still expects to capture most of the value of the O&amp;M savings it realized during the first quarter predominantly at the fossil stations.
And year-to-date O&amp;M is still lower than last year's levels.
Several miscellaneous items combined to reduce Power's earnings in the quarter by $0.03 per share.
Power continues to forecast total output for 2012 of 53 to 54 terawatt-hours and approximately 70% to 75% of output for the remainder of the year is hedged at an average price of $58 per megawatt-hour.
For 2013 Power has hedged approximately 55% to 60% of its forecast output of 52 to 54 terawatt-hours at an average price of $54 per megawatt-hour.
And for 2014 Power has hedged approximately 25% to 30% of its forecast output of 53 to 55 terawatt-hours at an average price of $54 per megawatt hour.
Remember that average hedge prices exclude the price for capacity embedded in our Full Requirements Contracts.
We continue to forecast operating earnings in 2012 for Power of $575 million to $665 million.
The year will be influenced by a decline in average realized energy prices.
Full year capacity revenues however are expected to be generally flat with 2011 given the increase in capacity prices on June 1 of this year.
Power's results will also be aided by its control of O&amp;M and strong performance from the nuclear and combined cycle assets.
Let me also remind you that Power continues to have solid investment-grade credit ratings from all the agencies and ended the quarter with a debt-to-capital ratio of 34%.
Let me now turn to the Utility.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2012 of $0.20 per share compared with $0.21 per share for the second quarter of 2011.
And results for the quarter are shown on Slide 23.
PSE&amp;G's results were influenced by an increase in transmission revenue and warmer-than-normal winter weather.
An annualized increase in transmission revenue of $94 million effective on January 1 of this year added $0.02 per share to earnings.
Warmer-than-normal winter weather conditions early in the quarter and weather which was unfavorable compared to a year ago reduced electric demand and earnings by $0.01 per share.
On a weather-normalized basis residential sales increased about 1.8% in the quarter as extreme weather fluctuations may have encouraged the use of air-conditioning.
A small decline in weather-normalized electric sales from commercial and industrial customers together resulted in only a nominal overall increase in total weather-normalized electric sales.
Although a decline in demand for gas reduced earnings quarter-over-quarter by $0.01 per share this was fully offset by an accrual of revenues under the gas weather normalization clause which continues to support PSE&amp;G's ability to earn its authorized return in our gas distribution business.
An increase in PSE&amp;G's O&amp;M reduced earnings in the quarter by $0.03 per share.
This increase which was in line with our expectations reflects higher pension expense which we talked about this year and the work associated with the company's expanded capital program.
An increase in depreciation expenses also associated with the expanded capital program reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
And other miscellaneous items added $0.02 per share to the quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons.
During the quarter PSE&amp;G attained important milestones related to the $390 million North Central Reliability transmission line.
We received approval from both the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection for construction of the 230 kV line.
The line is scheduled to enter service in mid-2014 and construction has started.
The North Central line is one of several major transmission projects comprising PSE&amp;G's $3.5 billion investment in new transmission capacity over 2012 to 2014 a pillar of the Utilities' organic growth strategy.
As I mentioned earlier PSE&amp;G announced today that it will be filing shortly for New Jersey BPU approval to increase spending by up to $883 million under its existing Solar 4 All and Solar Loan programs.
This continues our investment program and renewables which is the second key part of the Utilities' organic growth strategy and provides our customers with increased levels of clean energy.
Governor Christie recently signed into law the Solar Energy Bill requiring electric power suppliers to increase renewable energy as a percent of total energy requirements.
Our proposal calls for spending up to $690 million under the Solar 4 All program over a 5-year period to add solar capacity on landfills and brownfield sites.
The plan also calls for spending up to $193 million over a 3-year period under the Solar Loan program to support the financing of solar by businesses and homeowners.
The 2 spending programs will support the addition of 233 megawatts of solar capacity and bring PSE&amp;G's total investment in solar to approximately 395 megawatts.
The filing is based on an extension of the supportive incremental rate mechanisms of our existing programs namely: an authorized return on equity of 10.3%; and annual review by the BPU.
We continue to have investment capacity to support additional significant investments by PSE&amp;G in the areas of energy efficiency and the replacement of aging infrastructure including cast-iron gas distribution mains.
Both of these along with our proposed solar investments and transmission can help grow our utility while providing significant benefits to our customers.
PSE&amp;G's growth is benefiting from increased investment in transmission and an investment program emphasizing a clean efficient and reliable network.
Year-to-date both our transmission business and our renewables business are positive contributors to our bottom line after all costs.
And in our distribution businesses we continue to earn our authorized return in both electric and gas.
PSE&amp;G's results for the first half of the year are consistent with our forecast operating earnings guidance for the full year of $530 million to $560 million.
I'll now turn to PSEG Energy Holdings and the parent.
Operating earnings for PSEG Energy Holdings and Enterprise in the second quarter of 2012 were $4 million or about $0.01 per share versus operating earnings of $10 million or $0.02 per share earned during the second quarter of 2011.
The results were in line with our expectations and reflect expected lower earnings on leases.
PSEG Energy's Holdings remains focused on the startup of its $75 million investment in the 25-megawatt Queen Creek solar print plant in Arizona scheduled for operation later this year as well as transition activities in support of a Long Island Power Authority services contract.
The 10-year contract to manage LIPA's electric distribution system received final approval during the quarter.
The contract which is scheduled to begin in January of 2014 represents an opportunity to improve returns and is a recognition of PSEG's history of strong reliability and customer satisfaction.
PSEG Energy Holdings and Enterprise operating earnings for the second quarter are consistent with our forecast of operating earnings for 2012 of $35 million to $45 million.
The results for the full year include the benefit associated with the IRS tax settlement in the first quarter and the expected decline of lease income.
And we plan to continue our successful efforts to date to de-risk the holdings business.
Finally our capital position remains strong.
We ended the quarter with over $750 million in cash and total debt at 41% of capitalization.
During the quarter PSE&amp;G sold $450 million of 30-year medium-term notes at a cost of 3.95% to finance its capital program in line with authorized rate levels.
Power continues to generate significant operating cash flow given its low cost position while its capital needs remain modest.
As we remain focused on maintaining solid credit metrics the strength of our balance sheet and cash flow supports the proposed increase in capital spending with room for possible new programs at PSE&amp;G without the need for additional equity.
Finally we remain within operating earnings guidance in line with our expectations for the full year of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
With that I'll turn it back to Keisha and we welcome any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Caroline with the RPM auction having taken place since the last earnings call can you just share kind of the corporate strategy around addressing the MOPR ruling in any thoughts you guys might have around the LCAPP lawsuit that's I guess in court today? What strategies might occur if you do not get a successful outcome in that case? Sure.
Relative to capacity as you know as we mentioned there are efforts underway with PJM as I mentioned to improve the understanding and transparency relative to MOPR prior to next year's option.
It's really too soon to comment on that because those discussions are just underway and that is a confidential process.
So I can't really talk more about that except that we recognize the value in trying to improve that transparency.
Relative to the court case obviously today court is in session and I think the perspective I'd share with you on the court case is similar to what we've been talking about all along.
We do think that it makes sense to preserve the viability of markets and that's always been our position relative to the court action.
We did file a motion for summary judgment.
And as you know the other side did the same.
Oral arguments or as I best understand it before I got on this call still underway and we look forward  to that outcome.
It's too soon to speculate of course on what might happen if there is an outcome on either side at this point.
We remain committed of course to the concept of supporting markets but it's really too soon to have any speculation on what's going on in court.
Our position is really the same as it's been before.
And our next question comes from Mr.
Paul Patterson.
It's Glenrock Associates.
Just in terms of -- I just wanted to clarify the sales growth.
It sounded like I guess it was kind of neutral.
There wasn't really much of a change maybe a slight positive is that right on weather normalized basis for the quarter and year-to-date? Yes that's right Paul.
We look at overall between residential commercial and industrial it is very modest less than 1% growth.
We continue to talk about low growth in that 0.5% to 1% range over the period but it was pretty modest in this quarter.
Okay.
And then in terms of peaks looking at PJM and what-have-you we've had really hot weather as you know most recently and I haven't seen any announcement new peaks really in PJM and I was wondering if you guys have your market people or whatever seeing any change in demand response? I know we've got a new energy demand response tariff in PJM.
Just in general if you could give us a flavor for any change in consumption pattern that you might be seeing considering that we have really hot weather and I don't think we've seen much in the way of any new peaks.
Yes that's a good question Paul.
You're right.
So we have had pretty hot weather as you know as you were just commenting.
We have not hit the historical peaks that we have seen previously.
You're right.
It's too early to know specifically what that relates to.
Obviously demand response could be a factor in that.
It's a little hard to measure at this point in time or whether part of what we're seeing in response to peak is response to warm weather to some curtailment of demand that comes from people just being -- conserving because of their economic situation or whatever.
So you're right.
We haven't hit the peaks.
It's a little early for us to assess whether it was specifically demand response programs versus just the overall economic conditions.
But you're right about the fact we haven't hit our peaks to date.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could quantify a bit the earnings benefit that you're seeing from that increase in combined cycle generation I mean we talked about it a lot.
But is there an earnings offset that you're realizing and could that change as gas prices move? So Travis I guess I think of it this way.
So combined cycle generation is up 10% right? As we mentioned just about 10%.
Of course coal generation is down as I mentioned before and of course this particular quarter we have the Hope Creek outage.
So while we certainly are pleased and benefit from the efficiency of our combined cycle there are obviously offsets that go there as well.
As it relates to -- if you think about our overall position our combined cycle units part of what we offer into the market but also keep in mind that PGS provides a significant portion of our pricing and our hedging in terms of providing the overall price.
So it's good to have a combined cycle availability.
We're very pleased.
We have the largest combined fleet in PJM.
Our capacity factor was 57% in the quarter but obviously when you look at it all together you balance that relative to coal and of course nuclear continues to be highly available as well.
So I wouldn't try to split out profitability by the type of unit.
I'd rather look at the fact that we have a whole dispatch portfolio which we can effectively put into the market to optimize our total profitability and at reasonable hedging strategy which I think gives us the opportunity to take advantage of some of those full requirement contract prices.
And our next question comes from Kit Konolige with EPC financial.
LLC</strong> So on the segment earnings Caroline as you noted they're running about neck and neck between the Utility and Power year-to-date.
You I believe are maintaining the guidance for the year which would result in Power ending the year a little above PSE&amp;G.
Can you give us a perspective on the rest of the year segment-wise and then maybe looking forward over the next couple of years that was a perspective that I think you gave us at the Analyst Day.
Sure Kit.
So a couple of things.
So you're right we're very close on a 6-month basis right between Power and PSE&amp;G $0.60 per share for Power and $0.59 for PSE&amp;G.
And then of course if you look at our guidance obviously which we reaffirmed for both businesses.
I think as we think about the period coming up of course we're into the summer quarter now.
So that's important relative to thinking about the summer and the demand that we see which obviously has benefits for both businesses.
The other thing I'd encourage you to keep in mind as you look at year-to-date being relatively similar and then compare it to guidance which is not right on top of each other.
As I mentioned capacity prices.
Keep in mind capacity prices are now up for the second half of the year which means that as I mentioned they would be essentially flat if we look at the full year in terms of capacity revenues.
And when you think about that I think that's valuable to keep in mind because if we think about capacity prices on a year-to-date basis they're $0.11 lower.
But what we were signaling is for the full year they'll basically be flat.
So that's going to be a differentiator for Power as you think about kind of the go forward.
That's probably the single biggest thing I'd point to on the margin line for Power that's a differentiator that's not just the weather and the summer.
For the Utility I might point to obviously continuing our transmission investments.
Obviously the announcement that we made on Solar today would not be a 2012 earnings effects that would be a filing that will be affecting future periods.
So just keep in mind Utility transmission.
And then as we come in to the later period as we get into the fall and into the winter.
Obviously the winter weather would have an impact.
Although keep in mind for the Utility the winter has the gas weather normalization clause which allows us to earn our authorized return.
Of course for Power it would be more at market.
So I think about capacity and summer weather and continued transmission investments as the differentiators as we think about the rest of the year.
In terms of the outlook for the longer term as you know we're not giving guidance beyond the current year 2012.
I would say just keep in mind some of the hedging data which I gave you earlier for Power.
Power is relatively well hedged as we come in to '13 and less so for '14 consistent with what we've done in the past.
We're a little more hedged at this point in the year for the subs for the upcoming year than we were last year at this time so we've done a little more of that hedging but we still have obviously more to go in both that is relatively consistent with prior.
And for the Utility going forward I just -- keep in mind the ongoing investment program that we have $3.5 billion of transmission spending over the 3-year period being an important part of our growth.
And then those new filings that I just mentioned which are new.
And keep in mind if you're modeling them into the out years they are not part of the previous disclosures we've given you on our capital expenditures because we've only put in those slides things that have been approved.
So this is new and incremental things that you should think about for the Utility in the upcoming years.
LLC</strong> Great.
And one other area just to clarify.
I think you mentioned that gas prices would need to be $1.5 to $2 higher for coal to be competitive.
So we're talking about gas prices would have to get above $5 before that the coal plants run some more basically? So gas prices above $5 is about right Kit so you're right on.
Relative to the coal units running it's not about their running when there's a strong demand that we would see in the summer.
It's about -- that would be the trade-off price where they would become sort of equivalent in the dispatch with the gas units right the combined cycle units.
It's not about the fact that goal can't run in the summer because as I said we are already running them this July because the warm weather has pulled the demand through.
I'm really talking about the equivalence to combined cycle but your number is right.
LLC</strong> And obviously the flatness shall we say in peak i.e.
absence of a whole lot of growth and demand would tend to not change that dispatch order very quickly? Yes I think that's fair.
But I would say even though we've not hit the peaks as we were just talking about a few minutes ago we are having enough demand in the warm summer days that the coal units are running and running on coal.
Our next question comes from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> We have an upcoming court decision on the cross state rule from EPA.
And there's been a lot of debate about how they might come out.
If the court were to uphold that rule what's your general view on power market implications and implications to PSEG in that event? Yes so good question Stephen.
Right now a lot of what we're seeing in the market is more focused really on the mercury rules than the CASPR rules in terms of having that significant impact and you may remember obviously it was a pickup in the market in CASPR late last year.
So we're hopeful relative to CASPR we still think it's the right way to go.
But if you look at where people are making decisions and announcements and where things tend to be trending it tends to be more focused on the mercury rules.
At least as we see the markets at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And just want to build on Kit's earlier question on the coal plants and capacity factors.
Relative to last year the New Jersey coal the Hudson and Mercer I guess the second quarter of 2011 capacity factor is around 33% and this year it's at 14%.
Are these plants given the commodity environment that we're now looking at are these plants that are likely to be NPV [ph] positive over the long term in terms of having them continue to run? Or similar to what we've seen with other companies where they've looked at coal plants that are less competitive than others that these are potential candidates for shut down over time? So good question.
Relative to our coal plants we see them as providing value over the long-term.
As I just said they're running now and remember these plants and I'm talking about Hudson and Mercer these are dual fuel plants so they have actually some embedded optionality that not every coal plant in the system has.
So we have the ability to run them on gas which is where when they ran that's the most of how they ran in the second quarter.
In July they are running on coal.
So we do see these units as valuable over the long-term and as units that we like having in our fleet dispatch.
And frankly as you've seen over the years as you know well having that dispatch flexibility has always turned out to be over the long-term advantage.
So we do see them as long-term valuable assets and we're pleased to see them.
Frankly we're running on coal as we come into the summer.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you address the timeline for both the filing on the Solar program that's been proposed today as well as kind of the timeline on during the course of that 5 years what the spending profile would look like? Sure Michael.
So relative to the timeline for the program as we've said before we didn't expect even as we were considering these filings that there'd be any incremental spend in 2012 and I still think that's accurate.
So we will be filing shortly.
You can watch for that obviously.
That's following today's announcement and press conference with Governor Christie and with Ralph.
In terms of approval period I would encourage you to think about these as early 2013 in terms of when the suspending would start.
And as I think we mentioned in the call and I know it was in the release there are a little bit different timelines for the total spend right? So Solar 4 All Solar 4 All II is a program that we think we would expect to spend the dollars over the next 5 years and for the Solar Loan Program about 3 years in terms of when the loans would go out and obviously they'd pay back over a longer period of time.
I think that's relatively consistent with what you've seen with our existing programs because if you think about our existing programs they've taken some years to roll out when we had Solar 4 All in July of '09 the spending -- total expected about $456 million.
We still have about 95 to go.
So that's sort of consistent with the 3- 4-year program and in the Solar Loan Program we actually had 2 programs as you may recall again they take a multi-year period.
So I think 3 years to 5 years is the right way to think about it: A little shorter for the loan program a little longer for the Solar 4 All II program.
Both of them are filed generally consistent with our existing programs i.e.
contemporaneous return 10 3 very similar to what you've seen before.
That's why we're very pleased to file them because I think our first programs we were judged to be pretty successful.
Research Division</strong> And do you see this potential uptick in capital spending as requiring incremental capital infusions into PSE&amp;G do you still see those coming primarily from PSEG Power? And finally where -- there had been some discussion about a gas distribution kind of a an Ohio-like distribution upgrade program.
Can you give us an update on where that stands? Sure Michael.
So 2 things.
First relative to the financing right for the PSE&amp;G programs.
So I think you may recall we've talked about before that because Power's capital needs are relatively modest right as we talked about the environmental spending being essentially behind Power.
That enables us to have PSE&amp;G which is now a relatively significant generator of operating cash flow.
Not as much as Power but more significant than it's been in the past.
That allows PSE&amp;G to essentially keep its cash from operations raise debt consistent with its capital structure while Power can be the cash flow generator that dividends up to the parent to support the shareholder dividend.
So given the nice cash generation coming from PSE&amp;G keep in mind things like the renewables with contemporaneous return the transmission program with formula rates and flip in rate base for some of our major programs start to generate cash relatively quickly that supports our ability to have the Utility to be able to keep its cash and have adequate financing.
So everything we're doing at the bottom line as we said before there's no need for any equity issuance because the balance sheet and cash flow generation of the 2 companies is strong.
From the perspective of incremental programs you're right.
We've mentioned that gas disk [ph] program a number of times before and we still have the opportunity for the gas disk program as well as some energy efficiency we've not announced any filings of those programs but cast  iron gas main replacement something that we are obviously interested in and we understand the status as well.
It's something that you could see via program in this picture that's why we continue to put it in our materials and remember we talked about that program as multi-year as well and of like a 5-year program like Solar 4 All could be with spending in the range of about $250 million per year that we could logistically do well.
That is the kind of thing that our balance sheet still provides room to do even on top of the 800 -- up to $883 million that I just mentioned because of the strength of the credit metrics that I mentioned on earlier with Power's debt to cap in the low 30s and the overall company in the low 40s.
Again without any equity we can do the programs we just mentioned.
We can do $3.5 billion transmission that you know we have in front of us as well as consider more programs.
So we kind of like the position we are relative to the ability to do more for the Utility.
Next question comes from Paul Fremont with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question I guess is a clarification.
Did I hear you earlier say that the weather-normalized sales growth in the quarter was up 1.8%? So let me clarify that Paul for you.
So weather-normalized sales growth in residential was 1.8%.
But for commercial and industrial it was down such that when you roll the Utility together for it's electric sales it was up less than 0.5% which is why we said essentially de minimis growth this quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So less than 0.5% for the total -- company-wide? That's right.
For electric weather normalized for the quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say that the impact of shopping was roughly the same this quarter as it was a year ago? So the impact of price overall for Power as we said was $0.05 and the impact within that for migration was about $0.03 of the $0.05.
In terms of where migration is right now I think I mentioned on the remarks it's about 38% for the quarter recall our guidance for the year is between 36% and 40%.
We're staying with that guidance we still think that's appropriate and the reason I'll indicate that for you is one of the things we look at as you know when we look at migration we always look at headroom.
Because at the end of the day the driver of migration over the long term is always headroom.
And every time we've seen headroom collapse or shrink you've seen the pace of migration slow.
So while we had increased headroom earlier this year when I look at the headroom based on our estimates.
When I look at the headroom for June for example as we got a little bit firmer prices with weather and as the new BGS price came in and reduced the BGS price going forward right starting in June we see headroom levels coming back to levels that we saw actually in the third quarter of last year and that's when you really saw migration slow down.
So the impact is embedded in the $0.05.
BGS price is down.
Market prices is obviously up a little weather.
We're still comfortable with the guidance range and we always watch the headroom on a month-to-month basis.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you brought up the Bases differential earlier and talked about seeing some improvement in the second quarter.
Can you give us a sense of where you expect to see Bases for the full year 2012? Sure.
So yes Bases obviously had challenges as I mentioned earlier particularly given some transmission outages and some coal plant outages not our coal plants obviously.
Coal plants in the West.
And that had the impact of reducing the differential and in some cases slowed direction at various points in time.
With those being resolved as where we are now as well as [indiscernible] with the warmer weather and a little firming of gas prices we see the return of Bases.
And on the forward market forecast as we Bases we see positive Bases for our regions.
It's not at the levels it was a year [indiscernible] ago we're still talking in the single digit; modest single digit levels.
But keep in mind of course we do monetize basis through BGS and that's obviously something that continues to remain important.
So was challenged earlier.
Here's the return.
Stayed in the forward markets at levels that are positive for us but not at levels that we had experienced a few years ago.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is it safe to say I mean a couple of dollars is what you would expect for this year? Yes a couple of dollars is about right.
$2 $3 $4 for the year is about the way to think about it.
Our next question comes from Andrew Gay with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Julien here.
Actually most of my questions have been asked and answered already as well.
Perhaps just curious with regards to perhaps outside of the court case right now with regards to MOPR.
Broadly speaking for policy what are you guys looking to do in terms of revising MOPR what would be the goal there? And obviously a number of different things have been thrown out there by various companies.
What would you -- what would ideally a MOPR look like to you guys? Well I think given the process that's underway at PJM as I mentioned it's a confidential process.
It's probably not appropriate for us to use the call to kind of speculate on what we would like to see.
I think just some core principles things that we've talked about before I think are logical to mention here and of course one that's transparent for all players right for all participants in the market that people can understand readily and therefore it really helps the efficiency of what we think is a very valuable and well functioning capacity market which we want to see continue.
In terms of specifics and looking at alternatives and things like that I think it's just too soon to start to talk about that in public as we really should let the PJM process I think take its course.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any sense on timeline for that or just...
No I don't have any sense relative to any key dates.
One of the things that obviously is something that I think I know PJM recognizes and we've all discussed is to provide some clarity for all market participants before the next auction in May and I think that's the right way to think about the timeline we would shoot for.
Our next question comes from Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just first a clarification on the new Solar program.
Thank you for giving the rough years for both the Solar 4 and the Solar Loan.
What would be the split roughly of the $883 million between the 2? Sure.
So for the Solar 4 All II program this new Solar 4 All II program up to $690 million spending out over a 5-year period.
And for the Solar Loan III program up to $193 million over about a 3-year timeframe.
I mentioned the up to's [ph] just to provide some clarification on what that means.
So this is how we will file and of course we'll discuss with the BPU the final dollars.
Keep in mind that also we're talking about a particular amount of megawatts and so depending on how the filing proceeds and is ultimately adjudicated as you may recall in Solar 4 All I the current program we had approval for 80 megawatts and up to a certain amount of spend and so as the price panels has come down the total spend came down as well.
So that's why we cite up to at this point really because we need to understand and go through the BPU process.
But that's how the 2 split out and so overall it's up to the $883 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what's -- I know you've talked about programs like this as being a focus.
Should we expect that there'll be more things like this that pop up over the next year or so? So the way I would think about it Steve in terms of the 'more ' these are obviously 2 pretty significant programs in solar following our existing solar programs.
In terms of what's next for the Utility I would encourage you to think about what we've talked about in terms of energy efficiency and gas disk and probably gas disk really being the biggest one because that's one where obviously in the state's energy master plan I talked about gas investment there's a lot we can do.
As I said we could spend about $250 million a year over a multi-year horizon that's per year amount.
On top of the things that we've -- the process of filing these solar programs.
So that's really where we would turn to next.
These 2 programs if approved would give us nice incremental renewables investment in solar and I think gas disk could be the next place that we can -- that we will turn our attention and look forward to potentially some investments there as well.
Again our balance sheet and our capacity for investment really gives us the opportunity to do these and ways that are good for customers and that are shareholder-friendly because of no need to issue equity by the company for any of our undertakings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question just on the -- you mentioned the RPM megawatts that cleared in the latest auction and then you talked about the optionality of the ATDD sites being preserved.
Could you maybe give a little more color on what you mean by that? Sure.
So we had about 9 000 megawatts clear as I mentioned that's the $167 million per megawatt per day price.
We had announced previously plans to retire some megawatts that we had notified the 283 megawatts of ICAP and then we have the peakers that came online that I just mentioned that have already been called as I mentioned as well.
We also had bid some of our capacity that did not clear as you can tell from the totals but remember some of that capacity is capacity that gives us flexibility to rebid in future auctions for the period which you know if you bid in the current auction if you don't clear what -- you reserve the optionality to bid in later auctions.
In addition we're looking at whether some of these ATDD units would still be valuable to the region of their ancillary capabilities like Black Star.
So all of those things are things that we are looking at right now relative to those units.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no new update on official coal retirement so to speak? No that's right.
No new update on official retirements that's -- we announced already the ones that we said we will retire.
But because of where we are right now we have optionality on these units for the future.
But no update at this point if there are any future retirements obviously you'd see that on the PJM website.
Right now we like preserving this optionality for a while and we have the ability to do so.
Our next question comes from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Jon Cohen.
I'm stealing Greg's question or borrowing it.
I guess 2 questions first of all on that last point can you tell us if there were any non-HID [ph] compliant megawatts that did clear? So in other words plants that you plan on upgrading by 2015? No no.
So everything that cleared I think are the things that you would recognize in our discussion.
Nothing like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question is on the sort of cost parity for Hudson and Mercer you mentioned that $5 gas is required for those to be sort of bid in and clear on a base load basis.
What is in the cost parity -- so at $3 gas you're burning coal and then not gas is that correct? Does that mean that the cost of running those units at coal is now cheaper than running those units at gas? No.
So I think it's just the opposite if you think about what was happening earlier this year with the Hudson and Mercer units so I'm not talking Bridgeport here.
Hudson and Mercer run on either gas or coal.
So when we ran them earlier this year we were running them on gas.
Now for a large portion of the period they didn't run because weather was pretty mild so they were running on gas.
The comment that I was making is if you think about gas prices going up above $5 then when you do the parity for the economics for them to run coal -- running on coal would be equivalent in the dispatch to running on gas because gas would be higher-priced.
That's when we think about equivalence in their dispatch position.
The fact that they were running -- that they've been running in July as I mentioned and running on coal is not a function of that dispatch position parity but a function of the demand in the market given the weather and the prices and the need for more generation.
So it's really 2 separate comments: One is they're running more on coal now because of the weather and the demand is there.
The other is when you just think about them in a kind of neutral dispatch not a weather pull of demand the parity between gas and coal would be equivalent in slightly over $5 gas price environment.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean I guess I asked my question poorly.
If they're running on coal now I mean doesn't it be behoove you to bid in your lowest cost for the unit? So does that mean at whatever gas price is now $3 gas that dispatching coal is less expensive than dispatching on gas on a cost per megawatt hour your cost per megawatt hour? Right all in.
But exactly we've always looked at the all-in best economics for the business.
And we do have a follow-up question from Andrew Gay with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Julien here.
Caroline as you think strategically about the company I noticed the line with regards to LIPA expand the capabilities of the business.
Is that kind of an indication that you're thinking about eventually broadening out the regulated business in any kind of meaningfully I'm just thinking ala M&amp;A but willing to interject whatever you think.
Well I think LIPA was a great opportunity for us.
Again capitalizing on the reliability and the good work that the folks do at PSE&amp;G.
It obviously gave us the opportunity to bid and then ultimately win which is terrific.
There's a lot going on right now in the transition.
We'll start in 2014 in LIPA.
So as we think about opportunities at the Utility I'd say they really are in 2 categories but this first category LIPA is relatively small.
As you know the earnings opportunity from LIPA as we've talked about before is about $0.03 a share starting in 2014.
So ways to use those capabilities to expand beyond PSE&amp;G with the capabilities we have in the company are always good.
But I'd say as you think about the Utility and growing that business we've been really pleased frankly with the organic growth results of that we've seen because of course they've come with getting -- providing shareholders with a regulated rate of return and doing it without paying a premium that would come from a Utility acquisition.
Frankly given where we are with PSE&amp;G where we've really doubled the size of Utility over the last few years what I'd like now is that we continue to have more opportunities to grow the rate base.
So we have a 13% CAGR in the rate base in our numbers through 2014.
That doesn't include the solar programs we just announced which would obviously be on top of that although the [indiscernible] time out the year for the spending profile and the opportunity for more investments.
So LIPA like things as they come along we'd always look at but I think the real focus of the Utility is the organic growth that we have demonstrated and the significant opportunities we have for more organic growth with programs here that we know how to do that we've demonstrated we can do well.
and that improve reliability for the key customers in our service territory.
So I think the balance is more to the organic.
Opportunistic we'll always be opportunistic.
But organic has plenty of room to play out.
Operator we're at a full hour.
But I'd like to turn the call over -- back to Caroline right now for some concluding comments.
Thank you Kathleen and thank you all for your questions.
I appreciate the chance to chat with you today.
I'd just sum up by saying that we're very pleased with the ability that we have to proactively and aggressively invest our infrastructure to improve our reliability improve the environment as our solar programs I hope demonstrate to you and improve our local -- and support local economy in terms of job creation.
We've been pretty successful I think in focusing on operating successfully in an environment of low power prices for several years and operating efficiency has improved and reliability remained strong.
Our investment program continues to be supported by a strong balance sheet and regulatory mechanisms that provide our shareholders with the opportunity to earn reasonable risk-adjusted returns and growth.
And the energy markets as you know are in the midst of major transformation and we believe that at the end of the day our actions and our opportunities place us in a strong position to meet the needs of customers employees and shareholders.
So with that I thank you for your time and look forward to talking to you all again.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may disconnect and thank you for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Kamika and I'm your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference Public Service Enterprise Group Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today November 1 2012 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern on November 15 2012.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kamika.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you participating in our earnings call this morning.
We know it's not as easy for all of us to participate this morning.
Operating conditions may not be optimal in the wake of Hurricane Sandy and do appreciate you taking the time to listen to our call this morning.
As you are aware we released third quarter 2012 earnings statement earlier today.
As mentioned the release and attachments are posted on our website under the Investor section that would be www.pseg.com/investor.
We also posted a series of slides that detail the operating results by company for the quarter.
And our 10-Q for the period ended September 30 2012 is expected to be filed shortly.
We won't go through the full disclaimer.
But as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless we are required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or other filings for a discussion of the factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
Joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
Ralph? Thank you Kathleen.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I'm going to deviate a little bit from our usual approach to this quarterly call by briefly discussing Hurricane Sandy and then we'll go to the usual discussion that Caroline and I will walk you through.
It does seem that every storm that hits our service territory nowadays has a particularly different set of challenges that come along with it.
But I must tell you the one thing that's consistent in each of those storms is the willingness of our employees to respond to each and every challenge in ways that can be ascribed as nothing short of heroic.
So at the risk of stating the obvious you know our system was hit earlier this week by high winds heavy rainfall.
But probably the most significant damage we sustained was due to a tidal surge that was associated with Hurricane Sandy that hit the northern part of the territory and uniquely did some damage to our transmission system some of our switching stations which -- and then of course obviously the high winds damaged the distribution system throughout the service territory.
Some of our generation infrastructure was affected in the northern part of New Jersey as well but that is less of a story than what's happened from a customer point of view.
We believe that about 1.7 million customers lost power at some point since this began on Monday.
And right now we have about 775 000 customers still without power.
So we restored about 1 million and that just gives you a sense of the dedication that our employees have shown to this restoration effort.
We've got an unprecedented amount of help from colleagues in the industry and I cannot say enough good things about the help we're getting from Governor Christie and his administration and recently the President actually was willing to speak to a group of EEI CEOs and me personally about what he could do to help us out.
So all hands on deck and everyone is pitching in.
But again the Christie administration has just been incredible and unbelievable.
We have told people that we think full restoration is going to take anywhere from 7 to 10 days.
And hopefully -- not hopefully I know from a fact that in the last 30 seconds that I've been speaking to you we've restored some customers but the tail is going to be long and there are going to be some folks at the end of that tail that will unfortunately just need to exercise some patience in ways that we haven't had to ask them before in the past.
Now it is too early for us obviously to give you an exact accounting of the costs.
But I just want to give you some comparative numbers so that you can get a sense for the issue here.
Because the issue here is a customer issue all right? Irene was $0.02 impact on O&amp;M with $0.03 of deferred costs.
And the snow storm last year was about $0.01 impact on O&amp;M with $0.03 of deferred costs.
Now this storm is different in 2 major ways.
It's bigger.
It's about twice the size of Irene from a customer out point of view.
But it's got a lot more transmission outage which is driving that customer count.
And as you know our transmission equipment is regulated by FERC and we do think that we have the ability to recover those costs through our formula rate.
What we're evaluating right now is whether or not we can modify our filing in October or do we need to true that up next year.
On the distribution level we've asked the BPU for their approval to defer the cost of this storm that has been their custom in the past can't guarantee that for the future but that has been their custom consistently.
And I know I'm going to sound like a broken record but I just can't say enough good things about we've been working with the administration throughout this event with the staff of the BPU with senior officials with the commissioner's themselves.
So everyone is committed to 100% -- 100% committed to the safe restoration of the power and making sure that we get the job done as quickly and as safely as possible.
So we'll give you an update when we have more information.
And there's something I will predict confidently for you is that historically this is when PSE&amp;G has shined like no other company.
And I have no reason to believe that this is any different in that regard.
So while we now break away back into the kind of usual earnings discussion and then we will open to all kinds of questions at the end of the call though I'm a little disappointed in Kathleen she promised me she would announce at the beginning of the call that if you live in New Jersey we were not taking street address or specific complaints.
So here we go we did report third quarter call this morning of $0.75 a share and that compares with operating earnings of $0.83 a share in 2011.
So $0.75 this year versus $0.83 in 2011.
So our financial results continued to be strong despite low power prices and our results demonstrate the benefits of a generating fleet that has fuel diversity and operational flexibility and the  growing importance of electric transmission  to our earnings.
And we still expect this year to end up between $2.25 and $2.50 a share.
We're not moving off of that change.
The results demonstrate the success of a strategy that serves both our customers and our shareholders as well.
And the strategy is one that uses a very strong balance sheet to expand our customer-centered investments.
It's a strategy that captures the opportunities available in our more stable regulated business and it's a strategy that places the focus on improving the operating efficiency of our generating fleet.
It's a strategy that's going to support double-digit compound annual growth in our regulated operating earnings from '11 through '14 and at the same time provide long-lasting benefits to New Jersey's economy with the creation of jobs and critical improvements to the infrastructure and the addition of clean energy and support of the state's energy master plan.
The value of our generating assets it just continues to be demonstrated by the flexibility associated with having a low-cost well-run nuclear baseload generating fleet coupled with a large set of combined-cycle gas-fired generating assets in PJM and a very efficient fleet all capable of responding to the market's demands.
This flexibility has allowed us to take advantage of market opportunities as we remain diligent in managing our costs.
The capacity factor of our nuclear fleet has improved on the strength of continued excellent performance at Hope Creek and improvements at Salem which -- and Salem in particular performed at its second highest level ever this past summer.
Our combined-cycle generating assets also operated at historically high levels in the third quarter.
And 267 megawatts of new more efficient generating capacity at Carney were available to meet this summer's peak demand as well.
And some of that you may recall was originally scheduled to go into service in June of '13 so we actually got that in the year ahead of schedule.
So as you know a central element of our strategy over the past 4 years has been the decision to direct increased capital investment toward our regulated business.
PSE&amp;G's existing capital program reflects a commitment to invest $5.4 billion through 2014 to expand the state's energy infrastructure and improve reliability with $3.5 billion of the total investment dedicated to the expansion of the high-voltage transmission system.
The program is well underway.
We received major regulatory approval this year for the construction of the 500kv Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line and the North Central Reliability line even while we're pursuing the local approvals needed for the construction of the Northeast Grid line.
These 3 lines alone represent 60% of our planned investment in transmission.
And as I said the regulatory approvals are well on hand.
When we're done with this $3.5 billion program -- actually the continuation of it even beyond 2014 it positions us to be the second-largest owner of transmission in all of PJM.
So PSE&amp;G's planned $5.4 billion capital program does not include the recently filed request with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities to invest up to an additional $883 million on new solar energy through our Solar Loan and Solar 4 All programs.
We'll get greater clarity from the BPU on these programs in the first quarter.
Sufficed to say we haven't had very many conversations about this in the last 3 days.
So the investment programs are critical to maintaining reliability.
They support the clean energy goals of the state.
And equally importantly they support New Jersey's economy through the addition of new jobs.
And as I said so many times before but it bears repeating these results would not be possible without the dedication of our employees who continue to find ways to respond to market conditions.
Now you may recall we started this year forecasting compound annual growth in our O&amp;M of 2.9% through 2014 but we continue to find ways to outperform our expectations.
For the 9 months ended September 30 Power's O&amp;M has declined.
This achievement would mean that Power has kept its O&amp;M flat for the 4 consecutive years from 2008.
Now we can't promise to maintain that level of spending but we do promise to keep trying.
These efforts to control our costs are further exemplified by the recent agreement to extend contracts for 4 years with 3 unions representing more than half of our employees.
The agreements call for 7 3/4% increase in wages over the length of the contract -- the 4 years as well as a onetime 1.5% lump-sum payment when the contract takes effect in May of '13.
This extension assures predictability and stability of costs while maintaining competitive wages for our workers.
It is also another important demonstration of the commitment of our employees for the success of this company.
Many of them are shareholders and all of them know that we have been and will continue to be a great place to work.
Taken all together we believe these efforts at mitigating costs are critical to preserving shareholder value in a period of low market prices.
Now another important development falls into the category of getting the rules right.
It's actually imperative to ensure level playing field within a competitive marketplace that we get the rules that govern the marketplace in the right order.
PSEG is part of a diverse stakeholder group supportive of the efforts underway at PJM to change the minimum offer price rule underlying the capacity markets.
We believe the proposed changes if approved will help mitigate against market manipulation by subsidized participants.
And we would expect to propose changes to be effective in time for the May of 2013 capacity auction.
We are operating with the expectations that power prices will remain well below recent history but on average remain above the market lows seen earlier this year.
Now I just want to explain what that means.
We plan all of our operations based on a forward curve and we run the business with those circumstances in mind.
So what we see is what you see when you look at the current board market curves.
Now we're focused on managing the downside risk in power markets through attention to cost control improvements in operating efficiency and through our hedging activity.
We are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet and the maintenance of a strong balance sheet has been critical to our ability to finance our investment program without diluting shareholders.
The complexion of PSEG's earnings is changing with a change in power market dynamics as well as the investment program underway in our regulated operations.
This change is going to yield an increase in cash and earnings from our regulated business in support of our dividend objectives.
Our commitment to meeting the needs of our employees and customers is unwavering as we also seek to meet the needs of our shareholders for growth.
So Carol I'm going to turn to the call over to you and you can discuss our operating results in greater detail.
Great.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
I'll review now our quarterly operating earnings as well as the outlook for full year operating results by each subsidiary company.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2012 at $0.75 per share versus operating earnings of $0.83 per share in last year's third quarter.
So for the 9 months ended September 30 2012 we reported operating earnings of $2.07 per share versus $2.25 per share last year.
Slides 4 and 5 of our webcast deck provide a reconciliation of operating income to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter and year-to-date.
We've also provided you with a waterfall chart on Slide 11 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on Slide 13 provides you with the changes in operating earnings by each business on a year-to-date basis.
So as usual I'll now review each company in more detail starting with Power.
As we show on Slide 15 PSEG Power reported operating earnings for the third quarter of $0.43 per share compared to $0.51 per share a year ago a net decline of $0.08 per share.
Power's earnings were greatly aided by an increase in dispatch of the combined-cycle natural gas fleet and the continued strong contribution from the nuclear fleet as Ralph mentioned.
Power's earnings was reduced by $0.15 per share quarter-over-quarter due to a decline in energy prices.
This decline in prices reflects the impact of lower prices under the basic generation services contract or BGS as well as lower wholesale prices.
The contract price for 1/3 of the BGS-related load declined to $84 per megawatt hour on June 1 of this year from $104 per megawatt hour of the expiring contract.
The impact on earnings from the decline in price incorporates the effect of customer migration away from the BGS contract.
Customer energy migration of 37% during the quarter was less than expected slightly less than the 38% level experienced in the second quarter but remains consistent with our full year guidance for migration to represent between 36% and 40% of total BGS load.
Wholesale prices remain below levels seen a year ago.
However pricing during the quarter was very responsive to heat and the forward power curve generally increased through the quarter in line with demand for electricity and the price of gas.
The availability of the natural gas-fired combined-cycle fleet allowed PSEG Power to capture these prices.
Output from Power's generating fleet increased 3% in the quarter from year-ago levels.
This increase in output added $0.01 per share to earnings.
Production from Power's combined-cycle natural gas fleet increased 17% in the quarter to represent 32% of total generation.
This level of production represented the highest summer output ever achieved by the combined cycle fleet.
The fleet's capacity factor improved to approximately 67% from 57% in the year-ago quarter.
The PJM fossil fleet also benefited from the incremental dispatch of 267 megawatts of new more efficient combustion turbines installed at the Carney site in June as Ralph mentioned earlier.
The improved dispatch from the combined cycle fleet and peaking fleet more than offset the decline in the dispatch of Power's coal-fired fleet which continues to be affected by low gas prices relative to coal.
When the New Jersey coal units Hudson and Mercer did run this summer they ran on coal more than half of the time they were in operation.
And the decision to operate these units on coal took into consideration the increase in the cost of gas throughout the summer as well as the cost of not burning coal under contract.
PSEG Power has renegotiated the terms of its coal contracts to more closely reflect the anticipated fuel burn at the stations over the next 2 years.
Production from the nuclear fleet which represents more than 50% of Power's generation increased 2% from the year-ago quarter.
The fleet benefited from strong operations at the Salem station which recorded its second-highest level of output during its operating life for a summer period.
The good performance from Salem and continued excellent operations at Hope Creek lifted the nuclear fleet's average capacity factor in the quarter to 92% from 90.6% in the year-ago quarter.
The performance in the quarter has resulted in a year-to-date capacity factor for the fleet of 92.5%.
The scheduled refueling at Salem 2 which began in mid-October was interrupted by activity at the site in preparation for the hurricane.
In addition Salem 1 was taken out of service to reduce the impact of storm surge on its operations.
Taking this into account the fleet is expected to operate at a capacity factor of about 91% taken for the full year.
Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings also benefited from continued tight controls on expenses at the fossil station.
A reduction in operation and maintenance expense improved earnings by $0.01 per share.
And just to note year-to-date Power's O&amp;M is better than year-ago levels by $0.03 per share and we've talked about those savings earlier this year in prior quarters.
An increase in the average capacity prices added $0.05 per share to earnings in the quarter.
Recall that the weighted average price per capacity on our fleet increased to $153 per megawatt-day on June 1 of this year from $110 per megawatt-day the expiring capacity price.
The increase in capacity prices will be in place through May 31 of 2013.
The benefit of Power's asset and fuel flexibility are illustrated on Slide 20 which provides information on Power's gross margins for the third quarter period of 2010 through 2012 as well as Slide 19 which details Power's cost of fuel for the quarter and year-to-date periods.
Given market conditions it's not a surprise that margins have declined.
Power however has been able to offset a meaningful portion of the decrease in pricing through the increased utilization of its lower-cost combined-cycle gas facilities.
Maintaining these facilities to assure their availability is important to Power's ability to capture upside opportunity on a portion of its gas-fired generation.
As shown on Slide 21 Power continues to forecast output for 2012 of 53 to 54 terawatt hours.
Approximately 80% to 85% output for the remainder of the year is hedged at an average price of $54 per megawatt hour resulting in an average hedge price for the year of $60 per megawatt hour.
For 2013 Power has hedged approximately 60% to 65% of its forecast output of 52 to 54 terawatt hours at an average price of $51 per megawatt hour.
And for 2014 power has hedged approximately 30% to 35% of its forecast output of 53 to 55 terawatt hours at an average price of $49 per megawatt hour.
Power has actively managed its portfolio with an eye toward protecting base load generation from downside risk while preserving upside opportunity on gas-fired generation as it remains open to peak prices.
And just as a reminder what is embedded in our average hedge price data are hedges done at PJM West as well as all of our BGS-related hedges at the full requirements price less capacity.
These figures are consistent with our view of BGS and hedging requirements going forward.
We continue to forecast operating earnings for Power in 2012 of $575 million to $665 million.
The year will be influenced by a decline in average realized energy prices.
Capacity margin was lower on a relative basis in the first 6 months of the year higher in the third quarter with the new capacity price and will be similarly higher on a relative basis in the fourth quarter as that third quarter compare continues in the fourth quarter resulting in essentially a flat full year capacity margin relative to prior year.
Let's now turn to the PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2012 of $0.30 per share compared with $0.30 per share for the third quarter of 2011 as we show on Slide 25.
PSE&amp;G's results were affected by an increase in transmission revenue offset by O&amp;M and weather relative to last year.
An annualized increase in transmission revenue of $94 million effective on January 1 of this year increased revenue by $0.03 per share quarter-over-quarter.
The weather experienced in the summer of 2012 was hotter than normal but cooler on average than conditions experienced in the year-ago quarter.
As a result of the less favorable weather comparisons electric sales declined by 0.6% in the quarter.
This decline in sales reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
We estimate that electric sales increased by 0.8% on a weather-normalized basis but we did not see similar growth in peak demand.
PSE&amp;G experienced an increase in O&amp;M expense which reduced earnings during the quarter by $0.02 per share.
The increase reflects higher pension-related expense and the cost associated with the expansion of the transmission system which more than offset the absence of storm-related expenses in the year-ago quarter.
Depreciation expense also associated with the increase in the company's investment program reduced earnings in the quarter by $0.01 a share but the impact on earnings was offset by other miscellaneous items.
And just a note for you our increased investment in transmission added $0.02 per share to bottom line earnings quarter-over-quarter after taking into account both the revenue that I just mentioned as well as the cost of depreciation and operating expenses.
PSE&amp;G received major approvals required for construction of the Susquehanna-Roseland 500 kv transmission line from the National Park Service and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.
The line is scheduled to enter service in mid-2015 at a capital cost to PSE&amp;G of up to $790 million.
S-R is the second major transmission line this year for which PSE&amp;G has received all major approvals for construction.
PSE&amp;G filed its 2013 annual formula rate update with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC in October of 2012.
The request would provide for an increase in annual transmission revenues of $174 million to be effective on January 1 of 2013.
This request reflects the costs associated with an expansion in PSE&amp;G's transmission-related investment over the next year.
PSE&amp;G's commitment to expand its investment in transmission will position it as the second-largest owner of transmission within PJM.
PSE&amp;G's request to increase spending by up to $883 million under its existing Solar 4 All and Solar Loan programs have been filed at the New Jersey BPU.
The submittals have been deemed complete and we anticipate decisions by the commission on these 2 requests during the first quarter of 2013.
We continue to pursue additional investment opportunities at PSE&amp;G in support of a clean efficient and reliable network.
PSE&amp;G's results are consistent with our forecast of operating earnings for the full year of $530 million to $560 million.
And as Ralph said we anticipate that our efforts will result in double-digit compound annualized growth in PSE&amp;G's operating earnings from 2011 through 2014.
And this expectation is based solely on those programs for which we already have approval at the BPU as well as the spend that is part of our $3.5 billion transmission program over the same period.
Let me now turn to PSEG Energy Holdings and the enterprise.
Energy Holdings together with the parent reported operating earnings of $0.02 per share for the third quarter of 2012 versus operating earnings of $0.02 per share during the third quarter of 2011.
The results were in line with expectations and reflect the benefit of a decline in interest expense offset by expected lower earnings on our lease portfolio.
Energy Holding's $75 million investment in the 25-megawatt Queen Creek solar plant in Arizona has begun operation.
Holdings also added to its solar portfolio with the recent $47 million acquisition of a 15-megawatt project in Delaware which is supported through a 20-year power purchase agreement and is expected to enter service in the first quarter of 2013.
Holdings liquidated its position in the Dynegy following the company's emerging from bankruptcy in October 1 of this year.
On a pretax basis Holdings has received $63 million as part of its claim in 2012.
Of this amount $49.9 million pretax will be recorded in the fourth quarter as part of our income from continuing operations but below the operating earnings line as you may recall we have done for all Dynegy-related impacts this year.
Finally on financing.
Our capital position remains strong.
We ended the quarter with $780 million of cash and debt at approximately 41% of capitalization.
During the quarter PSE&amp;G issued $350 million of 30-year medium-term notes at a cost of 3.65% to finance its continuing capital program.
Power continues to generate significant operating cash flow given its low-cost position while its capital needs remain modest.
The balance sheet and cash flow are strong enough to support an increase in capital programs at PSE&amp;G without any need to consider additional equity.
So just to reiterate as Ralph said earlier we continue to forecast operating earnings for the full year of 2012 of $2.25 to $2.50 per share and reaffirm our subsidiary guidance as well.
We're focused on achieving growth through our investment in stable regulated infrastructure that provides reasonable risk-adjusted returns to our shareholders and supports our local economy through job creation.
We've been focused on these core fundamentals of operating in an environment of low power prices for several years and our efforts have improved the operating efficiency of our fleet while reliability remains strong.
Our investment program remains supported by our strong balance sheet and we believe our actions place us in a strong position to meet the needs of our customers employees and shareholders now and in the future.
Of course our primary focus in the next few days will be safely restoring our customers and ensuring our employees are safe.
Over the long term our solid financial performance rests on our employees' outstanding efforts to serve our customers well in both good and challenging times.
With that I'll turn it over to the operator for your questions.
Operator we're ready for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Daniel Eggers.
Research Division</strong> Listen I know it's inopportune given all the work that you're working right now to restore Sandy and the great dedicated effort of your employees.
But can you talk a little more about how you expect to go about recovery of the costs? And maybe when you'd expect to have a reasonable expectation of costs to restore? Sure Dan.
Thanks for your question.
So just a reminder on the costs and deferrals.
So in terms of thinking about the prior the storms as Ralph mentioned what we have done previously on Irene $0.02 impact on O&amp;M and $0.03 were deferred.
The process just to remind you in big picture in terms of the total costs in general what we defer are those extraordinary or third-party costs above and beyond the normal salary of our employees.
So our regular employees who are spending their time on storm work as opposed to other work we don't defer that.
But as we contract with a significant amount of incremental mutual aid that we have received those are the kinds of things that we defer in addition overtime of our ongoing employees would be deferred for recovery.
We then have filed letters with the BPU in the past as you've probably seen those are public record.
And those are simply requesting that these storm costs remain deferred and be considered in an -- in any upcoming rate case.
This doesn't change our perspective on upcoming rate case of course.
We are earning our authorized return and don't envision a rate case in the near term.
But the deferral would therefore be something that would flow into a subsequent rate case.
So that's the basic approach that we take for the Utility and we've gotten storm recovery in prior rate cases as well.
And we already filed for this storm.
We filed a letter requesting that deferral for the next rate case already prior to the storm starting.
So that's basically how it works for the Utility.
Of course it's not the same for Power.
I know Power as Ralph mentioned we have some issues for Power as well but we're just assessing those right now.
So for this storm from the Utility side same as you have seen us do with prior storms a little bit comes through the O&amp;M and some is deferred.
In both of our prior storms actually more was deferred through the O&amp;M because of the mutual aid the overtime and the extraordinary costs.
And then Carol I'm sorry we should also mention the transmission wrinkle to the  storm.
Oh yes.
Exactly.
And for the transmission as Ralph mentioned we expect we might have some costs there.
They are recoverable under our formula rates.
So you should know we just made the formula rate filing as I mentioned for the incremental revenues going forward.
We're currently evaluating whether that can be updated now or whether that comes into the true-up later in the year but the process would be the same.
We would like to recover incremental cost for transmission just like we're doing for distribution.
And Dan just to kind of bound this from a customer point of view well every dollar matters obviously a $0.03 deferral is about $24 million in rates.
And on an annual basis our customers depending on whether you include gas or just electricity pay us $5 billion.
So it's not a major issue in terms of customer impact.
So with all candidly with all due respect to the importance of any financial consideration right now 100% of our focus is on the operations and getting things back.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the Irene just to make sure I understood it from the press release the Irene non -- not completed response in the commission.
If actually there's not been a complete response because you haven't filed a rate case so they didn't have to respond to it? Is that the right way to think about that? No.
No.
So the Irene costs that we deferred that Ralph mentioned the $0.03 that we deferred the deferral we have a request for the BPU to continue that deferral.
And it would be considered whenever we would file a subsequent rate case.
There's no timing.
There's no other action they have to take acting upon that request.
It simply rolls into whenever we file a subsequent rate case.
Next question is from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
First of all just were there any major plant damages with Power because of the storm? So Paul we had some issues at some of our peakers at Essex and Carney and Sewaren.
The combined cycle at Linden was also somewhat affected.
We're still in the assessment phase.
But right now I would say that some of the older FT4 engines which as you know were HEDD devices bore the brunt of.
The nuclear units are fine.
Salem 2 is back into its refueling outage.
Salem 1 we just finished some inspections yesterday.
They show no damage to turbines the circ water screens are restored.
And that looks like it's on schedule to come back very soon.
I want to be careful.
I haven't checked what we've posted on the PJM website.
That's the only public disclosure I'm comfortable making.
So I would say there's a little bit of work to do with some of the Northern New Jersey gas.
Because the new Carney peakers I'm pleased to say are in good shape.
There's been more damage to electrical equipment than any of the mechanical equipment is the best summary.
So nukes is fine.
Electrical equipment has been affected in the northern part of the state.
But we'll be reporting on that in real time.
Okay.
And then with respect to the MOPR issue I know that there's sort of -- it seems like an effort to get this done before the next auction.
But I'm wondering when there are efforts of course to stop this controversial stuff but if it doesn't happen I mean I'm just wondering are there really any subsidized plants that we know of that -- or that you guys know of that are likely to be influencing the next auction? Because as I understand it this MOPR only applies to new stuff.
It doesn't apply to stuff that's already been -- if I understand it correctly you can correct me but it only applies to stuff going forward as opposed to what happened last auction? So that's correct Paul.
But there is one plant that received the standard offer contract as we refer to as the SOCR contract.
And I think I can mention the company because it's public the NRG plant which did not clear the last auction which does have a subsidized contract that just starts at $361 per megawatt-day and then varies over the next 15 years.
It dips down to $215 and goes back up to $260.
But I don't think this was controversial what were you referring to.
On that note I guess I'm sort of wondering I mean considering that I've been listening to these MOPR stakeholder processes.
And of course there are objections coming from the BPU and from Maryland and what have you.
And I'm just wondering whether or not considering -- I mean they seem to really like this idea of being able to at least build new gas plants or whatever.
I'm just wondering is there any thought of maybe coming up with sort of a settlement in which -- I don't know sort of a new regulatory paradigm or anything so that -- maybe -- I just sort of wondered how this goes -- how they respond if they don't actually get -- if the MOPR is changed how they'll -- I mean is there any -- I guess outside of the stakeholder process which seems to be -- it seems to be so contentious I'm just wondering is there are any -- I know that obviously you guys are very busy right now with more important stuff with the hurricane and everything but do you follow what I'm saying? Is there any thought of maybe just sort of...
Sure.
No I understand you're saying Paul.
Settlement is to suggest that there is a negotiation among parties as to its positions that can be reconciled.
And so I guess the stakeholder process that's underway is an attempt to alter the rules to create a more efficient process.
So we are all united that we want an efficient market.
But at the end of the day what separates us is the firm belief on the part of the groups that are aligned with us that an efficient market does not entail subsidizing new entrants who provide the exact same technology as you to displace an incumbent.
The way efficient markets work is that a new entrant comes up with a new technology or a better way of doing things to displace incumbents who maybe have a higher cost structure or less efficient technology.
But to take our Linden and Bergen units and to try to displace them or eat into their market share by subsidizing an identical unit is not what we would call an efficient market.
So we -- that's a bridge that we somehow need to understand how to construct or cross over.
And right now we're pleased with the fact that there's a large constituency that understands our point of view and says "That's not in the interest of customers over the long term." And the most important thing is that today's future entrant is tomorrow's incumbent.
And you're not going to be able to constantly undermine the economics of 30-year investments by turning around to people and saying "Well I'm sorry you're yesterday's story." And then hurting their economics.
So we clearly have a disagreement there on policy.
But where we agree is that we have to have a process whereby New Jersey customers and PJM customers benefit over the long term.
Now we can't have temporary benefits with long-term harm to the customer base.
And we believe the best way to accomplish that is with an efficient market one which does not differentiate the same technology on the basis of when you entered the market.
So settlement maybe more of a meeting of the minds in terms of the shared goal of what -- doing what's best for the customer as opposed to settlement.
Okay.
I won't ask anything further.
Just one clarification 0.8% was the normalized growth you guys expected -- you guys -- excuse me that you guys estimate for the quarter on the electric side I think is that correct? And what would it be for the 9 months? We can get you that Paul.
Yes it is 0.8% for the quarter.
You're exactly right.
So -- but because it was not as warm as the prior quarter right you didn't see the quarter-over-quarter absolutes were the 0.6% negative.
Weather-normalized the art that we usually do we end up with a positive number of 0.8% for the third quarter.
You're exactly right.
Next question is from Travis Miller of Morningstar Securities.
Research Division</strong> I want to make sure I understand the hedges right here and the changes since you disclosed the second -- after the second quarter.
Looks like you've added relatively little in 2013 and relatively little in 2014.
But it also appears you had a pretty substantial decrease in the average realized price or the hedge price? Is that -- am I interpreting that right? And if so what was the -- why did that change occur? Sure Travis.
It's Caroline.
Thanks for your question.
So we give our hedges of course in 5 percentage point ranges right? Just because we think that's the best way to provide the information.
So we did update the hedge data in this quarter from last quarter and thought -- increased those ranges slightly.
Remember and as I mentioned on the earlier remarks there are 2 things going on in the hedges that comprise the data as we provided.
One is the hedges that are PJM West hedges that we roll on at forward curve prices.
The other is the BGS prices that are embedded in the hedge data which as you may recall are at the full requirements total price less capacity.
So they come in at prices that would look higher than a West hub hedge because they are inclusive of those other costs like transmission as well as the risk premium and pass-throughs.
So this quarter's numbers reflect both rolling on some incremental hedges at the West hub prices and depending on how our folks ratably layer those in as well as updating estimates for BGS.
And remember those BGS prices in the weighted average have a little bit of a different impact on the mix because they come in directly at higher prices.
So it's both our updating of our estimates which we constantly do on BGS going forward as well as rolling in hedges all at the forward price curve.
There's nothing else going on there in any respect except those 2 things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now if we think about Power markets my understanding was that there are -- actually a decent improvement.
So are we seeing the BGS contracts roll through and then also the incremental PJM West hedges offsetting some of that? Well it's really a blend of both of those things.
It's a blend of our -- of estimates for BGS as well as what's going on in the forward curve as we layer on hedges.
And you're right forward curves have come up recently.
So as we would layer our incremental hedges those have the potential to be at better price has been -- than we have in the prior quarter.
But again we're always using that -- the forward curve.
And of course you're talking about the base load.
So it's a combination of updated for BGS as well as layering in at forward curve prices during the prior quarter upcoming layering in that we will continue to do pretty consistently would be at the forward curve prices you see now.
Question is from Kit Konolige of BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Caroline just to follow up a little bit on the sales growth.
You guys actually having any positive sales growth is better than some of the companies we've been hearing from.
Do you have any color on what customer classes are buying more power and why? Thanks Kit.
So if we look at weather normalized as we talked about the 0.8% -- 8/10 of 1% so it's not really dramatic growth.
When we look at the data both for the residential and for the commercial and industrial taking sort of C&amp;I together it's pretty even between both categories a little better in the residential than in commercial and industrial.
And recall of course commercial and industrial in our region is pretty small.
So industrial particularly is small but residential is the largest piece -- electric right for commercial is the largest piece in electric.
And residential of course is the largest piece in gas.
So industrial is about 10% as we typically talk about.
And then for commercial and residential we're seeing increases in both of those categories really all 3 categories.
With of course the things that drive the weighted average being commercial first and then residential.
But again the increase isn't dramatic and the weather normalized is sort of an estimate.
So I wouldn't put too much stock at this in terms of saying we see any dramatic trends at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And can you give us any additional insight into -- you talk a lot about the cash from operations to debt metric at Power anything -- any moving parts there? Sure.
So we provided the debt-to-cap number as I did on the call.
But you're right I mean the FFO-to-debt number is the critical metric we look at at Power.
And as you know from the data we've provided previously that metric continues to stay well above our floor not our target level but our floor level of 35%.
And so we see no issues in our current numbers or in our forecast numbers of being well in excess of that floor level for Power's FFO-to-debt.
And that includes of course everything we talked about relative to ongoing programs and investment at Utility as well as Powers.
Own cash flow and Power has very modest capital needs.
So we give you the debt-to-cap because it's an easy end-of-period number to look at.
But if you look at any rolling set of data from us on the FFO we continue to be well in excess of our floor.
Next question is from Paul Fremont of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Really 2 questions.
The first is -- the first relates to PSEG Power.
And I guess there was $82 million of other income this year versus $19 million last year.
It looks like some of that improvement comes from nuclear decommissioning trust funds related activity.
I guess you identified about $33 million there.
First of all what is the $33 million? And I guess second of all what would be the remaining difference there? Sure.
So if you're looking at NDT which you're right would be a significant impact this year on a year-to-year basis.
So just keep in mind on the NDT and I may have explained this before but if not let me just kind of walk you through it.
So the NDT is of course our trust fund for the decommissioning of the nuclear plant.
And in the NDT trust we have an excess of $1 billion in assets.
It's about actually almost $1.5 billion as of the end of September.
The NDT trust is invested between equities and fixed income securities and we recognized gains on the NDT trust when securities are sold.
Of course dividends are recognized as dividends come through and are paid but gains are only recognized when securities are sold.
So although we manage the portfolio on a total-return basis with a group of third-party asset managers.
Of course we don't manage money in-house.
When we change managers sometimes you see incremental gains roll through the NDT trust that would look higher than you would see if we've kept the same managers and we were just seeing dividends in the normal manager portfolio turnover that they would do their own volition.
So we did have a little bit of changes to our NDT manager list.
So we put on some new managers and ended relationships with a few other managers.
What that resulted in is portfolio turnover that results in realizing long-term unrealized gains.
Just like if you held a security for a long time and you knew it was -- had appreciated but you haven't sold it.
When those gains are realized is when the managers are turned over the new manager doesn't want the prior manager's holdings that security is sold and the gains are realized and that comes through the other income.
It's not an operating earnings.
Again we keep that below just because of those kinds of things that can happen on a quarter-to-quarter basis that aren't really reflective on ongoing earnings.
And that's exactly what happened this quarter.
Normal manager turnover and hiring and terminating an old manager lead to some gain realization.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the remaining like $20 million or so there? Yes.
I think everything that we're seeing there Paul is basically NDT.
The only other thing that's a little below the line in our operating reports across the market but most of what you're seeing there is NDT.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the last question would be it looks like the coal price per megawatt hour -- or fuel cost per megawatt hour on coal is almost $7 lower.
Is that part of the renegotiation that you talked about? And should we expect those numbers to be permanently lower than I guess you've given.
In the past you've given ranges for I think Keystone and Conemaugh and some of the other plants? I think it's because we ran some of our coal units on gas that you're seeing that Paul.
And a little bit higher percentage of Keystone and Conemaugh in that mix.
When you do the per megawatt hour you've got a little heavier Key-Con which of course is the less expensive coal than our Eastern unit.
Your next question is from Maura Shaughnessy of MFS Investment Management.
Inc.</strong> Perhaps the volatility in some of the pricing in August and September and chatting with various players in the market it seems that some of your peers continue to have this kind of ratable hedging strategy and hedging into the markets potentially 2 or 3 years out when there are no natural buyers and putting in the seasonally potentially seasonally weak or shoulder months of the commodity.
Just dampening prices even further and so -- perhaps not having any sort of return focus and potentially not even making any money on those hedges if not losing money.
Which is sort of hard to understand for those of us watching this go on.
Just wondering any comments to your own hedging strategy in that regard? And any comments with regard to sort of the industry actions? So Maura I can't comment on others for obvious reasons but we also do ratable hedging within a flexible band that we publish.
But by and large we hedge in a margin.
We've booked the fuel and the sales and make sure that we're not hedging at a loss and trying to make it up on volume.
I don't mean to be flip because obviously it's a serious question.
So I don't know what others are doing in that regard but we certainly don't book in losses with the expectation of maybe if we didn't do it it would only get worse.
That's not the way in which we run our book.
Inc.</strong> And is there anything just in terms of your own knowledge that some of the events of August September which caused potentially a little bit more volatility than what we've seen in the past? Was there anything abnormal or even more hedging going into that? And obviously gas has been all over the place as well.
Yes.
I mean the only question that I think I've received with increasing frequency from investors and one can extrapolate from this but I won't do the extrapolation I'll just give you the facts.
In terms of the questions we received is the others seem to have believed that the forward prices will be going up that the forward price curve is discounting what future prices will truly be.
So don't want you stay more open? So that question we've been getting with increasing frequency.
And we keep giving the same answer which is where not in the business about guessing the forward price curve.
And within the bands that we've put forth we give ourself some flexibility but we run this business as if the forward price curve is best information that's available to us.
Inc.</strong> And any comments potentially going out more 2 or 3 years in terms -- we've had the various financial crisis or what have you where some of the potential natural buyers potentially have changed from the liquidity.
Any thoughts going further out and is it more difficult now? Or...
We would not want to go further out for 2 reasons.
As you pointed out the liquidity does drop once you get beyond the 36-month period.
And while it's not the whole story just remember we have 2 very natural products that are bounded over 3 years and those 2 products are the base residual auction in RPM and the BGS contracts.
So we try to hedge up 100% of our base load in 12 months and then 75% of it over 24 months and then half of it is just base load over the 36-month period.
And we stay pretty open on our intermediate load following and peaking units just to capture that volatility that you referred to.
And Maura also when we roll in the BGS for example in the upcoming February that for this out year -- calendar year when we start to look at that year it's BGS that comes in there first because it takes a while before that market becomes liquid enough to then role in other hedges.
So usually that's very heavily weighted to BGS until it becomes near-term and liquidity starts to happen or something has happened post-BGS but usually that's for this year out it's almost entirely BGS.
Your next question is from Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Caroline you mentioned that some of the coal contracts have been renegotiated to better fit the expected output.
Should we expect any ongoing financial impact? Were there penalties involved? Or is that fairly baked in and shouldn't have a material impact going forward? Well.
A good question Steven.
And we've talked about that a little bit earlier this year.
We are doing some renegotiated coal contracts to better match our needs.
Certainly if we have done anything that resulted in penalty today you would have seen that already right? So if anything occurs going forward we'll certainly give you a price and break that out.
But right now I think just kind of stand with where we are and we've been done some renegotiations and kind of pleased with those results that pull things out a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on nuclear capacity factor I think you mentioned for the year the target was around 91% full year and that factors in the current events following the hurricane et cetera.
I was just curious with the nuclear plants any variability or risk there in terms of just full output or just given for example flooding in the river and matter that shows up in the river or is that really not a material thing to think about? That's -- Stephen it's Ralph.
That's taken into account right? I mean that's why Salem 1 became offline.
There was some damage to the circ water screens.
I'm 99% sure those were all repaired as of 24 hours ago and we were just doing some routine inspections prior to start-up.
So the tidal surge actually was the bigger issue this time instead of debris and just the mechanical stress and strain on those screens.
And the 91% percent does reflect our best estimate at this point of the capacity factor.
And by the way when I say routine start-up I don't mean like routine refueling outage start-up which would be weeks I mean routine start-up which is days.
Your next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question here just on the subject of sort of power market recovery if you will.
We heard one of your peers earlier today describe upwards of $3 to $6 midwater [ph] and upside of the forwards.
And then I'm just a bit curious from your perspective does that ring through? And where would we -- in what manner can we see that play out? They're obviously talking more of a '15 '16 period does that kind of jive with you guys? And then secondarily maybe along with that $3 to $6 upside coal retirements how are you seeing that play out? And perhaps that's more of a comment or question regards to your own portfolio perhaps in New England? So Julien I -- let me begin by saying I absolutely hope they're right.
The risk of stating the obvious.
Number two let me just reiterate that we just don't manage the business that way.
We assume the forward price curve is the best information that's out there.
That's it.
To answer your question specifically here are some ways that they might be right but we do not hedge and we do not run the business assuming what I'm about to say is true.
We've seen Casper rejected twice.
Okay? We all believe HAPs-MACT is going to go into effect in 2015.
We know it's being litigated maybe the market is not giving it 100% credit very likely the case.
We've talked about the weakest recovery from the deepest recession since the Great Depression.
Maybe the housing market is recovering and we haven't seen that fully reflected in price.
We're seeing a robust demand for natural gas in the industrial section.
And perhaps we're not seeing that fully reflected in price.
We have an election coming up in 3 days.
Could that result in a change in direction at EPA? Maybe that's not fully reflected in price.
So my colleagues are very smart.
And certainly the -- everything I just said could give you some optimism that prices would change going forward but we're just believers in the collective wisdom of the market and therefore we run the place based on the forward price curve.
How many times have I said that now? I don't know.
And I don't mean to sound like a broken record but that's -- so that's a possible set of circumstances that could lift those prices up.
Research Division</strong> And perhaps on the second side of the question quickly just in terms of -- aggregately coal plant retirements we've obviously seen the first [indiscernible] a little early to start talking about capacity terms again? But I hear that...
So Julien you cut out a lot but Kathleen has bionic hearing and she said she thinks that what she heard you say is are we planning to retire coal units and the answer is no if that was a question.
If it was a different question you might want to call Kathleen with that later on.
Operator I know we're a little bit over but we started a little over.
I'm going to turn the call over to Ralph for some final comments.
And please any additional questions feel free to call Investor Relations later today.
Thank you.
So listen folks all kidding aside I know I've been a little bit more light hearted in a couple of my comments today I will write that off to maybe a little bit less sleep than I normally receive.
But in all seriousness look you're hearing from a very proud company with 109-year history.
Now I got to tell you in my 5 years as CEO I've had the 2 biggest storms in our history and our first and only Halloween snowstorm.
So I would be lying to you and I don't lie to you if I said that these events have been welcome.
But nonetheless we're in great shape.
And it just begins with great employees from our unions to our business unit presidents.
We've got excellent assets.
Some of them took a hit these past few days but we're fixing them and we're getting them back to service and they will be back in service.
We've got an outstanding balance sheet which is an outstanding financial leadership in this company with Caroline on down throughout the team.
And not -- we don't always agree with the State but in so many ways we've just got an unshakable partnership with them and it never is more apparent than at times like these.
So when you write all that up it's a very strong and a very positive outlook and one that I'm looking forward to being able to smile upon in the days to come.
So thanks for being with us.
We'll see you at EEI.
And that's it for us.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today.
You may disconnect and thank you for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Kimiko and I'm your operator today.
I would like to welcome you to today's conference of Public Service Enterprise Group Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday February 21 2013 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern Time on March 4 2013.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kimiko.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participating in our earnings call this morning.
As you are aware we released our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings statements earlier today.
And as mentioned the release and attachments are posted on our website www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 is expected to be filed shortly.
We won't go through the entire disclaimer or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results but we do ask that you read those comments contained in our slides and on our website.
The disclaimer statement regards forward-looking statements detailing the number of risks and uncertainties that cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements made therein.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change unless required by applicable securities laws.
We also provide you with a commentary on the difference between operating earnings and net income reported in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States.
PSEG believes that the non-GAAP financial measure of operating earnings provides a consistent and comparable measure of performance to help shareholders understand trends.
I will now turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
And joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Nice try Kathleen.
Thank you Kathleen and thanks everyone for joining us on today's call.
Now before I review the earnings we reported earlier this morning I want to recognize the extraordinary response by PSEG's employees to Superstorm sandy.
This truly epic storm challenged us more than any other natural disaster in PSEG's 109-year history.
Every aspect of our business was affected by the storm electric and gas distribution as well as transmission and power generation.
We restored service to more than 2.1 million customers in a 2-week period of time.
We reactivated generating facilities damaged by the storm surge and we repositioned our portfolio in response to the storm's impact on our facilities.
We came through this unprecedented storm because our employees worked around the clock to restore service to our customers.
We also owe a debt of gratitude to all the employees of utility companies from outside the state who helped us restore our system to working order.
We take our commitment to serve the public very seriously and our employees demonstrated that commitment in the aftermath of Sandy even at great personal sacrifice.
There is simply no better group of people to get the job done.
A s we've disclosed previously we estimate the cost of restoring service and getting back to normal operations at approximately $295 million of PSE&amp;G.
Today we want to let you know that damage from Sandy could cost up to $300 million of PSEG Power.
We incurred $85 million of this expense in the fourth quarter of 2012 the amount that PSEG Power will be spent over a 2-year period.
The estimate of the storm's impact on our cost doesn't reflect any recovery from our insurance carriers which we are pursuing.
Superstorm Sandy has also caused us to review our investment program to pursue measures targeted at fortifying our electric system and helping prevent a similar level of storm-related damage in the future.
We have filed proposals with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities that would strengthen our infrastructure provide us with better intelligence on system outages enhanced communications with our customers and local stakeholders and improve on the already reliable service expected by our customers.
Our plans call for an increase in our distribution capital program of up to $3.9 billion over the next 10 years with an additional $1.5 billion targeted at our federally regulated transmission system to harden and improve the resiliency of the grid.
We propose spending up to $2.8 billion of this $5.4 billion amount through 2017.
The initial phase of the program entails spending on upgrades to our electric and gas distribution system and strengthening the backbone of our transmission infrastructure.
We filed a proposal with the BPU yesterday and let me remind you the $3.9 billion is what was filed with the BPU and the $1.5 billion related to transmission is separate and apart from that and is a FERC matter.
In the meantime we expect to hear from the BPU in the second quarter on our request to spend up to $883 million on the expansion of solar capacity in the state through our Solar Loan and Solar 4 All investment programs.
We originally filed those with the BPU in July of 2012.
We are working closely with the state to ensure our investment in solar meets their objectives.
These programs together represent a potential investment of over $6 billion.
Our commitment from PSE&amp;G to help New Jersey rebuild from Sandy in ways that not only address immediate needs but provide lasting benefits to the customers and communities we serve.
The programs will also provide substantial benefits to New Jersey's economy with the creation of thousands of additional skilled jobs and all of these investments can be supported without the need to issue additional equity.
We view these programs as a natural extension of our strategies to maintain PSE&amp;G as one of the nation's most reliable utilities and expect these programs to sustain the performance and growth of our regulated business.
Now let me address our earnings.
This morning we reported operating earnings for 2012 of $2.44 per share.
This is at the upper end of our guidance for the year and we managed to achieve these results despite a decline in hedged energy prices and the cost impacts of Superstorm Sandy.
The results reflect the continued benefits from our employees' focus on operating excellence the asset diversity and fuel flexibility of our generating fleet and the returns on our investment program.
Excluding storm-related expenses PSEG Power reduced its O&amp;M year-over-year.
We added 400 megawatts of new more efficient peaking capacity in New Jersey and Connecticut.
We expanded Energy Holdings portfolio of operating solar projects to 5 which brought its capacity to 69 megawatts and we received critical regulatory approval supporting the multibillion dollar investment we are making in our electric transmission system.
We also continue to be advocates for a competitive wholesale power market and we work tirelessly in support of rules that maintain a level playing field for investment.
We expect our operating earnings in 2013 to continue to benefit from the focus we have placed on operational excellence and disciplined investment.
We are initiating operating earnings guidance for 2013 of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
Although guidance is in line with our forecast for '12 PSEG is truly at a transition point.
The utility PSE&amp;G has grown to represent a larger percentage of our consolidated earnings in 2012 and is expected to grow at a double-digit rate in 2013.
PSEG Power has done an excellent job of reducing its cost in response to a decline in power prices and we have recently seen more stability in the power market.
Power's actions place it in a position to take advantage of future improvements.
Our balance sheet and cash flow remain strong.
The Board of Directors recently approved an increase in the common stock dividend to an indicated annual rate of $1.44 per share.
The decision represents the ninth increase in the dividend in the last 10 years and we are in a position to support the opportunity for growth in our dividend as we finance our expanded capital program without the need to issue equity.
All of these statements and I'll repeat some of them our earnings guidance our dividend action and outlook our capital program our ability to finance without the need to issue equity all of these are based upon the current forward price curve.
We've come a long way over the past 4 years.
We're building a sustainable platform that balances reliability affordable customer rates and support for public policy to ensure growth at reasonable returns.
And now I'll turn the call over to Caroline for more details on our results and we'll be available to answer your questions at the close of the call.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $0.41 per share versus operating earnings of $0.47 per share in last year's fourth quarter.
Our earnings for the fourth quarter brought operating earnings for the full year to $2.44 per share versus operating earnings for 2011 of $2.74 per share.
Our current results were at the upper end of our operating earnings guidance for the year of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
On Slide 4 we've provided you with a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter.
And as you can see on Slide 10 PSEG Power provided the largest contribution to earnings.
For the quarter Power reported operating earnings of $0.24 per share compared to $0.27 per share last year.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings of $0.15 per share compared to $0.19 per share last year and Energy Holdings and parent together contributed $0.02 per share to operating earnings compared with operating earnings of $0.01 per share in the year-ago quarter.
As always we've provided you with waterfall charts on Slides 11 and 13 to take you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year operating earnings by major business.
Needless to say Superstorm Sandy had a major impact on our operations in the fourth quarter and we'll highlight that impact across PSEG.
Let me now review each company in more detail starting with Power.
As shown on Slide 15 PSEG Power reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $0.24 per share compared with $0.27 per share a year ago.
The results for the quarter brought Power's full year operating earnings to $1.27 per share.
Power's fourth quarter operating earnings benefited from a strong control of operating expense higher price for capacity and improved performance from the fossil fleet.
PSEG Power's generation and maintenance facilities were affected in the quarter by the storm surge associated with Superstorm Sandy.
Over the 2-year period following the October 2012 storm the cost to restore Power's facilities is estimated at up to $300 million.
This figure doesn't include any proceeds from insurance claims which as received will offset this gross amount.
Of this potential total amount Power incurred $85 million in higher operating and maintenance expenses and recognized insurance proceeds of $19 million in the fourth quarter which offset a portion of this cost.
We are excluding these costs from the calculation of Power's operating earnings given the unusual nature of the storm and the effect on Power's operations.
But you can see the net after-tax impact of $39 million or $0.08 per share which reflects both the cost and the insurance recovery in the fourth quarter and you'll see that on Attachment 12 of the earnings release where we show all the reconciling items from operating earnings to continuing operations.
Please note that the insurance claims process is just underway and this initial recovery is not indicative of any final settlement amount or final settlement percentage relative to the amount spent.
Let's now turn to Power's operations.
Operating earnings declined by $0.08 per share quarter-over-quarter as a result of lower realized prices for energy under contract both through the BGS contract and other PJM West hedges.
Average spot wholesale prices improved in the quarter relative to year-ago levels leading to a small improvement in margin on volumes associated with customer migration relative to their impact last year.
The impact on earnings from the decline in the average price per hedged energy was partially offset in the quarter by higher capacity prices.
An increase in capacity prices on June 1 2012 to $153 per megawatt day from $110 per megawatt day as the prior price improves Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.06 per share.
And you'll recall we spoke about this year-over-year increase last quarter as well.
Taken together the impact of higher capacity prices in the last 7 months of 2012 offset lower prices realized earlier in 2012 relative to 2011's capacity revenue resulting in no change in earnings from capacity value on a year-over-year basis.
Power undertook a series of actions throughout the year to control its operations and maintenance expense levels.
A reduction in operations and maintenance expenses exclusive of the storm-related activity improved quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons by $0.02 per share and for the year that brings the total O&amp;M reduction to $0.05 per share or 3.8% from last year's O&amp;M levels.
A premium paid on the early extinguishment of debt in the fourth quarter of 2012 increased Power's interest expense by $0.02 per share but didn't affect quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons given a similar level of expense incurred for early extinguishment during the fourth quarter of 2011.
Other items including the absence of a gain in the year-ago quarter from the sale of coal resulted in a net decrease in earnings of about $0.01 per share.
A loss of generating capacity on a temporary basis in the quarter as a result of the storm resulted in a 4% decline in generation volume.
The decline in generation reduced earnings quarter-over-quarter by $0.02 per share.
However Power was always able to meet all demand as the distribution system was restored.
The nuclear fleet operated at a consistently strong capacity factor for the year of 91.1%.
The impact of the storm on Salem's availability reduced the fleet's capacity factor by 0.3%.
The fourth quarter refueling added to Salem 2 was delayed for 2 days to reduce the risk to employee safety during the storm.
And Salem 1 was removed from service for 5 days to reduce the risk of damage from the storm surge on the unit's intake valves.
Hope Creek's operations however were not affected by the storm and that unit operated at a capacity factor in excess of 99% in the quarter.
Power's Linden gas-fired combined cycle generating facility suffered damage from the storm and the facility has since been returned to service.
The decline in generation at Linden was partially offset by improved performance at the Bergen and Bethlehem New York gas-fired combined cycle generating facilities as well as an improvement in generation from Power's low-cost baseload coal-fired generating units.
Slide 17 provides more detail on generation in the quarter and for the year.
Power's forecasted output for 2013 of 53 to 55 terawatt hours is approximately 75% to 80% hedged at an average price of $50 per megawatt hour which compares with an average hedged price in 2012 of about $60 per megawatt hour.
For 2014 forecasted output of 53 to 55 terawatt hours is approximately 50% to 60% hedged at an average price of $49 per megawatt hour.
The results I just mentioned reflect the impact of the February 2013 auction for BGS in New Jersey.
Average prices of $92 per megawatt hour in the latest BGS auction for the PSE&amp;G zone will replace BGS auction prices of approximately $96 per megawatt hour for the 3-year period beginning on June 1st of 2013.
As we noted in our release this year's BGS auction price while an increase from 2012's level reflects increased costs for transmission renewables as well as energy.
Our hedged data assumes volumes hedged at BGS prices represent about 22% of our forecasted volume in 2013 or approximately 12 terawatt hours.
For 2014 we're assuming that volumes hedged at BGS prices represent approximately 10 terawatt hours consistent with our earlier expectations.
Although BGS has declined in importance as a means of hedging our volume the real impact on Power from customer migration away from BGS relates as it always has to the differential between the average price for energy embedded in the BGS contract and the market price for energy which moderated in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus last year.
We expect our fuel mix in 2013 to be similar to 2012.
Although strong wholesale prices have supported the operation of some of our intermediate load coal-fired generating units earlier in the year the markets remain more supportive of operating our gas-fired combined cycle units and we anticipate running our dual fuel intermediate coal units on gas as well as coal.
Power's operating earnings for 2013 are forecast at $535 million to $600 million.
This excludes the impact for any cost related to the Sandy's -- the repair for Sandy as well as associated insurance proceeds.
These 2 items will continue to be reported below operating earnings and we'll do so on an actual basis.
Now let's turn to PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of 2012 of $0.15 per share compared with $0.19 per share for the fourth quarter of 2011 as we show on Slide 25.
PSE&amp;G's full year 2012 operating earnings were $528 million or $1.04 per share exceeding 2011's operating earnings of $521 million or $1.03 per share.
PSE&amp;G's fourth quarter and full year results reflect the impact of Superstorm Sandy on operating expenses which more than offset the return on increased levels of capital investment.
We estimate the cost of restoring PSE&amp;G's system in the wake of Superstorm Sandy amounted to approximately $295 million.
Of this amount approximately 14% or $40 million $0.05 a share was expensed and is included in 2012's fourth quarter and full year operating earnings.
Note that unlike for Power we're not carving storm costs out of PSE&amp;G as storms regularly impact the utility.
The cost of storm restoration in 2012 was greater than the storm-related cost PSE&amp;G incurred in the prior year related to the October 2011 snowstorm and reduced earnings quarter-over-quarter by $0.04 per share.
A known increase in other operating expenses primarily pension reduced earnings comparisons by $0.02 per share quarter-over-quarter.
PSE&amp;G's earnings continue to benefit from an increase in transmission revenue.
Earnings improved by $0.02 per share quarter-over-quarter as a result of the annualized increase in transmission revenue effective throughout 2012.
Earnings also benefited from weather which was colder than conditions experienced in the year-ago quarter and favorable weather -- that comparison added about $0.02 per share to earnings.
Other factors including depreciation and taxes reduced earnings by $0.02 per share in the quarter.
Most significant event in the quarter however was Superstorm Sandy.
Widespread outages resulted in a loss of about 3.4% of October customer hours and about 5.4% of November customer hours.
On a weather-normalized basis not accounting for the impact of Sandy it's estimated that electric sales declined by about 1.6% in the fourth quarter which resulted in a year-over-year decline in weather-normalized electric sales of 0.6%.
Weather-normalized sales to the residential class actually increased by 3.2% from the fourth quarter of 2011 that had extremely warm weather as you may recall that resulted in a significant drop in heating load.
For the year residential sales were 1.3% higher than 2011 on a weather-normalized basis.
Commercial and industrial sales however declined by 3.7% on a weather-normalized basis in the fourth quarter and 1.4% for the year.
These estimates are not adjusted for the impact of Superstorm Sandy on sales and we estimate if not for the storm weather-normalized sales for the year would have been relatively unchanged overall versus 2011.
PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2013 are forecast at $580 million to $635 million.
Operating results will be influenced by higher transmission revenues on a higher level of investment.
Recall increased transmission revenues of $174 million are in effect as of January 1 of this year compared to last year's increase of $94 million.
The increase in transmission revenue provides for the recovery of O&amp;M and capital on our investment to support earning our authorized return.
In addition PSE&amp;G's control of operating and maintenance expense should be aided by a forecast decline in 2013's pension expense which I'll mention again in a few moments.
Now let's turn to PSEG Energy Holdings and parent.
Energy Holdings and parent combined reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $10 million or $0.02 per share compared to operating earnings of $4 million $0.01 per share for the fourth quarter of 2011.
The results for the fourth quarter brought Energy Holdings parent full year 2012 operating earnings to $64 million or $0.13 per share compared with 2011's operating earnings of $23 million or $0.04 per share.
The fourth quarter results for Energy Holdings and the parent were aided by the startup and recognition of investment tax credit benefits on our 2 -- on our new investments in 2 solar projects at Milford and Queen Creek which added 40 megawatts of solar capacity to Energy Holdings' portfolio.
At the end of 2012 Energy Holdings had a gross investment of approximately $240 million and a total of 69 megawatts of solar capacity.
The portfolio is expected to grow in 2013 with an investment of approximately $50 million and a 19 megawatt solar project in Arizona scheduled for commercial operation during the second half of this year.
We're forecasting operating earnings in 2013 for PSEG Energy Holdings and parent of $25 million to $35 million and these results will be affected by the absence of tax benefits received in 2012 related to the settlement of both LILO/SILO which as you recall is fully settled as well as the closure of audit years fully through 2006.
Now just a word on pension.
We contributed $224 million to our pension trust in 2012 and $1.4 billion in the aggregate for the 4 years ended 2012.
These pension contributions as well as double-digit returns on our pension trust during 2012 more than offset the impact on pension expense for 2013 from an 80 basis point decline in the discount rate to 4.2% for 2013.
As a result we're forecasting a slight year-over-year decline in pension and OPEB expense which helps to mitigate the impact of other cost pressures on operations and maintenance expense.
PSEG closed the year with $379 million of cash on the balance sheet and debt represented approximately 41% of consolidated capital.
After the early redemption of $250 million of senior notes at Power in December debt represented 30% of Power's capitalization at yearend.
So our balance sheet and strong credit metrics support our plans for capital spending and dividend distribution without the need to issue equity.
As Ralph indicated we are guiding to operating earnings for 2013 of $2.25 to $2.50 per share and we'll provide more detail on our outlook at our annual financial conference on March 1.
With that that finishes my remarks and we'll now turn it over to the operator to introduce your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get more into the dividend policy where you think that dividend is going.
When you think of given the CapEx spend and such do you think you could grow the dividend in line with earnings? Do you think about it in line with corporate earnings and in line with utility earnings? Give us a sense of that growth.
Travis thanks for your question.
What we've consistently said to folks is we don't have a dividend growth rate target we don't have a payout ratio target.
Both of those are items we consider as well as the relative cash being generated by the businesses and the cash requirements of the businesses.
So we summarize it by saying that we do believe we have an opportunity for modest growth in the dividend consistent with what we see right now in terms of the cash generation and needs of the business but we don't get numerical or quantitative on it.
I mean we've grown it 9 or the last 10 years it's been about a compound annual growth rate of 3%.
We've paid it annually for over 100 years so we try to give you comfort about it without giving you a specific here's the growth rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question on the BGS auction particularly looking at that incremental $53 a megawatt hour you signed all those extra elements how did that correspond with your expectations? And obviously the capacity revenues were set.
But if you take out that how did that incremental part line up with your expectations? Sure Travis.
So it really lined up relatively well with our expectations.
Because if you think about it and I know we've talked about this and Kathleen spoke with folks earlier about this after BGS results came out the 2 pieces that we pointed to as growing in that green section were the green energy component right? The renewables.
And also transmission.
And so transmission wasn't a surprise to us because it really reflects the inclusion in cost for the BGS contract from the significant transmission work that's underway at PSE&amp;G which we've been talking about right? So the significant transmission work that's been underway in PSE&amp;G for some time as well as the ongoing program for increased transmission spend that is part of the base we've been talking about for a while it finds its way into those numbers because obviously every BGS provider has to fully support the full transmission build out.
So that wasn't really a surprise to us.
Don't forget of course the other thing that increased slightly from the 2012 level was energy based on the PJM Westford energy price.
So these results were relatively consistent with our expectations and the way we think about this is really what you're seeing now is stability in BGS as the PJM West prices have been stable on a year-over-year basis.
And your next question is from Dan Eggers and he is at Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you mind talking a little bit about the big transmission -- or the big CapEx program you announced yesterday as far as what is the approval process to line up investment both on the distribution side and on the transmission side and maybe a timeline of when you think you'd get approvals to start making those investments? Sure Dan.
So on the distribution side if you think of these the same way we thought about what we used to call our CIP programs our capital infrastructure programs so there is no time requirement for the BPU to act.
These are clause recovery mechanisms that we're proposing.
And the pace of review and approval is really directly proportional to the importance that the BPU ascribes to storm readiness.
So we expect the BPU to fully scrub the numbers and go through and think about cost benefit.
I think they'll trust our judgment in terms of what the priorities are and which substation is the most critical and which switching stations are most critical.
But it really is a question for them in terms of what pace of action they want to see occur.
I mean we are a reliable utility.
This is not needed for day-to-day reliability.
This is to respond to enhanced extreme weather and enhanced reliance on electricity on the part of customer lifestyles.
Transmission is a wholly separate story.
Those are supplemental projects that come out of our analysis of RTEP.
And while PJM can reject those we don't need to wait for them to be included in the RTEP and you can be assured that we've scrubbed those pretty tightly and we'll put them into formula rates as the work begins.
And let me remind you that that $1.5 billion is above what we've already announced previously for transmission.
So PJM will conduct their no-harm review and that will just then go into formula retreatment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to make sure I understand on the distribution side.
So do you have to get approval to get treatment for these under the capital writer that you've had in the past or is that something that you guys think you can just implement now? No we would only do these under a capital writer program.
What we proposed is one that's identical to what we had and what we call CIP 1.
And CIP 2 that was different writer and that was obviously acceptable to us then it would be acceptable to us now.
And we want to be flexible in talking with the staff and the BPU about what the recovery mechanism is but we are not going to make these investments under traditional regulatory lag programs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess from a spending perspective as you scale in a lot of that money is kind of in the next 3 or 4 years should we assume that not a lot in '13 and have it ramp up in '14 and '15 or is it something you guys are going to get into at the Analyst Day? Yes.
We'll get into more details at the Analyst Commerce but yes what you said is accurate you should not assume a lot of that in '13.
And your next question is from Andy Levi of Avon Capital.
Just 2 very quick questions.
Just to clarify on the BGS auction so the net margin increase is that about $2 is that kind of a way to look at looking at your chart that kind of hits the bottom line? We never disclose that number Andy sorry.
That's been a pretty consistent policy of ours.
Okay.
And also then just on the new CapEx program could you just reconcile for me -- I guess there are not going to be rate increases for this? Yes so...
But just explain I guess obviously there's an increased expense so there must be some type of rate increase but what does it offset by to get your net 0? You got that right Andy right.
So the bill consists of numerous rate components.
And even a sophisticated audience such as this will be surprised as how many components there are in a rate which is a way of me saying please don't ask me to list them all because I probably won't remember all components there on the rates.
So obviously the distribution component of rates will go up as a result of this.
One cannot invest this amount of money and get a fair return without those increasing.
But it will be offset by declines in several components.
And the BGS as Caroline reported were it not for transmission would have been down probably I don't know $6 or $8 I think is the exact amount.
So there you see an example of exactly the strategy we've been following which is as wholesale supply costs come down this is the time to make needed infrastructure investments and keep the bill essentially flat.
And as we look forward there are a couple of elements of the market transition charges that were put in place in 2000 that will come off.
That add up to about 6% of the bill and that will happen at the end of '13 and at the end of '15.
So those declines will be offset by the increase in the distribution rate.
So what we hear when we talk to our customers and we talk to them a lot is don't confuse me with rates tell me what's going to happen to my bill.
So we're not suggesting that rates aren't going to change.
Obviously rates will change but the net effect is that if you assume continued flat BGS rates per the forward price curve that customers' bills will be the same in 5 years as they are today and customers' bills are substantially 30% to 35% below what they were on the gas side and a few percent below what they were on the electric side from 2008.
And if you were to -- if you would do something that just take CPI it escalate either today's bill or the 2008's bill in real terms customers' bills will be far below.
So yes you're right.
One element of the bill one rate component of the bill will go up to pay for investments but it will be offset by other pieces coming down.
How much is the stranded cost portion? I think it's about -- we'll detail it for you on March 1.
I think it's about 6% 4% to 6%.
Which is in millions of dollars do you have that? Oh gosh no I don't.
But I'm being told it's 6.6% but I don't have it.
I really didn't know.
We'll give you the details at March 1.
So on the distribution side what would be the percent increase that you're proposing? I don't know either.
Yes.
I guess going to wait to see the file.
Well I guess you made the filing but...
We made the filing yes.
We've been swimming in customer bill questions because that's what our customers are most concerned about and that's what we want to make sure we're attentive to.
So the incremental components we can give you more detail later.
Okay.
So bottom line is the PSE&amp;G Power will offset the distribution rate increase I guess is what you're saying? That's -- I mean at a high level it's true plus some regulatory explorations all right? Right.
The stranded cost? Right.
We've been pretty consistent and upfront with policymakers and everyone about that that the decline in natural gas prices and the result which directly affects the gas billing the result in decline in electric prices combined with the low interest rate environment the availability of labor and the pressing need for the infrastructure investments makes this a perfect time to do.
And your next question is from Paul Fremont of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is can you give us an update on what you're expecting to happen with LIPA and the status of your contract? And if it were put up for sale would you have an interest in it? So Paul so we are busily approaching January 1 2014 per the terms and conditions of that contract which gives us the authority and the responsibility to manage those distribution and transmission assets.
So we are focused on exactly what we're focused on pre-Sandy post-Sandy and everywhere in between per in terms and conditions of the contract.
So we're assuming on January 1 we have those responsibilities.
In terms of whether or not we will be interested we never comment on any asset acquisition or company acquisition.
So I just...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you update us on what level of customer migration was at the end of the fourth quarter? And also can you give us a sense of what would be your expected insurance recovery for the $300 million of spending at PEG Power? Sure Paul.
It's Caroline.
So relative to customer migration at the end of the year you may recall at the beginning of the year we gave an estimate of between 36% to 40% migration by the end of the year.
And we don't have the December data at this point.
It usually comes about a month from now because everything's on a bit of a lag.
But our best estimates are that we ended the year right about the high end of that range but right come smack at the edge of the range.
So that's really consistent with our expectations.
The other point that I made on my remarks about the year-over-year impact is actually an important point relative to how to think about the ongoing impact of migration and that is about the headroom.
So year-over-year in the fourth quarter migration was actually a net positive and that's because in 2011's fourth quarter we saw headroom expand significantly from what it had been earlier in 2011.
And by the end of 2012 that headroom had come down significantly really it was coming down during the year.
Now to what we see and you have to calculate your own but what we see is a single-digit number.
So that's important because it goes to a way to think about migration in the upcoming year.
As to headroom if it stays to be a single-digit like number and you saw some -- the prices embedded in the most recent BGS clear that means the impact of migration as we've always talked about becomes a smaller and smaller impact to our margin because the real impact is that difference or that headroom.
So we're not forecasting a specific migration level as we come into the upcoming years.
I think you've heard on my remarks what we're really forecasting is terawatt hours for BGS.
So 12 ranging down to 10 terawatt hours for BGS this year and next year but again with a smaller headroom it becomes less of an impact as to what you would previously have thought about the impact for BGS would be when we started having migration.
So that's really the migration story.
In terms of insurance no we can't estimate any proceeds at this point.
As we said we'll report them to you on an actual basis.
We're in the process of pursuing that claim.
What I can tell you just in a general way is keep in mind that we believe a large portion a very large portion of the numbers that we're talking about for Power qualify for coverage.
Beyond that I can't speculate.
On the utility we pursue -- that coverage is applicable on those pieces that would not be eligible for coverage.
Obviously those are things that are deferred for potential recovery for the BPU process.
But we'll report that on an actual basis.
I just reinforced not to draw any conclusions about amount or any conclusions about proportion of recoverability from the fact that in the fourth quarter we spent the 85 and the recovery was 19.
We're really at the beginning of the process not in any way that you should take any kind of linear extrapolation from.
Paul I guess I just want to add one thing on LIPA.
Obviously should the contract not take place for whatever reasons some change in direction all of the cost that we're incurring this year are recovered from LIPA.
And they've been a good payer and a good partner throughout this process.
So there's no financial risk there to us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And quickly the utility what type of electric demand growth are you expecting for '13? So we'll give you those numbers in a second.
But be mindful of the fact that my usual speech about weather normalization becoming more of an art than a science has to be multiplied by a factor of 10 with an event like Sandy.
But Caroline do you have those numbers? Sure.
When you think about demand growth we typically stay relatively close to the forecast that you see from PJM.
So pretty modest demand growth is what we're assuming over the multi-year period.
PJM's most recent documents as you probably saw had demand growth of about 0.8%.
And so we tend to use figures around that range so relatively modest demand growth taken in the aggregate.
And your next question is from Neel Mitra of Tudor.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on holdings the $25 million to $35 million in operating income guidance for '13.
I'm trying to understand what's really driving that.
Is that a solar tax credit? And is the $25 million to $35 million earnings is that something that we can apply going forward or is that more lumpy when you get projects in the Q? So it's a good question Neel.
I would say from an ongoing basis it is a little bit lumpy because when you put a solar facility into place you have a onetime benefit that is a portion it's not the entire ITC.
It's just a portion of the ITC based on how the tax rules work.
The remainder of the ITC rolls out over the life of the asset.
But there's a little bit of a bump of a benefit there.
In addition the remaining things in holdings that we have are assets like we have a generating plant in Hawaii for example those ongoing earnings flow in and also anything that happens on a short-term basis on interest from parent would be in there as well.
We have some swaps in there also.
So I'd say you should assume last year's level of course was never something you could extrapolate from because we have the audit settlements.
The current year level has a little bit of bumpiness for solar so if you're thinking about it on a longer-term basis you should have some level of value there but probably not the level that we're forecasting this year until we get to a new solar installation in which case we would give you that information on an ongoing basis.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question.
Ralph on the PJM planning parameters PS Zone seemed a little tight.
Can you just talk about some of the changes year-over-year that would drive that? Would it be just some of the head retirements and less incremental transmission just what are your thoughts on that? So it wouldn't be less incremental to transmission but it would be the head retirements that's right.
We typically don't get much further than that in terms of the disclosure especially with RPM being just 2.5 months away now.
And your next question is from Jonathan Arnold.
Research Division</strong> My question -- I hope you didn't just answer this but if you did just say I was caught away for a second.
Does the investment in storm hardening in any way changed the sort of likely pace of -- or enthusiasm for some of the incremental solar investments that you were talking about say last quarter and/or the gas infrastructure upgrades or should we see it as sort of simultaneous and incremental? So Jonathan thanks for the question.
So there's no linkage between the solar and the hardening other than the obvious linkage being the customers' ability to pay.
But my flat rates comment included the solar component.
The gas firing that we had anticipated making has now been superseded by this infrastructure filing.
We had originally thought that we would do a gas filing of about $250 million to $300 million per year and it's turned into this $1.04 billion component of the storm filing that we just made.
Next question is from Paul Patterson of Glenrock.
Just I guess I'm a little bit slow on this I apologize.
But just the incremental amount of CapEx that we should be seeing I guess beginning in 2014 versus your previous planning how should we think about the increase in CapEx because of this program that you're mentioning? You just mentioned the gas thing and I just wasn't clear.
Yes and it's understandable Paul because what we're basically saying is we're going to give you -- we have the details of that but it just -- it doesn't lend itself to a phone call conversation.
So we'll give you details from '13 to '17 by electric by gas by transmission and that will all become much clearer on March 1.
It exists.
I'm not saying it doesn't exist it's just doing that by phone is at least 3 by 5 matrix and it's just -- it's not pretty so...
Okay great.
So we have something to look forward to.
And then just the weather-adjusted sales growth really quickly the quarter just seems a little bit odd.
I mean it seemed like it was diametrically different for -- on a weather-adjusted basis for residential versus commercial and industrial.
I mean it may seem like big big differences I mean 3.2%-plus for residential if I read that correctly and minus 3.7% and you guys associate part of that with the economic impact associated with Sandy but it wasn't Sandy itself.
Just any sense as to why there's such a big difference between the 2? Right.
So I think Paul one thing to keep in mind is when we did the weather normalization right we are not normalizing for Sandy right? Because weather normalization is essentially temperature right? Sandy wasn't temperature right? Sandy was something completely different in storm surge and outage and all of that.
So you have a little bit of a differential in terms of seeing as you point out between commercial industrial and the residential.
So you just got to think about it as Sandy really changed a lot of things that really changed that dynamic.
But keep in mind that if you kind of look at the year-to-date you do see a pattern that is of the same direction right? So the residential was a little bit higher on a full year basis and commercial and industrial were a little bit lower.
The fourth quarter is really a distortion for the magnitude given what happened with Sandy.
But the year-to-date you're still seeing a little bit of growth in residential and you're seeing a little bit of decline in commercial and industrial.
We've kind of seen that pattern for a bit.
So Sandy messes everything up kind of thing? Yes for the quarter I wouldn't do any kind of extrapolation because really it's hard to pull Sandy out of all that.
We think without Sandy it would've been more like a neutral picture for the fourth quarter.
But as Ralph says weather normalizations is an art and probably Sandy normalizations is a double art.
Your next question is from Julien Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first to go back and clarify the holdings component for '13 if you would've think about a couple pennies or so from this Arizona solar project is the bulk of the remainder there call it the $0.04 in earnings going to be sort of an ongoing element is that what you were meaning to say earlier? Well I didn't give any specific numbers right for the amount from the solar ITC kind of onetime effect from that permanent difference calculation for both relative to how to think about kind of ongoing.
Yes I mean we do have ongoing benefits from our assets and they do flow through.
But I would just caution about drawing too many conclusions on exactly how to forecast beyond the current year because of course we don't give guidance beyond the current year.
But you should assume that there are a few cents in there for the ongoing performance of our assets.
That is the right assumption.
We have assets that are performing well.
But the solar as it is for every company right creates onetime events that relate to the recognition of a portion of the ITC.
Research Division</strong> But to be clear the single item that you've called out for next year is this Arizona solar project right? No no no.
Well in terms of ITC for a project coming into service that's a onetime event right? So remember in the ITC if -- you may not be familiar right in the ITC recognition there is a onetime permanent tax benefit that comes from the implementation of the ITC where you get the ITC you recognize it over the life of the asset but you don't take down the tax basis for the full amount of the ITC.
It's that permanent difference that gets recognized on a onetime basis.
The rest of the time the ITC flows out over the earnings on an ongoing basis.
But just to correct we're not saying that one project is the bulk of the $25 to $39 [indiscernible] at all.
No it's just one unusual item that you wouldn't want to forecast from.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Great.
Second question.
When it comes to -- perhaps a clarification when it comes to this filing you've made yesterday how does that contrast against some of the pending bills out there at the legislature contemplating similar infrastructure build outs? The bills in the legislature really have 2 components to them.
One component is a change in the penalty schedule for utilities underperforming which we have expressed support for because we have a lot of confidence in their ability to  operate.
Well what we said to folks is look if you're going to increase the penalties please improve the tools that the BPU has available to it to establish rates that facilitate investments that will help us perform at the level you want us to perform.
Now there's some debate as to whether or not the BPU already has that authority but we're of the opinion "better safe than sorry." So why not make it an explicit option at their disposal.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Your proposal thus far though is not tied to any kind of pending legislation though right? This is completely independent? That's correct.
Surely it is not.
And your next question is from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just actually 2 items a little bit unrelated my apologies.
First on the Solar 4 All what's the timeline for getting approval for that and the capital spend kind of on an annualized basis? So the timeline has been stretched to May 1 Michael.
The Board staff with Sandy has just been incredibly busy.
So there's a period of cooperation we set the 180-day requirement something that we're more than willing to live with even relax.
So May 1 is the new date.
And that's all for components $690 million over roughly a 5-year period.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And second item on O&amp;M when you think about the O&amp;M that's in ongoing earnings for 2012 so backing out the Sandy impact at PEG Power can you just -- what's in your guidance for 2013 just all-in for year-over-year O&amp;M growth? Sure.
Michael it's Caroline.
So we haven't given the overall O&amp;M growth.
So I mentioned pension only because that's quite a swing factor that obviously garners a lot of attention and we've given a lot of attention in the past.
As you know we did pull Sandy out of O&amp;M for Power on an as-reported 2012 basis.
We will do that for 2013 as well.
And we'll give you the O&amp;M forecast as we typically do on a kind of 3-year CAGR basis.
We'll give you that for the company as a whole as well as power utility kind of broken out in 2 pieces on March 1 again in context the same way we give you the capital expenditures for an ongoing 3-year basis as well.
We haven't given that on this call.
We'll give that on March 1 as well.
And your next question is from Brian Chin of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you -- I know that you said that you based the guidance on the current forward curves.
But given that volatility can you just be a little bit more specific? Are you talking about the current curves in the last week or 2? Are we talking the current curves maybe a month ago? Just a little bit more specificity there would be helpful.
So Brian actually the curves have been pretty steady for quite a few quarters now.
So I'm a little bit at a loss.
I mean we do refresh our detailed plans on a fairly regular basis.
I'm sure the finance team thinks I'm saying that we do it too often but I mean I'm just looking at a chart right now that looks like a very small modulating sine wave for the past 9 months.
So the day-to-day volatility due to basis differentials or weather spikes I mean that's something that ER&amp;T managers on a day-to-day basis and we don't do our business planning or financial planning on that basis.
So I guess I'm politely disagreeing that we've seen pretty stable prices.
And given our hedging we're even more comfortable with our numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I mean we can disagree about what is a volatile level of power price movement.
But can you give at least a rough timeframe on which you set your forward curves? Was it -- when you say current is that in the last few weeks last month last -- just to give us some sense there? So the last time we did a full run of the business plan was January -- December 31 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then lastly the $1.5 billion in transmission line spending when is that going to go through the PJM approval process? Can you give us a sense of the timeframe there? Yes this one is a little bit stranger Brian.
It's not a PJM approval process.
It's a PJM veto process so to speak.
They come up with an RTEP.
We look at RTEP and say oh if we're going to do that we have to do this this and these other few things these supplemental projects.
They tend to be of a lower voltage but still transmission voltage.
And then at the staff level there's no major project that comes out of that as they make sure that there's no harm to the RTEP.
And in fact what we're doing is consistent.
If that all works the way it always works we will start spending in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the argument then would be given the veto process by which this proposed spending has to go through at PJM level it's unlikely that this new proposal is going to change any of the RPM parameters ahead of this auction it will probably show up in whatever parameters are put out in the next [indiscernible] Yes that's correct.
I didn't realize That's where you were going yes.
That is an accurate statement.
You may turn over for closing remarks.
So we've had quite a few of these calls together.
So by now I'm sure you're a little bit tired of hearing the pride I take on our operational excellence I'll have a slightly different emphasis right now and that is that we work quite hard and take an equal amount of pride in the financial strength we built for the company.
And it's really with quite a bit of enthusiasm and optimism that we're proposing to put that balance sheet strength to work to benefit our customers and our shareholders alike.
I'm delighted by your questions.
I know we said a lot of we'll give you that on March 1 so I hope we see all of you next Friday and have a great week.
Thanks for joining us.
This concludes our teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name would be Tamara and I am your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference call Public Service Enterprise Group First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today April 30 2013 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1 p.m.
Eastern time today until 11:30 p.m.
on May 8 2013.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning.
We appreciate your participation in our call this morning.
As you are aware we released our first quarter 2013 earnings statements earlier this morning.
The release and attachments can be found on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We have also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended March 31 2013 is expected to be filed shortly.
As you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless we are required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or our other filings for a discussion of the factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I'm now going to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
And joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
Thank you Kathleen.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2013 of $0.85 per share which equaled the operating earnings from 2012's first quarter.
We are very pleased with our results -- the current quarter's results compared to operating earnings in the year ago period which benefited from IRS tax settlements at PSEG Energy Holdings and PSE&amp;G by contributing $0.13 per share to consolidated operating earnings.
We also achieved these strong results despite a decline in the average price of our hedged energy.
The quarter's earnings demonstrate the locational value of PSEG Power's assets which along with the strong performance of PSEG Power's nuclear fleet and Power's open position on its intermediate and peaking generation allowed us to take advantage of a favorable price environment in the energy marketplace while managing downside risks through the hedges on our base load fleet.
Our results also reflect the steady increase in the earnings contribution from PSE&amp;G's capital investment in transmission.
Mostly the quarter's results are an affirmation of our focus on operational excellence and disciplined investment through maintenance of a strong balance sheet to meet the core objectives of our customers and shareholders for reliability and growth.
The performance of Power's nuclear fleet was enhanced by record quarterly generation from the Salem station.
An upgrade of the equipment and the design of the circulating water intake structure at Salem greatly aided its performance.
Power also worked tirelessly to restore critical generating stations to operation in the aftermath of the damage created by Super Storm Sandy.
The Linden gas-fired generating station was returned to service on January 11 and was available to meet the increasing demand during the winter months.
The Hudson coal facility was also returned to service in January.
However given the dual fuel flexibility at Hudson this station was able to run on gas until higher gas prices and demand favored its dispatch on coal.
Regulatory recovery of PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission under its FERC formula rates increased the earnings contribution from this critical enhancement to PSE&amp;G's infrastructure.
PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission will help drive our forecast to double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's operating earnings in 2013.
PSE&amp;G is expected to invest $3.4 billion in transmission from 2013 through 2015.
This investment will increase transmission as a percent of PSE&amp;G's rate base to approximately 40% and continues to drive our expectations for double-digit earnings growth at PSE&amp;G over this multi-year period.
We benefited from excellent operating performance and an increase in our capital investment this quarter.
But as focused as we are on meeting our short-term goals we are equally committed to delivering on the long-term promise associated with our proposed 10-year $3.9 billion Energy Strong distribution investment program.
This program along with plans to invest $1.5 billion to harden our transmission system over the same period is a natural extension of our strategy to maintain PSE&amp;G as one of the nation's most reliable utilities.
We are seeking approval from the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities for the initial 5-year distribution-related capital program associated with Energy Strong which would occur during a period of time when some major changes on the customer electric bill are scheduled to expire.
On a separate matter we have reached an agreement with the staff of the New Jersey BPU and certain other parties on our quest to expand our investment in Solar under the Solar Loan and Solar 4 All programs.
The BPU is expected to act on the agreement at its meeting on May 29 and issue a final order on May 31.
We believe the agreement recognizes the importance of the solar industry to New Jersey and will allow the BPU to focus on our infrastructure filing to make New Jersey Energy Strong.
In the meantime we are responding to the BPU staff's request for additional information on our Energy Strong proposal.
We can't provide you with a schedule but expect the program to receive careful consideration given the opportunity to improve the resiliency of the distribution system with little net impact on the customer's bill.
Our financial condition is strong.
This was recently affirmed by Standard &amp; Poor's upgrade of the credit ratings for each of PSEG's principal subsidiary companies as well as the company's consolidated credit worthiness.
The upgrade is an endorsement of the strategy we have been focused on which allows us to leverage the strength of our balance sheet to invest primarily in our stable and regulated business in ways that meet customer needs and state goals as we protect the upside of the merchant business and provide growth for our shareholders.
We remain on track to meet our objectives for full year 2013 operating earnings of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
Our success as always is driven by the hard work and dedication of our employees and was amply demonstrated in the first quarter's operating results.
With that I'll turn the call over to Caroline who will discuss our financials in greater detail.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2013 of $0.85 per share equaled to operating earnings of $0.85 per share in last year's first quarter.
We provide you with a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter on Slide 4.
And as you can see on Slide 8 PSEG Power provided the largest contribution to earnings.
For the quarter Power reported operating earnings of $0.49 per share compared with $0.39 per share last year.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings of $0.35 per share compared with $0.39 per share last year.
And Energy Holdings and Parent together contributed operating earnings of $0.01 per share compared with operating earnings of $0.07 per share during the first quarter of 2012.
We've provided you with a waterfall chart on Slide 9 to take you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business.
And I'll now review each company in more detail starting with Power.
PSEG Power reported operating earnings of $0.49 per share for the first quarter compared with operating earnings of $0.39 per share for the first quarter last year.
Power's first quarter operating earnings benefited from strong market prices for energy higher capacity prices and an increase in output.
Normal winter weather conditions experienced this year compared to the abnormally mild weather conditions you'll recall in the year-ago quarter higher market prices for natural gas and market volatility all contributed to stronger energy prices during the quarter in Power's primary PJM market.
The improvement in wholesale market pricing quarter-over-quarter offset the impact of an approximately $10 per megawatt hour decline in average contract prices on energy hedged through the Basic Generation Service contract or BGS as well as other wholesale contracts.
As a result we saw a net increase in earnings quarter-over-quarter attributable to price of $0.02 per share.
An increase in capacity prices on June 1 of 2012 to $153 per megawatt day from the $110 per megawatt day price in the first half of 2012 improved Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.05 per share.
Power's output increased 7.7% during the quarter as a result of the higher market prices for energy and more favorable weather.
The increase in generation added $0.02 per share to earnings quarter-over-quarter.
The improvement in pricing and output together led to a $2 per megawatt hour increase in Power's gross margin in the quarter to approximately $48 per megawatt hour.
The weather experienced in the first quarter also had a favorable impact on off-system gas sales.
The increase in send-out also aided recovery of the fixed expenses associated with Power's gas supply and storage operations.
These 2 items together improved quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.04 per share.
The improvement in revenue and margin was somewhat offset in the quarter by an increase in operating and maintenance expense exclusive of storm-related activity which I'll mention later and other items which reduced earnings by $0.02 per share.
Higher depreciation expense related to the placing in service of the new peaking capacity and low-pressure turbines at the Peach Bottom nuclear station reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
During the quarter the nuclear fleet operated at full capacity slightly in excess of its rated capacity or 101% and provided 57% of Power's output.
The fleet's performance was enhanced by the absence of any forced outages and record first quarter generation from the Salem station.
The economics of operating Power's coal units on coal improved in the first quarter.
Performance was supported by an increase in demand associated with more normal weather conditions and higher gas prices than experienced last year.
Generation from Power's coal fleet nearly doubled from the year-ago quarter and provided approximately 16% of Power's output.
The increase in output was experienced at all of our coal stations with the largest improvement at our New Jersey and Connecticut-based coal units which operated on a very limited basis in the year-ago quarter.
Although the dispatch economics of the coal fleet have improved with higher gas prices gas prices have not reached the level necessary to sustain the dispatch of fully-scrubbed coal ahead of our gas-fired combined cycle fleet.
Power's gas-fired combined cycle fleet operated at an average capacity factor in the quarter of 52% compared to 56% in the year-ago quarter.
Output at the Linden facility continued to be affected early in the quarter by repair activity in the aftermath of Super Storm Sandy.
The station was returned to service in January.
The Bergen station which was not affected by the storm operated at an average capacity factor of 56% in the first quarter versus 53% in the year-ago period.
Slide 16 outlines Power's hedge profile through 2015.
Power continues to forecast output for 2013 of 53 to 55 terawatt hours.
Output for the remainder of this year is approximately 70% to 75% hedged at an average price of $50 per megawatt hour.
For 2014 output is forecast also at 53 to 55 terawatt hours and is approximately 50% to 55% hedged at an average price of $50 per megawatt hour.
Power has hedged 25% to 30% of its forecast generation in 2015 of 52 to 54 terawatt hours in total at an average price of $50 per megawatt hour.
The results include the impact of the February 2013 auction of BGS load in New Jersey.
A price of $92 per megawatt hour for the 3 years beginning on June 1 2013 will replace the expiring contract for approximately $96 per megawatt hour.
Our assumption on the percentage of output hedged and the price of the output continue to reflect BGS volumes of approximately 12 terawatt hours in 2013 and approximately 10 terawatt hours in 2014.
The percentage of generation hedged reflect the expectations for the full year across a portfolio of assets consisting of base load intermediate and peaking capacity.
As you can see in Slide 16 our low-cost base load generation is more fully hedged in any 1 year with our intermediate and peaking facilities more open to the market.
This practice -- this profile is very consistent with our practice and we believe it reduces Power's downside risk recognizes the need to meet the full load requirements of the BGS contract during the important summer months and minimizes the potential risk of a unit not being available during critical periods.
It also provides the opportunity for Power to optimize the portfolio under the right set of market conditions as we did in the first quarter.
The forecast of Power's operating earnings for 2013 remains unchanged at $535 million to $600 million.
Results for the remainder of the year will continue to be influenced by a decline in the average price of our hedges of approximately $10 per megawatt hour and higher capacity prices.
Remember that the average price for Power's capacity in PJM is scheduled to increase to $244 per megawatt day on June 1 of 2013 from $153 per megawatt day.
We also want to point out that Power's full year expectations reflect the impact of an increase in O&amp;M during the second half of the year associated with plans for the Bethlehem New York and Bergen-combined cycle facilities which undergo major maintenance programs as part of normal plant maintenance cycles.
This will increase O&amp;M expense for the year above what was incurred during the second half of 2012 and above the expected trend for O&amp;M growth over the long term but all of this is consistent with and baked into our guidance.
The forecast for Power's operating earnings as we have indicated doesn't include the cost associated with storm-related repair.
Power expensed approximately $28 million pretax on storm recovery activity in the first quarter of 2013 bringing total pre-tax storm-related expenditures to $113 million.
And of this amount Power has received initial insurance proceeds of $19 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 to return its facilities to service.
Let's now turn to PSE&amp;G.
For PSE&amp;G as shown on Slide 19 we reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2013 of $0.35 per share compared with $0.39 per share for the first quarter of 2012.
PSE&amp;G's first quarter results reflect the absence of $0.06 per share in tax settlement in the year-ago quarter which more than offset the contribution to earnings in the quarter from PSE&amp;G's increased level of transmission investment.
As we mentioned in February the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC authorized PSE&amp;G's request for an annual increase in transmission revenue under our formula rate filing.
The increase in revenue which was effective on January 1 of 2013 supported a quarter-over-quarter increase in the net bottom line earnings contribution from transmission of $0.03 per share.
Electric and gas demand in the quarter was influenced by weather which was close to normal but significantly colder than a year ago.
And the favorable weather comparison added $0.02 per share to earnings.
An increase in distribution-related operation maintenance expense quarter-over-quarter was influenced in part by storm-related repair but more significantly by normal weather.
PSE&amp;G focused on O&amp;M-related work in the quarter as opposed to a year ago when the abnormally mild weather conditions supported an acceleration of capital-related work.
The increase in distribution O&amp;M reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.02 per share.
And an increase in depreciation expense and other miscellaneous items reduced earnings quarter-over-quarter by $0.01 per share.
Electric and gas sales grew in the quarter at a rate of 0.9% and 23% respectively given the more normal weather conditions versus 2012.
We estimate weather-normalized electric sales declined by about 2% in the first quarter from year-ago levels as weather-normalized gas deliveries increased by about 0.6% quarter-over-quarter.
As Ralph mentioned PSE&amp;G has reached an agreement on its proposed Solar capital investment programs.
Under the agreement PSE&amp;G will invest up to $199 million on 97.5 megawatts of new solar as part of the Solar Loan III program.
The agreement also provides for PSE&amp;G to invest approximately $247 million to develop 45 megawatts of new solar capacity with 42 megawatts of this amount developed on landfills and brownfield sites as part of the Solar 4 All extension program.
The agreement represents approximately 50% of PSE&amp;G's original request to invest up to $883 million on the 2 programs and provides for a return on equity of 10%.
This capital investment is expected to occur over a 3-year period of time instead of the 5-year program we initially proposed.
And keep in mind if approved this investment of up to $446 million is incremental to the base spending of $4.9 billion for 2013 to 2015 that we discussed on March 1 and appears on our 10-K for PSE&amp;G.
The settlement which is for a 3-year period provides for essentially the same amount of spending over the 2013 to 2015 period as we included in our upside case on March 1 for solar.
So this continues to support a potential 12% compound annualized growth rate in rate base through 2015 if you include all of our new programs.
We're maintaining our forecast for double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's operating earnings of $580 million to $635 million.
Results for the full year will continue to be influenced by growth in the earnings contribution from PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission.
And our forecast also assumes that the full year growth rate for distribution-related O&amp;M will be lower than the rate of growth seen during the first quarter as we don't assume a similar level of storm-related repair work as we experienced at the end of 2012.
I'm sure you'll recall that Super Storm Sandy-related repair work reduced earnings by $0.05 per share during the 2012 fourth quarter.
Let me now turn to Energy Holdings and Enterprise.
Energy Holdings and the Parent together reported operating earnings of $4 million or $0.01 per share compared with operating earnings of $39 million or $0.07 per share during the first quarter of 2012.
The results for Holding and Enterprise aren't really a surprise.
If you recall operating earnings for the first quarter reflect the absence of the $0.07 per share tax benefits received in the first quarter of 2012 related to the settlement of the 10 years of IRS tax audits.
We're maintaining our estimate of full year operating earnings for PSEG Energy Holdings and Parent at $25 million to $35 million.
The results will include the contribution from Holdings' legacy investments a full year of operation at the Milford and Queen Creek solar facilities of 40 megawatts which entered service in the fourth quarter of 2012 as well as the forecast commercial operation of a 19-megawatt solar facility located in Arizona which is expected to enter service in the fourth quarter at a cost of approximately $50 million.
We're very pleased with S&amp;P's recognition of the strength of our balance sheet and the balance provided by the mix of growth and stability incorporated in PSEG's financial strategy.
S&amp;P raised its corporate credit ratings on PSEG PSE&amp;G and PSEG Power to BBB+ from BBB.
And the rating on PSE&amp;G's senior secured debt was raised to A from A-.
And the rating on all 3 issuers is stable.
As we said we can finance our capital program without the need to issue equity given the strength of Power's cash flow and our already strong balance sheet.
At the end of March 2013 debt represented 41% of our consolidated capital and we ended the quarter with $420 million in cash.
Overall we continue to forecast operating earnings for the full year of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
That concludes my comments.
And I'll now turn the call back over to the operator to open the line for questions.
Operator thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Paul Fremont of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I have is why did the New Jersey BPU believe that your Energy Strong filing was incomplete? And I guess what should we assume as the timeframe where you would I guess resubmit a more detailed plan? Paul hello it's Ralph.
Obviously you can tell my voice from Caroline’s.
We put something in that we believe makes a lot of sense in the point of view of the number of customers that would be affected in a future storm.
Over 800 000 fuel would be out.
But what the Board is now probing more deeply into which makes perfect sense is given the vast size of the program $3.9 billion over 10 years with the lines -- with half of that in the first 5 -- a little bit more than half in the first 5 what's the cost benefit associated with each aspect of the program.
So they're asking more detailed questions about "Okay.
What does it cost to harden a substation versus to underground certain lines? What is the cost benefit associated with enhancing the SCADA systems on the distribution network versus raising some of the inside plant in the substations." So it's a fair set of questions from the Board staff.
We received them -- I think it was about April 15.
And last I checked with Ralph LaRossa he was reading the draft final response to them yesterday and we expect them to go back to the Board staff sometime this week.
So I view this as normal course of business and prudent regulatory due diligence by the Board staff and we're ready to answer as I said this week their questions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up question would be interveners seemed to have reacted negatively to the tracker clause recovery mechanism part of your proposal.
Would the company consider moving forward without that as part of your Energy Strong program? So let me break that question into 2 pieces because I respectfully will disagree with the characterization of interveners broadly defined some interveners have.
But we have 37 towns and counties that have passed resolutions supporting this.
We have countless number of unions and trade associations supporting this.
We have the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce supporting this.
We have regular letters to the editors supporting this.
We have over 5 000 people who are a blend of employees and customers who've signed up on our advocacy site who realized the cost of losing power far and away exceeds the cost of doing this.
Now having said that a microcosm of interveners have said "Yes we don't want this to be done during a tracker -- using a tracker." But let me be very clear.
We will not do this without a tracker.
These are extraordinary investments taking the most reliable electric utility in the nation to a higher level of reliability and we're not doing this with retroactive rate making.
Your next question is from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question.
On the Power side could you just talk to what drove the positive basis in the quarter just the various factors and the sustainability of those factors if you wouldn't mind? Sure Julien.
It seems to be largely the changing gas dynamics in the marketplace.
So as there’s an increased build of gas gathering and transportation infrastructure some of that volatility will be diminished in the future.
Research Division</strong> So then what would you expect going forward just to be clear because I know there's been a lot of different projects some of which are going to bring gas to your neck of the woods? I'll let Caroline respond but we would expect $2.25 to $2.50 a share this year.
In terms of basis Julien we don't forecast that.
And for sure we don't see basis levels on a continuing basis the way we saw them years ago.
We're still looking at single-digit type bases.
But I think the important thing to recognize as Ralph was mentioning is when we've seen demand and when we've seen higher prices and when we've seen the weather that we saw you see basis spike up.
And because we're not 100% hedged we get to take advantage of that and that's what we did in the first quarter.
So long term similar lower levels like we've talked about before.
But when there's spikes we see them in our region the locational value is still there and because of the way we operate the units as you know and how we sell them in we try to take advantage of that as much as possible.
Research Division</strong> So -- and perhaps a quick clarification or follow-up does this relate at all to some of the dynamics that are going on in New England and the very high gas prices we're seeing there? Is there any kind of export opportunity should we say? No I wouldn't see that at all.
I mean at a -- at an 80 000-foot level it relates to the rise and dominance of natural gas and the infrastructure being a little bit lagging in terms of the dominance.
But I wouldn't go any more specific than that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And back on the Utility if you don't mind again I appreciate that it's sort of dynamic right now.
But at the end of the day what kind of timeframe are we talking to getting across the finish line on some sort of approval for Energy Strong? I mean what is kind of the timeline from now if you will? We don't have a schedule Julien.
But I mean -- yes there was a 6 month anniversary of Sandy.
The Board staff turned around their questions very quickly and they did that in I think 10 or 15 days.
Our response was very quick 15 days.
I'll simply say that I would be disappointed if we didn't have something by the end of the year.
And I know everyone is working real hard to do something in the fourth quarter timeframe.
But it's a complicated set of issues and -- but one that there's been no diminishing of recognition of the importance of it.
In fact I think it grows with every passing day.
Your next response is from the line of Ashar Khan of Visium.
Can I just -- so one thing isn't clear from the remarks if I heard them correctly that positive basis in the first quarter was not anticipated and hence the Power's good results were better than expectation for the first quarter.
Is that a fair commentary? No Ashar I think maybe you misunderstood.
But could you just repeat what you said in the beginning? Was it certainly about congratulations on a good quarter or something like that? Yes the -- look if we go back to ancient history of about 36 months ago you would see basis numbers of about $10 to $20.
And if you look at more recent history you'd see consistent basis numbers of about $3 or $4.
And we just had higher basis than that low-single digit numbers in the first quarter driven by a myriad of factors.
And I think what Caroline was saying is that our locational advantages remained we always have some power plants opened and we're never 100% hedged to take advantage of those occasional spiked increases in basis whenever you get these kind of dislocations in gas deliverability.
Okay.
I understand Ralph.
But could you just -- give us a little bit more of what the basis has been in January February March? And I don't know if there's any data for April? No I was about to and then like 3 people sat on my head and said "No." I'm not allowed to do that.
So no we won't -- we don't give the specifics on the basis.
It's competitive information.
Your next question is from the line of Dan Eggers of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on -- congratulations on getting the Solar settlement done.
I was wondering if you guys could kind of share the -- kind of where the conversation went kind of to the scale or to the size you guys ended up with and then accelerating the timeline both what it means to maybe the future of Solar New Jersey.
And then is there a cost or a rate threshold that you're finding amongst interveners that could potentially be reflective in the Energy Strong project? Sure Dan.
It's Ralph.
Those are -- that's a series of excellent questions that I'll try to do just -- do justice in a brief response.
So remember we filed Solar in July of last year and then we had a major event that occurred just 3 months later in the form of Sandy.
So one of the things I think we and the Board are always mindful of is what are the rate effects of investments and what are the benefits associated with those investments.
In the case of Solar we've never ever shied away from the fact that Solar is not the competitive cost alternative for energy supply.
This is an industry that we believe has a future.
The state Energy Master Plan says it believes it has a future and we're constantly struggling with how do you nurture it in its infancy to bring about that hope for and successful future.
So given some of the promises made by panel manufacturers and people who are prominent in the industry about how the cost curve continues to decline I think the Board really said "Look in light of the other investments we need to make does it make sense to have a 5-year program where the regulated utility is a big participant.
Let's look out 3 years and let's keep this going in those market segments where the market clearly is shying away from that being landfills and brownfields." So you have an investment rate on the settlement that matches the investment rate that was anticipated in the original program but over a shorter time period.
And that seems fair and reasonable to us.
And I guess the best demonstration that the settlement seems fair and reasonable is that the people who didn't sign on have 1 of 2 opinions either the program is not big enough or the program is too big which suggests that the Board and we -- and those who did sign on have had a reasonable compromise on it.
So I do think you have a situation where we have an ongoing industry that people have confidence in and believe in but has not achieved the kind of competitive level that it needs to from the point of view of price competition.
And then you have a recognition that given the changing weather patterns of the last 18 months has really driven home 4 months after the Solar filing that something more needs to be done in terms of grid resiliency and then that has kind of dominated the regulatory landscape since the Solar filing was done.
Research Division</strong> Do you think this is just a prioritization of capital so you don't think it's a reflection that there's more resistance to another meaningful but important CapEx program in the industry [ph]? No I -- yes I think that's correct.
I think that there's just a recognition that you cannot have 3 to 4 and depending on how you count weather events in the last 18 months knocking out millions of customers and that's where capital needs to flow first and foremost.
I do think over the long term and the long term is beyond 3 years that you will see increased scrutiny to the level of subsidization needed to renewable technologies.
I mean that's just -- I think it cannot continue in perpetuity.
Research Division</strong> And I guess changing topics.
On Salem's better performance with the mechanical fixes should we be thinking about you -- kind of a sustained higher utilization rate effectively for the nuclear fleet going forward with these fixes in place? Or is it just a bit of a seasonal benefit to workflow when the weather is cold? Well so this -- it is a seasonal benefit insofar as this was the season when we had our biggest problems.
The units I think are running if you take out the last quarter at 91.3% or thereabouts.
If you just put in 18-month refueling outages that last 25 days we may be having additional forced loss rate of anywhere from 1% to 3%.
So I hope none of the folks at the nuclear fleet are listening to me say this but I don't know how much harder I can push them.
But we're constantly seeking they continuously improve.
I just don't know how much more upside you can expect out of it.
Is it -- the 101% capacity factor is a pretty darn good performance there.
And the next question is from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Just to sort of follow back up on Energy Strong -- and it makes a lot of sense what you're saying in terms of the tracker and what have you.
Just sort of wondering though I mean if -- you mentioned retroactive rate making which I generally think of being not really legally possible in most jurisdictions.
I mean if for some reason you were required to engage in a major CapEx program let's say outside of Energy Strong is there some particular retroactive rate making risk or something we should be thinking about? No no.
So Paul I'm glad you asked that question because I used the word retroactive in the Merriam-Webster's dictionary sense of the word.
You are seizing upon it in a term of art that is used in our industry whereby people go back and change rates that were previously approved.
That's not what I'm talking about here.
I'm talking about traditional rate setting where we would deploy hundreds of millions of dollars in capital.
And after watching our returns collapse we go in and seek rate increases subject to prudency review.
And what we've said consistently is that PSE&amp;G for the last 11 years in a row was the most reliable electric utility in the mid-Atlantic region 5 out of the last 8 years is the most reliable in the country by 1 set of measures and we cannot put forward a $4 billion capital program to take what is arguably one of the most if not the most reliable utility in the nation up to a higher level and then later on ask whether or not that was prudently incurred.
These are extraordinary investments that we believe are necessary and our customers are demanding but we're going to get approval upfront for that and we're going to understand the way in which we are going to get compensated upfront for doing that.
What I mean by we'll get paid upfront that means we'll get paid over the next 40 and 50 years over the depreciable lives of the assets at a fair return.
But we're not going to do it with the kind of regulatory lag that is typical of traditional rates.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up on what -- I think you guys indicated that you hope to have a decision by the fourth quarter is that the sort of the timeframe we should be thinking about when there might be an actual decision coming out of the commission? Well yes.
I said it -- I said 2 things.
I said number one we don't have a schedule.
And number two I said that we would be disappointed if we didn't have something by the end of the year.
I mean no one wants to have another major storm whether it's this summer or next summer and then have to answer the question "What did you do about it and the answer be "Nothing." Okay.
And just really quickly the 2% decline in electric sales is that got to do with leap year? And it just seems like there's a big difference between gas usage weather adjusted and electric usage is there some sort of strange thing happening there or just any quick thought on that? Yes.
So -- sure Paul.
It's Caroline.
No it's nothing to do with leap year.
We don't make any of those kinds of adjustments.
I think what you see in the weather normalization which as Ralph has always said is more art than science.
So it's not a terrific economy in the state right now.
I mean we struggle like many other states so economic growth has been a little bit weak.
And of course there is some energy conservation underway.
We think those are more of the driving factors nothing related to calendar-like events.
Nothing like that.
So the fact that we had 1 day left this quarter did not lower -- the 2% takes that into account? In other words without that if you didn't have that – it takes into account the fact that we have 1 year less in this quarter is that correct? It takes a look at the total over the prior quarter.
So whether there's any adjustment for that I don't know.
That's the minimus.
I think the fundamental driving factors are some of the economic challenges in energy conservation which is in fact what we've been saying in prior quarters.
So this is really consistent with how we've talked about some of the weather normalization in prior quarters.
But again weather normalization is obviously a difficult thing to know with any certainty.
But I would not attribute it to a leap day.
Your next question is from the line of Andy Levi of Avon Capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on Energy Strong just a couple of more questions on that.
Could you maybe just discuss kind of where Governor Christie's position is on this given his desire to have lower energy prices in New Jersey? And then just also I guess last week there was a budget committee hearing at the assembly where Chairman Hannah discussed Energy Strong and his concerns that I guess there would be an 8% increase.
So I'm just trying to politically find out kind of what's going on.
Sure Andy.
So I -- obviously I can't speak for the governor.
What I can paraphrase because I don't remember the exact words were some of these early comments that were quoted in the press which was "Clearly we need to do something but I am counting on the BPU to take a careful look at the cost and benefits associated with this." And that I think is as best a response as we can expect from a governor who's dealing with everything from pension reform to education reform to a whole host of other issues to trust this agency to do the work.
With respect to President Hannah I can't -- we're struggling a little bit to tie to the exact 8% number that he put out there.
I'm sure there's a sound basis for it.
But the confusion tends to stem from the fact that we had some charges rolling off the distribution bill over the next 3 years.
And depending upon the customer class you fall into those charges can be as low as 4% to as high as 14%.
And the average residential bill would come down by about 8.7% than they would be under the current bill.
So if you do our program you don't see that rolling off of the charge showing up in your bill.
You see it being offset by the increase to our program.
So we of course say your bill will be flat.
Others say "No no no.
They're increasing your bill by 6% to 8% and then they're just going to chew up the discount.
Well That's true.
But I'd rather use less derogatory terms and say that what we're trying to do is save 800 000 customers from losing power in another Sandy-like event.
And this is the right time to do it.
We've got an improvement in our credit rating.
We're borrowing money at 30 years for 3.65%.
We have labor available and we have some charges from restructuring that are rolling off.
So no one is saying things that are inaccurate.
It's just you need to be careful about how you are rolling off of charges and the layering in of increases that would ever come from this program.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so we shouldn't be concerned that based on his testimony last week that the president may have some issues with Energy Strong? No I think the president will give very very careful scrutiny to the cost and benefits associated with what we're doing.
And I've got a lot of confidence in our team proposing things that make sense to do.
I don't -- again I can't speak for President Hannah.
I don't think you should conclude that he is doesn’t think anything needs to be done or that we should put capital at risk without knowing how we're going to get compensated for it.
The next question is from the line of Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could just talk a little bit about the coal dynamics you see.
You’ve used a number of different types of coals.
Wondering if you're seeing any trends broadly in terms of coal pricing types of coal that's being consumed changes over time.
Just curious what you're seeing on the coal side of things.
So while Caroline digs out some of those numbers Stephen out you forgot to mention "Congratulations on the first quarter." But what we've seen generally speaking is that our fuel flexibility in terms of the Hudson and Mercer stations being able to switch has been a big plus for us right now.
And we do tend to run them on gas whenever it's $5 or less.
But when we've seen some of the spikes in prices that we saw in the first quarter we did run on coal fairly extensively.
I think probably about half the time those units ran on coal.
But Caroline you may want to talk about it.
Sure.
So -- yes absolutely Stephen.
And just as Ralph said so we did have the New Jersey coal units running on coal a little bit more than half the time.
And in fact the Mercer unit ran on coal almost all of the time.
Hudson a little less so just as it was getting through some Sandy-related repairs.
So we have seen the economics and the coal dynamics improve in terms of the ability to run coal particularly as the prices moved up and gas prices moved up in the winter period.
But as we said earlier as I mentioned in my remarks we're still not at the point for gas prices where you're seeing our coal with all of the scrubbing that we have from the back-end technologies dispatch ahead of the gas-fired units.
That would be more like gas prices of about $5.50 and we're not there as you well know.
But in those periods where we've had an increased demand higher near-term prices higher near-term power prices the coal units have dispatched and nicely in terms of dispatching on coal.
Now of course Bridgeport Harbor doesn't run on gas.
It only runs on coal.
And that was running as we mentioned and as I think you saw in the attachment that was running more as well.
Also keep in mind of course the Pennsylvania units only run on coal and they were running well.
In terms of the types of coal -- now this is news -- this is not news these are things that I'm sure you know.
Once we finished the back-end technologies at Hudson it no longer had to run on Adaro coal so it's running on tap [ph] coal so that's cheaper.
Bridgeport Harbor only runs on Adaro as you know that continues as we had always had it.
Keep in mind about 2 years ago we changed that contract.
So it no longer has volume requirements for us to build.
And then Mercer after its back-end technology still runs on net coal but a less expensive net coal than prior.
So through our back-end technologies we've reduced that really -- the kinds of coal in terms of cost that we need at those facilities Bridgeport Harbor being the exception.
And then if these market dynamics have come back we've been pleased to see those units run on coal.
We're still very well hedged with coal in terms of what we have in inventory but it's nice to see that coal being burned.
So I think we're in a pretty good position again not yet for coal dispatching ahead of gas but obviously our back-end technologies were done sooner than others who may have to do that in the future as they make decisions about their units.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on LIPA.
I'm just curious if there's any developments there any evolution of your thinking regarding LIPA.
Yes Stephen.
So 90% of our efforts right now in terms of personnel are getting ready for the contract that goes into effect on January 1 of next year.
However we have been approached by the state to have a broader and more expanded role and we are in conversations with them on what that might look like.
But it would be premature to say anything more specific than that at this point.
The next question is from the line of Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to keep going on the utility here.
If we ignore the Energy Strong program and look at just core distribution how are you thinking about -- or seeing the next distribution rate case on a base level? And particularly as they’re recovering some of those Sandy costs.
Oh okay.
So 2 different things there Travis.
In terms of base rate case what we've said is that we don't see it in the next 3 years in terms of our kind of expectations for capital deployment and now projections of O&amp;M increases and where demand is going.
Now what the Board has initiated is a separate proceeding for all of the utilities as they pertain to recovery of already incurred expenses associated with Irene and Sandy.
And we've deferred about $242 million I believe which would be part of that proceeding.
But we are in the very early stages of that generic proceeding at this point in time.
The next question is from the line of Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up on Stephen's question with kind of the coal costs and what it takes to switch back to coal.
So you put out I guess a number of really neat $5.50 gas and what's driving that? What are some of the levers that you can pull? Could you turn off some of the scrubbers or the back-end equipment to lower operating costs? Could you renegotiate some of the cap [ph] coal contracts? Is -- I mean is $5.50 something that you think is the long-term price that we need to see switching or could it come down? So -- sure.
So I think the fundamental way to think about this Neel is it can move around.
But $5.50 and it's been that number for a while we've talked about as the cost where -- the gas price where we would see based on our units the back-end technologies and their heat rate they would dispatch ahead of combined cycle.
Remember that would be different depending on your region but also different depending on your unit.
And our units have the back-end technologies that have been in service for a while now.
We can't run them without that.
We -- that's our commitment is we only really run the coal.
We run the back-end technology.
And they had incremental marginal costs that come with running the BET for the inputs that we use for scrubbing.
So therefore they’re marginally  factored into the price.
That's the fundamental thing that drives the differential.
My comment earlier on something to keep in mind if you think about that price and it might sound different from other coal units in terms of what their cost would be relative to switching and dispatching ahead of gas.
2 factors to keep in mind: One of course every region is different.
But also we've completed all of our back-end technologies to be in compliance with the upcoming naturals and not every one else has done that.
So think of us as a little bit sort of a bellwether of where economics for coal would move directionally not perfectly but directionally as others make the remediations that they might need.
And Neel just to add this may sound a little strange so while we have limited flexibility on our variable costs we have worked hard to manage our fixed cost.
And I said that specifically the way I did even though one would normally not assume that the fixed can be variabilized and the variabilized can't -- have to stay fixed.
And what we do is we basically take our plant personnel and move them to other outages specifically in our nuclear fleets when we see -- when we anticipate protracted periods of no operation at the coal units.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
As a follow-up on the utility Ralph you mentioned that you wouldn’t go through with Energy Strong without a tracker how would you approach a compromise where you could possibly maybe go in for a base rate case which in this environment could maybe lower your ROE and get approval for the spending in replacement of the tracker? Yes.
Neel I'd rather not get into a telephonic negotiation with the BPU on what's the best way to implement Energy Strong.
So I mean I think we would be open to any kind of discussion that protected our investors while we deliver the value that customers are begging us to deliver.
The next question is from Greg Gordon of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
What's the schedule -- the comparable schedule or expected timeline at the FERC to get validation of your desire to spend more in storm hardening on transmission? So that would just be rolled into our annual formula rate treatment Greg.
That would not be any special rate case or any special event.
Research Division</strong> So you don't have to get a formal approval from any regulatory agency to decide to spend more? No.
Remember most of that -- most if not all of that $1.5 billion was what we call kind of the business-as-usual or I forget -- the no-harm at PJM.
So once PJM says "Okay if you think that makes sense as that's not part of the RTEP go ahead with it." Then we just file it on an annual basis in our formula rate treatment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So PJM then is the critical path? Yes but it's not the path that includes inclusion in RTEP.
It's a different path.
These are smaller projects mostly internal to our service territory and some less complicated type of analysis goes into it.
Okay.
So look we -- hopefully you realize that every day we strive to do better around here.
But I've got to tell you I couldn't be more proud of our employees and the leadership team which right now is firing on all cylinders.
Our plants are running better than ever.
Our utility reliability remains best-in-class.
We have the biggest capital program in our history underway.
More keeps getting added through the Solar Loan the Solar 4 All.
I do believe we'll see more in Energy Strong.
I know we're going to see more in transmission.
All of the equity needs for these programs are internally funded.
We're still telling you that despite all of that we have the opportunity for growth in our dividend.
And at the end of the day the rating agencies upgraded us for a very healthy balance sheet.
So we're feeling pretty good around here.
We'll work hard every day to feel even better and to do even more for you.
But thanks for joining us on the call.
Take care now.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may disconnect.
And thank you for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Nick and I am your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference call Public Service Enterprise Group Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today July 30 2013 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 12:00 p.m.
Eastern today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern on August 8 2013.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much Nick.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for participating in our earnings conference call this morning.
As you are aware we released second quarter 2013 earnings statements earlier today.
And as mentioned the release and attachments are posted on our website www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides earlier this morning that detailed operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended June 30 2013 is expected to be filed shortly.
I'm not going to go through the full disclaimer statements or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results.
But as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless we are required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or our other filings for a discussion of factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I would now turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
Joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
Thank you.
Thank you Kathleen and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2013 of $0.48 per share compared with operating earnings of $0.43 per share in 2012 second quarter.
The results for the quarter bring operating earnings for the first half of 2013 to $1.33 per share and that's compared with operating earnings of $1.28 per share earned in 2012's first half.
Slides 4 and 5 contain the detail on the results for the quarter and the first half.
We are very pleased with our results.
All of our businesses performed well and once again demonstrated the ability to succeed against the background of slow growth in the economy at large and lower power prices.
Our earnings results for the quarter were once again based upon our employees' efforts.
We are realizing the benefit to of earnings from the expansion of our investment in transmission which remains on time and on budget.
Our earnings are also supported by our employees' focus on controlling the growth and operating expenses.
Lastly our financial results were aided by the restoration post Sandy of most of our peaking generating stations to assure their availability during the key summer period.
But strong execution above all means providing a level of service expected by our customers.
We would not be able to deliver this level of service at all times and especially during periods of extreme weather as we have experienced without our daily focus on maintaining as well as improving through ongoing investment our electric and gas system.
Earnings for the second quarter also continued to be supported by the locational advantage enjoyed by Power's assets the dispatch capability of Power's portfolio of assets and Power's open position on its intermediate and peaking generation.
As a result of PJM's latest auction of capacity that is the RPM auction Power's assets will receive an average price of $1.66 -- $166 that would be terrible $166 per megawatt day for the 2016 2017 year.
The results for the latest auction are essentially inline with the average price of $167 per megawatt day received in last year's auction but it remains above the average price received for capacity within the PJM region.
The price for capacity in Arizona will stay at a similar level from mid-2014 through mid-2017.
Auction results yielding prices for that period have incorporated many pushes and pulls including the impact of new transmission transfer capability the addition of subsidized generation the impact of environmental rules on capacity and the tightening of regulatory oversight over new options such as demand resources.
Over the past few years we have all seen administrative design elements within the capacity market create some volatility in pricing as PJM continues to address improvements in market efficiency.
But upon more careful scrutiny it is quite clear that stable capacity-related parameters exist in our zone and have for the past 3 years.
We also benefit from our close proximity to low-cost shale gas in the Marcellus basin which has resulted in lower gas cost of PSE&amp;G's customers and provides our large fleet of gas-fired combined-cycle generating assets with a source of low cost fuel supply.
This profile allowed us to capture value by managing volatility in the energy marketplace while minimizing downside risk through the hedges on our base load fleet.
In short this past quarter the combination of returns on new investment and the capable management by our employees of each business demonstrated PSEG's ability to perform well even against the backdrop of slow economic growth and low power prices.
But we remain equally focused on meeting our long-term growth objectives.
The New Jersey Board of Public Utilities the BPU approved our plans to invest up to an additional $446 million in renewable energy through our Solar Loan and Solar 4 All programs.
This investment will fund up to 143 megawatts of new solar capacity.
We are making progress with key stakeholders on explaining the importance of strengthening our infrastructure and improving system resiliency through our proposed Energy Strong program.
Nine months have passed since Superstorm Sandy devastated New Jersey but it remains very much on our minds and on the minds of regulators and other policymakers.
Public support for Energy Strong has grown since we proposed the investment program back in February.
As of today 55 municipalities and 5 county governments have passed resolutions in support of our investment program.
The BPU has appointed a lead commissioner and we are in discussions regarding the scope and timing of the work to be performed.
As a reminder we have asked the BPU to approve spending for the first 5 years of the 10-year program.
This would amount to $2.6 billion of the $3.9 billion program.
It would represent approximately $2.2 billion of capital spending to strengthen the distribution through 2017 which is the timeline we've outlined previously for our capital program.
All of these statistics are independent of additional transmission investments we would make.
So we expect the program to receive careful consideration given the opportunity to improve the resiliency of the distribution system with little net impact on the customer's bill due to the coincidental expiration of various other charges.
Separately in New York State we are discussing the final terms of a renegotiated contract to operate the Long Island Power Authority's distribution system at the start of 2014.
These actions will strengthen the infrastructure and improve our system reliability throughout the region.
In the true spirit of how PSEG has operated for a century this will enable us to serve customers better while providing reasonable returns to our shareholders.
We aren't changing our guidance for full year operating earnings of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
However given the strength of our results for the second quarter and the first half of the year we do expect our full year operating earnings to be at the upper end of our guidance assuming normal weather and normal unit operations for the remainder of the year.
So with that I'll turn the call over Caroline who will discuss our financial results in greater detail and then I'll join her at the end for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Ralph.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2013 of $0.48 per share versus operating earnings of $0.43 per share in last year's second quarter.
We provide you with the reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter on Slide 4.
We've also provided you with a waterfall chart on Slide 10 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on Slide 12 provides you with the changes in operating earnings by each business on a year-to-date basis.
And I'll now review each company in more detail starting with power.
PSEG Power reported operating earnings of $0.22 per share for the second quarter of 2013 compared with operating earnings of $0.22 per share for the second quarter of 2012.
Power's second quarter earnings benefited from higher 2013 realized PJM capacity prices and a quarter-over-quarter improvement in the market price for energy with an increase in the price of gas from last year's second quarter levels.
Market prices for energy were influenced by a higher price for natural gas quarter-over-quarter and an improvement in the premium on power sold in the PS zone which of course we know is basis.
These conditions were similar to but not as extreme as the market conditions Power experienced in the first quarter and you would expect that moderation in a shoulder quarter.
The market price for Power is influenced by the movement in the price of gas and it's also influenced by constraints on generation and on the transmission system.
This upward movement in realized wholesale market pricing quarter-over-quarter increased Power's earnings by $0.04 per share an increase in the average price received on PJM capacity to $183 per megawatt day from $124 per megawatt day improved Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.07 per share.
And as a reminder PJM capacity prices increased to $244 per megawatt day on June 1 of this year and that price factors into 1 month of the average price realized in the second quarter but that $244 price will be in place through May of 2014.
This improvement in wholesale market pricing offset the impact on earnings of an approximately $9 per megawatt hour decline in average contract prices on energy hedged through the BGS Basic gas Generation Service contract as well as other wholesale contracts.
PSEG Power's operation and maintenance expense was unchanged from year-ago levels.
An increase in O&amp;M at fossil associated with planned outage work was offset by a reduction in outage-related work at nuclear.
An increase in depreciation expense related to the installation of 400 megawatts of new peaking capacity and low pressure turbines at Peach Bottom was offset by a decline in interest expense.
PSEG Power's output during the quarter was basically unchanged from the 12.7 terawatt hours generated in the year ago quarter an increase in output from Power's base load nuclear and coal fleet offset a decline in production at Power's New Jersey-based coal units.
The nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor in the quarter of 87.9% bringing the capacity factor for the fleet in the first half of the year to 94.4%.
The fleet's performance in this quarter was influenced by a refueling outage and main generator repair work at Salem 1 which as you know is 57% owned by us and operated by PSEG Power versus a refueling outage in the second quarter of 2012 at Power's 100% owned and operated Hope Creek unit.
Power's base load coal units in Pennsylvania increased their generation.
The combined cycle gas-fired fleet ran at levels equivalent to their strong performance in the year-ago period with a 57% capacity factor.
The location of PSEG Power's generating and natural gas assets provided with access to low cost gas supply in the Marcellus basin to partially fuel the combined cycle fleet.
The combination of price and operating performance supported gross margins of $43 per megawatt hour similar to the level realized in the year-ago period.
Power continues to forecast output for 2013 of 53 to 55 terawatt hours.
Output for the remainder of the year of 26 to 28 terawatt hours is 70% to 75% hedged at an average price of $51 per megawatt hour.
For 2014 forecast output of 53 to 55 terawatt hours was approximately 55% to 60% hedged at an average price of $49 per megawatt hour.
Power has hedged 30% to 35% of its forecast generation in 2015 that total forecast generation of 52 to 54 terawatt hours at an average price of $49 per megawatt hour.
The increase over the last quarter in the percentage of generation hedged through 2014 and 2015 reflects an increase in the level of hedges on our base load generation consistent with our ratable hedging program.
Power's intermediate and peaking generation remains open and the data by year is provided for you on Slide 20.
Average hedge prices continue to reflect assumed BGS volumes of 12 terawatt hours in 2013 and 10 terawatt hours in 2014.
Power's hedging profile is very consistent with our prior practice and as we have demonstrated ratably hedging our base load while some intermediate and peaking remains open even in the current year reduces Power's downside risk by recognizing the need to meet demand requirements of full load contracts like BGS while minimizing the risk of a unit not being available.
It also provides Power the opportunity to optimize the portfolio under the right set of market conditions.
The forecast of Power's operating earnings for 2013 remains unchanged at $535 million to $600 million.
However given Power's strong results in the first half of the year we expect operating earnings for the full year to be at the upper end of Power's guidance.
Results for the remainder of the year will continue to be influenced by a decline in the average price of our hedges and higher capacity prices.
Remember that the average price for Power's capacity in PJM increased to $244 per megawatt day on June 1 from the prior $153 per megawatt day.
We also continue to forecast an increase in Power's O&amp;M in the second half of the year given major maintenance planned at 2 of the combined cycle units and a fall refueling outage at Hope Creek.
The forecast for Power's operating earnings as we have indicated doesn't include the cost of storm-related repair.
Power expensed approximately $200 million pretax on storm recovery activity in the second quarter of 2013.
This brings the total pretax storm-related expenditures to $135 million.
Of this amount Power recognized an additional $25 million of insurance proceeds in the second quarter for a total of $44 million in insurance proceeds to-date.
Let's now turn to PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2013 of $0.24 per share compared with $0.20 per share for the second quarter of 2012.
And results for the quarter are shown on Slide 23.
PSE&amp;G's second quarter results reflect the contribution to earnings from the increased level of transmission investment.
The execution of our transmission program added $0.04 per share quarter-over-quarter.
PSE&amp;G experienced weather conditions in the second quarter which were favorable both relative to normal conditions and in comparison to weather experienced in the year-ago quarter.
As compared with normal temperatures weather was colder than normal in April normal in May and warmer than normal in June.
Electric kilowatt hour sales declined approximately 2.5% in the quarter.
Demand for electricity from the residential sector grew by about 0.8%.
However demand from the commercial and industrial or C&amp;I sectors remained weak.
Demand for electricity continues to be affected by customer conservation in the face of a slowly improving economy.
PSE&amp;G's margin on electric sales was flat quarter-over-quarter despite the decline in sales as margin from C&amp;I customers is based on demand levels more than on volume.
Sales of gas increased 17% quarter-over-quarter reflecting primarily more normal winter weather versus 2012.
Consumers of gas after years of responding to high commodity prices by reducing consumption appeared to have adjusted their behavior to reflect an expectation of lower commodity prices and we see a small uptick in the weather normalized gas sales.
The net impact on PSE&amp;G's earnings from weather and the change in sales was a reduction in quarter-over-quarter earnings of $0.01 per share.
The earnings comparison reflects an increase in weather-related demand for gas of $0.01 per share which was offset by the absence of $0.02 per share of revenue accrued under the gas weather normalization clause in the year-ago quarter.
PSE&amp;G implemented cost controls throughout the quarter in response to lower demand growth.
As a result distribution-related O&amp;M expense was unchanged quarter-over-quarter.
For the remainder of the year distribution-related O&amp;M is expected to be lower than levels realized in the prior year given expectations for a decline in storm-related restoration expense.
Recall that PSE&amp;G incurred approximately $0.05 per share of O&amp;M in the fourth quarter of 2012 related to Superstorm Sandy-related restoration work.
These expenses unlike the treatment for power storm restoration work are reflected in operating earnings as you recall we discussed last year.
PSE&amp;G's tight control of operating expenditures continues to allow it to earn its authorized return.
As Ralph mentioned the New Jersey BPU approved the settlement authorizing an increase in PSE&amp;G's spending on Solar by up to $446 million.
We have as a result adjusted our forecast level of capital spending.
PSE&amp;G is projected to spend approximately $215 million over the 2013 through 2015 period on the Solar 4 All extension and Solar programs resulting in total capital expenditures over this period for PSE&amp;G of $5.1 billion versus the prior forecast of $4.9 billion.
Spending on these 2 newly approved programs will continue beyond 2015.
Slide 26 outlines the updated capital expenditure program for 2013 through 2015.
These new programs will bring PSE&amp;G's investment in Solar to $1.1 billion.
Our forecast of PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2013 remains unchanged at $580 million to $635 million.
Results will be influenced by a full year increase in transmission revenue and the absence of the negative impact of Superstorm Sandy on both sales and O&amp;M.
Let me now turn to PSEG Energy Holdings and parent.
Operating earnings for PSEG Energy Holdings/Enterprise in the second quarter of 2013 were $8 million or approximately $0.02 per share versus operating earnings of $4 million or $0.01 per share earned during the second quarter of 2012.
These results were in line with expectations and reflect a gain on the sale of a commercial office complex in the second quarter.
Holdings remains focused on monetizing key assets as it also builds a portfolio of Solar projects.
The expected fourth quarter operation of a 19-megawatt solar project in Arizona will bring holdings portfolio to 6 solar projects with a total capacity of approximately 90 megawatts.
We continue to forecast full year operating earnings for PSEG Energy Holdings/Enterprise of $25 million to $35 million.
The results will include the contribution from Holdings legacy investments a full year of operation at the Milford and Queen Creek solar facilities which entered service in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the commercial operation of a 19-megawatt facility in Arizona in the fourth quarter at a cost of approximately $50 million.
Our forecast level of consolidated capital spending has increased by approximately $215 million over 2013 through 2015 related to the solar approval to bring us to $6.4 billion.
PSE&amp;G's capital program represents approximately 80% or $5.1 billion of our planned investment.
We're in a strong position to finance our capital program.
PSE&amp;G issued $500 million of 10-year medium-term notes at 2 3/8% and retired $150 million of 5% medium-term notes in the quarter.
At the end of June debt represented 41% of PSEG's consolidated capital with debt at Power approximating 28% of the capital base.
Power's cash flow remain strong and PSE&amp;G's cash generation has improved with its ability to earn return on increased levels of capital investment.
As we have said we can finance our existing capital program without the need to issue equity and we can finance an expanded capital program that includes spending on Energy Strong-related projects without the need to issue equity.
And this still leaves us with the opportunity for modest and sustainable growth in the dividend as we look out to the future.
We continue to forecast operating earnings for the full year of $2.25 to $2.50 per share.
And as Ralph indicated we expect results for the full year to be at the upper end of our guidance assuming normal weather and unit operations in the remainder of the year.
With that we're now ready to take your questions.
And I'll turn it back over to Nick to introduce the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Greg Gordon from ISI Group.
We can go onto the next one.
Greg can call in again.
Our next question is from Travis Miller from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the coal to gas switching environment.
And how much of this increase in coal and flat at least to gas gigawatt hours was related to economic switching? How much was just related to how the load distribution fell out? So Travis we'll team up on that one.
Our New Jersey coal units need gas to be at about $5.50 to $6 to be dispatched on coal.
So they year-to-date run probably 2/3 more often on gas than they have on coal.
So that low teens capacity effect that you see for the year is probably running at 2:1 gas to coal for our Hudson and Mercer units.
Having said that our Keystone economy units have been dispatched quite a bit more this year than they were last year given the slightly higher gas prices as compared to the 2012.
But you'll recall 2012 we had 0 winter and gas at one point it was down to $1.90.
So Caroline did you want to supplement that? Right.
And you recall as we talked about in the first quarter we had our units Hudson and Mercer running on both gas and coal.
Mercer actually more on coal than gas.
Hudson wasn't ready to run on coal given the Superstorm Sandy-related remediations that were coming online in the first quarter.
In this quarter the units ran but they ran entirely on gas given those economics that Ralph just mentioned.
So the good news for us is the ability to have those units which are now available to run on coal and of course all the environmental spend already done.
But having that inherent fuel flexibility to move between coal and gas has provided us with value as we look at those assets.
Research Division</strong> Was there any kind of weather impact year-over-year on that -- on your fleet in terms of generation? No.
Not second quarter in terms of generation.
Remember we talked about much stronger generation in the first quarter because we had a real winter this quarter as opposed to last year.
Generation this quarter was essentially flat a little more than 12 terawatt hours as I mentioned on the remarks versus last year's second quarter.
So kind of pretty much normal in terms of how to think of quarter-over-quarter for this quarter.
Brandon Blossman from Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kind of a follow-up question on the New Jersey gas units you'd mentioned Ralph in your prepared comments about taking advantage of less expensive Marcellus gas.
And we've seen some pretty dramatically low pricing kind of day-to-day in the Marcellus at certain trading hubs.
Are you able to take full advantage of that? And is there any kind of plan for kind of going forward to be able to maybe contract for some of that gas at below NYMEX prices? Well I'll let Caroline chime in on this one.
Yes so a good question.
As we said we are positioned to be able to access Marcellus gas.
And we do access some of our gas through Marcellus and obviously we have some storage capability that enables us to do that.
Then of course we bid the units into the market in the normal bidding process.
So we're always looking for the best sources of gas relative to our units.
We follow all the normal practices in terms of how we bid into the market in terms of how those units are compensated.
Of course that's a very competitive sort of situation so I don't want to give too much detail here.
But you're right to point out we do have access to both sources of gas as we bid the units in.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Helpful and very interesting as we go forward.
And then kind of as a follow-up last couple of PJM RPM auctions we've seen some new build CCGTs clear.
Do you guys have any insight on whether or not those get built and is the financing available for those projects? So our focus has been primarily in the Eastern Max zone.
And to the best of our knowledge there is a new unit that is being built in Eastern Mac owned and operated by LS Power consortium of companies.
All indications are that it has proposal for a power plant which is now calling to someone else the northern PS Zone is moving ahead.
There are 2 other plants that we know a little less about.
And as a matter of fact we believe that a plant that was proposed in the Somerville area is not going forward.
That would have been in the Eastern Max zone as well.
As a matter of fact there was a filing made by PSE&amp;G about -- with that developer regarding the terms and conditions of their standard offer contract agreement.
And in fact that developer agreed that they were no longer going to honor the conditions of that standard offer contract agreement.
One other plant had cleared the auction last year and that one we simply have been told through public comments that it is at least a year delayed and -- but it's still intending to go forward.
So everything I just told you is out in the public domain and it's the best information we have at this point.
Question comes from Gregg Orrill from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the process at the New Jersey BPU around the energy hardening program that you proposed.
And when you'll be able to update us on more accurate CapEx forecast over the next few years versus the one that doesn't include elements of your proposed program? Sure Greg.
So where things stand right now is Commissioner Fiordaliso has been named the hearing officer for the filing the filing is complete although we do keep getting some additional discovery questions and are responding to them.
Hearing dates have been announced for September and October.
Now what happens after that is a little bit flexible.
We've proposed a schedule that would result in a fully litigated decision being the December 18 meeting of the BPU.
Others are proposing a different schedule and Commissioner Fiordaliso hasn't ruled on that.
We anticipate his ruling on the schedule to be imminent less worried about the schedule because as you know we tend to try to move on this and other issues in the settlement route [ph] which is what we did with Solar and what we've done in prior infrastructure programs.
So I still remain hopeful and optimistic that we'll have some things resolved by the end of the year.
It's pretty clear we've missed taking any action for this storm season that doesn't mean I'm expecting or hoping for any storms but quite the contrary.
Our hope though is to be able to get things resolved by the end of the year so that we can begin the engineering and design work to get some infrastructure hardened prior to next year's storm season.
And -- but we just don't have anything more definitive on that.
Rest assured Greg we will tell you and everyone else everything we know as soon as we know it and as the BPU will release information.
None of that has any impact on our plans to spend an additional $1.5 billion on transmission over that 10-year period with about $500 million of that taking place over the first 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And separately on the insurance proceeds at Power what are you expecting in terms of the timeline to get that recovered? And I guess the comment on guidance? Sure.
So this is Caroline Greg.
So relative to the insurance as we mentioned we had an additional $25 million recovered this quarter.
So total recoveries under the insurance for Power $44 million and there's about $6 million for the utilities.
So total recoveries for the company about $50 million.
In terms of timeline we don't have a timeline for anything for future.
As you know we have filed litigation relative to the parties the underwriters relative to coverage terms.
And of course since we are in litigation we can't comment on the progress or status of litigation and of course that means that the timeline is really subject to the outcome of that litigation.
What I can tell you is that we continue to make the repairs that we have discussed and we'll continue to report them on an actual basis as Power's O&amp;M below for operating earnings purposes as we've updated this quarter.
Just a reminder that was $135 million for Power in the aggregate that was spent and from that you subtract the $44 million for recovery that we received from the insurance companies for a net $91 million.
So can't forecast exactly how that will play out given litigation.
We will of course report it to you on an actual basis.
Question is from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit when you look across the fleet and really look across not just your fleet but the industry kind of think about the competitive positioning of your company versus others.
In terms of the economics for some of your coal units whether it's Bridgeport up in Connecticut or even Hudson and Mercer over a long period of time as well as there's been a lot of discussion about the economics of nuclear of existing nuclear.
And just kind of talk about what you're seeing and how it impacts your company as well as how it impacts the industry as a whole? Sure Michael.
So we've talked a bit about the dispatch curve right and the fuel flexibility we have and the technology flexibility we have.
By and large the nuclear units dispatched ahead and except for that one anomalous situation we had our base load coal is always called upon to run.
But then the Bergen and Linden units swapped places with the Hudson and Mercer units for the past few years and who knows what the future will bring.
So I feel good about the fuel and technology flexibility we have as it pertains to the dispatch curve.
And I think one obviously needs to consider any capital improvements that need to be made when thinking about the overall economics of plants and really that comes in 2 forms for all of us.
One is just sort of Clean Air Act rule capital investments.
And as you know all of those are behind us with some SERs and as we put on our Conemaugh plant being the one exception.
So we're in great shape from a HAPs-MACT compliance point of view and you can expect us to continue to operate and run our plants based on just a marginal cost basis here because there is no additional sudden cost that needs to be made.
The post-Fukushima drivers for the nuclear plants are still undetermined at this point.
However we do have quite a few changes -- differences in our plants that are different from the typical design of other units.
For example all of our spend fuel pools are behind concrete reinforced buildings.
So we don't have butler buildings stainless steel buildings that are protecting our spent fuel pools.
We have different designs in our vents that we are going to argue before the NRC are already hardened.
So we're in a good shape from a point of view CapEx going forward.
As a matter of fact we're still going ahead with Exelon and our Peach Bottom upgrade.
We feel that strongly about the dispatchability and economics of our nuclear units.
So I don't know what to say about others they can speak for themselves but I feel pretty good about the fleet that we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just maybe one for Caroline an unrelated question.
When you think about the lease exposure the Edison Mission bankruptcy how should investors quantify the potential risk to PSEG whether it's from a tax perspective or kind of other perspective in terms of your being one of the lessors? Thanks Michael.
So relative to the lease exposure we've talked about that and of course disclosed that for a pretty good amount of time in our financial statements.
I think the way to think about it is when you look at the exposure amounts typically think of that total exposure as we talked about and for Edison Mission it's about $220 million.
Think of that as the pretax amount of the maximum amount of a write down but also remember that that's not cash right? That's the write-down amount.
We've talked about the cash exposure related to the taxes.
But I think the -- one thing to keep in mind for this is this has been deferred again in terms of any decisions related to rejection of the lease until September.
And we are obviously representatives for our share and our rights in that process.
The deferral continues which apparently is obviously from the lessors -- from the lessee's perspective on their decisions on what to do in that regard.
In terms of the other leases that we have they continue to be current on payments.
Obviously the Edison case is different but that's why we're in this process right now.
So if we think about the write-off exposure it's that amount as I mentioned on a pretax basis and then you put it on an after-tax basis.
Research Division</strong> And is the tax exposure -- I'm just trying to think about going back and thinking about leases and kind of back taxes and that type of stuff.
Is the tax exposure could it any way be more significant than the $220 million? No.
The tax exposure is less than that.
I can tell you that for sure.
And then of course that would be process relative to our rights from the lessee in terms of any recapture.
Your next question is from Anthony Crowdell from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A question on I guess the Energy Strong initiative.
I think your comments earlier Ralph you had said that you've kind of missed the window to maybe reinforce the system for this storm season.
Is it the weak industrial load and it looks like weak demand maybe a headwind of getting a large project approved in the state? No I don't think so Anthony.
This is a big capital program.
And the BPU staff understandably is doing a very thorough job of trying to assess from their point of view whether or not we prioritize things the way they think maximizes benefits for customers.
Not surprisingly the consumer advocate wants us to do it for free and that's kind of a tough thing for our shareholders to accept and for us to accept this measure.
So really doesn't have anything to do with demand at all.
As a matter of fact all of our infrastructure programs transmission Energy Strong are completely decoupled from demand growth and really have much more to do with either a replacement of an aging infrastructure or the desire to move from best-in-class reliability which truthfully say we possess to just greater resiliency.
And in fact probably no one has felt the damages associated with storms more so than our commercial and industrial sectors.
Research Division</strong> When do you expect the I guess final decisional approval is this this calendar year? Or does it potentially carry over to '14? Yes I mean we are hopeful and still confident that it will be this calendar year but you never say never so it could spill over into next calendar year I just cannot imagine it spilling deeply over into next calendar year if it were to do so.
Question is from Shahriar Pourreza from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but maybe I could just ask a question on gas.
Over the past several weeks we've seen a negative basis with gas into east relative to the Henry Hub.
How has this -- have you seen an impact with Power's hedges especially if you hedge gas which is tied to Henry Hub and you've hedged the heat rates for Power on using eastern gas -- on eastern prices? Have you seen an impact in any of your hedges at Power? Shahriar we deliberately keep our load following in intermediate assets open certainly out beyond the current year.
We've seen tremendous volatility in basis the $3 or $4 number that we see in the future has little bearing on the day-to-day or day ahead or real-time basis differential.
And so we don't make a habit of hedging the fuel separating apart from the electric output.
We match that.
And from that point of view sparks have been pretty robust and the basis has been pretty robust for us.
And you've seen an effort 2 quarters in a row right for different reasons.
And that's one of the themes we're trying to highlight in our discussions with investors and here on this call that it goes to the question that Michael asked before our competitive positioning is one of having good assets in good locations that could take advantage of the volatility in the market through our natural long position.
And it's not just as simple as okay power prices at the western hub of $39 and PEG has got this amount of open position and let's multiply it by those 2 numbers.
Caroline chime in here as well.
And one other thing to keep in mind Shahriar we've talked about this as you may recall earlier this year when you look at and try to estimate approximate forward basis you can get to some numbers that we see as well in the low single-digits but when the demand has been there and there's been issues of congestion you've seen that basis be higher in the closer to real time.
And so by having the assets open in our positioning we've been able to capture some of that volatility in basis.
And we have a slide in some of our investor materials that talks about that in terms of seeing how volatile that basis has been our ability to capture that volatility as we make our assets available is something else that our team is very focused on.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just maybe just one last question on that.
If you get to a period where Marcellus just keeps producing and you don't really get a lot of gas being shipped from the Gulf in that basis of what you're seeing sort of expands because we've seen an expansion over the past several weeks.
Is there a potential impact that you can see on Quarks and some of the nuclear economics if you get to a period where the forward curves continue to trade at a discount? Yes I think that there's no denying that.
I mean clearly our gas fleet will do better but to the extent that overall prices come down and Quarks compress then you'll see an impact on our nuclear fleet.
There are no further questions at this time.
Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
So just to recap another strong quarter we believe.
Power actually eked out a couple million dollar improvement over last year which is a nice change in the trend line of Power.
And utility right on track with the double-digit earnings growth that we've talked about largely driven by great progress on the transmission construction program.
And looking longer term we're pleased with the dialogue we have with BPU staff on the Energy Strong proposal.
We're pleased with the dialogue we're having with folks over at LIPA on how we might be able to enhance that relationship even before it begins.
And with that well we look forward to seeing many of you in several of the upcoming conferences that we'll be at in August and in September so we'll see you in person very soon.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you operator.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may disconnect and thank you for participating.
Good morning.
My name is Brian and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Service Enterprise's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Ms.
Lally you may begin your conference.
Thank you Brian.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for participating in our call this morning.
We understand it's a very busy day for earnings.
But as you are aware we released our third quarter 2013 earnings statement earlier today both the release and attachments are posted on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail the operating results by company for the quarter.
And our 10-Q for the period ended September 30 2013 is expected to be filed shortly.
I won't go through the full disclaimer statement for the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results.
But as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
Although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless we are of course required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or other filings for a discussion of the factors that may cause results to differ from management projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
And joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and CFO.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ralph? Thank you Kathleen and thank you everyone for joining us today.
It's hard to believe that it was 1 year ago when we were reporting results for the third quarter of 2012 while we were responding to the damage to our system caused by Super Storm Sandy.
Our Utility PSE&amp;G restored service to 2.1 million customers within 10 days and PSEG Power's assets you will recall was severely tested as well but performed so as to ensure that electricity was available to every one of those 2.1 million customers as they were being restored.
Both companies in the past year have embarked on programs to strengthen their systems.
But enough of the past.
It's with great sense of satisfaction and in fact it's somewhat remarkable when looking back at what we faced at that time that I can report to you strong operating earnings for the quarter -- third quarter 2013 and in fact the 9 months of 2013.
And on top of that I can report to you this morning an increase in our operating earnings guidance for the full year from what had initially been $2.25 to $2.50 per share to our new guidance range of $2.40 to $2.55 per share.
So earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2013 of $0.76 per share compared with operating earnings of $0.75 per share earned in 2012 third quarter.
We've delivered solid results that are consistent with our operating objective.
And once again it is due to the tireless efforts of a dedicated workforce that we are on track to meet our near- and long-term targets for capital investment and operational efficiency and that we can raise our guidance for full year operating earnings.
Our shareholders continue to realize the benefits earnings from the expansion of our investment in transmission and distribution while our customers enjoy the improvements and reliability that come along with it.
PSE&amp;G's $3.4 billion transmission investment program includes 5 major transmission lines that require substantial citing and logistical support.
Yet all projects are on-time and on-budget and scheduled to be operational during 2014 through 2015.
Since PSE&amp;G began its transmission expansion program in 2009 its investment in transmission has grown to represent 28% of rate base at the end of 2012.
This represents a net investment of $2.5 billion and expected to grow to represent approximately 40% of PSE&amp;G's rate base at the end of 2015 or an investment approximating $4.8 billion.
As I've already mentioned the investment in these major transmission projects will further enhance reliability for our customer.
Shifting our attention to PSEG Power for a moment.
Power made an impressive comeback restoring operations at most of its peaking generating stations to pre-Sandy levels to assure their availability during the critical summer months.
And Power continues to benefit from its favorable location.
Now in the past when we referred to Power's locational value it was typically a reference to the benefits associated with assets in the East located close to the load and of course this remains true.
But now Power is also benefiting from our location which gives us access to low-cost gas in the Marcellus Basin through our gas pipeline and storage contract.
PSE&amp;G's residential customers are the primary beneficiaries of this contractor position and for that reason PSE&amp;G announced last week that it will be providing a 2-month bill credit for its residential gas customers that will reduce their typical monthly bill by 33% in both November and December of this year.
However to the extent that we affirm pipeline capacity in excess of the need for serving residential customers this firm transportation capacity may be used and in fact is used to supply Power's generation fleet under a BPU-approved agreement.
Power configured its firm gas transmission capability over the past 15 years with the objective of building a network at the most liquid supply hub to support the needs of its customer.
PSEG Power as a result is one of the largest shippers of gas from the Marcellus Basin.
As new interstate pipelines become operational later this year they will provide an additional outlet for some of the Marcellus supply.
We believe however that Power should continue to experience periods of higher sparks spread given PSEG Power's gas transportation condition.
Power's earnings are currently benefiting from favorable prices it receives on capacity located in PJM.
We were very pleased that the U.S.
District Courts in Maryland and New Jersey ruled an amendment that preserves competitive wholesale generation market.
We believe that a competitive market is the best approach for ensuring there's a sufficient supply of electric capacity to meet customer demand at the lowest court -- cost.
The court's position is not expected to have an impact on markets over the near term.
PJM has and will continue to address improvements in market design.
It's important however that the market rules are understood and the playing field is leveled to support new investment when needed over the long term.
Now as I've stated already our strong operating performance is due to the dedication shown by our employees to meeting our corporate objective.
This dedication has been recognized with the recently-approved enhancement to our contract to operate the Long Island Power Authority's transmission and distribution system.
The contract enhancement will allow Power's energy resources and trade group to manage LIPA's electric dispatch and fuel procurement needs in 2015 and provide for an increase in our management fee in 2016.
The agreement remains contingent on LIPA receiving a private letter ruling from the IRS on the continued tax exempt status of its debt.
We also remain focused on securing approval for PSE&amp;G's Energy Strong proposal.
At this moment 74 municipalities and 7 county governments have submitted resolutions to the Board of Public Utilities in support of our proposal.
Public hearings have been held and we expect the proposal to receive careful consideration given the opportunity to improve the resiliency of the distribution system with little net impact on the customer's bill due to the coincidental expiration of various other charges.
Now for the year PSE&amp;G's on track to provide double-digit growth in earnings on increased investment in transmission as PSEG Power's result benefit from the strong locational advantages I've already described.
We made a move several years ago to use the strength of our balance sheet to invest primarily in our more stable regulated business in ways that meet customer needs as we also sought to protect the upside of our strong merchant business.
Our focus is yielding returns and we're well-positioned to meet the needs of our customers and to perform for our shareholders.
I'll turn the call over to Caroline to review our operating results in greater detail and then I'll rejoin her at the end to answer your questions.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
I'll review our quarterly operating earnings as well as the outlook for full year operating results by subsidiary company.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2013 of $0.76 per share versus operating earnings of $0.75 per share in last year's third quarter.
For the 9 months ended September 30 we reported operating earnings of $2.09 per share versus $2.03 per share last year.
Slides 4 and 5 in our webcast deck provide a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter and the year-to-date.
We have provided as always a waterfall chart on Slide 10 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on Slide 12 provides you with the changes in operating earnings by each business on a year-to-date basis.
I'll now review each company in more detail and I'll start with Power.
As shown on Slide 14 PSEG Power reported operating earnings for the third quarter of $0.43 per share compared with $0.43 per share 1 year ago.
Power's third quarter earnings benefited from higher PJM capacity prices an improvement in the market price of energy a decline in the supply cost of gas and a strong operating performance.
Before reviewing the earnings in detail I want to spend some time on Power's gas position.
Power currently sells wholesale natural gas under a full requirement Basic Gas Supply Service or BGSS contract with PSE&amp;G to meet the gas supply requirements of PSE&amp;G's residential customers.
Power has configured its contractual arrangements with interstate pipelines over the years which amount to $1.3 billion cubic feet per day of firm transportation capacity to meet its obligations under the BGSS contract.
Approximately 46% of PSE&amp;G's peak daily gas requirement is provided from Power's firm transportation capacity which is available every day of the year.
Power satisfies the remainder of PSE&amp;G's requirements in storage contracts LNG seasonal purchases and other sources of supply.
The transportation contracts source gas from both the Marcellus Basin at about 0.6 BCF per day and the Gulf Coast at about 0.7 BCF per day.
This supply is supplemented with 0.9 Bcf per day of storage deliverability from a total storage capacity of about 76 billion cubic feet.
But the primary beneficiary of these contractual arrangements as I mentioned is the firm utility customer.
When capacity beyond daily demand and storage injections is available it may be used to serve the gas supply needs of Power's generation fleet under a BPU-approved agreement.
Over the years having firm transportation contracts for gas has provided Power with direct and indirect market benefit.
The firm gas contracts and Power's electric hedging strategy have allowed Power to take advantage of market volatility created by weather and supplier positions.
Gas market volatility also has an impact on the electric market and can affect the value of base [ph] as well as the value of ancillary services provided by Power's generation fleet.
We experienced this favorable impact on earnings of the volatility earlier this year as we have in past years in varying degrees.
And you'll recall we discussed this on the first quarter call.
Because production from the Marcellus Basin has increased faster than the availability of infrastructure to move the gas the cost of gas from the Marcellus relative to other basins has declined in 2013 particularly since July of this year.
The cost decline has occurred at a time of low heating demand while storage was being filled to meet the needs of residential customers in the upcoming winter heating season.
Excess supply is normally available in the third quarter and this year was available to meet the needs of our generating fleet.
So you should think of Power's firm transportation contract providing benefits in the following order: Utility customers are first in line including the need to fill storage in the summer months.
Then to the extent supply exist in excess of these firm customer needs Power would be able to make off-system sales a large portion of which benefit the Utility customer.
And lastly provide gas for its generation fleet.
Customer demand and the use of these gas assets will differ by season of the year and is largely dependent on the weather.
The ability of generation to access the low-cost Marcellus supply is more likely to occur during the summer months and the shoulder periods for the reasons I just noted.
So now I'll provide you with more detail behind Power's third quarter operating earnings.
During the third quarter Power's combined cycle fleet realized spark spreads which were approximately 40% to 45% greater than what it realized in the third quarter of 2012 the direct benefit of its Marcellus position.
Power's result also benefited from the favorable impact with higher overall market prices for natural gas and an improvement in PS Zone basis had on spot market prices for energy.
So combined the improvement in the wholesale price of energy and a decline in fuel cost added $0.04 per share to earnings quarter-over-quarter with the majority of the benefit coming from the Marcellus impact.
An increase in capacity prices improved Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.11 per share.
The improvement in capacity revenue and wholesale energy margins more than offset the $0.10 per share decline in quarter-over-quarter earnings from a reduction in the average price on hedge volumes.
A reduction in generation volumes as a result of more normal weather and the maintenance-related outage at the gas-fired Bethlehem Energy Center or BEC reduced Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons by $0.02 per share.
The major maintenance outage at BEC which concluded in October resulted in an increase in Power's operating and maintenance expense exclusive of storm-related activity and reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons by $0.04 per share.
Taxes and other items added about $0.01 per share to quarter-over-quarter earnings in Power.
Volumes declined by 5.4% in the quarter.
There were more normal weather conditions and the BEC maintenance outage reduced output from the fossil fleet by 10% in the quarter.
The nuclear fleet maintained its strong operating performance with an average capacity factor of 91% in the quarter and 93.2% for the 9 months ended September.
While volumes were lower overall performance was strong including excellent summer availability.
The combination of higher capacity prices and lower fuel costs resulted in gross margins for Power of approximately $51 per megawatt hour in the third quarter versus gross margins of $47 per megawatt hour in the year-ago period.
Remember capacity prices increased to an average of $244 per megawatt-day from $153 per megawatt-day on June 1 of this year and those higher prices remain in effect through May 31 2014.
Slide 19 in your deck provides detail on Power's realized growth margin.
Power continues to forecast output for both 2013 and 2014 of between 53 and 55 terawatt-hours.
Output for the fourth quarter of approximately 13 to 14 terawatt hours this year is 70% to 75% hedged at an average price of $50 per megawatt-hour.
Of 2014 forecast output Power has hedged approximately 65% to 70% at an average price of $48 per megawatt hour.
Power has hedged approximately 35% to 40% of 2015's forecast generation of 52 to 54 terawatt hour at an average price of $48 per megawatt hour.
Power's forecast of total generation output in each of the next 2 years is unchanged from prior guidance.
The percentage of generation hedged in each of the next 2 years is greater than our prior forecast and the average price of Energy hedge has declined by $1 per megawatt hour.
The changes reflect both an upward adjustment to the forecasted BGS-related hedges as well as an increase in the percentage of energy hedged at PJM West prices.
The data for 2014 now assumes BGS volumes of about 11 terawatt hours versus prior guidance of 10 terawatt hours as customer switching to third-party suppliers have slowed during the year.
Power continues to assume BGS-related load and hedges in 2013 will represent about 12 terawatt hours of generation for this year.
Results for the remainder of the year will continue to be influenced by higher capacity prices as well as a decline in the average price of our hedges.
We also continue to forecast an increase in Power's quarter-over-quarter O&amp;M expense given a refueling outage at our 100%-owned Cold Creek nuclear facility currently underway as well as the maintenance work at BEC which concluded as I mentioned earlier in October.
Based on the performance of Power through the year including the third quarter we have raised the forecast range of Power's operating earnings for 2013 to $630 million to $685 million from $535 million to $600 million.
Let's now turn to PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2013 of $0.33 per share compared with $0.30 per share for the third quarter of 2012.
Utility's third quarter earnings reflect increased revenue associated with an increased level of investment.
Higher transmission revenue effective on January 1 2013 increased quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.04 per share.
Revenue from investments made under PSE&amp;G's distribution capital infrastructure investment program contributed $0.01 per share to earnings in the quarter.
Electric demand in the third quarter was influenced by weather which was hotter than normal but cooler than the weather conditions experienced in the year-ago quarter.
Also demand for electricity continues to be impacted by customer conservation and a slowly-improving economic environment.
Weather normalized electric sales led by a decline on the residential sector are estimated to have declined by 2.3% in the third quarter.
Sales of gas although not as important in the third quarter as the demand for electricity increased 10.4% from year-ago levels and year-to-date are 1.9% higher than last year.
This continues the pattern we've seen this year and talked about earlier and could be reflective of customers' adjustment to an overall lower cost of gas.
You'll note PSE&amp;G announced last week that it would be providing its residential customers with a 2-month bill credit that will reduce the typical monthly bill by approximately 33% in both November and December.
And this is on top of the ongoing 39% reduction in BGSS rate that have been announced over the past 4 years.
The net impact on earnings from weather and the change in sales was a reduction in quarter-over-quarter earnings of $0.02 per share.
A slight increase in distribution-related O&amp;M and depreciation expense was offset by a decline in interest expense and other items.
PSE&amp;G is investing $3.4 billion in transmission-related programs over the period from 2013 through 2015.
This program which as Ralph mentioned includes 5 major transmission lines remains on-time and on-budget.
All 5 lines are expected to be operational over 2014 to 2015.
And PSE&amp;G filed an annual update of its revenue requirements associated with the transmission investment program with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in mid-October.
If accepted transmission revenue in 2014 would increase by $176 million at the start of next year.
PSE&amp;G's control of its operating expenses and recovery of its transmission investment capital on a formula rate basis should continue to allow the company to earn its authorized return.
We're tightening our forecast of PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2013 from $585 million to $600 million from the prior $580 million to $635 million.
Results from the year will be influenced by a full-year increase in transmission revenue weaker demand and the absence of the negative impact of Super Storm Sandy on sales and O&amp;M in the fourth quarter.
We continue to anticipate double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's operating earnings this year and through 2015 based on approved programs.
And we'll update you on expectations for 2014 through 2016 in February on our fourth quarter call.
Let me now turn to Energy Holdings and Enterprise.
PSEG Energy Holdings together with the parent reported operating earnings of $1 million for the third quarter of 2013 versus operating earnings of $10 million or $0.02 per share during the third quarter of 2012.
Results for the quarter reflect the continued monetization of assets within Holding's portfolio and the absence of a gain on an asset sale that occurred in the year-ago quarter.
As many of you are aware the terms of Energy's recent announcement to acquire Edison Mission Energy or EME as part of an EME Chapter 11 reorganization would protect the entirety of Holding's equity value in the Powerton and Joliet leverage leases.
The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2014.
We have adjusted our forecast of PSEG Energy Holdings and Enterprise full year operating earnings to 0 to $10 million from the prior $25 million to $35 million.
The updated guidance reflects the impact of revised estimates for the legacy holding's portfolio and related taxes completely separate from merchant energy leases which are expected to more than offset the benefits to operating earnings from the commercial operation of Holdings' sixth solar facility in the fourth quarter.
Recall that our strategy in Holdings is the wind down the portfolio reduce risk and sell off assets.
And we think we've been very successful to date in achieving this strategy.
Next I'd like to briefly mention PSEG Long Island.
The Board of Directors for the Long Island Power Authority or LIPA recently approved amendments to PSEG Long Island's original operating services agreement for LIPA's transmission and distribution system.
When all regulatory approvals are received we will begin to operate under the new contract.
The revised terms are expected to add an estimated $0.04 to $0.05 per share to PSEG's earnings when fully effective in 2016 versus the original agreement which provided a run rate of earnings of about $0.03 per share.
Lastly on the financing front.
We continue to be in a strong position to finance our capital program.
At the end of September we had approximately $448 million in cash on hand.
Debt represented about 41% of PSEG's consolidated capital with debt at Power approximating 28% of its capital base.
Power's cash flow remains strong and PSE&amp;G's cash generation has improved with its ability to earn its authorized returns on increased levels of capital investment.
As we've said before we can finance our existing capital program without the need to issue equity.
And we can finance an expanded capital program that includes spending on Energy Strong-related projects also without the need to issue equity.
And that still leaves us with the opportunity for modest and sustainable growth in the common dividend as we look to the future.
So finally just to reiterate as Ralph said earlier we're pleased to be raising our guidance for the forecast of operating earnings for the full year of 2013 to $2.40 to $2.55 per share.
That concludes my remarks.
And Brian I'll now turn it over to you to introduce the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Kit Konolige of ETC Finances (sic) [BGC Partners].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of areas.
On the decline in demand 2.3% in the third quarter.
Can you give us what that is year-to-date? And a little color maybe on what you think is going on there and what the outlook is going forward from here? Yes.
So year-to-date it was 2.7%.
Remember these are weather-normalized numbers and I think I've done 26 of these quarterly calls and I always give this same caveat which is weather-normalization is as much art as it is a science.
But we've had some extreme weather conditions so trying to back that out is not always easy.
The big change this quarter was in the residential sector that was down 2.9%.
The good news if you will is we're primarily a commercial sector-driven service territory and that was down 1% in the third quarter which is a little bit stronger than -- which is less of a down that it had been prior year to date.
It's a combination of a slowly recovering economy.
The unemployment levels in New Jersey are well-published at about 8.2% 8.3%.
We've seen some modest recovery in housing starts but the status didn't go down as far as others in 2008 and hasn't sprung back as quickly as others.
But it's a combination we think of economic factors and just greater use of energy efficiency.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Ralph do you see that? Is there a -- some kind of structural change going on here where the new normal is going to be that there's negative sales? Or do you expect this to be cyclical and bounce back? And what do you see as the say 3- to 5-year growth rate? Yes so what we've told regulators is that we think that the -- certainly the old days of loan growth being proportionally GDP are gone.
And the more recent year of load growth being half of GDP are likely to not be the case anymore.
And that is an important part of why we are so insistent upon contemporaneous returns on our significant investment approach in Utility.
Remember as you well know Kit PSE&amp;G's earnings growth are not driven by load growth.
Our earnings growth are triggered by reliability enhancements infrastructure replacement and enhanced resiliency and the old system of regulatory lag giving you some load growth to kind of carry you into the next rate case is one that doesn't work when you have 0-ish load growth as we've been experiencing and 0-ish is obviously being a little bit kind when we've just reported negative numbers.
So whatever the future holds in terms of load growth which looks to be something that is less than it has been in the past I think that buttresses our argument for the need for clause recovery mechanism while we're making significant and necessary capital investment.
So PSE&amp;G is not about load growth.
It's about rate-based growth.
And the regulatory system has to reflect the new load growth paradigm.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one other area if I could.
Can you just give us a little more color obviously you mentioned on Energy Strong the resolutions that have been passed by the local governments.
Clearly you're getting a lot of support there.
Is -- has it become -- been mentioned at all in the gubernatorial race? And assuming it's not going to get done until after the election when -- what kind of timing do you think we have on getting approval? Sure Kit.
So remember that 2 of the last 3 major storms occurred within 1 week of election day.
They were the Super Storms Sandy and the Halloween snowstorm of 2012 and third storm I think that was Irene which was in August.
So mayors and elected officials know only too well the inconvenience and problems associated with local residents being without power.
So as a result we've had these 81 jurisdictions a combination counties and municipalities rally to show up at public hearings which went extremely well I would characterize it in the months of September and early October.
But it wasn't limited to local jurisdictions that showed up in support.
We had strong support from a myriad of business associations hospital associations and labor union.
The schedule now calls for evidentiary hearings to take place I believe it's in February through the beginning of March.
So on a fully-litigated track this won't be resolved until the end of March in the first quarter.
But we remain hopeful that we could settle this because the conversations with the staff have been very very reasonable.
I mean this is a big investment and they're asking good questions about engineering studies and expectations for what might be the range of cost associated with some of the proposals that we've made.
I am not aware of comments that have been made by the candidates.
I think early on the governor said he expects the BPU to give us the full and thorough review kind of the sort of reasonable and rationale approach that you would expect from this governor just in light of the complexity of it and the fact that he has a full BPU that's supposed to look after this.
And I don't believe it's hit the radar screen of his opponent.
I'm looking around the room here and everyone's shaking their head no.
So I don't think I missed the article that might have mentioned it.
So seeing that we're still hopeful that we'll come through some settlement agreement around the end of the year.
And as long as you allow me to define the end of the year as possibly including January I feel very confident of that.
That's where things stand right now.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess thanks for all the detail on the gas positioning and kind of the benefit you guys are seeing from basis differentials.
But Caroline I prefer to think about this a little more.
What is the full year benefit you guys are seeing? If you got about $0.04 in the third quarter if you look at kind of the basis over the year how much accumulative benefit have you guys seen this year? Yes.
Well thanks Dan.
So you remember some of the things I said in my remarks because of the way in which our contract structure works and the primary benefit is always to the PSE&amp;G residential customer you're going to see us get these benefits when they're available in those sort of shoulder seasons or seasons where the residential customer doesn't need a lot of heat like the summer.
So we saw the Marcellus prices really come down this summer.
That was sort of the single biggest drop we saw and that -- it lies immediately right into our shoulder summer period.
So the $0.04 I just described in this quarter the majority of it is coming from the Marcellus is the quarter in which you saw the gas to electric benefit from Marcellus have the biggest impact on us this year.
So that's the way to think about it from sort of a gas to electric has primarily been this quarter and you wouldn't expect to see on the gas to electric a lot of benefit in the winter because the benefit's going -- the pipeline is going to the residential customer.
That being said remember in the first quarter we talked about the fact that some of the volatility that was happening in gas given our position and given our ability to sell off capacity and off-system sales when there is a need actually contributed $0.04 per share quarter-over-quarter in the first quarter.
But that was not the gas to electric right? That was the BGSS itself in terms of its ability to cover -- recover our fixed cost which we hadn't in the first quarter of '12 because you may remember it's so mild that winter.
So the way to think about it going forward the way I'll encourage you to think about is you'll see us to the extent that this differential persists.
And again we don't know how long it will persist but we have probably the single best positioning to garner it when it persists.
It's going to be in shoulder periods through summer periods where the residential customer doesn't have that gas demand.
We didn't see it as much this spring because that Marcellus price drop really happened in July.
So going forward I'd encourage you to look for it in the sort of spring and fall periods or shoulder periods but from gas to electric it's been this quarter that you've really seen it come through the P&amp;L.
I think one of the other things we've noticed Dan that's been quite favorable and is difficult to quantify is that to the extent that that benefit is not available to Power that's because residential gas demand is high which would tend to mean that we have some severe weather conditions which benefit Power and Utility in other ways.
And to the extent that there is not a strong demand which would suggest that there's a weather condition that is not beneficial to Power and Utility then the basis differential seems to expand which offsets that negative outcome.
So there's also this kind of natural hedge phenomenon taking place that seems to work to our favor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just done with it your $0.04 benefit if spreads stayed where they are today kind of in the second quarter we could replicate something like we saw in the third quarter of this year because that'd be another low gas demand period.
Is that a reasonable way of thinking about things? So I don't want to forecast the specific right? Because it depends on what happens to that differential and of course recognizing as we said there are some lines that are coming in right into the New York region the Spectra line the Williams line.
So not certain how that basis will actually move in the future.
But to the extent the basis is there we think we're well-positioned to capture it but I wouldn't want to get specific on a number because that all depends on weather conditions and everything else.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And I guess just along those lines.
Is that going to -- with this opportunity or maybe a more obvious of an opportunity are you guys going to reevaluate how you hedge the gas generation in the future maybe the structuring of the hedges or the magnitude of the hedges? So I don't think so Dan for this reason right? Because if you think about where I was citing the benefit it's the spark spread widening that we received the realized spark spread at that 40% to 45% level.
Remember as we look at our hedge table as we always break out for you the base load versus the intermediate this combined cycle that's the part of the fact that you see us do very little hedging in advance of the current year.
So for example it's about 10% hedge that whole category right now for next year that's typically what you see us optimize in the year.
So to the extent that we see combined cycle has opportunities here those opportunities are still going to be available to us and we're going to hedge in essentially the same way for that part of the stack which is in the year.
And in the year is where we tend to have some visibility.
Our next question comes from the line of Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to understand the contract structure of the Marcellus gas at Power.
Is the way to look at it that the firm pipeline capacity cost is borne by the PSE&amp;G ratepayers and the -- that off-system sales when the gas isn't needed for them kind of accrues to Power as a variable cost with no operating cost associated with it? Sure Neel.
So good question.
So the cost of the pipeline is passed through to the residential customers.
So it's not a net cost to power so the residential customer is covering the full cost of distribution as you would expect nor is the pass-through of the gas to the residential customer a profit center for Power.
It simply goes through to the residential customer.
When there is excess beyond what the residential customers need then we have the ability to make off-system sales and when we make those off-system sales the value that's garnered there is shared with the PSE&amp;G customer.
In fact the majority goes to the PSE&amp;G customer and then there's a small amount that's left for Power.
So think of Power as providing this on a pass-through basis to the customer covers -- customers covers the cost.
Power doesn't make money on the actual throughput.
Then to the extent there's excess there's value garnered from the off-system.
Majority goes to the customer residential customer and a minority of that comes to the bottom line for Power.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So is the way we should think about it is that as these contracts kind of roll off you'll re-contract them just from the perspective that PSE&amp;G needs Marcellus gas to supply LDC and customers? Or is it more of a kind speculative bet that Marcellus pricing is lower? No.
So good question as well.
It's not a speculative bet.
So if you remember I think Ralph said this in his remark.
We set up this network of our contracting about 15 years ago.
And it was designed and developed to cover the PSE&amp;G load from liquid sources.
So it's not speculative but it's also not short term.
These are actually very long-term evergreen-like contracts that we have the rights to together with the contracts we have for storage.
The entire design was to support our PSE&amp;G customers.
The real story and then the story we've been telling this quarter is as has always been the case when the customer needs are lower and the excess can be used for PSEG Power we do that.
It turns out this summer that that's turned out to be very beneficial because of Marcellus but the original design and purpose which has been for many years and will continue to be for many years is to pass this value through to our customers and then if there's excess and only then if there's excess we use it for PSEG Power.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith of GPS (sic) [UBS].
Research Division</strong> So switching topic a bit if you will.
I wanted to focus quickly on this switching phenomena you described.
And I suppose the question is is it yet just fundamentally the offers out there is just less competitive and there's less headroom in a rising capacity price environment? Or is it rather that we're reaching some sort of floor in customer migration and there's something of customer lethargy to be explained [indiscernible]? Julien as you know we're not in the retail business.
But our response would be that this is probably a combination of those 2 that your most price-sensitive customers were the first to go.
And now just having folks switch is a bit more of a challenge.
[indiscernible] a decline in BGS prices so our headroom has been single-digit delta throughout the year.
And that headroom has to be something that your cost of customer acquisition lives under.
So it's not a business position that we're in.
But I think it's a combination of 2 things you mentioned.
Research Division</strong> And just to be clear what level of switching did that correspond to for '14? I'm not sure I caught that.
As a percentage basis? Research Division</strong> Yes if you don't mind.
Yes percentage basis we don't forecast that any longer.
But I can tell you the numbers that we see in terms of this is the overall aggregate switching from BGS right? Or in that sort of mid-high 30 percentage point range and that has not really changed in the past few quarters.
So we used to try and track it every quarter and give you targets for it.
What we think makes more sense is to give you those targets we now give you for BGS which is you may remember from my remarks we just raised by 1 terawatt-hour for next year.
So it's not just coming through to be that much more switching.
And the reason really is as Ralph said the headroom just isn't that large.
Whatever the retailers are doing on those dynamics in their profitability obviously a question for them.
But it appears to have leveled out and of course as BGS prices have come down right the average price came down $1 when we started this year's BGS season.
Given was what was rolling off and rolling on there's just not that much difference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at the Long Island opportunity here.
Just to think about perhaps beyond the fees that you could receive here can you be a little bit more explicit about the investment opportunities perhaps rate based-like or otherwise that you can earn on? Sure.
So Julien so let's count -- and I try to point out the $0.03 in '14 grows to $0.07 to $0.08 by '16.
And then there is a provision in the contract that requires that we propose a concept.
It really is just a concept by July 1 '14 on the Utility 2.0.
But what's interesting about it is that it describes in the contract in words that are similar to many of the things that PSE&amp;G has done successfully in New Jersey under various clause mechanisms and those are renewable energy resources energy efficiency and behind-the-meter services.
So we have a team of people looking at that.
That's not something that we can forecast a number right now or even a time frame.
But the proposal is due from us to the LIPA Board on July -- by July 1 of next year.
And we're excited about that because there are some good things we've been able to do for customers in New Jersey that we'd like to do for customers on Long Island and I'm sure they get fair treatment as a compensation for doing so.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly not to beat up the subject one more time but on the gas issue looking towards '14 rather than '13 I presume a full year of sort of wider gas basis deposit to positive but meanwhile you could have some offsets from new gas infrastructure reducing that basis.
Is that the right -- a fair way to characterize full year impact in '14? Yes I think that's very fair Julien.
I guess the way that I think about this all-in is we don't know what the basis will turn out to be.
Obviously that's determined by the market.
We -- obviously we serve our residential customers first.
But we have a large position as you saw from what we put in the slides here right of 0.6 Bcf per day of shale supply.
So we have nice opportunity.
And to the extent that that opportunity presents itself in terms of a differential we think we're actually pretty optimally-positioned to take advantage.
And so in those periods where the customers need the PSE&amp;G are low.
To the extent that basis is still there we're going to be able to capture it.
So I think that -- I think all-in that's the way I encourage you to think about it.
We can't predict it anymore than you can predict it but when it's there to be garnered we garner it.
We garner it first for our E&amp;G customers but after that we garner it for Power.
And we're pretty pleased about that opportunity of positioning which wasn't developed for that reason but has now given us a real opportunity.
And our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon.
Research Division</strong> Guys your balance sheet capacity is still quite robust and all the more so by this -- bolstered by the strong performance you're seeing at PEG Power.
If you don't get approval for the full $3.8 billion of Energy Strong would that spare balance sheet capacity then be redeployed into perhaps some more robust growth in the dividend? Yes so Greg so we maintain that our #1 priority is reinvesting in the business.
As you know in addition to Energy Strong we have some transmission resiliency programs that we are in pursuit of with PJM.
So you would see us make sure that we're exhausting all regulated growth opportunities.
Then we've been talking to PJM as is everyone else and very publicly about the 2012 RTEP enhancements that were pushed forth.
That was grandfathered on the FERC Order 1000 so those projects would come to us as an incumbent.
We proposed some projects coming out of Artificial Island as on FERC Order 1 000 basis as well.
So I'm running through a laundry list of regulated Utility investments that are beyond Energy Strong.
But of course our primary focus right now is over the near term getting Energy Strong.
Having said that yes #2 on the hit parade is the dividend.
And then #3 on the hit parade in anticipation of somebody else following up would be share repurchase.
But I would put far and away #1 is reinvesting in the business and then #2 would be dividend growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Two more questions.
First is with the decision on LCAPP does that change your calculus on whether or not you would bid sea worn[ph] into the next PJM base residual auction? So partially right? What it does is it reduces the risk of a competitively-bid unit having challenges come through subsidized plants.
We would do the same kind of return analysis we use the forward price curve for the near term and then we use our fundamental models over the longer term and then we have our own internal hurdle rate that I think we've been applying in a fairly disciplined way.
So those numbers have to pass muster first and foremost.
And then of course there's the qualitative discussion which is all around "Well gee what do we think the rules will be like x years from now." And the recent court decision helped mitigate some of that risk but they don't help in terms of the market fundamentals.
By the way Greg at the risk of beating a dead horse I want to go back to your first question.
Even with all of the Energy Strong and transmission opportunities that we see at the risk of stating the obvious the balance sheet is strong enough to support modest and sustain growth in that dividend.
I think just your question was sort of without those things would you do more and I was responding in that vein earlier.
Research Division</strong> No that was clear.
Last question.
Is the lack of load growth in the service territory perhaps to some degree related to the very high degree of rooftop solar penetration you have in the state? And if so can you comment on trends in further penetration of distributed generation mainly rooftop solar? And I guess that dovetails with the commentary on how the abstract markets are performing? Yes so clearly all of these things are contributing factor.
To Kit's point before I mean there's energy efficiency there's lack of a very strong and robust economic response.
There's distributed generation.
I think we're still the #1 developer of solar energy in the state.
And when the program is finished it's about 200 megawatts or so -- 180 megawatts with a capacity factor of about 12%.
So from an energy sales point of view it's really fairly miniscule which is kind of the challenge right around solar that when you take that numerator which is sizable in terms of the capital invested and you divide by energy output which is not so sizable you get a pretty high cost of solar electricity which is something that we're very clear with our regulators.
That in pursuit of these RPS spends that one has to be mindful of the rate impact to the customer from the point of view of cents per kilowatt-hour.
So short answer of course will be yes it's a contributor.
Longer answer would be if you do the arithmetic it's not that big a contributor.
Research Division</strong> And going forward do you see penetration continuing at the current sort of rate? Or do you see solar investment both from utilities like yourself and independents declining? Yes I think that the real challenge -- that's a tough question to answer.
The real challenge is if we're determined to live by the Renewable Portfolio Standards then the question I would pose to the policymaker is when we originally test that standard it's under the assumption that as we nurture the industry in the early stages it would then achieve certain economic efficiencies either in the form of lower cost of panels or in the form of higher efficiency rates that it would become kind of self-sustaining and after it prices would come down and probably the ITC would go away at the federal level.
We've seen those panel prices come down but it has not come down -- those prices have not come down enough to be economically competitive with $4 gas.
And I think they're beginning to see the first example of that reflected in our own solar filing right? We went in and asked for $800 million plus over 5 years and we got $440 million over third -- 3 years.
And I think based on conversations I had with policymakers that was kind of a reflection of yes we can't do this forever.
We need to start seeing some of those expectations be realized in terms of the economic viability of the technology.
And that makes perfect sense.
I mean it's just -- I'm a huge solar fan.
We've invested over $1 billion in solar.
But we can't keep doing this at the price point that it's been achieving and do it at the RPS levels that we hope to see in 2020 or 2023[ph].
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Fremont of Jefferies and Company.
Research Division</strong> So if I look at the -- you're expecting I think $85 million to $95 million of uplift at PEG Power versus where you had been previously.
If I look at the $0.04 in the third quarter and then the other gas-related item in the first quarter that makes up roughly I guess $70 million.
So what makes up -- would gas in some way shape or form also make up the remaining piece of the $85 million to $95 million? Or is that coming from somewhere else? So Paul in terms of the -- you've correctly pointed out the factors that we've highlighted and some of which we talked about today gas in the first quarter and in terms of BGSS and then the $0.04 this quarter.
Remember that one of the things we have also talked about during the year is we have had some higher market prices than original expectation.
So on a year-over-year basis that's given us some uplift a little bit different than what we expected.
So prices have come up and that you see that of course across the fleet in every quarter offset by the hedges but a little bit more positive than our expectation.
So I think it's been -- we've got great operational performance.
Now we do expect that but it's certainly come through.
We did have weather that was warmer than normal this summer.
Cooler than last year but warmer than normal and you know we always plan on normal weather.
So when you put all those factors together with the benefit we've actually seen on those specific things that I called out and you just called out that's overall what really lifts us across the fleet.
So it's a confluence of factors that have all worked in our direction.
But of course which we've been able to take advantage of because of our good operational performance.
Research Division</strong> And then if I look at the BGSS volumes I guess on a steady state throughout the year roughly 75% is residential roughly 25% is nonresidential.
Would you not get the benefit for the nonresidential portion even in the winter month in terms of pipe usage? So the -- so just to clarify right for the residential customer right it's a pass-through cost.
So there's no profitability kind of either way relative to that.
And for the commercial customer that uses some of that gas and territory I think we've gone specifically into all of that.
But really think of it is in general it's sort of a formula based on market prices in a competitive market.
So I wouldn't look to that frankly as a significant source of overall earnings going forward.
Think of that as a little bit more on just a competitive market basis.
Research Division</strong> I'm still not sure.
In terms of my question my question just relates specifically to winter month.
On another word in winter month should we allocate some benefit because there's a roughly 75%-25% split where 25% of the cost -- of the volumes at least are going to customers on which you are able to make a margin.
Yes that's right.
So again a competitive sort of a market-based approach for BGSS for the nonresidential customer.
I just want to be sure to distinguish between the residential and nonresidential because there isn't margin in the structure for the residential customer.
There is some margin for us under the contract for the nonresidential customer.
But again I wouldn't look into that as a significant source of earnings and that's something we've been getting overall all the time right.
That's something that's been baked into our numbers so baked into our year-on-year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But the -- I think the price differential at -- in the Marcellus is a recent phenomena.
But what you're saying is even in months where you're at peak usage you are still -- there will still be benefit that is essentially going to benefit PEG Power from the lower cost gas.
Yes.
That's right.
That's exactly right yes.
Research Division</strong> And then if I look at third quarter I would assume third quarter would be less of a profit opportunity for you than fourth quarter because you also are dedicating a certain amount of pipe to storage delivery correct? So we are dedicating pipe to storage delivery as I mentioned.
But keep in mind you've got some going into storage but you don't have the residential customer draw.
So actually from -- if you're just looking at the issue of what kind of benefit does Marcellus give to the combined cycle the best opportunities for that are in the shoulder period where the customer demand residential PSE&amp;G customer is pulling less of the pipe right? So we definitely are filling storage.
We absolutely do that.
But given the flow that we have that you've seen in the slides in our deck we fill the storage but we still have extra room.
And so we typically fill the storage earlier in the summer month and then when we -- the storage is essentially filling up we have that extra flow on the pipe.
We can use it for our own generation or we can sell that pipe capacity to others.
So I would say when you think about the gas pipeline and the benefit you think about the potential benefit for us is the least in the winter and the most in the seasons other than the winter because you've got the least draw on the 1 class of utilization of the pipe that isn't a profit opportunity and that's the PSE&amp;G residential customer.
Research Division</strong> And then my last question just has to do with -- for the LIPA contribution you say it's $0.03 in '14 going to $0.07 to $0.08 in '16.
So in '15 should we just pick something like a nickel contribution.
In other words it goes -- I assume it goes up from the $0.03 but not quite to the $0.07 to $0.08.
That's exactly right.
You should add another $0.02....
I think operator that brings us to the noon hour.
And I know everyone's busy with earnings calls today.
So if Ralph...
Yes.
So thanks Kathleen.
So hopefully you'll notice that Carol and I and the team are quite pleased with our quarter.
We're pleased with the year-to-date.
And moreover we're greatly encouraged by our opportunities and the fact that we have the financial strength to take advantage of those opportunities and have demonstrated the execution when the opportunities come our way.
So we hope to see you all at EEI.
Thank you for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you Brian.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Jennifer and I'm your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference call Public Service Enterprise Group Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today February 20 2014 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern Standard on February 28 2014.
It will also be available as a audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participating in our call today.
As you are aware we released our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results earlier this morning.
The release and attachments as mentioned are posted on our website www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We have also posted a series of slides that detail the operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-K for the period ended December 31 2013 is expected to be filed shortly usually by the end of February.
I'm not going to read the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results.
But I do ask that you read these comments contained in our slides and on our website.
The disclaimer statement regards forward-looking statements detailing the number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change unless required by applicable securities law.
We also provide commentary with regard to the difference between operating earnings and net income reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
PSEG believes the non-GAAP financial measure of operating earnings provides a consistent and comparable measure of performance to help shareholders understand trends.
I am now going to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
And joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
And at the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] With that Ralph? Thanks you Kathleen and thanks everyone for joining us.
This is a great day for us following a great 2013 and even better 2014 and beyond.
So let's get into the details.
This morning we reported operating earnings for the full year of 2013 and operating earnings for the fourth quarter were $0.49 a share versus $0.41 a share in 2012 which brought results for the full year to $2.58 per share or 5.7% almost 6% greater than 2012's operating earnings of $2.44 per share and actually was above our guidance range of $2.40 to $2.55 per share.
I hope you'll agree that PSEG delivered outstanding results in 2013 on many levels and let me tell you about a few of them.
What made this success particularly notable is that we did it in the wake of the damage to our equipment and facilities that we sustained from Superstorm Sandy just a year earlier.
Well first of all PSEG was recognized for the 12th consecutive year as the mid-Atlantic region's most reliable electric utility and was specifically recognized by EEI for excellence in its storm response during Sandy.
It seems that we're tested every year and we excel in our response each and every time.
We maintained that focus on improving reliability throughout the year not just after the storm.
PSE&amp;G invested $1.7 billion over the past year to uprate its transmission network.
The investment is part of a long-term program that has resulted in transmission growing to represent approximately 36% of PSE&amp;G's rate base at the end of 2013.
Let me remind you that it had been only 28% of the rate base at the end of 2012.
And this work includes work on 5 major transmission lines each of which is scheduled to be operational during the course of 2014 and 2015 and each of which are on schedule and on budget.
But PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission does not end in 2015.
PSE&amp;G was assigned construction by PJM of a new transmission project that is designed to maintain the reliability of the northeastern part of our electrical grid.
This project which has an expected in-service date of June 2018 has an estimated construction cost of up to $1.2 billion.
PSE&amp;G has also started to invest in new solar capacity under the agreement we reached with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities in 2013 which will allow us to spend up to $446 million over a multiyear period and result in about 143 megawatts of new renewable energy capacity through our Solar Loan and Solar 4 All Programs.
We are still awaiting a response from the BPU on our Energy Strong proposal and as you recall we asked for approval to invest $2.6 billion over 5 years.
The investments which strengthen PSE&amp;G's distribution infrastructure provide with better intelligence on system outages and improve on the reliable service expected by customers.
Now we're still in active discussion with parties to the proceeding even while evidentiary hearings are scheduled for next Tuesday February 25 2014.
And I will give you fair notice that those negotiations are -- we are required to not disclose the details of those negotiations.
Now for the year an increase in PSE&amp;G's capital investment as well as sensible regulatory recovery mechanisms provide for contemporaneous return of our cost and return on our cost and PSE&amp;G's ability to control growth in its operating expenses all supported double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's operating earnings year-over-year.
Similarly PSEG Power also did a superb job operating its power plants and especially bringing back units that were damaged by Superstorm Sandy.
The Salem 2 nuclear unit operated at record levels and the nuclear fleet operated over 90% capacity factor for the ninth consecutive year.
Our fossil fleet achieved top decile safety performance in 2013 as the gas-fired Linden combined cycle generation plant had record-setting output and the coal fleet responded to an improvement in dark spreads.
The fleet's fuel diversity allowed it to respond to changes in the market and its dispatch flexibility allowed it to overcome the impact of planned and unplanned outages and participate in the improvement in market prices throughout the year.
And Power continues to benefit from its favorable location.
Power's earnings in 2013 benefited from the successful management of firm gas pipeline and storage contracts which provided with access to low-cost gas in the Marcellus Basin.
The contracts primarily benefit PSE&amp;G's residential customers who enjoyed a credit amounting to 33% against their gas bills in both November and December of 2013 and then they also enjoyed an additional credit of 25% against their February bill.
We'll be providing details later today about providing customers with an additional credit for the month of March.
Power has become one of the largest shippers of gas in the Marcellus Basin and under a BPU-approved agreement is able to supply Power's generation fleet when capacity is not needed to meet the needs of residential customers.
The availability of low-cost gas continued to provide a benefit to Power's earnings in the fourth quarter on top of the benefit seen earlier in the year.
Power is moving ahead with plans to increase the output and improve the performance of its existing gas product combined cycle generating capacity.
Power will be investing $150 million at the Bergen Linden and Bethlehem facilities over several years to increase the operating efficiency of the turbines at each station while adding approximately 150 megawatts of capacity.
The investment should also lengthen the time between major maintenance programs and therefore yield attractive returns.
Power's approach to managing supply risk has been affirmed during the recent period of extreme weather and volatility in the power markets.
The fuel flexibility of our fleet enabled us to maintain output during this time.
We successfully responded to record demand while our customers have benefited from our ability to pass along savings in gas costs.
In another area we negotiated a new 12-year amended and restated operation services agreement with the Long Island Power Authority which was effective at the start of this year.
The new agreement will provide for an increase in our operating fee in 2016 and beginning in 2015 Power will provide LIPA with fuel procurement and power management services.
The agreement is expected to add to our earnings provide a platform of growth for our employees and doesn't require the commitment of financial capital.
The team at PSEG Long Island hit the ground running responding to several storms since we assumed operations and will I'm sure provide customers with the service they require and enhance our reputation for reliability.
We literally had a snowstorm on January 2 24 hours after taking over the operations but the team is doing a fabulous job.
So we exceeded our expectations for earnings in 2013 and we expect earnings to remain strong in 2014.
We're providing operating earnings guidance for '14 of $2.55 to $2.75 per share.
Now our outlook reflects the impact of the emphasis placed on the anchor principles of our strategy.
First and foremost operational excellence which yields financial strength which we then deploy through a disciplined manner in new investments.
PSE&amp;G is building on a strong platform and providing the opportunity for a continuation of growth with an investment program that supports reliability and enhances resilience.
PSE&amp;G is expected to contribute more than 1/2 of 2014's estimated operating earnings.
PSEG Power continues to benefit from the flexibility of its fleet and a locational advantage.
Recent structural changes in the gas market also favor Power given our ability to take advantage of market volatility.
Power's strong financial position also allows us to respond to changes in the market.
We focus on improving operating efficiency and are investing in economically attractive capacity uprates that add to our well positioned fleet.
We remain committed to containing the growth in our operating expenses.
We will be aided in this regard by a reduction in pension expense which provides an ongoing benefit.
The commitment to funding our pension following the market decline in 2008 and an equity-oriented investment approach has brought the value of our pension at the end of 2013 to a level which is in excess of our obligations.
The improvement in return on the portfolio and an increase in the discount rate will result in our pension adding modestly to income in '14 a substantial improvement from our recent experience.
And not to be overlooked a strong investment grade credit rating and robust cash flow support our growth program without the need to issue equity.
We look ahead with optimism as demonstrated by the board's recent decision to increase the common dividend by 2.8% to the indicative annual level of $1.48 per share.
This is the 10th increase in the dividend in the last 11 years and we believe we are well positioned to provide our investors with consistent sustainable growth in the dividend.
The strong commitment and dedication shown by our employees to our customers has been a major contributor to our success and provides me with confidence in our ability to achieve our long-term goals.
I will now turn the call over to Caroline for more details on our results and will be available to answer your questions after her remarks.
Thanks Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $0.49 per share versus operating earnings of $0.41 per share in last year's fourth quarter.
Our earnings for the fourth quarter brought operating earnings for the full year to $2.58 per share versus operating earnings for 2012 of $2.44 per share.
On Slide 4 of our deck we have provided you with a reconciliation of operating earnings income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter.
As you can see on Slide 11 PSE&amp;G provided the largest contribution to earnings for the quarter.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings of $0.29 per share compared to $0.15 per share last year.
For the quarter Power reported operating earnings of $0.23 per share compared with $0.25 per share last year.
PSEG Enterprise and Other reported a loss in operating earnings of $0.03 per share compared with operating earnings of $0.01 per share in the year ago quarter.
We've provided you with waterfall charts on Slide 12 and Slide 14 to take you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year operating earnings by the major businesses.
So I'll now go into more detail on each company starting with Power.
As shown on Slide 16 PSEG Power reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter $0.23 per share compared with $0.25 per share a year ago.
The results for the quarter brought Power's full year operating earnings to $710 million or $1.40 per share compared to 2012's operating earnings of $663 million or $1.31 per share.
Power's full year operating earnings exceeded the upper end of our guidance even if we exclude the operating earnings associated with the asset transfer we undertook at year end from Holdings to Power which I'll discuss a bit later.
The earnings release as well as the earnings Slides 12 and 14 provide you with detailed analysis of the impact on Power's operating earnings quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year from changes in revenue and costs.
Power's fourth quarter operating earnings benefited from higher capacity revenues and improvement in the market price of energy on a net long position an increase in volume and a decline in the supply cost of gas.
The improvement in gross margin during the quarter nearly offset the impact on operating earnings from a larger-than-expected increase in O&amp;M expense associated with both planned and unplanned outages.
Note that part of that cost included the investment for the uprate work on the combined cycle capacity at Linden which is a source as Ralph mentioned of future additional earnings power -- for Power.
Let's now turn to operations.
Power's output increased 6.2% in the quarter from year ago level.
For the year output increased 1.8% to 53.5 terawatt hours.
You saw the fleet's fuel and dispatch flexibility during the quarter and throughout the year.
The nuclear fleet produced 29.5 terawatt hours or about 55% of total generation operating at an average capacity factor of 90.3%.
Record production from Salem 2 helped offset the impact from a refueling outage-related decline in output from our 100%-owned Hope Creek nuclear facility.
The gas-fired combined cycle fleet produced 15.9 terawatt hours in 2013 or about 30% of total generation.
Record-setting output from the Linden station helped to partially offset the impact on production from planned major maintenance work at the Bethlehem Energy Center in New York in the second half of the year.
At the coal fleet we saw an improvement in dark spreads.
So production from the baseload coal-fired stations in Pennsylvania increased 20% during the year.
Bridgeport Harbor's output increased in response to higher market prices and the New Jersey stations Hudson and Mercer primarily operated on gas throughout the year.
Overall the coal stations provided approximately 14% of the fleet's output in 2013 or 7.3 terawatt hours.
As Ralph noted earlier the gas-fired combined cycle fleet continues to benefit from its access to lower-price gas supplies in the Marcellus Basin.
Power's fleet enjoys higher spark spreads than implied by observed market prices.
And the quarter-over-quarter impact on earnings from our spark spread advantage was not as large as experienced earlier in the year but recall this is in line with our expectations given the need to meet utility customer heating demand in the winter period.
Slides 18 and 19 provide more detail on generation in the quarter and for the year.
The combination of higher capacity prices lower fuel cost and an increase in market prices on Power's unhedged position more than offset the impact of lower average price on hedges resulting in gross margins for the fourth quarter of $46 per megawatt hour equivalent to the level experienced in the year ago period.
And for the year gross margins amounted to $47 per megawatt hour versus $45 per megawatt hour last year.
Slide 21 in our deck provides detail on Power's gross margin for the quarter and the year.
Power's forecasting output for 2014 of 53 to 55 terawatt hours in line with 2013's performance.
Right now approximately 75% to 80% of anticipated production for the year is hedged at an average price of $48 per megawatt hour which compares with average hedge prices in 2013 of about $50 per megawatt hour.
Power has hedged approximately 45 to 55 of its forecast generation in 2015 totaling 53 to 55 terawatt hours at an average price of about $51 per megawatt hour.
Power's forecast of total output over 2014 and 2015 is up slightly from our prior guidance and for 2016 Power has hedged 20% to 30% of forecast production of 53 to 55 terawatt hours at an average price of $53 per megawatt hour.
The increase in the percentage of generation hedged over '14 and '15 reflects the completion of the most recent Basic Generation Service or BGS auction in New Jersey and we assume that BGS volumes represent about 11 terawatt hours in 2014 and 10 terawatt hours in 2015 compared with volumes in 2013 of approximately 12 terawatt hours.
The BGS auction result for PSE&amp;G customers for the 3-year period beginning June of this year and ending May 31 of 2017 was priced at $97 per megawatt hour.
This contract for 1/3 of the load will replace the contract for $94 per megawatt hour which expires on May 31 of 2014.
The latest auction is based on average price for energy at the PJM West hub of about $38 to $39 per megawatt hour which is similar to the base price for energy seen in the past 2 auctions.
You can see from the hedge data that Power's maintained a consistent strategy.
Baseload units were fully hedged in the current year as Power maintains open positions on its intermediate and peaking assets.
This strategy allows Power to contain the risk associated with its load following contract such as BGS while being able to participate in opportunities provided by the market.
Power's operating earnings for 2013 and 2012 now reflect the inclusion of its 50% equity interest in a partnership that owns and operates the Kalaeloa generating facility in Hawaii and its wholly owned interest in PSEG Solar Source both of which were transferred from Energy Holdings in 2013.
These assets provided $0.03 per share of operating earnings in 2013 and are included in Power's reported results compared with operating earnings in 2012 for the same assets of $0.04 per share.
So Power's operating earnings for 2013 of $710 million would have exceeded the upper end of our guidance of $685 million even if these assets had not been included in our results.
Power's operating earnings for 2014 are forecast at $550 million to $610 million.
Results for the full year will be influenced by a $2 per megawatt hour reduction in the average price of energy hedges and a decline in our average PJM capacity price on June 1 of this year to $167 per megawatt day from the historically high level of $244 per megawatt day.
I'm sure you'll recall that Power's capacity price is essentially steady for the next 3 years given the results of already-completed capacity options through mid 2017.
Power's fuel cost should continue to benefit from firm gas transportation agreements providing access to low-cost Marcellus gas supply and O&amp;M should compare favorably with the results of 2013 given the decline in pension expense and ongoing cost control.
Let me now turn to PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of 2013 of $0.29 per share compared with $0.15 per share for the fourth quarter of 2012 as we show on Slide 26.
PSE&amp;G's full year 2013 operating earnings were $612 million or $1.21 per share compared with operating earnings of $528 million or $1.04 per share for 2012 a growth rate of 16%.
Power's earnings for the fourth quarter reflect the benefit of an increase in revenue associated with a greater level of capital investment and a decline in O&amp;M expense relative to the prior year period which as you recall included Superstorm Sandy-related restoration expenditures.
An increase in transmission revenue improved the quarter-over-quarter earnings contribution by $0.04 per share and for the year PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission increased earnings by $0.14 per share.
In 2013 our $1.7 billion investment in transmission increased the percentage of rate base in transmission from 28% last year to 36% at the end of 2013.
PSE&amp;G's O&amp;M declined during the quarter given comparisons against the year ago period which included Sandy-related restoration expenditures and the decline in O&amp;M increased quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons by $0.04 per share.
Demand for electricity and gas during the quarter was influenced by weather which was slightly colder than a year ago.
Also weather-normalized demand for gas continues to show improvement.
The impact on quarter-over-quarter earnings from the improvement in demand and weather was about $0.01 a share.
Earnings comparisons in the quarter also improved by about $0.04 per share due to reduction in taxes and the absence of a tax-related change in reserves recognized in the prior year.
And all other items contributed about $0.01 per share to earnings.
Economic conditions in PSE&amp;G service territory appear to have stabilized and exhibit signs of slow recovery.
On a weather-normalized basis electric sales are estimated to have improved in the quarter by 2.7% and for the year weather-normalized sales declined by 1.5%.
It's too early to get excited about the improvement in weather-normalized sales in the quarter given the comparisons against the period impacted by Sandy-related outages.
Gas deliveries however continue to point to improved demand as a result of still-low commodity prices and slowly recovering economic conditions.
On a weather-normalized basis gas deliveries increased 2.7% in the fourth quarter and now for the year total an increase of 2.2%.
PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2014 are forecasted at $705 million to $745 million.
And this implies that even at the low end of the range we're forecasting at least 15% growth in PSE&amp;G's operating earnings.
PSE&amp;G's growth in 2014 will continue to benefit from its ability to earn a return on its expanded investment in transmission.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved an agreement which provides for an annual increase in transmission revenue of $171 million under the company's formula rate filing and this increase became effective on January 1 of this year.
Results will also reflect a recovery of capital cost associated with PSE&amp;G's investment in solar and the reduction in pension expense as well as ongoing expense control is expected to result in a year-over-year reduction in O&amp;M.
As Ralph indicated PSE&amp;G's significant transmission investment program is on time and on budget and we'll be providing you with an updated forecast of PSE&amp;G's capital expenditures for 2014 through 2018 at our annual financial conference on March 7 of this year.
Let me now turn to Enterprise and Other.
Enterprise and Other reported a small operating loss for the fourth quarter of $11 million or about $0.03 per share compared to operating earnings of $6 million or $0.01 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The results for the fourth quarter brought the full year 2013 to an operating loss of about $13 million or $0.03 per share compared with 2012's operating earnings of $45 million or $0.09 per share.
The results for the quarter and the full year have been restated simply to reflect the distribution to PSEG Power of the 50% equity interest in the partnership that owns the Kalaeloa generating facility as well as the wholly owned interest in Solar Source.
Operating earnings on the remaining portfolio however were affected by a decline in lease income as well as an adjustment to the tax basis of the portfolio which together reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.03 per share.
We'll no longer be reporting separately the results for Energy Holdings.
The management team has successfully monetized non-core assets in the portfolio and significantly reduced financial risk.
The focus going forward will be managing the remaining assets in the lease portfolio.
For 2014 operating earnings are forecast to fall within the range of $35 million to $40 million.
Going forward the fee associated with the operating contract for PSEG Long Island will be reported as part of Enterprise along with the results for the remaining lease portfolio.
Next I'd like to spend just a minute talking about pension.
We did close 2013 with the value of our pension assets in excess of our PBO obligation.
The improved return and higher discount rate will as Ralph mentioned have a favorable impact on pension expense this year and going forward.
In fact we estimate there will be a positive impact on income in 2014 and in future years in compared to the previous year's expense of $110 million.
We will not need to make any cash contributions to our pension trust this year as well.
The benefit to earnings is essentially equally shared between PSE&amp;G and PSEG Power and we'll provide you with a deeper multiyear view of the impact on O&amp;M from the improved outlook on pension at our March 7 Investor Meeting.
Lastly a word on our financing capability.
We remain in a strong position to finance our capital program.
At the end of 2013 we had approximately $493 million of cash on hand and debt represented approximately 42% of PSEG's consolidated capital with debt at Power approximating 31% of its capital base.
Power's free cash flow remains strong and PSE&amp;G's cash generation has improved from its ability to earn its authorized return on increased levels of capital investment.
And of course we'll provide you with an update of our capital program at our annual financial conference but the message on equity issuance will be the same.
We can finance our robust long-term capital program without the need to issue equity.
We're guiding to strong operating earnings for 2014 of $2.55 to $2.75 per share this outlook is our best guidance for the full year but I will note that it does not reflect any specific weather conditions related to January consistent with our practice of not incorporating weather into our guidance until we go through the summer season.
The dividend was recently increased by 2.8% to the indicative annual level of $1.48 per share and we believe we can provide shareholders with consistent and sustainable growth in the dividend going forward.
And we'll provide more detail on our outlook at our annual financial conference on March 7.
So with that I'll now turn it back to Jennifer and we'll be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering real quick if you could give some thoughts on that dividend policy.
You've obviously got a strong balance sheet you've got some pretty good visibility into earnings at least certainly for next year and perhaps the following year good cash flow generation I was wondering what the thought is in terms of using some more of that cash flow capacity to perhaps increase dividend at a faster rate? So Travis as you know we don't have a target number in terms of a percentage payout or percentage growth rate.
It's a variety of factors.
It's where are the earnings coming from? How stable are they? How predictable are they? Where are we in the commodity cycle? So the word that we continue to hold on to is that looking at all of that where power prices are where the market predictions should be where our capital program is at the utility that investors do have the opportunity for consistent and sustainable growth in the dividend and I'd rather not be held to a specific number at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand.
And real quick what's the LIPA contribution for the 2014 guidance? It's $0.02 to $0.03 for '14 then it steps up in basically $0.02 increments until we get to '16 where it's about $0.07 or $0.08.
Your next question comes from Brian Chin with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification on the ongoing pension question.
The $110 million number you referenced that's the year-over-year benefit from '13 into '14 that's included in guidance is that right? That's a great question Brian.
Let me clarify that.
So the $110 million was our net of capitalization so therefore what impacts the P&amp;L.
That was our pension expense in 2013.
So in 2014 you're actually going to see pension income instead of having $110 million in expense you're going to see pension income and the turnaround on a year-on-year basis is a $0.15 improvement from the impact of pension going from expense last year of $110 million to income in the teens that you're going to see in this year's numbers spread evenly between the businesses.
So a $0.15 year-on-year improvement.
We expect to see pension income as we forecast out during the business plan.
So you're going to see continuation of value driven from pension as opposed to the history we've had in the last few years of significant pension expense.
So just to add to that Caroline.
So Brian it's not a step up and then a step back down in subsequent years it's just a resetting of the level of pension.
In this case no longer burdened on the income statement but benefit but we'll incorporate that in all of our other O&amp;M forecasts in our March 7 meeting.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And I understand that you're going to give more quantitative color on the ongoing effect of that at the Analyst Meeting.
But in terms of just qualitatively what's going on beyond '14 the reason why there's an ongoing effect there is because assumably some degree of asset returns and adjustment in your discount rate that could cause an ongoing pension income in future years is that sort of the right way to think about that? Or is there an amortization effect that's taking place? So the right way to think about this Brian is we make long-term assumptions for returns on our investment portfolio right? We make the same long-term assumptions going forward that we've made prior right? You know from our disclosures we assume an 8% return on our asset investments.
We just continue to assume that same return.
We look at the discount rate from the forward curve that's why -- the way everybody looks at it right? So you set it from wherever you land and when we look at it going forward we're just looking at the forward curves.
So the discount rate went up for this year from last year right? Last year was 4.2% this year it was 5%.
That's pretty -- just taken right off the curves at the end of 2013.
So it's a really steady-as-she-goes set of assumptions about rate of return which we've set at 8% and the discount rate which we just use from the forward curve.
Very significant turnaround we see between '13 and '14 comes from the fact that in 2013 our trust returned 20% and that comes from having that sustained equity-oriented allocation about 70% equities and you'll see if you look at our historical that's been the same for the past few years.
We really take a long-term view.
And because we don't smooth the year end asset values so you remember there's 2 types of smoothing in pension right? There's the gain and loss smoothing everybody does that.
But the ending assets most companies smooth the ending asset value.
In other words what value you apply that 8% return to in your current year.
Most companies use a 5-year average.
We use the actual value at the end of the prior year.
So the fact that we had 20% return gives us that benefit as we come into 2014 purely from where the market put our assets at the end of 2013.
Your next question comes from Kit Konolige from BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it would appear if I heard this correctly that the 2014 guidance benefits relative to 2013 actual by $0.15 from the pension correct? That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in other words basically all of the improvement in let's say the midpoint of '14 versus '13 is due to that pension improvement? Well there are a lot of obviously different dynamics going on in the businesses as well though so I wouldn't want you to just focus on one item and not focus on the others right? We've got significant increases assumed in PSE&amp;G part of which comes from the year-on-year from pension but it's much more than that right? And we're also have huge benefit from the transmission investment offset by the decline in the hedge prices.
So we just need to be careful Kit that we don't just pick one thing that looks like a $0.15 change and say that's the only thing that isn't washing out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Absolutely understood.
A lot of moving parts.
And the transmission improvement was $0.14 '13 versus '12 is that did I get that down right? Yes that's correct.
Yes that's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for -- can you give us a sense of at PSE&amp;G '14 versus '13 is the transmission improvement going to be similar to that? And what should we think of in terms of the benefit from the solar investment year-over-year? What we've always told you so far is that we have a $171 million increase in transmission revenues now the piece that you're missing is -- was the increase in transmission O&amp;M.
We'll give a little bit more information on March 7.
The Solar 440 is a 3-year program and you should assume that that's pretty evenly distributed over the 3 years.
And that brings us return at a 10% ROE and a 51% equity ratio.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my final question on Energy Strong there was an article in New Jersey Spotlight about I guess their indication was that there seemed to be a bid-ask of about $1 billion from the staff and $1.9 billion that you guys had come down to.
Are you in a phase -- let me just ask it this way are you in a phase of negotiating about a number for Energy Strong at this point? And are other issues basically settled? So Kit when that article appeared there was an appropriate and very stern letter that came out of the presiding officer of the BPU chastising all participants but in particular whoever was responsible for that leak which was not us that such conversations in public would not be tolerated and sanctions unnamed would be enforced afterwards.
So I really don't want to even come close to answering your question other than to say yes there was an article.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I knew that already.
I know you did.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me just follow up on that.
Ralph you've been saying all along that you expect a settlement in Energy Strong.
Are you still confident that there will be a settlement rather than a full proceeding on Energy Strong? Yes I am.
But I was clearly wrong on the date right? I thought we'd have it done by the end of January and I obviously missed that timeframe.
I'm still optimistic everyone recognizes the importance of the work that's being proposed but the devil is in the details.
Your next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just to sort of follow up on the transmission this Bergen to Linden line and just all the improvements that you guys have been doing there should we think about any potential risk to the LDA breakout? No Paul.
So most of the transmission work that does have impacts you've seen already in the way they've reflected in the RPM auctions.
So the 2 biggest projects that had an effect were Susquehanna-Roseland in terms of its transfer capability from Eastern MAAC into PS Zone and then the -- the overall PS Zone and then the Northeast Grid and its transfer capability between PS Zone and PS North.
I forgot the exact number.
I think SR was about 1 500 megawatts and I think Northeast Grid was 400 megawatts or 500 megawatts.
I don't remember.
200 megawatts to 300 megawatts Kathleen's telling me.
So those projects have had an effect and that's fully reflected in the price.
This latest project is pretty much wholly within PS North and the NYISO seam.
So this is a stability issue across the PJM and New York ISO seam.
So no QTU [ph] or anything else that you see out there as being a problem? No I don't.
Okay.
And then just finally on taxes for the 2014 guidance could you just tell us what we should be expecting there? I hope Caroline can.
So we haven't given a specific effective tax rate but I think it's fair to assume you'll see tax rate kind of similar to what we've seen in Power over the past period close to 40%.
In the utility obviously as solar installations go into effect you have a little bit of an ITC.
So there's a little bit of a tax rate benefit won't be quite as high as Power.
But pretty much steady nothing really dramatically different going on there.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you -- just first on the hedging I noticed that the pricing on the 2015 had gone up a little bit can you give us some sense on is that primarily BGS or is there something else going on in there? Is it peak weighted or just whatever you could give me there? And then any flavor on what the composition of the '16 hedges on the base load? Sure.
So you're right Jonathan.
On 2015 a big driver here from our prior disclosure is the impact of BGS.
So BGS goes in at about a low teens impact on the total hedge book for 2015 because the most recent auction of course puts a full year of BGS in there.
And so that's the biggest driver of the change in the hedge percentage and the change in the hedge price because remember we put BGS in there at about -- at the BGS price less capacity.
So it has an impact as you go into 2015 on a full year basis and then raised the price from $48 to $51 per our last quarter disclosure.
For 2016 BGS has an impact in there as well and the book for 2016 per your question is about 1/3 BGS and about 2/3 West Hub hedges.
As we go out further BGS is a heftier piece of the total hedge book than it is near term because it tends to be what you can really do on a long-term basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly on -- can you give us any insight how the portfolio behaved in this January and early February pricing blowout? Was it a net positive? Was it neutral? And how you've thought about that in the context of guidance? So we did not factor that into the guidance we've just given you for '14 Jonathan but I can tell you this the units performed well.
Our gas team was able to get the fuel we needed.
There were times when we were running on kerosene and not on natural gas but the assets were up and running.
We had Linden down I think for a few days because we were finishing out the AGP the advanced gas path but we had solid operational performance managed the fuel situation very well and did not factor that into our '14 guidance.
We have -- Kathleen reminded me this morning I forgot already it's only 51 days gone so far 314 to go.
So she didn't want me to get ahead of myself.
Research Division</strong> So you've just basically done it as of year end? That's correct.
That's exactly right.
That's right which is where we've been at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just short of finally as we think about this sort of '14 number and the pension and the other moving parts I don't know if this is something you'll talk about now or not but do you see '15 and '16 as going to flat to up type of trajectory netting everything together? Or is there's still kind of hedge roll-off headwind et cetera kind of offsetting some of the positives you have on the upside of the business? So Jonathan we're not going to give guidance for the out years.
We will at the conference remind folks and I'll just do it at a high-level here of what the utility rate-base growth will be and how that translates into earnings.
We'll present to you data that I think most of you know about RPM because that does us carry us certainly through '16.
We'll update -- we will discuss the hedge book to the extent that further detail is needed.
So what we don't do is try to outguess the forward price curve and that's the part that keeps us from giving you precision in the out years.
We're going to give you an O&amp;M growth rate.
I don't -- so other than the changes in the forward price curve and how we're able to dynamically hedge which is something that I think we're all learning to understand is a real advantage Power those 2 limitations keep us from giving you even a plus or minus for the out years.
And we'll -- we're going to give you 5 years of utility capital at this time around as well.
Research Division</strong> But if you use I mean not asking you to second guess the curve but if you assume the curve can you go there? Well the reason why I wouldn't want to do that is I think that limits us to a bias of understating our potential.
Our naturally long position with our diverse asset fleet both in terms of fuel and in terms of dispatchability has allowed us to benefit from the volatility quite nicely.
And the greater that volatility the greater the benefit for us and that's a theme we've been trying to educate the investor community about for the past 18 months or so and I think we want to make sure we don't shortchange ourselves by simply saying the curve prediction is a spark of x and therefore that's all you should bake into our numbers.
Your next question comes from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Can I just -- what we should expect at the conference here? Would you be in a position at that time to give us Ralph I guess this is a question in terms of Energy Strong would that be done by then or not done by then or I'm just trying to see how you're going to address what is in rate base for the utility for the next 5 years? So Ashar I obviously did a mea culpa already on predicting it by the end of January so I'm not going to invite a second opportunity to be wrong or beat my chest over being right by predicting a date and then not living up to it.
We're in active negotiations the hearings begin on Tuesday or Monday I forget the 25th.
So believe me there's no one on this call who wants that done sooner but not without the right terms and conditions for our shareholders and our customers.
So I can't predict we will have more details for you.
Suffice to say that we will do what we've done in the past.
We will tell you here is what has been approved and what is definitely happening and to the extent that there are open questions we'll tell you what those additional open questions could yield.
Okay.
And then Caroline just based on what you had provided early and I know pension has provided an uplift but you had still said that going up to '16 year-over-year even starting from '14 the way I understood it that the utility company could still show double-digit EPS growth without Energy Strong.
And if I am understanding that right that should still be the case right from a '14 to '16 timeframe? Yes.
That's correct.
Your next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So quick first question I'll try.
In terms of at least the first 60 days here of the year...
51 days Julien.
Research Division</strong> I mean first couple of months can you give us any ballpark in terms of what that means for you versus plan? Caroline I tried to say no your turn.
Research Division</strong> I tried it I swear.
We can't give you a ballpark Julien because obviously we just put out the guidance at all.
But I think as Ralph said we performed well and we've had other periods where opportunities present themselves we captured them and we captured what was available to us here.
But we'll be on the phone with you not too long from now doing the first quarter it seems right in April.
But I think you should expect that we're able to do the kinds of things that our terrific ER&amp;T group is able to do which is take advantage of opportunities when they present themselves because our operations and our assets run really well.
But beyond that I think we'll just wait for the first quarter results.
Yes Julien I do respect the desire for that information.
We have 2 nuclear refueling outages ahead of us.
We have a summer season that is at least as important as the winter season.
So there's a lot of territory ahead of us before we start taking something to the bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes let me just jump onto the last question a little bit and ask you in terms of -- you have the $1 billion you have the $2 billion in terms of aggregate CapEx at the utility you talked about earnings growth but for the next few year period is there an ability to accelerate other spend that you would have otherwise put into Energy Strong? Should it come out at the lower end if you get what I'm saying? Is there some level of flexibility? And maybe let me just hit at it a little bit differently.
How are you thinking about Energy Holdings spending in the context of perhaps greater balance sheet latitude and getting more involved on let's say more contracted assets on that side? So we do continue to invest on contracted assets on the Energy Holdings side but that is -- it is modest compared to what's going on in the utility.
And while I do want Energy Strong for all the reasons we've articulated in the past the critical issue in the utility has been and continues to be transmission.
So whether it's the Bergen Linden 345 kV line that was a $1.2 billion add now that's a gross number.
We will detail for you the net impact of that because some projects have been canceled whether it's the possibility of the Artificial Island that we've made along with 6 other bidders so we don't know if we'll win that.
The fact that PJM is going to have an open window in April on FERC Order 1000 project.
So there are -- there has continues -- we have consistently been able to find important reliability-based investments to deploy our balance sheet in the utility and I just think given the uncertainty in the market about where assets get built -- power generation assets get built and where they get shut down that those opportunities will continue to appear before us.
And Caroline you want to add to that? Yes and one other thing Julien.
I think we have a robust capital program.
We talked about a lot going on including the potential for Energy Strong is filed and the other thing that we will talk about in March as we always do and you would expect from our results on our cash and balance sheet position is everything we've talked about has the potential for going forward including Energy Strong.
None of that takes away our entire investment capacity.
So there's more investment capacity to put to work on either good projects at the utility additional transmission things like uprates at Power there's opportunity to do even more because we've run the balance sheet and have so much free cash flow coming from both businesses.
So even the things that you know we'll still have more room to do more things as these opportunities that Ralph identified come -- potentially come forward to us.
Research Division</strong> So I'll take that as a general yes.
Yes [indiscernible].
Your next question comes from Neel Mitra from Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> In the past you guys have detailed a slide with the amount of exports that you have from New Jersey to New York.
And I think the last time you put one out it was about 2 500 megawatts.
Ralph can you kind of talk about maybe how that number has changed and maybe more specifically over the last year? And what projects are perhaps in the backlog that could increase the exports out of New Jersey? Neel we haven't broken that number out in a number of years so I'm kind of trying to remember when the last time was that we did break that out.
I know we have some -- it's been at least 3 years I've been told.
I know we have some energy and capacity sales over a VST line that goes over to New York.
We do some spot transactions but I don't know that we break out our Power book to that level of specificity.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm guessing more kind of on the utility side you talked about...
On the utility side.
Utility isn't building any transmission into New York City.
The -- perhaps I hope I didn't misspeak before.
The 345 kV is a reliability issue that affects the seam but it's all inside New Jersey.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's all inside New Jersey okay great.
And then second with the uprates the 150 megawatts are you considering any other kind of expansions at Power? I know in the past you've kind of talked about maybe Sewaren or Essex brownfield additions are those off the table right now are you kind of happy with the 150 megawatts? Yes right now we have 2 major projects underway.
We have an uprate about 140 megawatts at Peach Bottom and we have the advanced gas path.
And right now that's all that we have planned.
So yes.
So thanks everyone for participating in the call.
We had a terrific 2013.
I mean it was terrific operationally financially meeting the needs of the New Jersey Energy Master Plan and we firmly expect that we're going to build on that in '14 and beyond.
So we'll share some more details with you on March 7.
We hope you're able to join us then in New York.
I'm told by Kathleen in celebration of the winter we may actually have some sleigh rides and hot chocolates for people but hopefully we'll have the beginning of some spring weather when we see you on March 7.
So thanks for being here today and we'll see you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may disconnect and thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Ali and I'm your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference call Public Service Enterprise Group First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today May 1 2014 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern time today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern time on May 8 2014.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ali I appreciate that.
Good morning everyone.
I apologize for the slight delay in our call this morning.
I appreciate your patience with us as there's a lot of earnings calls this morning.
We do appreciate your participation in our earnings call and as you are aware we released first quarter 2014 earnings statements earlier this morning.
And the release and the attachments are posted on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
The 10-Q for the period ended March 31 2014 is expected to be filed shortly.
I'm not going to read the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have made on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results.
But as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless of course we are required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or our other filings for a discussion of factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
And joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
And at the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
Thank you Kathleen and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2014 of $1.01 per share.
That's a 19% increase over the first quarter of 2013's operating earnings of $0.85 per share.
I'm extremely pleased with PSEG's results.
We delivered on many fronts during the quarter.
For anyone on this call listening who resides on the East Coast I don't need to tell you how cold it was this winter.
You experienced the polar vortex and we experienced it as well.
The record low temperatures challenged our employees our equipment and our markets.
Our readiness was tested at a critical time and the effort that PSEG's employees put in to secure the availability of our equipment and maintain the reliability of the system was evident and appreciated by customers.
The extreme cold weather caused stress around the system from freezing coal-handling equipment at some facilities and playing havoc with other equipment which resulted in forced outages at some of our coal gas and peaking units.
And there was a need to response to the stress the weather placed on our electric and gas distribution system with additional repair work.
Despite these challenges the strength of Power's fleet was demonstrated in the first quarter through its dispatch flexibility and diverse fuel mix.
Our dual fuel coal units were able to run on gas and when necessary our peaking units with dual fuel capability ran on fuel oil when gas wasn't available.
And our nuclear fleet continued to perform at high levels operating at a 100% capacity factor.
Even though some of our gas generation was curtailed we were able to get sufficient gas to operate our units at critical times.
Our coal and peaking stations responded to the improvement in market economics and given the responsiveness of our employees the impact of outages was limited and the fleet was available to meet the strong demand.
The extremes in weather created substantial volatility in the market.
PSEG Power's diverse fuel mix and dispatch flexibility allowed Power to capture margin on its net long position as it responded to the increasing demand.
The strong interaction between our station managers and commercial teams resulted in the adjustment of scheduled outage work and assured the supply of energy in support of customer needs.
We were also able to pull forward major work at our Linden units to upgrade with Advanced Gas Path technology in advance of the summer season.
Our access to low-cost gas supplies continued to yield benefits for our customers.
During the month of February and March PSE&amp;G's customers received bill credits amounting to $115 million.
That's an important savings at any time of the year.
Our operating earnings in the quarter also reflect the benefit of an increase in the capital invested in our stable regulated business.
This increased investment continues to drive earnings growth and improvement in reliability of PSE&amp;G as it transforms the profile of our company.
PSE&amp;G's capital program remains on schedule.
In 2014 PSE&amp;G is expected to invest $2.2 billion in electric and gas infrastructure upgrades to its transmission and distribution facilities to maintain reliability as part of a 5-year $10 billion capital program.
We reached a milestone as part of our capital program that we are quite proud of.
The first segment of the Susquehanna-Roseland 500 kV transmission line went into service during the month of April.
We expect to complete construction of the SR towers and the lines heading west to the Delaware Water Gap this summer.
Our section of the line an investment of approximately $790 million will eventually connect with PPL's portion.
And Susquehanna-Roseland is expected to be fully operational in 2015 when PPL completes construction on the western portion of the line.
This will be a major achievement.
SR's 2015 operational date would be 12 years after the August 2003 block out and almost a decade after PGM identified the critical system needs required to upgrade aging infrastructure and relieve overloaded power lines.
PSE&amp;G energized the Burlington-Camden 230 kV line this week ahead of schedule and it is on schedule to energize to address the North Central Reliability transmission line this summer.
These projects represent a total investment of approximately $790 million and are designed to improve power [ph] quality and system reliability.
All 3 lines are part of PSE&amp;G's ongoing transmission program representing $6.8 billion of the $10 billion capital program I mentioned a moment ago and providing double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's operating earnings through 2016.
As PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission is expected to drive its earnings growth it is also expected to further diversify PSE&amp;G's asset base as transmission gross will represent more than 45% of PSE&amp;G's rate base over the next 3 years.
Transmission lines and switching stations are the backbone of our electric grid ensuring that we can transport power to where it's needed safely and reliably.
This will assume greater importance as we begin to experience growth although still modest in weather-normalized electric demand.
The polar vortex exposed the critical need to maintain and improve on the resiliency of our infrastructure the need to replace aging equipment and maintain the level of service demanded by our customers and it highlighted the everyday truth that not investing in the system can have a real cost.
We expect the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to rule on PJM's proposed changes for a demand response prior to the upcoming RPM auction as they switch over to Power now.
We're supportive of PJM's proposals and believe the rule changes will be a good step in recognizing the need for a more level playing field among suppliers.
So as we look ahead Power has also invested in necessary retrofits to its fossil units to meet existing environmental requirements.
Earlier this week the U.S.
Supreme Court issued a ruling upholding the Environmental Protection Agency's Cross-State Air Pollution Rule or CSAPR as we often refer to.
As you may recall this was vacated by the D.C.
Circuit Court of Appeals.
We're studying the ruling and await word from EPA and its intention with regard to implementing CSAPR.
With its implementation we would see reductions in NOx emissions in addition to the SO2 reductions achieved through the implantation of the Mercury and Air Toxics rule commonly referred to as MATS.
The Supreme Court ruling validates the investments we made to satisfy of environmental requirements and supports expectations for the retirement of plants that don't meet EPA requirements.
As I mentioned earlier the first quarter represented a significant challenge.
Through it we demonstrated the strength of our assets and the talent of our employees their focus on the mission of providing safe reliable energy allowed us to meet the needs of our customers and shareholders.
The first quarter was very strong financially and operationally and we are maintaining our operating earnings guidance for 2014 of $2.55 to $2.75 per share given the importance of normal weather to third quarter earnings expectations for both Utility and for Power.
We have a proven strategy and we continue to reap benefits from our robust business mix.
Our strong financial position will allow us to meet our goals without the need to dilute shareholders through the issuance of equity and our employees provide me with a confidence in our ability to achieve our long-term goals.
With that I'll turn the call over to Caroline who will discuss our financials in greater detail.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2014 of $1.01 per share versus operating earnings of $0.85 per share in last year's first quarter.
We provide you with a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter on Slide 4.
As you can see on Slide 8 PSEG Power provided the largest contribution to earnings.
For the quarter Power reported operating earnings of $0.58 per share compared with $0.50 per share last year.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings of $0.42 per share compared with $0.35 per share last year.
And PSEG Enterprise/Other or the parent contributed operating earnings of $0.01 per share compared with breakeven operating earnings during the first quarter of 2013.
We've provided you with a waterfall chart on Slide 9 to take you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and I'll now review each company in more detail.
First let's turn to PSE&amp;G.
As shown on Slide 11 PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2014 of $0.42 per share compared with $0.35 per share for the first quarter of 2013.
PSE&amp;G's earnings for the first quarter reflect the benefit of an increase in revenue associated with its expanded capital investment program an improvement in demand under-reduction and pension expense.
Slide 12 provides a reconciliation of the items that influence PSE&amp;G's quarter-over-quarter earnings.
FERC authorized PSE&amp;G's request for an annual increase in transmission revenue under the company's formula rate filing.
The increase in revenue which was effective on January 1 of this year supported a quarter-over-quarter increase and a net earnings contribution from transmission of $0.03 per share.
Demand for electricity and gas in the quarter was influenced by weather which was significantly colder than both normal weather and the weather of a year ago.
The impact of the colder-than-normal weather on electric demand added $0.01 per share to quarter-over-quarter earnings.
The impact of weather on gas demand as you would expect was recaptured in the weather-normalization clause and didn't impact earnings comparisons.
Apart from the weather an improvement in the weather-normalized gas demand and volumes added $0.02 per share to quarter-over-quarter earnings.
Gas deliveries continued to benefit from sustained low commodity prices and slowly recovering economic conditions.
On a weather-normalized basis gas deliveries are estimated to have increased by about 3.4% in the quarter.
Earnings also improved by $0.01 per share due to a reduction in the effective tax rate and all other items.
And the reduction in PSE&amp;G's pension expense was fully offset by some higher operating and maintenance expense associated with weather-related repair costs resulting in a flat O&amp;M comparison quarter-over-quarter.
Economic conditions in the service area led by the housing market are exhibiting slow but steady signs of improvement.
On a weather-normalized basis electric sales were estimated to have improved by 1.3% in the quarter led by a 2.9% growth in sales to commercial customers.
But this level of growth may be greater than the underlying improvement in economic conditions given Sandy-related adjustments to billings in the year-ago quarter.
And you'll recall we mentioned last year that Sandy impacted normal billing patterns during that quarter and immediately after.
Weather-normalized electric sales to residential customers are estimated to have increased by a more modest 0.6% in the first quarter.
Turning to investments despite the extreme cold weather experienced in the quarter PSE&amp;G has been able to maintain its schedule for capital spending and remains on target to invest up to $2.2 billion on electric and gas infrastructure upgrades during 2014 to maintain reliability.
As Ralph mentioned a portion of the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line was energized from the new Hopatcong switching station to Roseland earlier this year and the North Central Reliability and Burlington-Camden 230 kV lines are on schedule to be in service to meet this summer's peak electricity demand.
PSE&amp;G is earning its authorized ROE for the 12 months ended March 31 2014.
We're maintaining our forecast for double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2014 to $705 million to $745 million as well as expectations for double-digit earnings growth through 2016.
Now let's move to Power.
As shown on Slide 15 PSEG Power reported operating earnings for the first quarter of $0.58 per share compared with $0.50 per share 1 year ago.
The earnings release and Slide 16 provide you with detailed analysis of the impact on Power's operating earnings quarter-over-quarter from changes in revenue and costs.
Power's first quarter results which are $0.08 per share higher than last year benefited from an increase in revenue.
Higher capacity prices an improvement in the economic dispatch of Power's fleet and an increase in output more than offset the impact of higher costs associated with the need to meet the increased demand as well as the need to undertake planned outages and the cost associated with completing the capacity upgrade work at Linden.
Now let's turn to Power's operations.
Power's output increased approximately 3% in the quarter from the year-ago levels and Power's assets were well positioned to take advantage of market movements in the quarter given Power's hedging strategy dispatch flexibility and diverse fuel mix.
The base load nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 100% in the quarter as Ralph mentioned and it produced 55% of Power's total generation in the quarter or 8 terawatt hours.
Production from the combined cycle fleet declined 8% to 3.4 terawatt hours in the quarter or 23% of total generation.
Output at the Bethlehem New York facility was hurt by a decline in gas availability and Linden's availability was affected by a decision to extend an outage to complete the AGP capacity upgrade work actually ahead of schedule.
An improvement in dark spreads supported an increase in output from the coal stations particularly from the Connecticut-based Bridgeport Harbor station so production from the coal fleet increased 15% to 2.6 terawatt hours or 18% of total generation.
The cold weather and increased demand supported the economic dispatch of the steam and peaking units which provided 4% of the fleet's output in the quarter.
Slide 17 provides more details on the generation in the quarter.
The combination of higher capacity prices and an increase in market prices on Power's unhedged position more than offset the impact of lower average price upon hedges and the need to meet the demand under the fixed-price full-requirements BGS contract.
For the quarter Power's gross margin as -- gross margins as shown on Slide 19 expanded to $50 per megawatt hour from $47.50 per megawatt hour last year.
Lastly impacting electric gross margins Power has identified that it incorrectly calculated certain components of its cost base bids for certain generating units in the PJM energy market with resulting over-collection of revenues related to its fossil fleet.
Power has self-reported the issue to FERC PJM and the PJM Independent Market Monitor on this issue.
The issue is still under review and we're unable to estimate the ultimate impact or predict any resulting penalties or other costs associated with the matter at this time.
The company recognized the liability in the quarter related to this matter but this impact is included in our calculation of gross margin which continues to show quarter-over-quarter improvement to the $50 per-megawatt-hour level that I just mentioned.
Turning to the gas side the contribution from Power's firm gas transportation contracts improved quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.05 per share.
The contribution to earnings is from Power's traditional gas supply business and it reflects the positive impact on earnings from higher volumes and the ability to price gas sold to commercial and industrial customers at market.
Looking forward power has increased its forecast generation output for 2014 to 56 to 58 terawatt hours from the prior estimate of 53 to 55 terawatt hours.
The revised forecast reflects the increase in output during the first quarter and an expected improvement in the economic dispatch of the fleet.
As always our forecast is based on normal weather conditions for the remainder of the year.
Approximately 70% to 75% of anticipated production for the April-to-December period is hedged at an average price of $49 per megawatt hour.
Power has also increased its forecast of economic generation in 2015 and 2016 to 54 to 56 terawatt hours from 53 to 55 terawatts hours in each year.
For 2015 Power has hedged between 50% and 55% of its forecast generation at an average price of $51 per megawatt hour.
For 2016 Power has hedged 25% to 30% of its forecast generation at an average price of $51 per megawatt hour.
The hedge data as we show on Slide 20 for 2014 and 2015 continue to assume BGS volumes will represent about 11 terawatt hours in 2014 and about 10 terawatt hours in 2015.
We continue to forecast full year operating earnings for power of $550 million to $610 million.
Results for the remainder of the year will be influenced by a decline in the average price received on our PJM capacity to $166 per megawatt day on June 1 of this year from the historically high level we're currently enjoying of $242 per megawatt day as well as a decline in the average price of our energy hedges.
O&amp;M is expected to compare favorably given a reduction in pension expense and the absence of major outage-related work that occurred in the second half of last year for comparison purposes.
Now let me briefly discuss the operating results from Enterprise and Other.
For the first quarter PSEG Enterprise/Other or the parent reported operating earnings of $0.01 per share which compares with essentially breakeven operating results during the first quarter of 2013.
Results reflected a steady contribution to earnings from the leased portfolio and a contribution from PSEG Long Island.
We continue to forecast full-year operating earnings for 2014 for PSEG Enterprise/Other of $35 million to $40 million.
I want to point out that in April PSEG and Power amended their credit agreements ending in 2017 which has effectively -- does extend the expiration dates from March of 2017 to now April 2019.
Total credit capacity as of March 31 2014 was $4.3 billion.
PSEG has credit facilities amounting to $1 billion Power's credit facilities total $2.7 billion.
In addition PSEG maintains a 5-year credit facility amounting to $600 million.
A significant portion of our $4.3 billion of credit capacity expires post 2018 $2 billion matures in 2018 and $2.1 billion matures in 2019 with this recent extension [ph].
As we said many times we can finance our capital program without the need for the issuance of equity given the strength of Power's cash flow and our already-strong balance sheet with debt at the end of March 31 of this year representing 41% of our consolidated capital.
And we ended the quarter with about $655 million in cash.
We continue to forecast operating earnings for the full year of $2.55 to $2.75 per share.
With that that concludes my comments and I'll now turn the call back over to the operator and open the line for your questions.
Ali? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on this reserve Caroline you talked about in the quarter the cost base bidding et cetera could you clarify if that -- it -- was that just a first quarter item or was -- did you reserve against something that relates to a longer period of history? How long perhaps if that's the case? Sure.
So thanks Jonathan.
So we booked a liability in this quarter based on errors that we identified.
And they're in certain bid adders such as emissions historically and we've fixed all of the errors that we've identified in the bid adder arena that resulted in any over-collection.
So right now we're assessing all other aspects of our model any other identified and quantified errors will be fixed.
We can't comment any further really at this point other than to remind you that we have self-reported and what we booked as a liability is reflected still in those numbers that I gave you that result in gross margin per megawatt hour increasing quarter-over-quarter to $50 per megawatt hour.
Research Division</strong> Do you give us any sort of insight into what your -- I mean whether this is there's some kind of historical liability kind of being booked against the first quarter? Yes.
It relates to errors we've identified historically.
That's exactly right.
But since we're in the self-report and the appropriate regulatory process we can't give more details at this time.
And when the process is complete we'll give the full information but we can't do that quite yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's safe to say that some element of this unquantified reserve that doesn't just relate to kind of rejiggering how you've presented first quarters there's some past stuff in there too? It relates to the past.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
When do you think we might have a better sense of how much that affected the quarter? Yes.
So we're in this self-report process discussions with PJM and the Market Monitor and the self-report we just made to FERC.
We want to see that regulatory process of course through to completion and can't really predict what that timeframe would be but when we get to that end of that timeframe we'll disclose it as appropriate the final results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think as we've been -- you've been on the phone it looks like an 8-K has hit with an information about an Energy Strong settlement.
Yes.
Jonathan so let me talk about that.
I want to dispel one rumor and confirm one rumor.
The one rumor I want to dispel is that we moved the call up an hour and I couldn't get here on time so we started 5 minutes late.
That's not accurate.
But we did have some tremendous progress last night in our discussions with all the interveners in particular the board staff.
And this morning we were just trying to dot our Is and cross our Ts and have signatures on the settlement agreement and then of course to comply with FD we needed to make sure that that information was released.
The earnings release went out ahead of the dotting of Is and crossing of Ts.
And we now have done that.
So I am pleased to tell you that we have a settlement agreement with the staff.
We expect many of the other interveners to join but we don't have their signature yet and I'm okay with that.
The staff is -- we'd always want to make sure we have an agreement with.
It's a $1.22 billion program about $820 million of that is electric and $400 million of that is gas.
The allowed ROE is $975 million.
$1 billion of that will be recovered through accelerated-recovery mechanisms.
$200 million of that will be done in the 2017 time frame when we will then file a rate case in November of '17 with a 3-month historic 9-month look ahead profile.
So that will be 7 years plus from our last base-rate case.
We would expect the BPU to approve this.
They have not as yet the schedule for approving it will be announced shortly.
That will be a partial function of how many other parties sign on although as I said I do expect most of the participants to sign on.
So I know that they're not on the phone right now but I just have to thank the hundred-plus municipalities and counties who supported us the unions who supported us the hospitals who supported us the other parties who engaged in the dialogue of about 15 months and our regulatory team.
They just did a great job and we're just pleased to get this thing going right now.
I would view this as an important start to hardening the system.
There's nothing in the settlement that says we can do the full $3.9 billion.
I don't mean to suggest that.
But there's nothing that says we can't.
So I just view this as an important start and we will be measured by our success and effectiveness in hardening the system as we should be.
But I'm glad that we can get underway.
Research Division</strong> And I guess given it's my question can I just ask one clarifier on this? Sure.
Sure.
Research Division</strong> The -- so when you said that $1 billion will be under kind of accelerated recovery and then the balance $200 million will be -- so the $1 billion is sort of for 2015 and '14 through '16.
Is that correct? Yes it's unfortunately not quite so simple Jonathan.
Some of the stuff will get done in 2 years.
Some will take 3 and some will take 5.
The 5 year has to do with the substations that were underwater in Irene and in Sandy.
And all of those even those that go out to 5 years will be under the accelerated recovery mechanism.
So there's $200 million of the program that is going to be done just leading up to the rate case.
And what we agreed is we would just make that part of the prudency review since there's really not a lot of time lag between the prudency review and the capital program.
None of this stuff gets recovered until it goes into service.
So we thought that that would be okay.
That there would be no lag on that $200 million.
Research Division</strong> The rate case will be filed with 9 months of 2016 3 months of 2017 for 1/1/17 rate? No no no.
You got it the other way around.
So when it goes in November of '17.
Research Division</strong> November.
There would be 3 months of actuals and 9 months of forecast.
Research Division</strong> It will go in November of '17.
Okay.
I got it.
3 months.
Very good.
Because if I had to repeat it I might not say it the same way twice.
It's 3 months of actuals and 9 months forward that's been our practice.
And the next question comes from Kit Konolige with BGC Financial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow a little on the Energy Strong can you quantify how much that -- this deal would be worth say in terms of EPS or...
Kit we've pretty much given you a fairly consistent rule of thumb that at our cap structure with these kind of returns is about $0.01 for every $100 million of investment that needs to be refined frequently.
That's right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And when would -- under this settlement when would the investment start to be made and how would the rate base ramp up as a result of this? So -- I mean you should not expect a big impact in '14.
I don't have in front of me the exact capital program calendar but yes most of it will be felt in '15 '16 '17 and '18.
And you may recall Kit as we talked about in March right we forecast double-digit earnings growth but also double-digit rate-base growth even without Energy Strong as we talked about.
So this enhances that to reinforce the strength of the rate-base growth as double-digit and the earnings.
But as Ralph said not a material item at all for 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one other area to go back to Ralph your comment on the auction it sounds like -- do I understand you correctly to say that you view the demand resources rule changes kind of the key change in the auction? So we do view it as a key change right? Because the import issue is more of a Western PJM issue than it is for us.
So whether it's the limited DR resources or trying to address some of the arbitrage opportunities available between the base residual auction and the incremental auctions we think all these are positives for creating more of a level playing field in the market.
Now I've been running around trying to find the settlement documents.
So I'm just looking around at my colleagues to make sure FERC hasn't acted on this yet right it's suppose to happen soon but we don't have a decision yet.
No.
That's right.
Not yet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And so can you give us any insight into what we should expect from the auction do [ph]? Should we expect the PS and PSEG Zones to separate again? And can you give us an idea of what your thinking is about where the RTO settles? Yes Kit we would never do that.
We just -- it's obviously a competitive auction process and to forecast or predictions would not be a good idea.
And we've never done that in the past.
I will tell you though that we'll know by May 23 if it's going on the 12th and from the 12th to the 16th and then PJM takes a week to assess them.
So 3 weeks and 2 days from today we'll all have the answer.
I don't want to lead you to think that we don't analyze this.
We just don't publicize what we think of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You're right.
Well at least you confirmed that we'll know by May 23 right? Yes thanks Kit.
And the next question comes from Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you just -- with the settlement can you just walk through maybe -- because I don't have them side by side yet I apologize.
But walk through what were the big changes kind of from that maybe the $2.6 billion over the 5 years you had projected or requested and what you guys settled today as far as where dollars weren't spent and how you think about the opportunity to spend those later? Yes so Dan the most important part we view of the settlement was the electric substations.
And all of that is covered from the point of view of what was affected by Irene and Sandy.
But there were a bunch of other areas that we thought would be beneficial.
For example we had the undergrounding of I think 30 miles of circuits -- of overhead circuits and that was knocked out.
We had some improvement to SCADA systems our data analysis data acquisition and analysis system that would help us restore those customers who were interrupted more promptly.
That was knocked out.
On the gas side we had I think 500 miles of cast-iron that was affected or is in now FEMA -- more at-risk areas.
And that 500 was cut back to 250.
We then had some movement of backyard services to the front of the home.
Once again our backyard service getting knocked out is just that much more difficult to restore.
That was knocked out.
We had some improvements in construction standards for some of our distribution systems.
That was knocked out.
So the heart -- I just listed a whole bunch of stuff that was knocked out.
I don't want to give the wrong impression.
The heart of the program was the substations and that was fully funded.
But we will go back I mean I think people are going to see that this has a benefit.
We wouldn't have proposed it if we didn't think so.
And as we do the work and as we see the system perform we'll go back and talk to the staff and talk to the other parties.
I really do take their reaction to this not as a no on the other stuff but as a not yet and just show me that it's money well spent.
And I think that that's perfectly legitimate and fair on their part and we will step up to that.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a ballpark maybe of kind of by year how that money is going to get spent over the next...
We'll release further details.
I don't -- off the top of my head right now and I just want to make sure the team has a chance to get the schedules all put together and then we can release that.
But as Caroline said in our March conference we didn't bake in to our growth projections for the Utility Energy Strong.
So that's 1.2 over the next 2 to 5 years.
It's really more like 4 will be incremental to that and we'll give you the specifics.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one other question that has kind of been out in the market is your kind of views on remaining an integrated company with the distribution business on the regulated side and the competitive generation business.
Can you just remind us how you guys think about combined company and what will be required to maybe how you reevaluate that strategy? Yes so Dan we talk about that often.
And there's arguments on both sides of the equation.
By and large though we don't think we're hampered from doing things on either side of the company by virtue of having the other company as part of the family.
We kind of like the stable earnings growth of the Utility providing a really strong foundation for the dividend and its future growth.
We like the fact that power is generating a healthy amount of cash that could feed the equity needs of the Utility.
There are very obvious operational dissynergies to separating.
You never say never because we're always asking the question but we obviously like the model right now.
And I just keep reminding myself that every once in a while somebody says "Gee you have such a great Utility if only that were standalone and separate from that struggling power company." 5 years ago we used to have the same conversation only the roles we're totally reverse.
So it's not -- we don't put our head in the sand and not ask that question.
We do talk about it regularly from the point of view of strategic clarity and being able to give a very specific message to our shareholders.
But right now the cash from power and the equity needs of the Utility are a really nice financial complement and the operational benefits of moving people from one organization to the other with complementary skill sets has been a big plus for us as well.
And the next question is from Travis Miller with Morningstar Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sort of back on the capacity auction real quick I wonder if you could characterize how much demand response you would either expect or you've seen in the past show up and the potential impact on you guys specifically or your zone specifically.
Travis the ability to forecast the DR is not an inconsequential part of getting the price right so we really wouldn't want to put that number out.
And the historic DR I would rather have you -- I don't mean to make you do extra work but check the PJM website for that rather than me quoting it.
The numbers I recall are high-single-digit percentages like 8% or so but it's better to check the PJM website.
But the [indiscernible] numbers and the transfer capability and the known assets and the known demand numbers are all out there for PJM.
So really a large part of the auction turns on what you expect for DR.
I will say this that most DR does happen in the higher industrial zones.
And in the part of PJM that we operate we don't have a large industrial load so there's typically a lower DR component where we are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then secondly I wonder if you could characterize the hedging environment as you saw from essentially February at the Analyst Day to where we are today end of March period.
I'll start that right now and fill in.
To be sure some of the banks and financial players leaving the market we have seen a little bit -- well we've seen less liquidity in the out years.
I don't want to qualify it as less.
Also given some of the infrastructure challenges of moving low-cost gas out of the Marcellus to other regions combined with some fairly extreme weather conditions have really introduced a tremendous amount of volatility in the market.
So we benefited greatly with our naturally long position.
We have what I would just call corridors.
They're upper and lower limits in terms of how much we want to hedge.
And we play within those corridors in terms of if we think the market is oversold or maybe there's some potential for upside.
So we'll lean one way or another.
That's why we give you ranges of our hedge position.
And suffice to say that we've been pleased by the way in which we've managed our book given the increase in power prices of late.
And we've seen a little modest increase coming from the CSAPR rule.
How sustainable that will be we don't outguess the market but we do capitalize on those opportunities when they come up.
Caroline please go ahead and answer it.
I'm sure your...
Sure.
Just a few other points then looking at some of the numbers that you saw on our slide deck and comparing them perhaps to what you saw when we were at the March 7 meeting.
So we did continue to layer on hedges consistent with that layering and strategy that Ralph mentioned within the corridors.
Keep in mind that the numbers that you have now in today's slide deck reflect an increase in the expected terawatt-hour generation from our fleet based on the economics in the market.
That's a good thing obviously for us.
So what its impact would be is as we continue to layer on hedges you wouldn't see the ranges move up quite as much of the hedge percentage because the denominator is moving up.
That's great from our perspective.
Also if you look at the hedge percentage for the remainder of this year it looks a little lower than the hedge percentage we gave you for the full year earlier this year.
That's normally what you see because when the first quarter rolls off you've got a greater representation from the summer period.
And the summer period is where we have the mid-merit in peaking which we would never be hedging fully because of the weather.
So you normally see that percentage looking like it's going down and then it kind of goes back up after you get through the summer.
So we continue to layer on our hedges.
It kind of looks the same as the progression last year if you rolled the tape back.
The only other thing going on there is that increase generation expectations which is just great from our perspective.
That changes a little bit how to think about the numbers but it's all because of that denominator effect that we're very pleased with.
And the next question is from Paul Zimbardo with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I think pretty much all my questions have been answered but one question on Linden and that acceleration and some of the other cost acceleration.
Do you see that having an impact on the remainder of the year if some of the costs have been accelerated? In terms of O&amp;M do you mean or in terms of generation? Research Division</strong> In terms of outage and O&amp;M type of expenses that you've moved forward.
Oh sure.
So we moved them forward because we had a Linden outage that was ongoing.
So we took the opportunity to extend it a little bit so that we could add the AGP the uprate so now we have 63 extra megawatts at Linden which will be available for us for the summer.
That increment was about $0.02 for the quarter but that would have happened later on as we continued to do Linden.
So we're still forecasting to have the O&amp;M be lower at power and on a full year basis than prior year.
That's what we told you earlier this year.
And that hasn't changed.
Again some of this is timing but a good timing to get the AGP done sooner.
Remember both businesses continue to benefit from pension expense and that's baked into the numbers.
So a little bit of timing difference.
Good thing for us from the generation side still going to see that O&amp;M reduction in our current forecast actually in both businesses on the year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And I'm sorry if I missed it but did you say a potential timeline on when we would get our next update potential review from the BPU on the Energy Strong settlement? So Paul depending upon the extent to which the settlement is universal if all the parties agree then it's conceivable that the board would act on it in the May time frame.
If all the parties are not on board and there's reason to believe that we have a good shot at getting all the parties but I don't know that for a fact then it's more likely that the board will schedule an opportunity for comment on the settlement and you're looking at more of a June decision.
And the next question is from Anthony Crowdell with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Yes actually it's Paul Fremont.
What I'm struggling with a little bit is when I compare the uplift in commodity margin that you guys realized which is roughly I guess in PJM $50 million on close to 14.5 million megawatt hours and I compare that to Calpine which I think had only 3.5 million megawatt hours in their north region but had an uplift of like $125 million.
What is it that you would point to as the biggest differences between their profit opportunity versus your profit opportunity when both companies were sort of in a similar hedge position going into the quarter? Sure.
So thanks Paul.
So I don't their situation so certainly I can't comment on that.
Obviously we saw as we provided the data in the waterfall right part of what you have to keep in mind for us is not just the data on the incremental generation which we said was 3% higher but you've got to take into account the impact of the hedges right the hedges that we have including the full requirement of BGS right? So when BGS has stronger demand because of the winter weather and it was a strong winter this winter that BGS is a fixed price and so that reduces some opportunities for us in taking advantage of the market because we have that cost to serve.
So we were about 75% hedged about 25% open to the market for the quarter.
Not too dissimilar to where we've been before but obviously the BGS prices relative to the market prices are lower now because of where the market moved in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> So I mean does that lead you to maybe reconsider whether the BGS is the best hedging vehicle for the company? No no.
Not really Paul.
I mean if you think about the reliance on power's cash generation BGS has nicely protected us in the down markets.
Yes it does create an opportunity cost on the up markets but it provides a nice stable platform.
If you remember the strength of a BGS is that it is full requirements and it's -- we are uniquely capable of serving full requirements because of the breadth of our technology.
The breadth meaning baseload load falling and peaking which allows us to incorporate a load factor premium and a risk mitigation premium.
So no I don't think you'll see us moving away.
That's why we have the 10 to 11 terawatt hours of BGS still factored into future years.
And the next question is from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just I wanted to follow back on this energy cost bid issue.
Are you guys not disclosing the liability in the quarter? Is that -- did I get that correct? Yes we're not disclosing the specifics of the liability in the quarter because as I mentioned we're in the regulatory process.
We did the self-report.
We're in discussions with PJM the market monitor and self-report to FERC.
We'd rather let that regulatory process go on and complete.
So as I mentioned to you we did book something this quarter but it's all rolled into that gross margin per megawatt hour that increase.
And we'll give more details when we finish the process.
Okay.
And then you also said that it was historical in nature.
Could you give us just a little bit of a flavor just roughly speaking over what time frame this was? No.
I won't go into that right now.
Same thing we want to handle the regulatory process as appropriate but it is historical in nature.
It's things we identified looking at historical things for example as I mentioned such bid adders like emissions.
Those things have been fixed and those are the kinds of errors we've been reporting.
Did it have an impact on market prices during that period of time or can you...
That's not something we can comment on.
As I said we'll go through the regulatory process complete all of that and then we'll give additional information.
Okay.
But this is something that you guys discovered and it didn't involve the market monitor or anybody else? You guys are self-reporting that correct? We self-reported that's correct.
We discovered it and we self-reported it to all the agencies correct.
Okay.
And then just finally there was some commentary about the replacement capacity case I think the arbitrage and you guys have some insight as to what the outcome is going to be is that correct or what were you talking about? No no.
We like others have been curious about whether or not DR actually is physically delivered or whether there's an arbitrage between the base residual auction and the incremental auction.
And PJM has basically adjusted some modifications to the way in which that incremental auction can take place and the physical delivery of demand response that we think will benefit the market.
That's all.
We have no insights other than the full public dialogue on the subject.
And the next question is from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions actually.
One Caroline when I look at O&amp;M in the quarter at both power and the E&amp;G up year-over-year at both places up a good bit at E&amp;G relative to first quarter 2013 but even a little bit at power.
Can you just walk us through the puts and takes and what of that if any would be recurring when we start thinking about 2015? Okay.
Sure.
So not really forecasting 2015 specifically but if you look at the O&amp;M for the quarter -- and you see a nice breakout I think on Page 9 of our deck.
We put the O&amp;M in 2 pieces for you which I think is kind of helpful.
So the lower pension expense for PSE&amp;G is valued at about $0.02 a share on a favorable basis right and then there's distribution O&amp;M about $0.02 a share unfavorable.
So the way to think about that is we told you that the pension expense for the whole company right would be $0.15 a share favorable.
A little bit more than half is at PSE&amp;G.
So you'll see more like $0.08 for the year and then $0.02 for the quarter.
The $0.02 on distribution O&amp;M that was unfavorable year-over-year is primarily driven by some incremental -- some of the storms that occurred in the winter.
Can't really forecast that right? We always forecast normal weather.
Sometimes we have storms in the winter.
Sometimes we have storms in the summer.
So together that leads to a flat O&amp;M on an operating earnings basis the way we typically report it.
Keep in mind if you're looking at the GAAP statement though you wouldn't see the impact I'm showing on the waterfall because the O&amp;M in the GAAP statement includes -- is the O&amp;M for clauses.
We always take that out from a management perspective but if you're looking at GAAP you're going to see O&amp;M that relates to the contemporaneous return clauses we have for example like solar and a number of other things.
We've always excluded that because that's recovered within the ROEs that we get when we get those clauses.
That's why we focus on the operating earnings waterfall that we show you on 9 because that's really what to think about in terms of what flows down to the bottom line without recovery.
So that's the Utility piece.
You should expect to see pension continue to benefit quarter-over-quarter.
And then the rest of the O&amp;M really depends on the rest of our ongoing and control and whether there are any storms in the summer season but you can't be sure about that.
So in terms of power now if I go over to the other side.
Power we also break out pensions.
It's about a $0.01 for the quarter.
Remember I said power will be a little less than half.
So power gets on a rounded basis about $0.01 of benefit for the quarter.
And then it has about $0.05 on a quarter-over-quarter impact for this quarter.
And I mentioned the Linden outage which was planned but then extended.
And the extension was an impact of about an extra $0.02 this quarter for the AGP.
That's a good thing because that gives us more generation.
So on a year-over-year comparison most of what you're seeing in the O&amp;M negative is the impact of outages and outage extension.
For power going forward there's no Hope Creek outage in '14.
So that will be a favorable impact relative to prior year.
Because remember when we have outages at Hope Creek we get 100% versus outages at Salem where we only get a portion.
And also there was BEC outage remember I talked about last quarter for the end of the year.
There won't be a BEC outage in the later part of this year.
Roll that all together where does it all take us? We have some storms in the Utility we had to spend and couldn't anticipate.
We had the extended outage for the AGP in power.
That is just a little negative.
You've got the positive pension rolling through just the way you should expect to see it for the quarter.
And when you pull all that together and you look at the rest of the year on an operating earnings basis setting aside Utility clauses that get recovery that's why we're still comfortable forecasting a decrease in the aggregate for each of our businesses year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Ralph just on the Energy Strong settlement I want to make sure I followed kind of the high-level details.
$1.22 billion the bulk of the CapEx is really 2015 to 2017 there'll be a tiny bit at the end of '14 and a tiny bit that kind of trickles after 2017.
On ROE that's 30 to 40 basis points lower 30-ish basis points lower than kind of the last authorized level and about 80% 85% of it recovered via contemporary -- contemporaneous clause and the rest of it will be trued-up in a rate case.
Is that basically the high-level gist of the settlement anything I'm leaving out? No.
I think you got it Michael.
I know there's another call that's about to begin.
I don't want to interfere with -- so we do appreciate I'll turn the call back over to Ralph for any closing comments.
I'm available as well as Carlotta for any calls people have.
Yes thank you Kathleen.
So just a summary looking back at the quarter and looking ahead.
From my perspective power just continues to handle anything that comes its way.
Power managed the polar vortex almost flawlessly.
While that's going on we ran 100% nuclear capacity factor and we managed to get our Advance Gas Path technology accelerated into the quarter at Linden to make sure it's ready for the summer.
And then looking ahead please make note of the increase in our expectations for power's output in the subsequent years.
Utility once again on track for double-digit earnings growth.
Capital program is on budget.
You heard us mention a couple of transmission projects that are ahead of schedule.
And of course the good news that we've reached resettlement on the $1.22 billion Energy Strong Program.
And last but not least the weather-normalized demand for gas continues to grow and we're now beginning to see growth in electric demand and that's refreshing.
So thank you for joining us.
I hope to see all of you at some point in the near future on the road as we make our visits.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect and thank you for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Skyler and I am your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference Public Service Enterprise Group Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today July 30 2014 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time on August 8 2014.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead Thank you Skyler.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for participating in PSEG's earnings call this morning.
As you are aware we released our second quarter 2014 earnings statements earlier today and as mentioned the release and attachments are posted on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended June 30 2014 is expected to be filed shortly.
I don't go through and read the entire disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results but as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update those statements from time-to-time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless we of course are required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or other filings for a discussion of the factors that may cause those results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations as well as for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I am now going to turn the call to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group; and joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
Thank you Kathleen and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2014 of $0.49 per share and that's to be compared with $0.48 per share earned in 2013 second quarter.
The results for the quarter bring operating earnings for the first half of 2014 to $1.50 per share compared with operating earnings of $1.33 per share earned in 2013's first-half.
Slides 4 and 5 contain the detail on the results for the quarter and the first half.
The several results for the quarter are noteworthy.
We continue to see benefits to earnings from the increased deployment of capital into our regulated company.
Now that's primarily in the form of transmission infrastructure and we're completing major projects on time and on budget.
From our perspective we're delivering on the promise both for earnings growth and improvement in reliability associated with this multibillion-dollar investment program.
We've been able to supplement that growth with a continued focus on controlling O&amp;M costs and supported rate mechanisms have allowed us to earn the authorized return on our regulated companies investment program.
The improvement in earnings from our regulated company PSE&amp;G offset the impact of mixed operating conditions during the quarter on Power's results.
The costs related to the extended outages at the sale of 2 nuclear facility and the gas-fired Linden combined cycle station mask the underlying strength of Power's operations.
The down time at Linden during the quarter was longer than planned and associated with extensive work being done to test and complete the installation of equipment which has led to a 63-megawatt increase in the station's capacity.
During the recent refueling outage at Salem we discovered the need to make repairs to Salem 2's 4 reactor coolant pumps.
The refueling outage was extended approximately 60 days to complete the necessary repairs and the unit was returned to service on July 14.
The decision to keep the unit out of service is not made easily.
However only by taking steps necessary in the short term in support of operational excellence were the key assets such as Salem be available on the reliable basis to provide substantial value for years to come.
I'm pleased to report that both Linden and Salem 2 have been operating essentially flawlessly since they returned to service.
Keeping a focus on operational excellence is the primary means of assuring our customers and regulators that we operate our assets in a safe and reliable manner.
We have begun the work recently approved by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities to protect and strengthen PSE&amp;G's electric and gas distribution systems against severe weather conditions.
The $1.22 billion Energy Strong investment program represents an initial phase of work designed to upgrade and improve the resilience of our system and we intend to work with our regulators and other parties to consider additional measures at a later date.
This is an opportune time to pursue these investments.
Major surcharges on customers' electric bills are scheduled to expire over the next 2 years and the bills for PSE&amp;G's gas customers continue to benefit from the capable management of the company's gas supply storage and transportation contracts.
In fact PSE&amp;G has filed for a further 9% reduction in the gas rate paid by residential customers.
The reduction which would be effective in time for this year's heating season will be the latest in a series of reductions which have lowered the customer's gas bills by 44% in the past 5 years.
The availability of low-cost gas in the Marcellus Basin and the lack of infrastructure to move the gas to market has been a source of volatility in the Power markets.
Power's combined cycle assets in PJM enjoy an economic advantage given actions to low-cost supplies in the Marcellus particularly during the summer period.
As a practice we don't and as you will know forecast results for PSEG's Power beyond the current year and outside of what is implied by the market prices.
But we will make note of some consistent improvement in demand that is showing up here in our region.
The results of PJM's recent capacity auction point to an improving market environment with the retirement of older inefficient generating capacity as environmental rules take effect.
Power's assets in PJM will also once again receive a price that continues to reflect our assets value given their location relative to load.
So for the next 4 years Power's assets will receive a price for capacity of approximately $166 per megawatt day.
The Power markets have gained greater clarity on another key environmental priority.
We are pleased that the Environmental Protection Agency has issued its ruling on cooling water commonly referred to as Section 316b.
The agency's ruling substantially addresses many of our concerns and we are working with the appropriate state environmental agencies on permitting of our affected units.
On another environmental matter the EPA also released its proposed rules concerning a reduction in CO2 from existing generating units.
We are supportive of the administration's efforts to enforce the Clean Air Act.
Power has made the necessary investments to meet existing air quality environmental requirements and although we expect it may take some time to implement final rules regarding carbon given the complexity of the proposal Power's fleet should benefit given the generation profile that is almost 60% carbon-free.
Before I conclude I want to bring you up-to-date on matters relating to Power's trading arm energy resources and trade which we commonly refer to as ER&amp;T.
As you recall we indicated with our release of first quarter results that Power informed FERC PJM and the Independent Market Monitor of PJM that it found errors in some components of its cost base bids for its New Jersey fossil generation units.
We began an internal investigation and has since notified FERC PJM and the IMM that we identified and corrected additional errors.
We are working with the appropriate parties but cannot provide you with a timetable as to when this issue will be resolved or whether or not we will be required to recognize another charge against Power's earnings.
We take pride in our performance and candidly we did not live up to our own standards of applying sufficient rigor in this area but I can assure you that we corrected all identified errors and we are instituting new processes and controls to reduce the likelihood of a recurrence of this situation.
This issue does not change the strong underlying operating performance of Power's fleet of assets that continue to provide solid earnings and good cash flow given the fleet's favorable location close to load its dispatch flexibility and fuel diversity.
Despite Power's strengths we have nonetheless changed the profile of our earnings over the past several years.
Our investment program focused on improving the reliability in expanding the transmission system has yielded the anticipated outcomes.
PSE&amp;G remains on course to achieve double-digit growth in operating earnings during 2014 as its contribution to earnings is expected to exceed 50% of our forecast for the year.
The Energy's strong related capital investment provides further support for our forecast of double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's rate base and earnings over the next several years.
Given the strength of Power's operations in the first half of the year and the growth of PSE&amp;G we feel comfortable saying we expect operating earnings for the full year to be at the upper end of our range of guidance of $2.55 to $2.75 per share assuming normal weather and operations.
The growth in our capital program doesn't diminish the strength of our financial position and our balance sheet.
We remain well-positioned to deploy our balance sheet strength to meet shareholder objectives for long-term growth.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Caroline who will discuss our financials in greater detail Thank you Ralph and thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2014 of $0.49 per share versus operating earnings of $0.48 per share in last year's second quarter.
We provide you with the reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter on Slide 4.
We've also provided you a waterfall chart on Slide 10 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on Slide 12 that provides you with the changes in operating earnings by each business on a year-to-date basis.
So I'll now review each company in more detail starting with PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2014 of $0.30 per share compared to $0.24 per share for the second quarter of 2013 and results for the quarter are shown on Slide 14.
PSE&amp;G's operating earnings continue to benefit from an increase in revenue associated with an expansion of its capital program and tight control of its operating costs.
PSE&amp;G's results for the quarter were also aided by a reduction in financing costs as weather normalized sales growth which remains consistent in the slowly improving economy.
A FERC approved increase in PSE&amp;G's transmission revenue under the company's formula rate was effective on January 1 of 2014.
The increase supported a quarter-over-quarter improvement in the net earnings contribution from transmission of $0.03 per share.
Weather conditions during the quarter were unfavorable relative to normal and in comparison to conditions experienced in the year-ago quarter.
And these conditions reduced quarterly earnings comparisons by $0.01 per share and offset the favorable impact on earnings from continued growth and demand for gas.
PSE&amp;G's focus on controlling the growth and operating expenses including a decrease in pension expense led to an improvement in quarter-over-quarter earnings of $0.02 per share.
And although the level of debt on PSE&amp;G's balance sheet has grown consistent with the expansion of its capital program the actual overall cost of debt has declined as a result of the refinancing of higher cost debt and a decline in interest rates.
This reduction in financing cost improved earnings comparisons quarter-over-quarter by $0.01 per share.
The service area continues to experience a slow improvement in underlying economic conditions.
Sales data for the first half of the year which in general is more reflective of trends than quarterly data indicate weather-normalized demand for gas grew by 4.4% as decline in prices and an improvement in the economy continue to support demand.
Weather normalized electric sales increased by 1.6% during the first-half.
Demand from residential customers grew in line with customer growth of about 0.5% as demand from the commercial and industrial sectors improved by 2.1% and 1.7% respectively over the 6-month period.
The New Jersey Board of Public Utilities or BPU approved PSE&amp;G's Energy Strong settlement during May.
The agreement calls for PSE&amp;G to invest $1.22 billion over the next 3 to 5 years to improve the resiliency of its electric and gas grid.
The addition of Energy Strong brings PSE&amp;G's 5-year capital program to approximately $11.3 billion versus our prior forecast of $10.1 billion in spending over the 2014 to 2018 time period and will provide further support for our double-digit earnings growth in PSE&amp;G's rate base as we've mentioned before.
PSE&amp;G's operating earnings increased to 22% during the first half of the year and supports maintenance of our forecast for a growth in operating earnings for 2014 to $705 million to $745 million.
Results for the remainder of the year will continue to reflect an increase in transmission revenue and a reduction in operating and maintenance costs including pension expense.
Let's now turn to Power.
PSEG Power reported operated earnings of $0.17 per share for the second quarter of 2014 compared with operating earnings of $0.24 per share for the second quarter of 2013.
The decline in Power's results for the quarter is the result of the impact on production and O&amp;M expenses associated with the extended outage at the Salem 2 nuclear facility and the maintenance outage at the Linden gas-fired combined cycle facility during which we also upgraded the equipment to increase that station's capacity.
Power's quarterly earnings comparisons continue to benefit from a net increase in capacity revenue.
Power received capacity prices of $242 per megawatt day during the first 2 months of the quarter versus $153 per megawatt day in the year-ago period before capacity prices reset to $166 per megawatt day effective June 1 of this year.
This net increase in capacity prices improved quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.04 per share.
The capacity price benefit plus benefits from lower cost gas offset a decline in average hedge prices and the negative impact from relatively lower market prices in the East resulting from transmission and generation outages outside of our region.
Incremental production at the coal-fired and peaking stations partly offset the lower production due to the outages at Salem 2 and the completion of the capacity upgrade work at Linden.
The net reduction in output however reduced earnings quarter-over-quarter by $0.03 per share.
Operation and maintenance expense or O&amp;M expense was higher than the year-ago quarter.
Again the costs associated with the outage in operating work at Linden and the repair at Salem more than offset the benefit from a lower pension expense and altogether reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.04 per share.
An increase in depreciation expense was offset by a reduction in the tax rate and other miscellaneous items.
Output from Power's fleet was 5% lower in the second quarter compared to year-ago levels.
Power determined in mid-May at the conclusion of Salem 2's normal refueling outage that was necessary to extend the outage to inspect and repair the reactor's cooling pumps.
The unit was returned to service on July 14.
The extended outage reduced the nuclear fleet's output in the quarter by 9% to 6.5 terawatt hours 54% of our generation and lowered the nuclear fleet's average capacity factor in the quarter to 80.5%.
Production from the gas-fired combined cycle fleet declined 11% in the quarter to 3.6 terawatt hours 30% of the production -- 30% our production as Linden was out of service early in the quarter to complete maintenance and the work associated with the 63 megawatt increase in the unit's capacity which is now in place.
Production from the coal-fired and peaking units increased to 27% to 1.9 terawatt hours or 16% of generation with improved market economics.
Power was able to meet its hedged obligations from its on generation despite the decline in output given the fleet's net long position and the availability of the coal-fired units.
Power has reduced the upper end of its forecast of output for the full year to 56 to 57 terawatt hours from the previous 56 to 58 terawatt hours to take into account the results for the second quarter.
Our forecast which represents an increase in output for the year of 4% to 6% continues to assume normal operations in weather.
Approximately 70% to 75% of generation for the second half of the year is hedged at $50 per megawatt hour.
Power has slightly increased its forecast of economic generation for 2015 and 2016 to 55 to 57 terawatt hours per year from the previous 54 to 56 terawatt hours to take into account normal operations and our estimates of a economic dispatch.
Power's taking advantage of the strength in market prices earlier this year to hedge a gas-fired combined cycle fleet into the third quarter and also increase the percent of generation hedged in 2015 and '16 to the upper end of the normal limits that we would normally see at this time.
That's in order to take advantage of some opportunities we saw for locked-in heat rate and spark spread.
Liquidity has improved somewhat into 2016 but generally speaking we can think of liquidity as poorer the further you get beyond 2015.
Power's combined cycle fleet also benefits in the summer months from its access to low-cost Marcellus gas.
Economics are particularly compelling as gas prices have declined more than Power prices which has allowed Power to do that key heat rate lock in.
For 2015 Power has hedged 65% to 70% of its forecast generation at an average price of $50 per megawatt hour.
For 2016 Power has hedged approximately 30% to 35% of its generation at an average price of $51 per megawatt hour.
The hedge data for 2015 also reflects a change in our forecast of the BGS volumes.
As a result of the extreme volatility in market prices for energy experienced earlier in the year we have seen some return of customers to the BGS contract but not a lot.
So our forecast for 2015 now assumes BGS volumes represent 11 terawatt hours of demand more in line with the forecast volumes for 2014 than our prior forecast which had assumed BGS volumes of 10 terawatt hours as we move into 2015.
As Ralph mentioned we are working with FERC PJM and the Independent Market Monitor or IMM to determine the impact of identified errors in our bidding processes.
We recorded a charged operating earnings of $25 million or $0.03 per share in the first quarter based on the information available at that time.
On discovery of the errors we initiated an investigation and identified additional errors in our bids and further determined that the quantity of energy that Power offered into the day ahead energy market for its fossil peaking units differed from the amounts for which Power was compensated in the capacity market for those units.
Based on information currently available to us we've generally not seen an impact on our realtime operations for these units.
We informed the FERC PJM and the IMM of these additional issues and we have corrected these errors.
We have not recorded an additional charge to income in the second quarter over the amount we reserved earlier this year.
PSEG doesn't have access to PJM's proprietary data to determine if the differences in quantity have had any impact and if so the level of that impact.
However FERC has the authority to investigate the matter which could result in FERC seeking disgorgement of any over-collected amounts civil penalties and non-financial remedies.
The forecast range of Power's operating earnings for 2014 remains unchanged as $550 million to $610 million with full year operating earnings expected to be at the upper end of the range assuming normal weather and normal unit operations.
Our forecast includes all of the issues we just discussed including the $0.03 per share charge in the first quarter related to the items I just discussed.
Results for the remainder of the year will be influenced by a reset in the average price received on PJM capacity to $166 per megawatt day which started in June from the $242 per megawatt day we've seen previously as well as a decline in the average price of energy hedges.
O&amp;M expense is expected to compare favorably in the second half of the year given a reduction in pension expense and the absence of major outage-related work in the year-ago period.
For the full year however Power's O&amp;M is expected to be flat against 2013's experience given the increased cost associated with the extended outages.
Let me now turn briefly to PSEG Enterprise and Other.
Operating earnings for PSEG Energy Holdings/Enterprise in the second quarter of 2014 were $7 million rounded about $0.02 per share versus operating earnings of $2 million or basically breakeven results during the second quarter of 2013.
The results for 2014 reflect the inclusion of earnings from PSEG Long Island's operating contract and the absence of some charges in the year-ago quarter.
PSEG Long Island filed its first Utility 2.0 proposal on July 1 of this year.
The proposal calls for investing $200 million in energy efficiency demand response programs distributed generation and related programs over a 4-year period beginning in 2015 and we expect a response to our proposal by year end.
We continue to forecast full year operating earnings for PSEG Enterprise and Other of $35 million to $40 million.
Just a brief note on financing during the quarter PSE&amp;G issued a total of $500 million of medium-term notes consisting of $250 million of 5 year notes at 1.8% and 30-year notes of 4%.
These funds will be used in PSE&amp;G's capital requirements.
PSE&amp;G's capital budget is currently 15% to 20% greater than what we told you in the spring and is now expected to approximate $11.3 billion over the 5-year period from 2014 to 2018 which brings our plans for our consolidated PSEG capital spending to $13 billion over that same period.
We ended the quarter with debt representing 42% of consolidated capital.
The improvement in PSE&amp;G's earnings and cash flow as well as our continued strong earnings and cash generated by Power support our financing requirements without the need to issue equity.
And while I think we've demonstrated with the growth in PSE&amp;G's capital program we continue to seek opportunities to deploy our investment capacity to drive growth.
We continue to forecast operating earnings for the full year of $2.55 to $2.75 per share but we do anticipate the results for the full year to be at the upper end of our range assuming normal weather and normal unit operations.
And with that we're ready for your questions.
So Skyler I'll turn it back to you.
.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Caroline you just mentioned that the company continues to see opportunities to redeploy cash flow to drive growth.
Can you -- certainly transmission investments are one major area there.
Maybe you can outline for us are there other areas that you see -- and Energy Strong I guess I should say as well.
So those strike me as the 2 big buckets.
What else should we be looking for and are there other arenas that you're considering that may not be front and center now but could be an afterburner effect later on? I'm sorry to disappoint you but Ralph will answer actually.
So we only talked about things that are fully baked but before this question comes up so often I'll just give you a couple of examples.
We have been in conversation with the BPU staff about the modest by our definition modest $100 million energy efficiency program.
Ralph Larosa is the incoming Chair of the American Gas Association.
He was in DC yesterday where he heard nothing but concerns expressed by the Obama administration and many other attendees on methane emissions fugitive methane emissions from gas pipes and our BPU has fiscally [ph] supported I guess cast iron maintenance infrastructure replacement program and you will probably see that as the first thing in Energy Strong that we go in for an increase on.
We had our first public hearing on Long Island over Utility 2.0 with $200 million program we've put in and I would say that if there was one message that came from that meeting it was that we were being too timid and it needed to be bigger.
Now that's only one of several hearings that we'll have on the subject.
We get a chance to refresh that proposal in October.
So the onset belief came out just this past month if I'm not mistaken usually comes out in June I shouldn't say why those come out in June this year and will be looking at PJM open window on some of the problems identified in there.
I don't want to give a number there because I just heard from Ralph only a day ago on that and that number moves around depending on the engineering analysis.
So I just mentioned a few things that all start with 9 figures and as Caroline mentioned I think our 5-year capital program increased by 50% from last year to this year and it's now up by 23% between March and July.
So I don't want to guarantee that that's what will happen on the next quarterly call but we don't seem to be running out of infrastructure needs in this region.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just to focus on one item of infrastructure.
Can you give us the outlook for the Artificial Island project with the reconsideration now and how we mark our scorecards to see this going forward? Well I was hoping that you would have the answer for that.
I mean this is witnessing the making of sausage the making of law and the making of everything else.
I mean in defense of PJM and they don't need me to defend them this is a brand-new tariff in response to brand-new regulation in a first-time major process.
So we're seeing growing pains.
I would be less than 100% candid if I didn't express disappointment at the board's action last week.
Having said that what the board said is they are are inviting the finalists and we are one of the 4 finalists down from whatever the original number was which is the number I think at least double that and they want some more information.
I don't even know the exact nature of the additional information they want.
I do know that we're going to do $2.2 billion of transmission this year on top of $1.6 billion of transmission last year and we've got a great team who will be able to answer any one of those questions and outshine the competition.
I think it's just growing pains of a brand-new tariff and a brand-new program that PJM is experiencing right now.
And the next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So perhaps going back to the Energy Strong side of the equation just following up there.
I mean obviously there's a number of things that didn't ultimately get put into that package.
Is their potential of going back and pick up some of those last items and kind of the reflect that in your CapEx year at some point? So the answer to that Julien is yes.
I think if could steer you in certain directions it's more likely that we'll go in first on the gas side because that work is expected to be complete in a 2 to 3-year timeframe.
And just the fact that notwithstanding that that will be our fourth request for gas infrastructure improvement these things take many months to get approved.
So we wouldn't wait until we were running out of work and I'm sorry running out of approval because there's no chance that we'll run out of work.
On the substation work that really is scheduled to go 5 years and candidly we were not convinced that given the amount of transmission work that we have and the 29 switching and substations that we plan to work on that we want to put the system much more in configuration that is as tenuous as it would be with all that electrical work going on.
Some of the stuff that went away was making the distribution system smarter.
That one is a little tougher to predict.
So a little bit of a long-winded answer but the short answer is there's no doubt that before the 3 to 5 year period is up we will be back in and my prediction today would be that we would be back in on the gas pipe replacement first and foremost.
Research Division</strong> Any sense of magnitude there or is it still too early to expect? We intended to talk about $200 million to $300 million a year is about the size of the program we can reasonably manage.
If there were emergency issues which we do not have you'd somehow find a way to do more than that but right now the emergent issue that seems to be coming up is the order of magnitude increase in greenhouse gas effect that comes from fugitive methane emissions and the desire and the policy circles fairly prominent policy circles to do more about that.
Research Division</strong> And then going back to the Artificial Island side of the equation just to be clear is this really about capital cost and who can deliver the cheapest project? Is that where this is headed? I mean it's tough to tell obviously or is this about terms conditions ultimately indicating that you can partner with or someone else can get involved in your territory? I think it's more the former but simply answering the question that way oversimplifies it.
I mean these are complicated engineering solutions to a sophisticated set of infrastructure assets in the infrastructure.
So it would be a mistake for anyone to assume that just because a project is less expensive than another that it is preferred from a consumer point of view.
That's the equivalent to saying gee I could buy that car for $10 000 and that car for $100 000 I should buy the $10 000 car and then you fail to recognize that but no you need the $100 000 crane because you're in the construction business and the $10 000 smart car isn't going to quite help you be able to move that equipment around.
I'm sure I don't have the right brands and dollar amounts there but you know my point that these are not commodity services these are sophisticated engineering services.
The terms and conditions issue that you allude to is I think it's fairly well-understood that some people have come in after the process who said we will guarantee a price.
Well the prudent buyer would say let me understand that guarantee.
Is it bumper to tail pipe? Is it just the drivetrain which doesn't fall apart? But for $200 000 miles and now you've extended the warranty from 15 000 to 75 000 miles? So there are some terms and conditions element there are some pricing elements and I think that's why the PJM board simply said gee we're getting a little bit more noise in the system then we'd like to under first time in a project and I don't mean to speak for the PJM board I don't have that ability.
But let's just ask more questions.
They did not come out and say you picked the wrong project by any stretch of the imagination.
They just want more information on those issues that you implied would be front and center.
Your next question is from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
There was some discussion surrounding the Tepco acquisition and of course you guys are located in New Jersey and I'm sure you guys are aware of the press reports.
I'm just wondering sort of philosophically if you look at the potential amount of leverage that might be used in that transaction and what you're seeing with respect to the discussion with CTA in New Jersey? Is there any change or thoughts that you guys might have in terms of leverage over the long-term at public-service? Sure Paul it's Caroline thanks for your question.
So yes obviously saw what Exelon said in terms of how they were financing that acquisition.
So part of that I guess I'd characterize not really surprising.
We look at our own balance sheet and we obviously are always in discussions with the rating agencies.
Given the fact that we don't have any parent leverage right we have the occasional commercial paper but our long-term debt is at our operating companies.
We talked about investment capacity.
We tend to talk to you about Power and Power's debt-to-cap profile where that stands at the end of the period and what its investment capacity is but we've always recognized that we do have incremental investment capacity at the parent that we could deploy and in conversations with the rating agencies the deployment for that to regulated right investment is something that works very well.
So the way I look at that is given where Power's performance has been and as I think we know where the company ended the quarter and Power of course ended the quarter debt-to-cap at 32% there's significant amount of capacity at Power but there also is that parent-related investment capacity.
And so when we talk about things internally in terms of opportunities some of the things that Ralph was mentioning earlier we look at that from the perspective of having a balance sheet that has a lot of room not just a room for Power but also the room for parent if it's oriented toward regulated.
So maybe that was the first largest announcement of use of that kind of capacity that we've seen but we recognize that we have it as well.
And of course continuing to run our businesses appropriately and keeping the right capital structure at PSE&amp;G et cetera and then seeking out regulated opportunity.
So If I look at that is just we're reinforcing the fact that we have ample room.
And then with respect to this PJM Independent Marketing Monitor stuff I wasn't completely clear exactly what you guys indicated happened.
It suggested that there were some additional pricing areas in the cost based bids that were identified with the quantity of energy that Power offered into the energy market that's differed from the amount that Power was compensated in the capacity market for those units I'm just trying to get an idea what does that actually sort of mean for somebody who's a little bit less sophisticated on what actually happened I guess.
Yes so you had it right in terms of -- in the first quarter we talked about the cost base bids and then the incremental information that we identified during this quarter was other errors but also this capacity issue.
And so sort of trying to say it again.
So we had -- we offer of course our units into the day ahead energy market we offer an amount of megawatts into the day ahead energy market and what we have seen is at times we did not offer the capacity into the day ahead energy market that was equivalent to the amount of capacity that we have we were getting paid for from the capacity auction results.
So as I said generally speaking what I'm talking about is offering into the day ahead market that differential not generally speaking impact on the realtime operation of the unit.
So it's about the bidding in the day ahead generally speaking more than it is about the operation in the realtime.
So it's a differential.
And then as I said we're in the process of investigating that doing the analysis and working with the IMM and PJM and we've informed FERC.
This day ahead this issue about the capacity difference you may recall I mentioned in my remarks it's about our peakers.
So not about all of our units but our fossil peaking units in the day ahead market.
Okay I got you.
And then just finally the methane emissions issue and the policy objective and the opportunity you mentioned now I think this might start within 9 figures.
Could you just give a little bit more of a flavor of sort of the total opportunity that might be involved in that? I noticed there's other stuff that was coming out yesterday from the DOE and I just supposed I was thinking about this I mean anymore you can share with us about what that could possibly mean? These methane leaks sort of plugging them up and the benefit there? We have I think 4 000-miles of cast iron main pipe needs to be replaced.
I don't know the mount of bare steel pipes that we have that needs to be replaced and typically speaking what Energy Strong had how much for how many miles? We're doing 350 for Energy Strong 1.4 million per mile.
It's about $1.4 million per mile Paul.
If you take that 4 000 miles and multiply by 1.4 million that you get up really rough ballpark.
Yes there's $350 million in Energy Strong to replace 250 miles.
For the methane escape issue isn't that sort of a climated issue that is separate from Energy Strong I thought there was an additional amount [ph]? Yes yes yes that's correct I was connecting 2 disparate thoughts.
So we've been on a long-standing program to replace our cast iron main because it is the oldest part of our gas distribution system.
It's the leakiest part of our gas distribution system.
It doesn't have any safety consequences from the point of view of high-pressure it's a low pressure low utilization system.
But just from a point of view of good operational practices you don't want leaky pipes.
What's been added to the calculation of why it's important to do it is concerned over the greenhouse gas effect associated with methane being I think I've read estimates of 30 to 35x more impactful per pound of CO2.
So that's just an added impetus for a program that's been underway for many years now to replace the cast iron main.
So you don't have a dollar number sort of? Yes if you want to replace all 4 000 miles you can multiply....
Next question is from Dan Eggers from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just can you maybe give us an update or is there a way to quantify how much benefit you guys saw in the second quarter because of the advantaged gas supply contracts in Power and how should we think about maybe the benefit in the third quarter this year versus last year seeing how wide based it is today? Sure Dan thanks for the question.
Not much impact in the second quarter.
So about a penny even that's rounded into the numbers I gave you relative to overall pricing impacts so offsetting capacity upsides.
That's not surprising to us.
Remember we talked about last year in the second quarter was when we actually first saw this differential come into play and actually it had a similar impact in last year's second quarter again rounding to about $0.01.
You may remember with the third quarter that we actually talked more about it because of the summer season we had a nice warm summer last year you had the supply demand imbalance more supply trying to get onto the pipe right.
And so the differential widened out and we got about $0.03 a share benefit in the third quarter.
So not surprising in the shoulder season and of course this is a season where we haven't had as warm of weather as we would normally have at the end of the second quarter it's cooler than normal and cooler than last year you're not seeing a lot of that benefit not surprising you won't see as much.
So differential for Leidy is ranging and looking a little bit ahead $0.50 to $1 right now just given supply demand issues as people refill storage.
That's not surprising.
We saw it depending on those supply demand conditions you can see that bases really move around.
So we still think we're obviously we're well positioned and whenever we can capture that advantage we will take it and you'll see it come through our numbers.
Can't really forecast obviously the rest of this quarter we have to see what the summer turns out to be it was cool in my house this morning I don't know about yours but we'll see how that goes.
But we still have that Evergreen opportunity on the pipeline with those contracts that Power has residential customer of course gets first claim that's why you don't hear us talk about it in winter right because the residential customers using it for heating but in the summer where there is obviously not as much heating demand we can get that benefit.
So I still think it's something you should look to us to try to capture whenever we can.
We'll report on how we do at the end of the summer in the third quarter but as I said not surprising that 2Q is about the same as last year's 2Q and again a reminder that advantage Power has is an evergreen advantage over all you may remember last year we said about 25% of the gas that we use for our generation on a net basis net 25 across the year is Leidy sourced but it's peaky it's peaky and that's summer period it's much less so in the winter.
Research Division</strong> It brings me to my next question the guidance kind of the pointing at the top end of the range how is that reflecting kind of the absence of July weather so far? So Dan whenever we give information it's up-to-the-minute so we obviously have taken into account July and we've looked at a 10 to 14-day forecast.
So all of that's factored in.
By the way I just saw yesterday that it is being called the polar vortex again.
So evidently in July that's 74 degrees versus negative 17.
But yes the recent weather and the near term forecast is included in the upper end of guidance.
Thanks for asking that because beyond that range we would assume normal weather.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess this is the last question Caroline how should we think about tax rate for this year given the fact the rate came in lower in the second quarter? And what would be your expectations for next year? Yes So I think in terms of tax rate you should pretty much think of our tax rate as relatively steady for the businesses.
Sometimes we have smaller adjustments in the tax rate so just a little bit of benefit in Power for the tax rate this year.
We closed out audits.
Obviously that affects things production deduction you calculate that as you look at it overall the amount of generation that your source from market versus what you produce.
Those kind of things I think is just noise.
So I would think of your tax rate as basically consistent for Power and for the utility on the year-on-year basis.
The only thing that might bounce your tax rate a little bit on a quarterly basis now that we of the Solar Source business in Power and Solar Source goes into as the unit comes into service you see that little bit of boost benefit if you will right a little bit of benefit for the portion of the ITC that you see kind of on through the P&amp;L as a permanent difference.
Other than that I think you should expect it to be pretty smooth.
And the next question is from Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Wondering about the outage at Salem.
Was there anything in the work that you did there that perhaps I guess for lack of better term pulled ahead work or work that you would have done or had to do in 1 year or 2 years and that you're able to do at this point? Is there anything in that ...
Nothing that would meaningfully change the duration of the next refueling outage Travis.
But believe me that topic was front and center often as we waited for the coolant pumps to come back from the refurbishment of the vendors.
But with by no means when we skip an outage nor should you think about any material shortening of the next refueling outages which should be 18 months from now.
Research Division</strong> Different talk but now that you have certainty on the Energy Strong investment needs what are your thoughts around equity needs and use of balance sheet right now and use of retained earnings financing that? So we consistently and remain firm in our belief that we do not have any need for outside equity for the fairly robust capital program we have.
Caroline you may want to answer? Yes Travis as I mentioned just earlier we closed the quarter with the debt-to-cap of the company at 42 and for Power at 32 we also talked about the fact that we know if you have more regulated investments to do we even have parents at capacity.
So there's a lot of room on the balance sheet not to say that we haven't used it right to consistently identify things as Ralph has mentioned to put balance sheet to work.
But when I look at this and then I look at the things that we were just talking about earlier whether it's more on the gas side that we might be able to do next round of something following Energy Strong more transmission in the open window potential for Artificial Island if it comes our way potential for more things that we might identify on an infrastructure basis and I look at a lot of those kinds of things that we identify and they do add up but none of them add up to suggest that the balance sheet we have can't support that and more.
And of course for things like transmission as you know under our formula rates it's a realtime we're not lagging and so cash comes back as well so I look at this and say we have our conversations and talk about opportunities.
We have a balance sheet that can support that and nothing gets close to equity issuance.
And the next question is from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to understand a little better the thought process behind the charge related to the cost base bidding issues there.
In the first quarter you've identified that the initial issue you took a charge you didn't tell us how much it was.
And then this quarter you are telling us how much that charge was.
You've identified the issue might be broader and have some other aspects to it but you haven't added to the charge.
So should we read into that that you feel that you took adequate reserve or you just have no way of estimating it? If that was the case initially why did you come up with $25 million? Is there any context you can give there Ralph? Sure I'll answer that Jonathan.
So thanks for asking the question.
We should be clear here.
So as you recall we said we took a charge in the first quarter.
We didn't identify what it was.
So obviously it was the source to lot of conversation.
So we thought it was appropriate to tell you what we took in the first quarter which was the $25 million the $0.03 a share was all embedded into Power's operating earnings for the first quarter.
And the standard on which we rely here in determining that charge is the accounting standard for contingency.
So you may be familiar with it but if not let me just be a little bit descriptive.
The accounting guidelines for the time for which we took the charge in the first quarter essentially worked this way: you take a look at what potential issue might be if you need to take a charge or a reserve.
And if you identify a particular number that you think is the most likely number then you book that.
If you don't know a most likely number but you have a range of potential outcomes all of which given the level of uncertainty you can't really ascribe differential probabilities to then you book the low end of that range.
And that's what we did in the first quarter.
That's what the $25 million represented when we took the charge in the first quarter.
As I mentioned during the remarks and also in an earlier question we've identified some additional errors as well this quantity matter that I was just describing before as well.
And so as we looked at the second quarter we didn't have any basis on which to revise that number or change that number and we determined that we would leave that number where it is.
So that what I'm saying here is you should not interpret that to say that is the best number when we took the number.
The charge in the first quarter we were taking the low end of the range and at this point we don't have any sufficient additional information to change the value right now because we're in the process as I mentioned and that process could result in a change in the value.
Research Division</strong> One other follow-up on that is there any aspect to this which is sort of ongoing affecting your earnings power? There are constantly changes in practice and systems you talked about.
Are we going to notice any of that? No so the guidance that we gave you and the upper end of the range guidance we're really talking about Power's operational earnings power.
And Power's operational earnings power is unchanged in how we bid the units and how the units run and the capacity factors and Salem getting back and Linden having more megawatts.
So we don't see this as changing the ability of Power to continue to garner the value it garners from its location.
So I would say no to that.
This is something we need to work through and there we will update you as we go and there may be more to say in subsequent quarters because we are just in the process now.
But it doesn't change the fundamentals of how you should think about Power operating in the market.
Research Division</strong> This is more a sort of retroactive thing if I may either penalties or disgorgement or whatever that may occur but the go forward is not really affected? So you're correct.
This is something that may result in incremental charges it may result in penalties.
But we just don't know enough right now to give you any guidance in that regard.
Research Division</strong> Okay did you have an update on when do you think you might have some clarity on that.
I apologize if you already said that.
That's okay Jonathan.
No we -- actually we don't.
As I mentioned earlier and Ralph mentioned as well we did inform the FERC we've been in discussions with PJM and the Independent Market Monitor so there are many parties into this conversation appropriately.
And so we can't really give an estimate of the timeframe at this point.
We're continuing to obviously work with all those parties.
The next question as from Paul Fremont of Jeffries.
Research Division</strong> Really two things.
One can I get a reaction to the staff recommendation on the consolidated tax adjustment and what that might mean for Public Service Enterprise for Public Service Electric and Gas? Sure you know the CTA as recommended of course which is not final right it's just recommended takes a view of taking a 5-year look back from the date of filing also takes a view of separating out transmission from distribution and then 75% to the company 25% to the -- for the benefit of the customer.
So we think that is a very good outcome and we think if that were to be the final rule we think that would be fine from the PSE&amp;G perspective and we'll continue we think to appropriately reflect how to think about taxes and therefore appropriately encourage incremental investments.
So if that were the outcome which is as I said is not the final outcome that would be a good outcome from our perspective.
Research Division</strong> I mean are you able to sort of quantify the potential rate base impact of if that recommendation were adopted? It would be de minimis it would not be material.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question I have is you guys mentioned the 316b final rules at EPA where do you currently stand with the Salem water discharge permit? So I believe our Salem water discharge permit expired some years ago and it's been held in advance waiting for the EPA rules to come out.
So we have had some very preliminary meetings with the EP staff not only on Salem but some of our fossil units that now can have their permits refreshed given the promulgation of the rule.
I'm pretty sure that the 316b rule as proposed by EPA have named traveling restructuring as the best technology available for impingement; entrainment [ph] is more of site-specific determination.
So the ink wasn't dry when we called up VP [ph] and said let's talk about these permits.
Research Division</strong> So you're essentially -- you would like to see sort of a ruling that's consistent with the EPA standards then at the same level? That's right Paul.
Operator I think we're going to move to closing comments right now given the fact we're at the noon hour.
So I'm going to turn it back over to Ralph for closing comments before concluding.
Thanks Kathleen.
So just to recap.
We obviously had some help from weather in the markets earlier in year.
Mostly weather early in the year and a little more help from the markets early in the spring which we were able to capitalize on in some of our hedging activity as Carol described for you.
We're not getting any help from the weather lately and we didn't do ourselves a favor with some of our operational challenges in the spring.
But when I add up all of those challenges whether it's weather or operational I am pleased to guide you to the upper end of the range even having put all that into the stew.
And I'm even more happy about the fact that all those challenges are in the rearview mirror and that plants are running well now as Carolyn dialogued with Jonathan alluded to even the bidding issues at our trading group we've corrected in the errors that we were aware of have been corrected in that's in the rearview mirror.
The balance sheet remains strong and investment program is on track we don't need new equity we can do all that and still support growth in the dividend.
So with that I'll just say thank you for joining us on the call.
We'll see you in various venues in the fall and then I'm sure late in the fall.
And that will be it from here.
Thank you all.
Thank you operator.
With that we're going to conclude today's call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may disconnect and thank you for participating.
[Call Starts Abruptly] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today October 30 2014 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 2 o'clock p.m.
Eastern today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern on November 6 2014.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead Thank you Brent.
Good morning and Thank you all for participating in PSEG's earnings call this morning.
As you were aware we released our third quarter 2014 earnings statements earlier this morning.
The release and attachments as mentioned are posted on our website www.pseg.com under the Investor section.
We have also posted a series of slides that detail the operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended September 30 2014 is expected to be filed shortly.
I'm not going to read the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results but as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time-to-time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless we of course are required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or other filings for a discussion of the factors that may cause those results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I am now going to turn the call to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group; and joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
And I'm not going to limit you but that's… Nice try Kathleen.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2014 of $0.77 per share compared with operating earnings of $0.76 per share in 2013’s third quarter.
The results for the third quarter brings PSEG's operating earnings for the nine months ended September to $2.27 per share which is a 9% increase over the $2.09 per share earned during the first nine months of last year.
I'll refer you to slides four and five as they contain the detail on the results for the third quarter and for the nine months.
PSEG earnings continued to benefit from the expansion of our regulated utility capital program.
Our results also benefited from the focused [placement] controlling the growth and operating expenses which offset the impact of less favorable weather conditions on demand for electricity.
Our major transmission projects are being completed on time and on budget.
We completed the construction of the $390 million North Central Reliability line and placed the $400 million Burlington-Camden line into service as well.
These two 230 kilovolt lines will improve the system’s power quality and voltage stability.
Construction on the New Jersey portion of the Susquehanna-Roseland line was also completed in the quarter.
The work to connect the western portion of this major 500 kilovolt project in Pennsylvania with New Jersey is underway and it’s planned to go into service around mid-2015.
We are in the midst of engineering permitting and siding work on our remaining large projects as we also work on the upgrading conversion of lower voltage lines.
These projects are all part of our planned $6.8 billion capital investment in transmission which provides for the double-digit growth in the PSE&amp;G's earnings in 2014 as well as the anticipated double digit growth in rate base and earnings through 2016.
We hope to add the proposed 500 kilovolt line at Artificial Island to our stable of transmission projects.
We supplemented our original proposal to meet the stability issues in Artificial Island and expect to have a decision from PJM during the first quarter of next year.
We've also accelerated the replacement of PSE&amp;G's cast iron gas type system.
Approximately $350 million of the $1.22 billion energy strong investment program approved by the BPU earlier this year is dedicated to this ongoing effort.
This is an opportune time to pursue these investments.
Major surcharges on customer's electric bills are scheduled to expire over the next two years and the bills of PSE&amp;G's gas customers continue to benefit from the capable management of the company's natural gas storage and transportation contracts.
The BPU approved on a provisional basis a 9% reduction in the gas rate paid by residential customers.
The reduction which was effective on October 1 or just the few weeks ago is the latest in the series of reductions which has lowered customers' gas bills by 44% over the past five years.
PSE&amp;G has since indicated that it intends to implement an additional bill credit over the months of November December and January that will return approximately $160 million to residential gas customers.
The earnings growth enjoyed by PSE&amp;G in the quarter offset the impact on earnings from the well-known reset in Power's capacity revenue.
Lower operating cost helped to offset the impact of mild weather on energy pricing and earnings.
We're in the midst of major change in the electricity market.
An unprecedented amount of capacity is expected to retire over the next two years in response to environmental requirements and market economics.
In addition the availability of low cost gas in the Marcellus and Utica basins and the lag in the development of infrastructure to move the gas to market has and is expected to continue to be a source of volatility in gas and electricity prices.
The new dynamic implies that winter is as important to the power market as the summer as demand in the winter season can heavily influence forward prices.
Power is well situated.
Its fleet of base load intermediate and peaking generating assets benefits from access to low cost gas in the summer and from price volatility in the winter.
The changing dynamic in the market creates a need to review maintenance practices to assure availability of our units during critical peak conditions.
The changing market dynamic appears to be recognized by PJM.
The change is proposed by PJM to the reliability pricing model RPM as we often refer to with are designed to incent operations related investments as much as they’re meant to encourage new investments in light of the events in the winter of 2014 and no new retirements of capacity over the next two to three years.
PJM's proposal which provides for a change in the demand curve as well as its capacity performance proposal could provide greater visibility to much needed market driven price formation.
Outside PJM the potential to receive a seven year contracts for new capacity that clears the market in New England under its revised capacity construct has encouraged us to consider bidding a new 450 megawatt gas-fired combined cycle unit into next year's auction.
The new unit which will be located at our existing Bridgeport Harbor site would represent a $600 million investment.
I do want to emphasize however that we would only proceed with this project if it clears in the forward capacity auction.
The potential investment in Bridgeport Harbor would represent the latest of several opportunities for PSEG.
Over the past quarter Power has announced the plan to invest $120 million for an equity interest in the PennEast Pipeline.
This 105 mile pipeline would bring gas from Pennsylvania into New Jersey and provide PSEG and its customers with increased access to low cost natural gas supply.
Similarly PSEG Long Island has updated its utility 2.0 proposal with a revised proposal to spend up to $345 million meets the customer's desire for increased investment in energy efficiency demand resources and distributed generation.
It also limits the impact on customer bills as the increased investment would be financed by the LIPA the Long Island Power Authority.
The inclusion of our performance incentive mechanism in the proposal provides PSEG Long Island the opportunity to earn an increased return.
If preferred the proposal also reaffirms PSEG Long Island's original approach to fund new rate base like investments.
So PSEG Long Island could benefit from the utility 2.0 investments through either the use of its own capital or proving out the effectiveness of the programs and earning under the performance mechanism.
PSE&amp;G is also awaiting BPU's response to its request to invest approximately $100 million in programs that would extend existing energy efficiency offerings here in New Jersey.
Together if my math is right these programs represent an investment opportunity of over $1.2 billion and extend the growth associated with our existing $13 billion capital program.
These investments also provide our customers with access to low cost gas and cost effective technologies that reduce emissions as they also improve system reliability.
Based on the strength of our results for the quarter and year-to-date we are raising the low end of our full year operating earnings guidance to $2.60 from $2.55 per share.
And as we indicated last quarter we remain on track to achieve results at the upper end of our revised operating guidance of $2.60 to $2.75 per share.
Our investments are meeting our expectations our costs are under control and we remain well positioned to deploy our balance sheet to meet shareholder objectives for long-term growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Caroline to review our operating results in greater detail.
Thank you Ralph and good morning.
I will review our quarterly operating earnings as well as the outlook for full year results by each subsidiary company.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2014 of $0.77 per share versus $0.76 per share in last year's third quarter.
And for the nine months ending September 30th we reported operating earnings of $2.27 per share versus $2.09 per share last year.
Slide four and five provide a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter and year-to-date.
We've also provided you a waterfall chart on slide 10 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on slide 12 that provides you with those changes in operating earnings by business on a year-to-date basis.
So now I’ll overview each company in more detail starting with PSE&amp;G.
As shown on slide 14 PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the third quarter of $0.39 per share compared with $0.33 per share a year ago.
PSE&amp;G's earnings in the third quarter continue to benefit from the increase in the revenue associated with its expanded capital program particularly in transmission and a decline in operating profit.
An approved increase in PSE&amp;G's transmission revenue under its formula rate effective at the start of the year supported the quarter-over-quarter increase in the net earnings contribution from transmission of $0.04 per share bringing the total transmission-related earnings increase to $0.10 per share on a year-to-date basis.
And the roll-in of our second capital infrastructure program or CIP II into our rates this past July improved earnings comparisons from distribution during the quarter by $0.01 per share.
The decline in operating expenses particularly pension expense lead to an improvement in earnings of $0.02 per share.
PSE&amp;G's revenue was affected by weather conditions during the third quarter which was very mild relative to normal as well as relative to conditions in the year-ago quarter.
On average weather in the third quarter was 14% cooler than normal and 18% cooler than 2013's third quarter.
The impact on demand from the mild weather reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.02 per share.
PSE&amp;G's earnings continue to benefit from a decline in financing cost which more than offset an increase in the level of debt on its balance sheet associated with higher levels of capital spending.
The reduction in interest expense and a lower tax rate more than offset an increase in depreciation expense and netted to an increase in quarter-over-quarter earnings of $0.01 per share in the distribution business.
Economic conditions in New Jersey as evidenced by employment in the service territory continue to show signs of improvement.
Adjusting for the weather electric sales in the quarter grew by 0.4% and the improvement was led by an increase in demand from the residential sector and reflects some growth in the number of customers.
On a year-to-date basis weather normalized electric sales grew by 1.1%.
Weather normalized gas sales while less impactful to results in the third quarter advanced 1.9% in the quarter and 4% for the nine months ended September.
Of course demand for gas continues to benefit from a decline in commodity prices and economic conditions.
Customers will see a further decline in the commodity portion of their bills during the upcoming year.
The BPU approved on a provisional basis an annual reduction of 9% in residential customer gas rate that went into effect on October 1 of this year and given the continued availability of low cost gas under the company's long-term supply arrangement PSE&amp;G has since informed to BPU that it would be implementing an additional three months bill credit of 31% which would retire approximately $160 million to customers over the months of November December and January of 2015.
On the transmission front PSE&amp;G has filed for an update to its formula rate per transmission at the FERC.
The update which provides for a return on PSE&amp;G's forecasted increase in its capital investment and transmission would increase 2015's annual transmission revenues by an estimated $182 million at the start of the New Year.
You’ll recall that in 2014 we added a $171 million to our revenues which has resulted in year-to-date growth in earnings of $0.10 per share; something to keep in mind proportionally as you do our modeling for our filing for 2015.
The BPU also found that all but $400 000 of PSE&amp;G's $366 million of storm costs are prudent and recoverable in a future-based rate proceeding.
The total spend breaks down as approximately a $126 million of major storm capital expenditures and incremental O&amp;M of approximately $240 million.
PSE&amp;G is also awaiting a decision from the BPU on its request to invest approximately $100 million plus administrative cost on programs that would extend existing energy efficiency offerings in the residential multi-family hospital and self-install markets.
This program is not expected to have a major impact on customer rates and we expect a decision during the first half of next year.
PSE&amp;G is meeting its capital and operating benchmarks and earnings its authorized returns.
For the year we've made a slight modification to our forecast of PSE&amp;G's operating earnings.
The low end of the range has been increased to $710 million bringing the rate -- excuse me -- bringing the range for operating earnings guidance to $710 million to $745 million from the prior $705 million to $745 million.
Results for the remainder of the year will continue to reflect an increase in transmission and distribution revenue and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense including importantly pension costs.
With that let's now turn to Power.
Power reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2013 of $0.34 per share compared with $0.43 per share for the third quarter of 2013.
Power's results reflect the full quarter impact of the scheduled reset in the average price received on PJM capacity as well as lower market prices for Energy.
PJM capacity prices are reset to an average level of $166 per megawatt day on June 1 of 2014 from $242 per megawatt day in the prior capacity year.
Recall that we enter a period where power's PJM fleet based on the results of past auctions is expected to experience stable capacity prices in the range of $165 to $166 per megawatt day through May 31 of 2018.
A decline in capacity revenues reduced Power’s quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.09 per share.
Mild weather conditions relative to a year ago and lower gas prices resulted in a return to a more average [spot] spread for our region than those we experienced during the hot summer last year and that reduce quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.03 per share.
A decline in Power's average hedge price for energy and lower market prices combined to further reduce quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.04 per share.
Power's O&amp;M expense was lower in the quarter relative to the level experienced in the year-ago quarter.
The actions of major maintenance expense at the Bethlehem New York facility in 2014 compared to the year ago quarter and lower nuclear outage related cost even with the impact of Salem’s extended outage in the quarter combined with lower pension expense to improve Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.06 per share.
A reduction in the tax rate and the other miscellaneous items more than offset an increase in depreciation and interest expense to improve quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.01 per share.
The availability of the Bethlehem New York gas-fired combined cycle facility in 2014 led to a 4% improvement in the generating fleet’s output in the third quarter as production from the gas-fired combined cycle fleet increased 16% in the quarter to five terawatt hours or about 34% of output.
Output of the nuclear fleet improved slightly from a year-ago levels.
During the quarter the fleet operated at a capacity factor of 92% and produced 7.6 terawatt hours or about 52% of output.
Production from the cold-fired and peaking units declined 8% during the quarter to 2.1 terawatt hours about 14% of output due to planned outages as well as lower weather-related demand.
Generation volumes in PJM overall were flat relative to year-ago levels.
Power expects output for the full year to be approximately 53 to 55 terawatt hours.
The forecast represents a slight increase in output on a year-over-year basis but is lower than our prior forecast for 2014 given year-to-date performance including the mild summer.
Keep in mind we have scheduled fourth quarter outages at the Salem 1 and Peach Bottom 2 Nuclear facilities.
Salem 1 begin a normal refueling outage earlier this month and Peach Bottom is undergoing work associated with its planned upgrade during a refueling outage.
Approximately 80% to 85% of generation in the fourth quarter is hedged at an average price of $49 per megawatt hour.
The average price for energy hedges in the full year is approximately $48 per megawatt hour versus the average hedge price for energy in 2013 of about $50 per megawatt hour.
Power’s maintaining its forecast of economic generation for both 2015 and 2016 at 55 to 57 terawatt hours per year.
This represents an increase in output from 2014’s forecast.
For 2015 Power has maintained its average hedge position at 65% to 70% of forecast generation at an average price of $50 per megawatt hour.
You will recall that Power increased its hedge activity earlier in the year in response to higher market prices.
The current level of hedges is consist with past practice and continues to assume BGS volumes represent about 11 terawatt hours of demand in line with the 2014 forecast for BGS volumes.
In 2016 Power has increased its average hedge position to approximately 35% to 40% of its generation from 30% to 35%.
Hedges in 2016 have been transacted at an average price overall of $49 per megawatt hour compared with our prior update which indicated average hedge prices for 2016 of $51 per megawatt hour.
The decline in the average hedge price for 2016 reflects an increase in non-BGS related hedges all done at market prices since our last update and you will recall you have seen this pattern from us in prior periods as we increase the proportion of non-BGS hedges in the third year out the weighted average math of putting in hedges at market prices relative to the representation of BGS in that total and remember BGS goes in at a full requirement price less capacity normally brings down the weighted average hedge price as we move through the year.
For example in 2016 last quarter BGS represented about 30% of the total amount that was hedged in our disclosures last quarter and now it’s closer to 25%.
One thing to note is that the prices that the new hedges were put on the market prices for the new hedges are actually slightly higher than the energy component of BGS that cleared in February of 2014.
So again our normal pattern as we layer in market hedges post the clearing of BGS in February.
We’ve narrowed our range for Power’s 2014 operating earnings guidance to $575 million to $610 million from the prior $550 million to $610 million with full year operating results expected to be at the upper end of the range.
Results for the remainder of the year are expected to be influenced by the reset in the average price received on PJM capacity that we just talked about and the decline in the average price of energy.
Power’s O&amp;M expense for the fourth quarter is expected to compare favorably with year ago levels given a reduction in pension expense and the absence of major outage related work.
We anticipate O&amp;M for the full year will be flat versus 2013’s level of expense and this estimate as always assumes normal weather and normal operations.
As we notified you earlier this year Power discovered errors in its cost based bids for its New Jersey fossil generating units in the PJM energy market as well as additional pricing errors and differences between the quantity of energy that Power offered into the energy market and the amounts for which Power was compensated in the capacity market.
We have since been verbally notified by the FERC staff that they have initiated a preliminary non-public staff investigation into the matters discovered by Power.
The investigation could result in the FERC seeking disgorgement of any over collected amounts civil penalties and non-financial remedies.
Power has implemented procedures and continues to develop processes to mitigate the risk of similar issues occurring in the future and as is usual in matters of this nature FERC investigation may take an extended period of time to resolve.
We have not by the way changed the reserve we took in the first quarter which still stands at $25 million.
Let me now turn briefly to the Enterprise and all other; PSEG Enterprise/Other reported operating earnings of $22 million or $0.04 per share in the third quarter of 2014 versus an operating loss of $4 million or a $0.01 per share during the third quarter of 2013.
The results reflect the inclusion of earnings from the operating contract of PSEG Long Island as well as a reduction in tax expense.
The conclusion of an Internal Revenue Service audit for the tax years’ 2007 through 2010 resulted in a $121 million cash refund and a reduction in tax expense.
The reduction in taxes improved quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons by $0.02 per share from the closure of the audit.
In October PSEG Long Island update its original Utility 2.0 proposal which called for PSEG Long Island to invest up to $200 million over four years in programs that would expand energy efficiency demand resources and distributed generation on Long Island.
The updated proposal calls for an increase in the size of the program to $345 million.
As currently proposed PSEG could fund all or some of increased program and compensation for the part that is funded by LIPA could be performance based.
We anticipated a decision on the Utility 2.0 proposal by year end.
On the financing side we ended the quarter with cash on hand of $703 million the growth in PSE&amp;G’s earnings and cash flow and the cash generated by Power continue to support our financing requirements without the need to issue equity.
Debt represented 41.6% of our consolidated capital structure and 31.6% of Power’s capitalization at the end of September.
As Ralph mentioned earlier we have narrowed the range of our 2014 operating earnings guidance to $2.60 and $2.75 per share and continue to expect earnings to fall at the upper end of that range.
PSE&amp;G remains on course to achieve double-digit growth in operating earnings during 2014 as its contribution to earnings is expected to exceed 50% of our forecasted earnings for the year.
PSEG Power is expected to reported earnings at the upper end of the forecast range for the year.
That concludes my remarks and at this point we are now ready for your questions and I will turn it back over to Brent.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session for members of the financial community.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
A couple of related areas first of all can you give us a sense of what kind of response you’ve seen in New Jersey so far to -- as far as working with the commission and the authorities in general on 111(d)? Sure we had lots of communication [stuff this past] with New Jersey DEP.
I think it’s pretty safe to assume that one of the areas they would be focusing on was the amount of credit or candidly the lack of credit given for nuclear output and the feeling that the cleaner states in our case are being somewhat penalized.
Second area that I’d put sort of a lower priority the opportunity to perhaps expand the purview of 111(d) to touch upon things that are electric related but not specific to power plants in New Jersey.
Our leading clause is get [permission] for transportation so the possibility of expanding 111(d) to include electric transport and the possibility of expanding 111(d) to include methane leakage fugitive emissions from the pipe [inaudible] combined cycle units.
But I put those two issues electric transportation and methane leakage as a distant second to the concern for the credit not given to nuclear.
What Ralph do you have any sense of our A; if there is been any responsiveness at the state level to crediting nuclear and B; what kind of form would you like that to see or can we reasonably expect that to see -- to appear as? Yes so I would say that it’s not much of an exaggeration to say that we are in lock step with the state on that perspectives on 111(d).
As you know Kit we have a very clean fleet nuclear typically is 55% 57% of our yearly output the third quarter was 52%.
But as to the details of how that would manifest itself I am not sure I want to get into that on this call.
We could certainly talk more about that hopefully in Dallas if you are at the [DEI] but there is no space that I am aware and hate to be absolutely definitive and say that there isn’t any at all between us and the state’s position but I have been briefed on this couple of times already and I think we’re in lock step with the state in terms of the… Let me ask about one particular area.
You used to be in Reggie and now you're not.
So is that something you’d like to see reinstated? No it isn’t because as we’ve said many times we thought Reggie was a good idea to serve as a template for a national emissions trading program and appetizing Congress to begin a national program.
It doesn’t seem wise for the state to diminish its economic competitiveness with respect to nearby states and joining Reggie.
One other separate area… Go ahead Kit.
All right last one.
DR how do you expect that the play out? Obviously there are still legal issues pending.
And then one way or another presumably PJM and FERC have to figure things out and possibly states as well.
So on DR I mean I know just what you and everyone else in the call knows about it right.
I mean the court decisions were very comprehensive very deterministic it is positive on the issue I’m guessing I am inferring that the recent stay is just out of healthy degree of respect for FERC and the desire of the judicial branch to allow the executive branch to weigh its options not at all reflection that the court decided that what they had previously ruled upon was any kind of back peddling whatsoever.
So I think DR is likely to come out of energy and capacity markets in the future.
Now PJM has gone on record saying that they are going to adjust for that that they are going to look for ways to allow DR to effect the demand curve but I have got to believe that once that very transparent efficient market whereby DR providers are paid a revenue stream goes away that that’s going to candidly diminish the amount of DR that’s available and remember RPM stands for reliability pricing model.
That’s PJM’s number responsibility reliability and if they will control the asset I don’t know how much they are going to be able to count on that.
So you add that to the removal of the 2.5% hold back and I think all that weighs very positively for people with iron in the ground and generation assets that are there when needed.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning and congratulations.
Can you just talk a little bit about the plant in Connecticut if it gets into the auction when it comes online? And also on the Power’s investment in the pipe when that comes into line as to when those would be helpful to earnings? If you can just remind us what the dates are on those things? Sure Ashar.
So the auction is in February I believe and it’s a three year forward.
So it comes into service in 2018.
I am not sure what month exactly but early -- first half of 2018.
PennEast we have been publicizing a target date of November of ’17.
We’ve also been emphasizing that it’s a Greenfield project.
You could take those two emphases -- what’s the plural of emphasis - and infer your own startup date for PennEast but it’s a Greenfield project and it will not be online before November of ’17.
It wouldn’t surprise if it slips into ‘18.
Okay.
And Ralph any other transmission or any other projects which can you just talk about or anything which might be on the drawing board which is not in the CapEx plan? So I listed about $1.2 billion worth of project that are not in the CapEx plan and they range from Bridgeport Harbor to PennEast and I mentioned Artificial Island which is about $250 million in our re-submittal.
And I am looking with a critical look at Kathleen and Carol to see whether or not we have publicly announced what we have put in the open window for PJM.
No.
We have not okay.
So there are other things we are working on right now nothing that’s staggering or tilts the balance sheet but we are always looking at ways to improve the system and we’ll definitely have an update for you on that in the not very distant future.
Okay thank you sir.
Thank you next question.
Your next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
First off good morning.
Perhaps to follow-up on the last question.
I was curious how are you thinking about the Power strategy overall? I would just be curious the extent to which you are reinvesting potentially meaningful dollars in New England? Are there other markets more broadly other asset types again you have done a few solar projects are we thinking about a scaling up of spend in this business at all just as a way to deploy dollars in your excess balance sheet? So Julien good morning.
We like the integrated model we love the regulated utility business we love the power generation business.
We look at every project whether it’s a solar farm in California we have closed on one recently or bidding a combined cycle unit in New England or building more transmission on a discounted cash flow basis with different hurdle rates and make sure that they are NPV positive that there is near-term visibility to the accretion and the balance sheet gives us room to do both in both businesses.
So where there is no shortage of us strolling around looking for these opportunities and there is a long list of those we’ve walked from because others had a different point of view of what the future held.
But no you shouldn’t interpret the Bridgeport Harbor project as any shift in our affection for the regulated utility or anything of that nature.
I don’t know Caroline you may want to add to that.
Absolutely and I think when we look at these kind of opportunities as Ralph said we are disciplined in looking at the NPV using the right hurdle rates.
I think the thing that makes us interesting in Bridgeport is you think about the capacity construct there and what they put in place giving a seven year incentive which really helps us think through how to make that work for new investment.
So those kinds of constructs that truly can convert something really can encourage new investment and we think are very good.
Excellent and then turning to the BGS auction can we talk briefly about the ability to pass through capacity transitionally capacity increases as a result of the capacity performance scheme? And any ability from a regulatory perspective to have to shift the BGS contracts they will allow that? So that has not been decided formally at this point Julien.
I would point out that as Caroline mentioned a moment ago we have put in for a transmission formula rate adjustment of north of $180 million and the BPU has made it a policy that transmission increases are pass through.
I believe there was a similar ruling on SREC issues a couple of years ago.
So in general I think the BPU has recognized that if they want to continue to have a fully competitive active BGS market the things that are outside of the control of the BGS suppliers have to be adjusted on an as-go basis.
But they have not opined specifically on an incremental capacity auction change that could come out of a PJM’s most recent concern over asset performance.
But presumably that’s something you would be seeking? Absolutely.
And then lastly just a quick one energy efficiency and just the broad call it LIPA plan.
Can you talk about the incentive in terms of EPS perhaps a bit more explicit range? Just to give us some kind of sense of what of this could ultimately drive? Yes so those details have yet to be worked out but it would safe to assume that they would in the same vicinity as what a regulated return would achieve if the investment had delivered upon the promise to operational performance right.
So don’t think of this as having an effective ROE of 20% or 30% and don’t think of it as something that would be south of 10%.
It’s just okay if we think this LIPA is going to do X and it does X than in our eyes then that should have been a prudent investment but there is a slight increase in risk that’s taken as a result of that kind of mechanism.
And just keep in mind as you are thinking about the modeling for Long Island and I know you know this but just to reinforce so we have $0.03 per share this year rising to $0.07 to $0.08 per share by 2016 and that does not include any potential uplift that we might get from these new proposals that we are making.
So that’s the base contract that’s currently enforced something here would be additional.
And a clarification there.
Presumably you would achieve these targets over time such that you would not necessarily immediately hit the first year of the $345 million the regulated return? Or is that… The numbers we gave earlier Julien our original program of $200 million the expanded program of $345 million both of those were four year programs.
So you would not see all that programmatic emphasis or capital deployment take place in the first year it would be over four years.
All right.
Okay so thank you.
Thank you.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong>  Hi good morning.
I had a question about the PennEast Pipeline and the off take agreements how does that benefit you is it at the utility with lower gas prices for PSE&amp;G or is it kind of lower gas prices to fill your combined cycle plans? Good morning Neil so it’s the same exact sequencing of uses as we have today.
So 125 000 to 150 000 bcf a day -- 125 bcf a day.
So the priority customer would be the utility regulated distribution gas customer they get first [chance] at that.
Second would be off system sales and then lastly would be power used for burning in its plant.
So what tends to happen under those three tiered prioritizations is that Power really doesn’t get to make a lot of use of that additional low cost gas in the winter months.
A little bit more but not a lot in the spring as we start to refill for storage reasons but gets to use a whole bunch of it in the summer when storage is completed and there’s no heating demand.
Right now Power is using about 25% -- about 25% of the gas the Power burns is from the [inaudible] region it could go up on a percentage basis from that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Got it.
Great thank you and then secondly with the CCDT expansion in New England can you just generally give your thoughts on the New England market.
It’s obviously gone very quickly from an oversupply to an undersupply and just wanted to get your thoughts on capacity and energy looking at that project? So I think there’s two things are important in New England market.
Number one is what you just mentioned.
They have gone through an undersupply condition as assets announced and carry through on their retirement.
But number two is really what Caroline pointed out which is a risk reward profile has shifted to be a little bit saner when you’re making an investment and you want a recovery on your long run marginal cost not just your short run marginal cost.
So the seven year capacity payment is extremely helpful there.
I think the big question is the one that you hinted at in New England that’s around energy markets given the lack of infrastructure for natural gas into the region.
You’re going to find people looking at assets that are near existing infrastructure and have a dual fuel capability and I'm pleased to say that we have both of those in our Bridgeport Harbor side we have both access to gas and we will go for dual fuel.
Lastly on the capacity [margin] addition to the seven year construct the change in the slope on demand curve allowing for return some of the missing money that plagued that region.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Hey great perfect thank you.
Thank you.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Dan.
Caroline I hate to bring up a number question on the call but when I look at the fourth quarter guidance for Power kind of staying within the range of what you guys have for your guidance basically it means you guys will earn somewhere between I think $0.05 and $0.12 or $0.13 which is down quite a bit from prior years.
Can you kind of walk me through what are the big drivers that’s going to lead to that much of a decline and then how we should think about that kind of for next year from a base line perspective? So thanks for the question Dan.
We took up the bottom end of the range right but we’ve also said that we expect to be at the high end of the range.
The one thing I think you should always keep in mind as you do the quarter-over-quarter comparisons which you saw this quarter for the first time as the full quarter right last quarter was just a month is capacity right? So capacity on a quarter-over-quarter basis just like you saw this quarter is a $0.09 impact and so you have to start there right that’s significant dollars but of course we knew that.
We took that into account in our guidance all the way through the year.
So that’s the number one thing I would suggest that you consider.
Of course going the other direction is we do expect favorability in the O&amp;M as I mentioned.
So that’s going to go a little bit to positive direction and then the normal kind of unit operations keep in mind we have Salem 1 and Peach Bottom outages which I mentioned during my remarks that Peach Bottom outage is a good one for us because it’s the EPU going into one of the units that will give us more megawatts for the future.
So but those things obviously have an impact in the expected generation.
So if you think about the pushes and pulls you’ve got Salem 1 you’ve got Peach Bottom in near term before the winter period of course you’ve got capacity at $0.09 going the negative direction fully anticipated; you’ve got O&amp;M going in the positive direction because full year we are guiding to about flat so you can pretty easily do the math.
We were worse in O&amp;M in the first two quarters better in this quarter anticipate to be better in the fourth quarter and then of course it’s just a normal operations and whatever the weather is at the beginning of the winter.
So all in we still expect to be at that upper end of the range.
We feel the bottom but really haven’t changed our thinking which is with normal operations you’d see us be at the upper end [which is what] drives the company to the upper end.
Okay so the $0.23 or whatever it is you take out the $0.09 of capacity revenues which will get you to kind of $0.14 which is above the implied range right now.
There is some other maintenance issues that will bring you down toward the high end is that the right way to think about it? Yeah that’s right think about the outages I just mentioned but still consider us we’re talking about the high end of the range.
Okay and then can we talk a little bit on the gas basis side 25% of gas generation came from Leidy how does the benefit of the basis arbitrage look full year year-to-date ’14 versus ’13? Yeah sure so the year-to-date not as strong as ’13.
So let’s kind of wind back and look at what happened in ’13.
We saw the Leidy differential really appear in ’13 at the end of the second quarter.
And that Leidy differential became pretty wide as we got into the summer of 2013 and we talked about differentials being as much as $2.
And then of course it was that warm weather and the warm weather is what drove and kept that differential from the Leidy price to the actual market price rate for the energy.
This summer was quite different with the cooler weather on the CHI basis depending on weather compared to last year or normal 13% to 18% lower in terms of the weather.
So extensive to the site CHI what we actually have is Leidy gas costs are still lower the problem was for the summer with the lower demand and the cooler weather the differential of Leidy to thinking about where energy is priced in our market looking at G6 [inaudible] that dropped those prices down.
So what happened was the differential really collapsed.
Leidy was still cheaper than Henry Hub but the differential moved together as opposed to last summer when it moved more widely apart because of the low demand for the power.
Now keep in mind as we think about Leidy going forward you think about Leidy for us we have that access it’s about 25% of Power’s overall gas usage as Ralph just mentioned and I think what we’re still expecting to see and you can see if you look at monthly data going forward is the choppiness to the pattern of how to think about basis.
Just like we seen actually now for the last two winters the months make a difference so as we come into 2015 we still expect to see benefit from having Leidy it’s really just about how that basis differential moves relative to power prices.
And so the winter periods and the strong summer period we would still expect to see some basis differential on our favor.
This was just a tough summer because the low demand led to the lower power prices not because Leidy prices came up because power prices came down.
Last year you may recall we had $0.03 from the Leidy benefit in the third quarter and that’s the $0.03 negative year-over-year I’m citing in this year’s third quarter that I attribute to weather.
It’s really the spot spread going back to a normal level versus that expanded spot we had given the differential last summer.
Thank you for that I appreciate it.
Sure next question.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Fremont with Jeffries.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I guess my first question is at a proposed cost of about $600 million that would account to about 1330 per kw how confident are you in your ability to build at that level and I know that that others in the region have experienced a problems building in the Northeast? Yeah so good morning Paul you’re obviously quoting around numbers the team is running through details right now.
We’re filing permit applications so we just think of that as one significant figure and not three significant figures in terms of the accuracy.
I think the bigger challenges people had in terms of building has been access to gas.
That’s been the number one concern and that one we have well in hand.
But we don’t want to give you an exact amount on our -- on what kind of bids are we getting from folks in terms of engines.
We’re just [continuing] to the back calculating what we might been in the option and that wouldn’t help anyone.
And then Caroline just a follow up on that last question what would be the you I think provided the quarter contribution as being zero this quarter versus $0.03 in the third quarter last year what would be the year-to-date numbers on Leidy? Yeah so year-to-date numbers in terms of the gas benefit we had about $0.03 benefit in the first quarter remember it was a strong winter so it’s about neutral on a year-to-date basis about zero.
And last year year-to-date? Last year when the Leidy differential really started to spread it was the end of the second quarter.
So there really wasn’t sort of the first quarter of last year effect.
So last year at this time it was about $0.03 and for the full year it was $0.05.
But that included the fourth quarter so we haven’t got to the fourth quarter yet.
So $0.05 full year $0.03 to this point last year and this year it’s about neutral.
Great and based on the modified CTA formula that was adopted by the NJ BPU what type of adjustment should we assume for PSE&amp;G rate base if you were to use that methodology? Yeah so we’re very pleased obviously with the decision we think it reflects the right balance from the perspective of the company and the rate payers.
Thinking about our rate filing which would be made by November of 2017 and then the five year look back period.
The impact for us is di minimus.
So really not something you really should be thinking too much about as we think about our rate case numbers going forward because by that period if you take a five year look back you do the adjustment you do the 75:25 it’s truly di minimus.
And you back out transmission.
And you back out transmission as well right.
Great thank you very much.
Sure next question.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hi can you hear me? Yes Paul.
You guys have a sort of unique position in New York and I was just wondering with the stuff going on there with the REV I mean sort of really kind of transformative potential for change in regulation what you guys see as potentially happening to energy and power prices in the state? In New York State? Yeah well I mean you guys have LIPO so I assume you guys are pretty focused on it.
We don’t have it fully.
That’s a very complicated question.
Okay I apologize then I mean just sort of directionally maybe? Yeah well I think that a lot of the distributed resources that are being advocated they are going to put upward pressure on prices for customers.
I mean there are other reasons for doing things like with rooftop solar and offshore wind that’s being advocated just off of Long Island and those are capturing some of the environmental benefits that are not baked in.
Right now the missing [extra analogy] if you will.
Having said that there are some other parts of the program specifically energy efficiency which while they will also serve to increase rates they will bring overall bills down.
So I think a lot depends upon how aggressive people want to be in making in-roads to capturing the benefits associated with the [extra analogies].
We are big advocates of this both on Long Island and New Jersey but we never tell people that doing this stuff is going to lower their rates.
It’s -- you’re getting a benefit you’re having to pay for it.
So there are some things that we can do in terms of making sure that some of the reinforcements of that would have to be made in the distribution system are foregone or delayed as a result of perhaps some peak shaving or some broader demand response programs that we can target.
And there are some parts on Long Island I think it’s on the South Fork where there’s been a significant growth in peak demand and otherwise command the need for some infrastructure that we will be able to delay.
But it really is a much more complicated question than simply gee we’re doing this to lower everyone’s bills and lower everyone’s rates.
The answer really depends on what this is and how aggressive one wants to be on that sort of green agenda.
Okay fair enough and then just on the -- as you know RPM has been controversial in the past and New Jersey has been sometimes apprehensive about it and I'm just wondering we’ve had several changes with the BPU and we’ve had the potential for several changes happening with DR and capacity performance and everything else how would you describe the political situation or the general regulatory environment vis-à-vis these issues now as it was in comparison to maybe when the MOPR and the ALCAP issue was going on? A good question Paul yes so we had a bit of a change at the BPU.
It was all due respect to the commissioners who’ve gone off.
We have two new commissions who are quite astute about both energy policy in the form of President Mroz and in terms of the technology strength weaknesses limitations in the form of Former Assemblyman Chivukula.
He’s a Nautical Engineer by training.
He has spent 20 years at Bell Labs.
This is a very very intelligent man who understands the complexity of capital in terms of infrastructure and Rick is well known entity in policy circles in New Jersey and he has actually worked in the energy sphere in the past.
So I think that those are two strong additions to balance the BPU.
The world is very different now from where it was in El Cap where in the ALCAP days you had strong basis differentials West to East.
You have a coal dominated West the gas dominated East and people were always scratching their heads saying we don’t understand why we pay so much in New Jersey and sadly last month basis was the other way around.
It was lower in the West than it was in the East and gas has kind of changed that whole dynamic and I think as a result you’ll see people realizing that the market is working it’s doing what it’s supposed to do and prices are going to be going up for everybody I believe and this is a new RPM market as the missing money appropriately gets restored.
So no one likes to pay high prices for energy there’s no [inaudible] bucks around that but no one wants to see the lights go out either we came dangerously close in ’14 and a similar winter in ’15 and they probably would go out.
So I think PJM is doing the right thing in trying to address that and New Jersey knows that PJM has done a better job than just about any place in the country in making sure those lights stay on.
Great thanks a lot.
I think operator that’s all the time we have for questions.
I’ll turn it over to Ralph for just some closing comments and see you at… Thanks Kathleen.
So just wanted to reinforce three messages or comments made by Caroline and me earlier.
First of all the utility growth story is very much intact and not only is it doing what we said would do this year but following it for is very much exactly on where we said we would be for 2015.
Secondly hopefully you are as impressed by Power’s diverse asset base as we are in terms of not only its strong performance in current markets whatever the gas prices are doing whatever coal prices are doing but also how strong a performance it is and how well positioned it is even as we look forward to the ever changing environmental rules and market design parameters.
I think we have dual fuel capability we have units that strong and high capacity factors all of them have a great position in the CP market if the risk reward profile are in the details as we go forward is done sensibly and I have every reason to believe that PGM moves you that sensibly.
So growth story intact with the utility Power’s diverse asset base once again demonstrating its strength and last but by no means least the balance sheet remains as strong as ever.
So as Kathleen said we look forward to seeing you in days ahead and hopefully for most of us that means the [Inaudible].
Thank you for your time today.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may disconnect.
And thank you for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Brandy and I am your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference Public Service Enterprise Group Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session for members of the financial community.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded today February 20 2015 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1 PM Eastern Time today until 11:30 PM Eastern Time on February 27 2015.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brandy.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for participating in our call today.
As you are aware we released our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings results earlier this morning.
The release and attachments as mentioned are posted on our website www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We have also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-K for the period ended December 31 2014 is expected to be filed shortly.
I don't typically read the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results but I do ask that you read those comments contained in our slides and on our website.
The disclaimer regards forward-looking statements detailing a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements made therein.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time-to-time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change unless of course we are required to do so by applicable securities laws.
We also provide commentary with regard to the difference between operating earnings and net income reported in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States.
PSEG believes that the non-GAAP financial measure of operating earnings provides a consistent and comparable measure of performance to help shareholders understand trends.
But I would now like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
And joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
Ralph? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Kathleen.
And thanks everyone for joining us today.
This morning we reported operating earnings for the full year 2014.
I'm pleased to report – actually I'm more than pleased to report that 2014 was a year in which we continued to make progress on our plans to deliver for our customers and shareholders.
Operating earnings for the fourth quarter were $0.49 per share which equaled the $0.49 per share earned in 2013's fourth quarter bringing results for the full year to $2.76 per share or 7% greater than 2013's operating earnings of $2.58 per share.
And it was above our guidance of $2.60 to $2.75 per share.
Our results are benefiting from disciplined capital allocation.
PSE&amp;G our utility achieved double-digit growth in earnings adding to our track record of five years of 18% compound annual growth.
As a result of an expanded capital program earnings from our regulated company grew to represent 52% of our consolidated operating earnings as PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission has grown to represent 39% of its $11.4 billion rate base.
PSEG Power's successful management of its operations including its gas supply arrangements supported earnings in excess of guidance for the full year and delivered substantial savings to PSE&amp;G's customers.
In addition to being a successful year for delivering on earnings we achieved success in many areas that will provide a lasting foundation for customer satisfaction and shareholder value.
By way of a reminder we received approval to invest $1.2 billion in Energy Strong a program that will improve the resiliency of our electric and gas distribution systems.
We have begun the work on replacing and modernizing 250 miles of gas pipe and have begun the engineering and scheduling associated with upgrading and enhancing our electric substation.
The investments under the Energy Strong program as you'll recall will take place over a period of three years to five years.
We're also executing well on our transmission investment program.
We completed construction of two 230 kilovolt transmission lines during the year as well as the New Jersey portion of the 500 kV Susquehanna-Roseland line.
We expect the full Susquehanna-Roseland line to go into service this year when the Pennsylvania portion of S-R is completed.
The investment in transmission will support the reliable service our customers have come to expect and provide an important boost to New Jersey's economy as it also adds to PSE&amp;G's growth.
PSE&amp;G once again was named the Mid-Atlantic regions' Most Reliable Electric Utility.
This is the 13th consecutive year that PSE&amp;G's capabilities have been recognized.
In addition to that for the first time in its history PSE&amp;G received J.D.
Power's award for highest customer satisfaction for both electric and gas business service among large utilities in the region.
This recognition while important in itself we think recognizes that PSE&amp;G has always kept the needs of its customers uppermost as we pursue our major growth initiatives.
But 2014 was not just a year of PSE&amp;G accomplishment.
PSEG Power's combined cycle fleet produced at record levels as Power's fossil fleet achieved the safety performance in a tough 10% of the industry.
We successfully grew PSEG solar sources portfolio.
In 2014 we added projects in three states that expanded solar sources portfolio to 123 megawatts of clean renewable energy.
And we had a successful first year of operating the electric system of the Long Island Power Authority.
I'm particularly pleased with the efforts of our PSEG Long Island team.
We're rewarded with the major improvement in customer satisfaction scores.
But let me be clear this is only the beginning of a multiyear journey for us on Long Island.
Our core strategy focused on operational excellence financial strength and disciplined investment is anticipated to yield a third year of growth in operating earnings over the coming year.
For 2015 we are initiating operating earnings guidance of $2.75 to $2.95 per share.
PSE&amp;G's expanded investment in transmission is expected to support continued growth in operating earnings in 2015 as PSE&amp;G's results for the full year are expected to represent more than 50% of consolidated earnings.
PSEG Power is expected to report operating earnings in line with its strong 2014 results.
The investments made by PSEG Power are expected to enhance the competitiveness of its environmentally well-positioned fleet capacity upgrades at our gas-fired combined cycle fleet and that our nuclear units will increase the fleets output as Power's investment in the PennEast Pipeline enhances its already strong access to low cost gas from the Marcellus region.
PSEG Power's fleet has the characteristics envisioned by PGM's proposed standards for capacity performance.
Its diversity in dispatch and fuel mix as well as the alternative fuel capability mitigates operating risk.
Power's investment program will be focused on improving its reliability during periods of stress on the system.
We also look to expand the fleet when it's financially attractive.
We were disappointed that our bid to construct the new 475 megawatt combined-cycle plant at our Bridgeport Harbor site in Connecticut didn't clear the New England ISO's recent capacity auction.
However we haven't abandoned this work and we'll invest when the markets support its development.
The strategy we implemented has yielded growth.
We have a robust pipeline of investment opportunities that will support further expansion of our capital program over the next five years.
The program is expected to yield double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's rate base as we maintain the operating strength of Power's generating assets.
We will update you on our capital spending plans on March 2.
Our financial position remained strong.
An acknowledgment of our success and the strength of our platform going forward was the recent decision by our Board of Directors to meaningfully increase the common dividend by 5.4% to the indicative annual level of $1.56 per share.
We see the potential for consistent and sustainable growth in the dividend given our business mix.
Our continued positive cash flow from our generation business and our strong financial position all supports this dividend philosophy.
We've made significant strides in meeting our objectives for growth as we also satisfy customer requirements and we're not done.
Of course none of this would be possible without the contribution made by PSEG's dedicated employees to our continued success.
I look forward to discussing our investment outlook in greater detail with you at our March 2 Annual Financial Conference.
I will now turn the call over to Caroline for more details on our results and we'll be available to answer your questions after her remarks.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $0.49 per share equal to operating earnings of $0.49 per share in last year's fourth quarter.
Our earnings for the fourth quarter brought operating earnings for the full year to $2.76 per share versus operating earnings for 2013 of $2.58 per share or 7% growth.
On slide 4 we have provided you with a reconciliation of operating earnings to net income for the quarter.
And as you can see on slide 10 PSE&amp;G provided largest contribution to earnings for the quarter.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings of $0.32 per share compared to $0.29 per share last year.
For the quarter Power reported operating earnings of $0.18 per share compared with $0.23 per share last year.
Enterprise/Other reported a small loss in operating earnings for the fourth quarter of a $0.01 per share versus the operating loss of $0.03 per share reported in the fourth quarter of 2013.
We've provided you with waterfall charts on slides 11 and 13 to take you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year operating earnings by major business.
So now I will review each company in a bit more detail starting with PSE&amp;G.
As I mentioned PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of 2014 of $0.32 per share compared with $0.29 per share for the fourth quarter of 2013 as we show on slide 15.
PSE&amp;G's full year 2014 operating earnings were $725 million or $1.43 per share compared with operating earnings of $612 million or $1.21 per share for 2013 for growth of 18%.
PSE&amp;G's earnings in the fourth quarter benefited from lower operating expenses including pension and a return on its expanded capital infrastructure program which more than offset the impact of mild weather on sales.
PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission infrastructure increased this quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.02 per share.
The earnings improvement related to the investment in transmission in the fourth quarter was less than the earnings increases you've seen during each of the first three quarters of the year and this reflects a reduction in PSE&amp;G's rate base at year-end associated with the deferred tax impact of the expansion of bonus depreciation.
PSE&amp;G's tight control of its operating expenses including lower pension expense resulted in a quarter-over-quarter increase in earnings of $0.04 per share.
The continued improvement in weather normalized gas volume and demand which improved quarter-over-quarter earnings by a $0.01 per share was offset by a similar decline in electric volume and demand.
And although you wouldn't think it on a day like today weather was actually mild relative to normal and relative to the prior year on the net reduced earnings comparisons by about a $0.01 per share.
Earnings comparisons were also affected by the absence of $0.02 per share to tax related change which benefited earnings in the prior year.
Economic conditions continued to exhibit signs of an improvement in the service area which is good news.
On a weather normalized basis gas deliveries are estimated to have increased 1% in the quarter and 3.1% for the year.
Demand continues to benefit from a decline in the cost of gas which is passed on to our residential customers and an improvement in economic growth.
PSE&amp;G announced earlier this month that it would extend through March of 2015 the credits against gas bills that it had already provided to residential customers for the months of November December and January.
A typical residential customer with these credits would experience savings on their total bill over the five months of approximately 31% or $210.
Electric sales on a weather normalized basis are estimated to have declined 2.3% in the fourth quarter.
The decline in the quarter reflects a number of winter storms at the end of 2013 the increased residential consumption in that year as well as decreases in demand this quarter from some large industrial customers.
By the way weather normalization is generally good for temperature but unfortunately there is not really a good way to adjust for storms.
Overall there was a 0.3% increase in weather normalized electric demand for the year which we think is indicative of improving economic conditions partially offset by continued customer conservation.
PSE&amp;G implemented an increase in transmission revenue of $182 million effective on January 1 of this year.
The increase in revenue under PSE&amp;G's transmission formula rate will provide PSE&amp;G with recovery off and a return on its forecast of transmission-related capital expenditures through the year.
PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission grew to $4.5 billion at the end of 2014 or 39% of the company's consolidated rate base of $11.4 billion and transmission is forecasted to be well over 40% of rate base as we go forward.
Let me just mention the impact of bonus depreciation.
The expansion of bonus depreciation has the effect of reducing PSE&amp;G's transmission-related rate base with an increase in deferred taxes.
We estimate PSE&amp;G's transmission related rate base was reduced by approximately $150 million to $200 million from prior forecast levels and this is reflected in PSE&amp;G's yearend rate base of $11.4 billon.
The impact of this change on 2015 revenues is not reflected in the formula rate increase that I just went through as that filing took place prior to the enactment of the extension of bonus depreciation.
But our guidance for PSE&amp;G reflects the impact on revenue associated with the extension of bonus depreciation and we estimate that impact to be approximately $21 million.
As you know this is really a timing related issue.
We get the benefit of an increase in cash over the short-term and see a decrease in the deferred tax balance over the long term.
PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2015 are forecasted to grow to $735 million to $775 million.
Our forecast for 2015 reflects the continued growth in PSE&amp;G's transmission-related rate base and the expansion of PSE&amp;G's investment and distribution through the Energy Strong program.
Earnings for the full year will also be affected by a forecast increase in pension expense that will affect O&amp;M.
And I'll go into a little more detail on that shortly.
We expect PSE&amp;G's rate of earnings growth to improve beyond 2015 as the impact of bonus depreciation will annualize and pension expense is expected to be lower under long-term return and interest rate assumptions.
PSE&amp;G invested approximately $2.2 billion in 2014 on capital projects that improve the systems' resilience and maintenance its reliability.
We currently forecast an increase in PSE&amp;G's average capital spending for the next three years to about $2.4 billion per year.
PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission will represent more than 50% of this new spending.
We will be providing you with an updated forecast of PSE&amp;G's capital expenditures by year for the five-year period ending 2019 at our Annual Financial Conference on March 2 of this year and I can tell you that spending plan remains robust.
Now let's turn to PSEG Power.
As shown on slide 19 Power reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter as I mentioned of $0.18 per share compared with $0.23 per share a year ago.
The results for the quarter brought Power's full year operating earnings to $642 million or $1.27 per share compared to 2013's operating earnings of $710 million or $1.40 per share.
The earnings release as well as slides 11 and 13 provide you with detailed analysis of the impact on Power's operating earnings quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year from changes in revenue and costs.
We've also provided you with more detail on generation in the quarter and for the year on slides 21 and 22.
Power's operating earnings for the fourth quarter were influenced by the known declining capacity revenues that we've discussed in prior calls.
The monetization of Power's gas supply position and a reduction in operating and maintenance expense helped mitigate the effects of lower market prices for energy.
As you recall the average price for our PJM capacity declined to $166 per megawatt day from $244 per megawatt day on June 1 of 2014.
The decline in price reduced Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.09 per share.
A decline in the average hedge price for energy that Power realized during the quarter relative to year-ago levels and lower market prices on Power's open position were more than offset by Power's ability to monetize its gas supply position.
These items together led to an improvement in quarter-over-quarter earnings of $0.01 per share.
The decline in Power's O&amp;M expenditures during the quarter improved quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.05 per share and the decline in expense for the quarter was greater than what we've been forecasting at the end of the third quarter.
Power's management of maintenance outages at fossil stations coupled with the absence of outage related expenditures in the prior year resulted in a better than forecast reduction in O&amp;M expense for the fourth quarter and led overall to lower O&amp;M expense in 2014 versus the full year of 2013.
Now let's turn to the operations.
Power's output increased 3.1% in the quarter from year ago levels.
For the year output increased 1.3% to 54.2 terawatt hours.
The fleet's flexibility in response to volatile market conditions was demonstrated in the quarter and throughout the year.
The level of production achieved by the fleet in 2014 represented the third highest level of output in the fleet's history as our merchant generator.
The nuclear fleet produced 29.1 terawatt hours or 54% of generation operating at an average capacity factor of 89.3%.
Hope Creek experienced its second best year operating at 97.9% annual capacity factor which helped to offset the impact of the extending refueling outage at Salem 2 earlier in 2014.
The market is clearly rewarding efficient combined-cycle gas units and Power's combined-cycle fleet set a generation record during the year.
The fleet produced 16.5 terawatt hours or 30% of our generation during the year with record levels of output from the Bergen Station and Linden Unit 1.
The coal fleet produces 7.4 terawatt hours or 14% of generation and the peaking fleet's responsiveness to market conditions particularly the abnormally cold weather experienced at the start of 2014 led to full year production of 1.2 terawatt hours.
Power's gas-fired combined-cycle fleet continues to benefit from its access to lower price gas supplies in then Marcellus Basin.
For the year gas from the Marcellus Utica region supplied approximately 60% of the PJM assets fuel requirements.
This represents the larger percentage of fleet's gas supply than was available in the past.
Power's ability to step up its acquisition of gas from the Western Marcellus and Utica Basin in addition to the use of backhaul arrangements on existing pipe in the Eastern Marcellus improved its access to this low cost resource.
This supply supports higher spark spreads than implied by market pricing and allowed Power to enjoy fuel cost savings similar to the levels it enjoyed in 2013 despite the decline in energy prices.
Overall Power's gross margin per megawatt hour in the fourth quarter was $37.40 versus $45.90 last year which was driven by the capacity price reset.
For the year gross margin amounted to $42.41 per megawatt hour versus $47.10 per megawatt hour last year.
And slide 24 provides detail on Power's gross margin for the quarter and the year.
Power is forecasting a further improvement in output in 2015 to 55 terawatt hours to 57 terawatt hours.
The increase is primarily the result of investments we have made to expand the capacity of our nuclear and combined cycle fleet.
Following the completion of the Basic Generation Service auction in New Jersey earlier this month Power has hedged 100% of its base flow generation in 2015 and has hedged approximately 75% to 80% of anticipated total production for 2015 at an average price $52 per megawatt hour which compares favorably to the average hedge prices in 2014 of $48 per megawatt hour.
Power has hedged approximately 50% to 55% of its forecast generation in 2016 estimated at 55 terawatt hours to 57 terawatt hours also at an average price of $52 per megawatt hour.
And for 2017 Power has hedged 25% to 30% of forecast production of 55 terawatt hours to 57 terawatt hours at an average price of $52 per megawatt hour.
The hedge data for 2015 and 2016 assumes BGS volumes represent approximately 11.5 terawatt hours of deliveries about comparable to the 11.5 terawatt hours we delivered in 2014 under BGS.
Based on our current hedge position for 2015 each $2 change in spark spreads would impact earnings by only $0.04 per share.
This modest impact on earnings is a result of a higher percentage of output from a intermediate and peaking fleet that is hedged at this time about 40% to 45% than we had hedged a year ago when it was really about 35% to 40% of forecasted output for the intermediate and peaking fleet.
For 2016 a $1 change in natural gas pricing would impact earnings by $0.06 per share.
And just for your reference if we were fully open the $1 change in natural gas pricing would impact earnings by about $0.24 per share.
The BGS auction for PSE&amp;G customers for the three-year period beginning June 1 of 2015 and ending on May 31 2018 was priced at $99.54 per megawatt hour.
This contract for one third of the load will replace the contract for $83.88 per megawatt hour which expires on May 31 of this year.
This latest auction is based on an average price for energy at the PJM West Hub of about $37 per megawatt hour to $38 per megawatt hour which is similar to the base price for energy seen in the last two auctions.
The BGS auction continues to represent the key means for Power to hedge basis associated with baseload output.
Power's hedging strategy is consistent with what you've seen in the past.
Power maintains open positions on a portion of its intermediate and load following assets and this allows Power to capture any benefits associated with weather-related demand in the summer months and contain the risks associated with fuller requirements contracts like BGS.
Power took advantage of market strengths earlier in 2014 to hedge its output.
And given favorable pricing Power is also committed to serve a larger percentage of load under the BGS contract in this latest auction which of course will have its proportional impact across the upcoming three years.
Power's operating earnings for 2015 are forecast at $620 million to $680 million.
We're very pleased that our anticipated results are essentially in line with 2014's operating results.
Comparative results for the full year will be affected by a decline in capacity revenues which will essentially be fully offset by an increase in the average price received on energy hedges and a modest increase in O&amp;M.
Turning to Enterprise and Other PSEG Enterprise/Other reported an operating earnings loss for the fourth quarter of $4 million or about $0.01 per share which compares to a loss in operating earnings of $11 million or $0.03 per share for the fourth quarter of 2013.
The results for the fourth quarter brought full-year 2014 operating earnings to $33 million or $0.06 per share compared with 2013's operating loss of $13 million or $0.03 per share.
The difference in operating results quarter-over-quarter reflects primarily the absence of tax payments and other items which contributed $0.03 per share relative to the fourth quarter of 2013.
For 2015 operating earnings are forecasted to fall within the range of $40 million to $45 million and results will be influenced by the contractual payments associated with the operation of PSEG Long Island income on the lease portfolio including the benefit from the renegotiation and extension of our lease on the Grand Gulf nuclear generating facility.
Let me now just add a word about pension expense.
Last year as you recall we saw total pension income of about $0.02 per share as the success of our investments strategy created that pension income.
In 2015 our funding level remains greater than 90% but a lower discount rate and changes to mortality tables offset the continued strong return we generated on the Trust resulting in net pension expense of slightly less than $0.07 per share which is split about evenly between PSE&amp;G and Power.
Keep in mind these are non-cash charges and we anticipate to move back to pension income over the next two-year to three-year period given our solid funding and our long-term investment strategy.
These impacts that I just mentioned are embedded in our financial plan and our guidance for growth at PSE&amp;G and consistent performance in 2015 at Power.
We still see a low-single digit growth in O&amp;M across the company over the three-year horizon and we will talk more about that in greater detail on March 2.
Lastly just a word on our financial position.
We're in great shape to finance our capital program.
At the end of 2014 we had $402 million of cash on hand and debt represented about 42% of our consolidated capital position with debt at Power approximating 31% of its capital base and no parent debt.
We'll be updating you on our capital program at our Annual Financial Conference but the message is the same.
We can finance our robust long-term capital program and pursue a very healthy amount of growth opportunities without the need to issue equity as we also provide our shareholders with a meaningful increase in the growth of the common dividend on sustainable basis.
We're pleased to be guiding to another year of anticipated growth in earnings for 2015 of $2.75 to $2.95 per share.
Our forecast continues to reflect the benefits from PSE&amp;G's expanded capital program and the dynamics of Power's fleet and access to low cost gas supplies.
As you know the common dividend was recently increased 5.4% to the indicative annual level of a $1.56 per share and we believe we can provide shareholders with consistent and sustainable growth in the dividend going forward.
With that Brandy I'll turn it back to you and we're now ready for your questions.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question and answer session for members of the financial community.
Your first question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Julien.
Good morning Julien.
Hey.
So first quick question.
Following the Bridgeport sort of back of clearing that asset what's your thought about building out Power at present? I mean are we going to look towards clearing potentially new assets in different markets or what's your overall thought about capital deployment at this point in time in Power or back at Public Service Utility? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Julien our thinking on this hasn't changed.
Our Power markets that we're interested in are PJM New York and New England.
We look for asset acquisitions we look for opportunities to repower sites we look for opportunities to extend or increase the output of our plants.
As you all know we've been much more successful on the later and not as successful on the former.
So Peach Bottom uprate advanced gas path improvements a couple of peakers here and there have not been able to see the same price justification as others on asset acquisitions and similar thing happened in New England.
In general we like the New England markets from the point of view of newbuild because of the seven year.
That's a bigger hurdle to overcome in PJM because of the one-year price.
On the regulated utility side we'll give you more detail on March 2 but there is still very much a robust capital program that we'll be showing you for the five years and not just in terms of transmission which has been our number one.
But as we've talked about in the past opportunities to accelerate the replacement of our cast iron mains system in the gas business as well as some of the components of the Energy Master Plan that relate to energy efficiency and renewables.
You may recall it's only been 10 months or so.
So I'm not suggesting we're done by any means but Energy Strong was a much bigger program than what was ultimately approved so there will be more of that but it's a little bit longer term than the next coming months.
So there is no shortage of opportunities to deploy the capital.
We are disappointed at Bridgeport Harbor I'm not going to deny that but we've reefed up things we can do.
Great.
And then perhaps moving on with what about the bidding inquiry? Any update there you can elaborate by chance where we stand? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're not giving any more detail on that than we have already Julien.
We don't have any new information to update our financials and we are actively involved which FERC.
We meet with them on a regular basis in terms of their questions and giving them feedback.
But right now we'd rather make sure that FERC has all the information before talking much more about that on our earnings call.
Great.
And then if you will I noticed PJM East just generally or specifically Public Service Zone saw sort of a negative basis versus PJM West on a spot basis in the back half of the year.
Could you talk about what dynamics you saw day-to-day in the market that would drive that and what your expectations are for forward basis East versus West hedging that specifically? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
So Julien as we said the Power markets at least for the foreseeable future have been turned 180 degrees.
The winter is where most of the volatility and earnings potential for Power is coming from and that hasn't changed since we started talking about that now almost two seasons ago.
So when you look at basis for the year that's a little bit of a misleading view of the world.
It's a combination of moderate basis in the summer very strong basis in the winter and weak basis in fact negative basis in the shoulder periods.
But the flexibility of our fleet and the way in which we hedge it takes all that into account.
Over the longer term I think what you are going to see is the market dynamic that's going to driven by significant infrastructure build of gas pipes from the Marcellus region to the Southeast and significant replacement of aging power plants that aren't able to meet environmental standards in the Southeast with highly efficient natural gas combined cycle.
So we don't run the business saying that we are smarter than the market but to the extent that the market is viewed as an extend to that three-year to five-year timeframe we still have lots of reasons to feel pretty confident in the location and quality of our asset base.
Great.
Thank you all very much.
Next question.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Hey good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dan.
Just kind of on the Power side of the outlook for Power can you just walk through or remind us all the hedging strategies you guys are using? Obviously you got the nice price uplift in the hedge percentages going from 100% hedged to a 100% hedged.
So can you just remind us how you got that upside? Sure.
Dan it's Caroline.
Sure.
Thanks.
Yeah I cited the baseload and the total and keep in mind that intermediate and peaking right? So if you look at what we told you on the third quarter call we were still a 100% hedged on the baseload.
But the differences really occurred as we've added hedges in that intermediate and peaking which was 5% to 10% for 2015 on the last call and is now 40% to 45%.
Now of course piece of that would be BGS but if you do the math on that you'd see that's a little less than half of the total on an estimated basis.
And really what's going on Dan and if you look at the curves just look at the forward price curve you see this there were opportunities where the prices moved up during the last quarter before they came down right at the very end and spark spreads have been pretty robust.
And so we took advantage of those opportunities to layer on incremental hedges.
And by having that incremental flexibility and putting on a little bit more and capturing those price in spark spread opportunities that's what's really increased the numbers.
Now if you are asking about the change in the price of baseload you know that we actually give one consistent price across.
So even though baseload was 100% the average price of the entirety of the book we put that across all the hedges but we give you the granularity of where we're hedged between baseload and intermediate and peaking.
So we like the impact that we had in the fourth quarter by adding on hedges.
You know that BGS of course being full requirements also has some pass-through costs.
But even if you strip that out you'd find that the hedges are really higher than they were from our last report.
Okay.
And then – thank you for that answer.
On the outlook for the utility this year kind of if you look at the bridge or you think about mental bridge from 2014 to 2015 maybe not as much of an increase year-on-year as we would have previously modeled.
Can I think of it as basically there is going to be a drag of $0.035 or $0.04 because of pension year-on-year maybe in nickel because you had some gains in 2014.
And then you get a step down from what you would have expected at transmission because of the bonus depreciation.
Is that the right way to think about the step year-to-year in simple terms? That's exactly right Dan.
So you're exactly on the right math because when you look at those key things which of course if you think about interest rate actuarial tables and bonus depreciation really aren't in our control.
But you've got your finger on the right things that take the utility growth rate perhaps lower than the expectation but a nice growth rate nonetheless because the things that we do control the things we're doing to put capital to work obviously continue.
And as I said when you think about going out beyond 2015 you'd see the annualization of bonus deprecation in terms of the base versus a subsequent year effect and then pension obviously we think being more of a one-time and then going back to normal.
So you're exactly right on how you're thinking about it.
And I guess this is the last question.
You talked about $2.4 billion of utility CapEx.
Is that just for 2015? Or are you guys thinking that's going to be the new repeated number kind of for the five-year plan? So we haven't given the five-year number but the three-year number and you'll see this in our 10-K when we file it the three-year number averages about $2.4 billion per year in total for PSE&amp;G so I'm talking 2015 2016 and 2017.
And when you do that and you look at that keep in mind that as I said transmission will be more than half of that.
So you're going to see transmission really carrying the weight of that growth.
So we're really pleased to see that on average for the next three years and then we'll talk more about the five years on March 2.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Sure.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan (42:04) with Visium.
Good morning and congratulations.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Ashar Khan (42:10).
Good morning.
Well I've been kind of attacking this I guess Ralph it's like – year-after-year it's like the best integrated company and I hope we start getting discernible premium this year as we go forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
But I wanted to go over a point that Caroline graced is that because of the all pension and all that and the hefty CapEx that you've mentioned if I heard correctly Caroline you expect the utility to then go back to somewhat closer to a 9% or 10% growth rate going forward if I do my math correctly based on the CapEx and everything for the next couple of years.
Is that a fair thing which you referred to a little bit in your remarks because the growth got a little bit dampened this year from 2014 to 2015 from the pension and other things.
But it should re-grow at a faster rate coming out of the blocks 2015 going forward based on the CapEx and things which you have indicated.
Am I on the right track? Yeah.
So Ashar Khan (43:20) you are on the right track.
I won't validate a particular number that you cited there.
But yes think about one-time effects when you have a year-on-year effect of something like bonus depreciation which you remember was passed at the very very end of 2014 that has its one-year effect and then it becomes part of the base.
Pension same thing right lower interest rates and then mortality table which as you probably know is once in about 10-year effect those things come in.
And so we would expect utility growth to be higher as we go on a 2015 to 2016 basis and on a 2014 to 2015 basis for exactly the reasons you cite overlaid on the backdrop of what I just mentioned which is a continued robust investment program averaging a little bit more on an annual basis than we actually spent last year.
So the fundamentals are there to provide the driver for that opportunity and we've got these sort of one-year effects from the two items.
That's the right way to think about it.
And then if I could just then if I'm thinking through it on an investment proposition so it's now utility earnings with the LIPA contract and all that makeup like 55% of the earnings.
And say this is my number if we're growing at around 9% or 10% on the utility that would imply a consolidated growth rate of about 5% or so.
And with the dividend now growing at 5% I mean I think so we have a value proposition which is equal to any utility or even better than the rest of the group.
So we certainly think we have a good value proposition no doubt about that – and thank you for mentioning the dividend as well.
Obviously we don't give guidance beyond the current year as you know because of Power although I think we're pretty pleased with what we've been able to deliver and the guidance we're giving for Power for this year.
And frankly going forward expect us to do the same things we've been doing with Power for the past few years and I think relatively successfully layering in hedging taking advantage of opportunities when we see them and continuing to just take advantage of a well-positioned fleet.
So we do think we have a good value proposition.
I just mentioned and I think you were just doing the math separately.
As you know PSEG Long Island and our operating arrangement on Long Island is not part of PSE&amp;G's results.
It's part of the Enterprise but you may have been just adding that back in your calculation.
Okay.
And if I can just end up Ralph we're happy on the dividend but do you have a payout goal in mind for the consolidated entity earnings or on the utility earnings? I just wanted to get a sense.
If not the board has a payout or no? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
No we don't Ashar (46:21).
You may recall a few years ago maybe about five or so we did have a number and we found it too limiting.
The dividend is something that we discuss all the time with the board but we have a very robust conversation.
We talk about where are the earnings coming from what is the cash being generated where are we in the power cycle – the power price cycle what are the cash needs of the business what are our competitors doing competitors for capital that is.
So it's a very fulsome discussion and not one that lends itself to simply saying x% is the payout ratio.
But we do try to guide you qualitatively recognizing that the dividend decisions are the purview of the board on a quarterly basis.
But the number we put forth this time we believe is consistent with that view that we can provide a sustainable growth in the dividend.
Thank you so much.
Cracking results.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Just really quick I'm sorry if I missed it.
The gas monetization in Q4 could you quantify that? And is there any sort of outlook of what the opportunity might be for stuff like that going forward? Yeah.
So I didn't quantify that specifically Paul in terms of a number on the quarter.
What I did mention was that the gas monetization benefit was essentially similar to what we saw in 2013.
So you may recall in 2013 – and I'm talking about this (47:51) differential base in our supply.
2013 it was about $0.05 and in 2014 it was just about the same level.
In terms of thinking about it going forward obviously we don't control that differential but two things good to keep in mind.
If you look at forward curves you still see that differential.
And so that's valuable and we model everything on the forward curve including thinking about that differential.
What of course you can always think about for us that does sustain is that access.
Right? So we have the access this year given what the team has been able to accomplish in terms of providing even more access to (48:33) Marcellus and Utica gas we've been able to step up that percentage to a total of about 60%.
And so when you have the differential and we've got this long-term access that's going to stay with us can't say exactly what percentage every year but long-term significant access.
When that differential is there you'd expect us to get it.
Okay.
And then the polar vortex? It looks like we have some similar conditions out there to what we saw on January 7 of last year and the performance of plant seems to be better.
And I'm wondering whether or not you think that might impact the capacity performance proceedings going on right now at FERC? Or just in general what do you guys see or what are you hearing out of FERC or anywhere else with respect to how that process is going or your expectations with respect to it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Paul you're right.
I mean temperatures have been averaging about 16 degrees below average the last few days and plants are operating.
But I think I know for us and I suspect for others there were some operational changes we're able to make to reduce the amount of forced outages.
Just in light of the forecast we moved our coal piles around a little bit more so that we make sure that we didn't face them freezing up.
But what hasn't changed for us and I suspect for others the amount of capital investment that's being made in the older units which basically never run until you get six days averaging 16 degrees below zero.
And I think FERC is very cognizant of that.
So there's only so much you can get out of improved performance by doing some operational prep work and eventually frictional forces that these temperatures overcome whatever you might do in terms of preparation and those capital improvements are needed.
And so I think FERC will be supportive.
I don't want to predict any outcome.
I don't want to guarantee an outcome.
But suffice it to say that there's really two issues that are involved in making sure a power plant runs.
It's what you physically have put into the asset and what you do to ready it.
And in terms of physical preparation it's not leaving coal piles exposed putting buildings around them so that they are protected from the elements that's a capital investment and you're not going to do that unless you know that you're going to get paid in the capacity market because those typically – in our case at least aren't units that capture energy margin.
So we're still cautiously optimistic about what FERC will do.
And we are very confident that whatever FERC does we do have the type of fleet that will benefit from it.
Okay great.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Steve.
Good morning.
Wanted to start on the utility.
For 2014 and I guess going into 2015 what was the earned ROE at the utility in 2014 and what's the assumption going into 2015 that defines the guidance? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We earned our allowed returns Stephen just you may recall that we have an 11.68% return at transmission and a blend of 10.3% at the utility for the most – at the distribution level a blend of 10.3% and some of the more recent programs are at 9.75%.
Okay.
So the actual results of 2015 were right at your earned level or were they in excess of the earned level? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> They were right at the earned level.
Okay.
And...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're investing heavily in the utility to make sure that's the case.
Okay.
Understood.
And what's the timing for the likely filing of the rate case? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> November of 2017.
Is when you would file? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Is when we would file for a test year that is three months to start and nine years prospective.
Typically we may seek to push it out even further.
Okay.
And then looking over in terms of gas infrastructure major theme we've seen is more investment in pipelines and we saw your investment there at the Power side.
Do you see other potential need for gas infrastructure that looks interesting for you in your service territories as you look at the growth of gas infrastructure? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No not in our service territory.
It seems to me that most of the gas pipeline build that's been proposed nowadays for a variety of reasons is going from Marcellus and Utica to the Southeast and to the South.
That's a much longer conversation that we can have.
There is some very good economic fundamental reasons why that's taking place.
I think we're ready for the next question operator.
Your next question comes from the line from Travis Miller with the Morningstar.
Good morning.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Travis.
Hi Travis.
Hi.
Wonder if you could talk about a little more of the incremental investments that you've discussed here over the last few months about Energy Strong where that stands what filings we might see in the next three to six months opportunities the incremental stuff that's not been approved for Energy Strong? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Travis.
The pure Energy Strong filing if you will had multiple components to it.
There were a series of substations for example that were a center piece of I think there were 29 of them that have to be upgraded and there where we are is we're in the engineering and design phase of that work.
So that work is probably going to be the longest dated one and when we do file for additional help in that area that's likely to not be off for at least another year.
Another big part of Energy Strong though was the $350 million program to replace some of the cast iron main system.
And I think we've done over 200 miles of that already and that is one that is scheduled to pretty much wind down by the end of 2015.
So we'll talk more in detail about that on March 2 but that is a filing that we will be making in very very short order to continue that program.
That's important for a whole host of reasons not the least of which is number one.
You don't want to keep mobilizing and then de-mobilizing your workforce to do that.
And as I said that's winding down at the end of the year.
But probably equally if not more important is the fact that we've continued to be able to pass these gas credits on to our customers.
So this is the time to make the investment in infrastructure while the supply part of the bill is actually coming down because it's something that the customer can afford to do right now.
We're always mindful of the burden that we are putting on the customers.
But there are some other parts of Energy Strong that are smaller in magnitude but those being the two biggest ones.
Some of the other things we've talked about in terms of potential investments that we're still waiting to here on are the Utility 2.0 program out on Long Island.
Candidly we thought that would be resolved by now but that looks like it's going to go out a couple more quarters into this year.
We had thought we were the winner of the FERC 1000 project at Artificial Island.
As you know PJM is reconsidering that and I don't know exactly when a decision will be forthcoming there.
We thought it would be Q1.
But Q1 is now halfway gone and that decision isn't done.
The PennEast Pipeline investment we've made is still underway.
The energy efficiency filing that we made is still having very constructive dialogue with the staff on that.
So there are things in all manners all different stages from disappointment in terms of Bridgeport Harbor optimism in terms of energy efficiency and a whole bunch of stuff in between.
Okay.
How much of all those programs that either haven't been approved or at development process are included in that $2.4 billion CapEx number? None.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Zero zero.
Okay.
So that's upside.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Travis.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jon.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Quick question on what you've said about the dividend Ralph.
You've been very clear you wanted to be to grow consistently and sustainably.
Does that mean we should anticipate similar percentage growth going forward to what you've just done or similar kind of share growth or how consistent are we talking? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So let's just put it this way Jonathan about 40 years ago or maybe I think it was about then we put a big increase into the dividend I think it was about an $0.08 or $0.10 increase in the dividend.
$0.12.
Thank you Jon.
And we went out of our way to tell people that that was a significant resetting of the dividend and not to be expected as an ongoing change in the dividend.
And we haven't used those words this time.
So I really don't want to be tied to a specific number either from a cents per share or a percentage point of view except to say that we think this dividend increase is supportable and sustainable.
Inc.</span></strong> It seems you're growing it roughly in line with how you expect the utility earnings to grow this year I mean is that kind of the status policy (57:40)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And again – that's a fair question Jonathan.
And I did say earlier that we look to see where the earnings in the company are coming from because quite candidly Power is more cyclical and the utility is more steady.
But we don't have a – it's not formulaic.
It's not 0.9 Utility plus 0.1 Power or 1.1 Utility plus 0.2 Power.
It's clearly the fact that the utility will be well over 50% this year for the second year in a row.
It depends on how you define well over.
It'll be over 15% for the second year in a row gives us more confidence in the size of the increase and the sustainability of the increase.
But we absolutely know how important it is to the shareholders.
We hear about it all the time.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then on the credit metrics I think you mentioned that Power's FFO-to-debt was 59% (58:33) at the end of the year.
Is there anything about (58:38) you're forecasting flattish earnings for 2015 in Power at the middle of the range.
Is there any reason why FFO-to-debt wouldn't be similar in 2015 as in 2014? No.
So good question Jonathan.
If you look at you're right where we landed the year.
Power is going to continue to be in very good shape.
So I think the way to think about it is FFO-to-debt will continue to be well in excess of our floor of 30% just continuing to provide a lot of investment capacity of Power for the things that Ralph has just been talking about and of course as you know we don't have any parent debt and so that provides us even more opportunity for regulated investments.
So yeah I continue to see Power a very robust and what I like about is it allows us to have that conversation of where else can we make incremental investments because there is just a lot of room there and that's a nice way to start the conversation about extra capital investment not talking about issuing equity.
Inc.</span></strong> So unless 2016 (59:39) is going to step down very significantly it seems like mathematically there's no way you can be sub 50% for the 2014 2015 average which is I think what your EEI slide showed.
Could those numbers be up by that much higher? Is that -- are we on the right track there? Yeah.
So I won't give the specific numbers now on the call and we'll talk more about the long-term view of things on March 2 but I think the right takeaway is that balance sheet is in terrific shape and we look for as Ralph said lots of ways to deploy it.
The numbers are in really really good shape.
Inc.</span></strong> Did you come close on Bridgeport Harbor or was it...? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Nice try Jon.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're not going to reveal close or not close because as soon as I give you a qualitative answer you'll try to narrow me further.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Ralph is going to have some closing remarks and then we'll complete the call.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Kathleen.
So something just a little bit out of character.
As many of you know – as all of you know there is probably no bigger fan of our employees than yours truly here.
There is one that I just want to make special mention of that many of you probably have never met before but after 40 years of service in the industry and 10 years with us eight years as our chief nuclear officer.
We did announce the retirement of Tom Joyce.
Tom is just the quintessential professional not only did he just create tremendous value for our customers and our shareholders but he did what's expected of every strong leader and that is he leaves behind an incredibly solid team and groomed a talented successor.
But I just can't thank Tom enough.
And I thanked him yesterday in front of employees.
So I want to make sure I thank him today in front of our investors.
As for the rest of my comments it's simply this for those of you in the Northeast I hope you stay warm hang in there.
Our plants are running our gas pressures on the system are good if not only even Northeast but you are in our service territory.
And I hope to see all of you a week from Monday at our annual meeting.
So I hope you're as pleased as we are with that result and the outlook for 2015 looks even stronger.
See you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you operator.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
And thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Angela and I'm your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference Public Service Enterprise Group's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session for members of the financial community.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded today Friday May 1 2015 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1 o'clock PM Eastern today until 11:30 PM Eastern on May 8 2015.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning.
Thank you all for participating in our earnings call this morning.
As you are aware we released our first quarter 2015 earnings statements earlier today.
The release and attachments are posted on our website as mentioned www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended March 31 2015 is expected to be filed shortly.
I won't go through the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results but as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time-to-time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless of course we are required to do so.
Our release today also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings as well as a new non-GAAP disclosure of adjusted EBITDA for PSEG Power.
Please refer to today's 8-K or the other filings for a discussion of factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations for a reconciliation of operating earnings and adjusted EBITDA to GAAP results.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
And joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Kathleen.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
PSEG performed extremely well in the first quarter.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2015 of $1.04 per share that's a 3% increase over the first quarter of 2014's operating earnings of $1.01 per share.
PSE&amp;G continues to achieve best-in-class growth as we expand investments that are helping meet our customers' needs and helping New Jersey achieving important goals.
PSE&amp;G invested $599 million in the first quarter as part of its planned capital investment for 2015 of $2.6 billion in upgrades to the electric and gas distribution and transmission systems.
PSE&amp;G's capital program is on schedule and on budget.
The Susquehanna-Roseland 500 kV transmission line is expected to be fully operational later this month.
This will be a major achievement.
SR's 2015 operational date is 12 years after the August 2003 blackout and almost a decade after PJM identified the critical system needs required to upgrade aging infrastructure and relieve overloaded power lines.
SR's completion is testament to the cooperative relationship between PSE&amp;G and PPL Energy and the capability shown by PSE&amp;G in navigating the lengthy permitting and licensing process at both the federal and state levels.
PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission represented 39% of its yearend 2014 rate base.
And it is forecast to grow to represent an excess of 50% of rate base in five years.
The New Jersey Board of Public Utilities recently approved an expansion of PSE&amp;G's successful energy efficiency programs.
The investment of $95 million over the next three years will decrease energy costs for participants and lessen the environmental effects of energy supply.
At the same time given the structure of the program PSE&amp;G should be able to fully earn its authorized return of 9.75%.
In addition the recommendation by PJM staff earlier this week to award PSE&amp;G a share of the work required to upgrade reliability at Artificial Island would increase spending on transmission by anywhere from $100 million to $130 million.
The AI investment the Artificial Island investment was not included in our capital program as described in our March Investor Conference.
So this is additive to our prior forecasting of utility investment opportunities.
We await the BPU's action later this year on PSE&amp;G's request to invest $1.6 billion over the next five years to continue its long-term program to modernize its gas systems.
PSE&amp;G's Gas System Modernization Program would support the replacement of approximately 160 miles of cast iron and unprotected steel gas mains per year.
The replacement program would reduce the risk of leaks and it would reduce the release of methane gas.
PSE&amp;G has been replacing and modernizing its gas pipe as part of the Energy Strong program.
Approval of the Gas System Modernization program would support the extension of this work and continue to provide a direct boost to New Jersey's economy with the creation of more than 500 jobs.
We continue to believe that this is the optimal time to move ahead with this work given the sizeable savings customers continue to realize from low gas prices spending on this program which further enhanced PSE&amp;G's already strong growth platform.
The first quarter results for Power demonstrate the quality of its asset mix.
PSE&amp;G's Power's earnings continue to benefit from strong operations and the capable management of its gas supply.
The fleet's dispatch flexibility and diverse fuel mix supported operations during this past winter.
The gas-fired combined cycle gas turbines fleet's availability improved quarter-over-quarter following conclusion of work at Linden in 2014 to increase its capacity and with a continued focus on operations.
This improvement in availability aided the fleet's ability to respond to market conditions.
And Power continues to benefit from the management of its gas storage and transportation agreements which also provide substantial savings to PSE&amp;G's residential gas customers.
In a related development the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has granted PJM's request to delay the RPM capacity auction.
The delay provides more time for the FERC to consider PJM's proposed changes to the auction structure.
We believe PJM's original Net CONE offer cap proposal was just and reasonable but we support PJM's proposed alternative offer cap which the FERC agrees would allow for bids up to approximately 85% of Net CONE.
The FERC's approval of the proposed changes would recognize the need for increased investment to maintain system reliability.
The weather conditions experienced over the past two years exposed the critical need to maintain and improve on the resiliency of our infrastructure the need to replace aging equipment and maintain the level of service demanded by our customers.
On a separate matter I'm pleased with the outcome of the settlement we reached with our insurers over claims related to Superstorm Sandy losses.
It's been more than two years since the storm affected our operations but in the end we have been fully compensated for the insurable spending we made on Sandy related repairs.
Our business model is working the way it should.
Operational excellence produces the financial strength that allows us to invest in a disciplined way for growth.
Our balance sheet is strong the financial capability supports our current plans to invest $13 billion through 2019 and it is sufficient to support an expansion of this investment program without the need to issue equity.
PSE&amp;G's investment program is expected to yield double-digit growth in rate base through 2019 as the earnings contribution from our regulated business exceeds 50% of our consolidated earnings.
PSEG Power's investment program is expected to enhance the fleet's efficiency and reliability as we continue to look for opportunities to expand Power's fleet.
The successful implementation of our investment plans will provide PSEG with a strong foundation to deliver customer satisfaction and shareholder value.
Based on the strong start to the current year both operationally and financially 2015 would represent the third year of growth in PSEG's operating earnings.
But given that it is still early in 2015 we are maintaining our forecast of operating earnings for the full year of $2.75 per share to $2.95 per share.
We have a proven strategy and a key contributor to our success is the dedication of our employees to meeting the needs of customers in a safe reliable manner.
Their skills and talent are what will propel us to achieve our long-term goals.
With that I'll turn the call over to Caroline who will discuss our financials in greater detail.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the first quarter of $1.04 per share versus operating earnings of $1.01 per share in last year's first quarter.
We've provided you with a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter on slide four.
As you can see on slide eight PSEG Power provided the largest contribution to earnings.
For the quarter Power reported operating earnings of $0.55 per share compared with $0.58 per share last year.
In addition Power reported adjusted EBITDA of $626 million compared to $651 million last year.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings of $0.47 per share compared with $0.42 per share last year.
PSEG Enterprise/Other or the parent contributed operating earnings of $0.02 per share compared with $0.01 per share for the first quarter of 2014.
The waterfall chart on slide nine takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and I'll now review each company in a bit more detail.
Let's turn to PSE&amp;G.
As shown on slide 11 PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the first quarter of 2015 of $0.47 per share compared with $0.42 per share last year.
PSE&amp;G's earnings for the first quarter reflect the benefits of the increase in revenue associated with the expansion of its capital program an increase in demand for gas and the recovery of insurable storm costs from the settlement of Sandy-related insurance claims.
PSE&amp;G's expanded investment in transmission added $0.03 per share to earnings for the quarter.
PSE&amp;G is expected to invest $1.6 billion on transmission in 2015 and under PSE&amp;G's formula rate an increase in transmission revenue of $182 million was effective at the start of the year.
This increase in revenue provides for recovery of known costs and appropriate returns associated with PSE&amp;G's expanded transmission investment.
The winter weather was significantly colder than normal and colder than a year ago.
Of course the gas weather-normalization clause negates the impact of weather on earnings from PSE&amp;G's gas distribution business.
However growth in customer demand for gas normalized for weather added $0.01 per share to earnings.
Quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons also benefited from a decline in operation and maintenance expense of $0.01 per share.
Decline in O&amp;M reflects the expensed portion of PSE&amp;G share of the Sandy-related insurance settlement and a decline in storm-related repair cost from the higher levels experienced in 2014's first quarter.
Together these more than offset the impact on O&amp;M from an increase in pension expense.
Economic indicators in the service area are modestly better than a year ago.
Employment and housing indicators show signs of slow but steady improvement.
Electric demand has also shown modest improvement.
And I stress the word modest in characterizing demand growth.
On a weather-normalized basis electric sales are estimated to have improved by 0.2% in the quarter and the improvement was led by a 0.6% growth from the commercial and industrial sector which offset a decline in demand from residential customers.
Gas deliveries on the other hand continue to benefit from sustained low commodity prices and the signals of recovery in the economy.
Weather-normalized gas deliveries in the quarter grew by 0.4% based on a 1% improvement from the residential sector.
PSE&amp;G extended bill credits that it had provided for residential gas usage for the prior five months through April.
The April bill credit cut the average bill for the typical residential customer by 32%.
PSE&amp;G received approval from the New Jersey BPU in April 2015 to increase its investment in energy efficiency.
PSE&amp;G will invest an additional $95 million over a three-year period at an authorized return on equity of 9.75%.
The approval will allow PSE&amp;G to expand its energy efficiency initiatives under several popular programs and the structure under the agreement for revenue and cost recovery should allow PSE&amp;G to fully earn its authorized return.
We're maintaining our forecast of PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2015 of $735 million to $775 million.
PSE&amp;G's earnings for the full year will be driven by the recovery of costs associated with higher levels of capital spending.
Let's now move to PSEG Power.
As shown on slide 15 PSEG Power reported operating earnings for the first quarter of $0.55 per share and adjusted EBITDA of $626 million compared with $0.58 per share and adjusted EBITDA of $651 million for the first quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA excludes the same items as our operating earnings measure as well as income tax expense interest expense depreciation and amortization and major maintenance at Power's fossil generation facilities.
PSEG Power's strong operating results from the first quarter reflect an improvement in availability of its gas-fired combined cycle fleet higher prices on its hedged energy output and the monetization of its gas supply.
Together these help to offset the impact on earnings from a declining capacity revenue and lower wholesale market prices for energy.
An increase in the average price received on energy hedges coupled with an increase in the percent of energy hedged in the first quarter relative to a year ago fully offset the impact of lower wholesale market prices on earnings.
We expect a decline in average PJM capacity prices to $168 per megawatt day from $242 per megawatt day last year reduced Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.09 per share.
Higher gas send out to commercial and industrial customers and strong margins on sales to the off system market in a response to the extreme weather conditions experienced throughout the quarter added $0.04 per share to quarter-over-quarter earnings.
The absence of a charge in the prior year improved earnings comparisons by $0.03 per share.
And lastly earnings comparisons were reduced by a $0.01 per share due to an increase in O&amp;M expense.
The changes in adjusted EBITDA are directly parallel the changes in earnings per share on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
The earnings release on slide 16 provides you with detailed analysis on the impact of Power's – on Power's operating earnings quarter-over-quarter from changes in revenue and costs.
Let me now just take a moment to mention our inclusion of adjusted EBITDA as both new disclosure and new guidance.
We know that many of you track one or both operating earnings and EBITDA for Power.
And we thought that by giving you our EBITDA on the same basis as operating earnings and adjusted for fossil major maintenance expenses this would give you a better window into Power's cash flow generation potential and value over the long term.
We took out major maintenance at our Fossil plant as this is a periodic cost versus the ongoing run rate.
As I mentioned the changes in operating earnings align with the changes in adjusted EBITDA.
In other words the reduction in EPS of $0.03 per share associated with lower wholesale energy market prices and slightly higher O&amp;M equates directly to the $25 million reduction in adjusted EBITDA from $651 million in 2014's first quarter to $626 million in this quarter.
I plan to talk about adjusted EBITDA every quarter as we go forward to ensure we provide you with a consistent view as many of you use this for modeling purposes.
Now let's turn for a few minutes to Power's operations.
Essentially this is a tale of two winters.
As you remember the past winter was one of the coldest on record and actually colder than 2014's winter.
But this past winter was also characterized by improved availability of gas supply and fewer days of extreme weather than the year-ago period which resulted in dramatically lower wholesale energy prices than a year ago when the market reflected scarcity pricing for a much longer period of time.
The decline in wholesale energy prices in the first quarter of 2015 from the first quarter of 2014 affected the financial performance of Power's assets that were opened to the market.
The increase in the average price received on energy hedges of about $4 per megawatt hour on approximately 76% of generation hedged help secure Power's margins during the first quarter.
The net impact of the higher hedge price was offset somewhat by the need to meet increased demand under load-following contracts at fixed prices.
The net impact on profitability of Power's load-following contracts however is not as severe as in the year-ago period for the reasons I just mentioned.
Once again Power's ability to monetize gas supply position offset these market – energy market impacts resulting in only a slight decline in adjusted EBITDA for the quarter as I mentioned to $626 million from last year's $651 million.
The flexibility and fuel diversity of Power's fleet supported strong operations in the cold weather conditions experienced in the first quarter.
Output of 14.5 terawatt hours was in line with year ago level.
The nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 95% producing 7.8 terawatt hours of output or 54% of generation.
This is just a slight decline from year ago levels.
Production from the combined cycle fleet increased to 3.9 terawatt hours or 27% of generation and this represents a 16% increase in output versus 2014's first quarter.
An improvement in the availability at Linden following work to increase the station's capacity and the availability of the Bethlehem New York facility with an increase in gas supply led to higher production from the combined cycle fleet.
The combined cycle fleet's operation was also aided by its use of oil as backup supply to maintain operations during important critical periods.
The coal stations performed in line with prior period producing about 2.5 terawatt hours of energy or about 17% of generation.
Finally output from the peaking fleet declined in response to fewer days of extreme weather.
Power is maintaining its forecasted output for 2015 of between 55 terawatt hours and 57 terawatt hours a 1% to 5% increase over 2014's output of 54.2 terawatt hours.
Approximately 70% to 75% of anticipated production for the April to December period of this year is hedged at an average price of $52 per megawatt hour.
For 2016 Power has hedged between 50% and 55% of its forecast production of 55 terawatt hours to 57 terawatt hours at an average price of $51 per megawatt hour.
And for 2017 Power has hedged 25% to 30% of its forecast generation of 55 terawatt hours to 57 terawatt hours at an average price of $52 per megawatt hour.
The hedge data for 2015 and 2016 continues to assume volumes hedged under BGS represent approximately 11 terawatt hours to 12 terawatt hours for each year.
We continue to forecast operating earnings for Power in 2015 of $620 million to $680 million.
The forecast of operating earnings represents forecast of adjusted EBITDA of $1.545 billion to $1.645 billion for the full year which compares to $1.584 billion of adjusted EBITDA in 2014.
Results for the remainder of the year will be heavily influenced by an increase in the average price of hedged energy and the expected decline in year-over-year capacity revenue.
I want to remind you that the average price Power receives for its PJM capacity is expected to remain at 168 megawatt – $168 per megawatt day for the capacity year which begins on June 1st of 2015.
At the same time the number of megawatts of capacity for which Power receives revenue in PJM is expected to decline by 1 800 megawatts and this reflects primarily the retirement of the HEDD units which we've talked about before.
Slide 17 provides more detail on generation in the quarter as slide 21 provides detail on Power's hedged position.
Now let me briefly address the operating results from Enterprise/Other.
For the first quarter PSEG Enterprise/Other reported operating earnings of $0.02 per share compared with operating earnings of $0.01 per share last year.
The difference in operating income is primarily the result of favorable interest and other income the contribution to income from PSEG Long Island and a lease portfolio was steady quarter-over-quarter.
And we continue to forecast full year operating earnings for 2015 from PSEG Enterprise/Other of $40 million to $45 million.
Finally just a word on the settlement of the Sandy insurance claims.
As Ralph mentioned earlier we're very pleased that we were able to reach a settlement of claims with our insurers for coverage of Superstorm Sandy-related losses.
The settlement provides a total recovery of $264 million an amount that fully compensates PSEG for insurable spending on Sandy-related repairs.
PSEG received $50 million of this amount over the 2012-2013 period which you probably remember our talking about.
Of the remaining $214 million PSEG recognized $159 million pre-tax in the first quarter's result under a partial settlement reached with insurers and we will recognize an additional $54 million pre-tax in the second quarter.
Power's share of the settlement proceeds are not included in operating earnings or adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter.
As you recall those expenses when incurred were not included in Power's operating earnings at that time.
And this settlement fully closes out the claim related to Sandy.
PSEG closed the quarter with $1 billion of cash on its balance sheet with debt at the end of March 31st of 2015 representing 41.5% of consolidated capital.
The level of cash on the balance sheet is high relative to normal conditions and this reflects the cash impact of bonus depreciation on taxes and includes the receipt of Sandy-related insurance proceeds all both occurring of course at a time during the year when seasonal influences on demand have a favorable impact on cash balances.
We remain in a position to finance our current capital program without the need for the issuance of equity and we look forward to seeking additional growth investments.
We continue to forecast operating earnings for the full year of $2.75 to $2.95 per share.
So that concludes my comments and I'll now turn the call back over to Angela our operator to open up the line for questions.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session for members of the financial community.
Your first question comes from Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Ralph I was wondering if you could share your thoughts on the Artificial Island outcome.
It went back and forth quite a bit.
You guys got part of the project but not all of what was originally awarded.
How is that affecting your thoughts about future investment in transmission outside of the standard footprint opportunity? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Dan.
Good morning.
We have a complaint pending at FERC on the way in which PJM followed the process.
And I have met with – the FERC commission is telling them that we're a little concerned with both the unevenness with which FERC Order 1000 is being implemented nationwide and the fits and starts with which it's being implemented specifically within PJM.
And we specifically filed that before PJM staff recommendation came out because we didn't want it to be viewed as a case of either potentially sour grapes if we didn't win or beating of our chest if we did win.
So I think the best face you could put on this is that it's a nascent program and it's undergoing some growing pains.
I have some broader concerns about it that the success of any market is in the fact that you have multiple buyers and multiple sellers and you have visibility to pricing and the needs of customers.
And this thing has not had any of those characteristics associated with it and it's hard for me to imagine that it will be the case when it gets applied nationally that the recharge here through the separate rule license.
Having said that we're going to proceed with the complaint that the PJM FERC (29:55) recommendation to just about $120 million of $260 million project or thereabouts of round numbers.
So it doesn't change our enthusiasm for transmission investment and the importance of that as it pertains to customer reliability.
But the FERC Order 1000 component transmission investment I think still has some significant work to be done.
Thanks.
And I guess just one other question.
With CP hopefully advancing at this point how are you guys looking at maybe generation related investment opportunities and is there something you could do prospectively with repowering some of the old HEDD sites if you're getting paid more for reliability than you have in the past? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Dan.
That's definitely on the table.
The FT4 engines as you know had problems with high energy delivery date KNOX (30:51) requirements.
And with some SCR improvements we believe that those would be economically viable.
And our plan would be depending upon FERC's decision if we think the auction could achieve the kind of prices that would eat down (31:03) justify those improvements we would go ahead and make those improvements.
Do they seem more viable than maybe Bridgeport did earlier this year because of lower capital dollars and maybe a little better visibility? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The only thing they have in common is that they are both power plants.
As you know Bridgeport is a combination of spark spread and capacity markets.
And HEDD upgrade for SCR -- sorry for the alphabet soup -- is 99.9% of our capacity payments.
They're highly inefficient units and you would only need them for reliability you wouldn't expect any energy margin from them.
So I could better answer that question once FERC decides on the rules but at this point in time I'd say just that they're not directly comparable.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Next question? Your next question comes from Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Real quick question about wondering if you could talk about the possibility of getting a low carbon portfolio standard in New Jersey and how that might impact CapEx? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks Michael.
So I don't see a separate and independent low carbon portfolio standard in New Jersey in the near term.
I believe if I'm not mistaken the state's official response and comments to the EPA 111(d) proposal was questioning actually the legality of EPA's ability to implement the program.
So looking at sort of the progress we've made on the RPS in the state I believe New Jersey is intent to proceed along those lines as opposed to doing something more comprehensive in the form of using an energy efficiency standard or a carbon standard.
As you know we have consistently and still feel this way believed that a nationwide carbon program is required and that states going alone creates all sorts of economic distortions.
That doesn't change our point of view however that there is a need for the carbon standard nationwide.
Right.
And have you guys specifically mentioned what you're going to do with proceeds from Sandy insurance recoveries? Sure.
This is Caroline.
Good morning Michael.
So no we haven't – we haven't specifically earmarked them for things of course money – I mentioned we're getting reimbursement a lot of money was spent for Sandy recovery.
So this fully compensates us.
That money large part already spent.
So the dollars that come in here really just support the strength of the balance sheet that we have and the reinvestment that we're making in new things at the utility and potential new opportunities at Power.
So it just gives us more strength to pursue more growth opportunities and very pleased to have the settlement behind us.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Next question? Your next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Good morning.
Just a few quick things.
I notice that the deficiency letter that the response that PJM made to it there was – they didn't seem to have a problem with stop loss limits on the penalties removed and I think you guys and maybe Exelon – I'm not sure and tell me if I'm wrong are not opposed to that whereas some generators are and I was just wondering if you could give us a feel as to what you think might happen if those limits are removed? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If the limits are removed in general Paul I think that the greater the potential for reward which comes along with greater risk the better it is for us.
We have a highly – a high performing fleet and what's important is both halves of that sentence A the first half being that they're high performing and second that it's a fleet.
So the interchangeability of assets that do clear the auction with assets that don't clear the auction the fuel flexibility the different technologies we have all give us greater and greater confidence about the ability of the assets to perform.
So to the extent that penalties become tougher or limits get removed one would only expect that the reward would be commensurate with that risk and we would perform well in that market.
Right no I can see that.
I guess I'm wondering if you have any sense as to quantifiably or just obviously approximate just general idea about how much that might impact? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No we don't try.
Even when the rules are clear we don't predict the outcome of the auction.
That's true.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The rules aren't clear.
(35:45) Okay.
I think that actually satisfies the second question that I had then and that's it I guess.
Thanks so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks.
Next question? Your next question comes from Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Travis.
Looking at the slide 19 want to make sure I clearly understand this.
The Power fuel costs look at that oil and gas line.
So generation in the quarter was up and yet saw a substantial reduction there in that fuel cost.
So I'm wondering if you could just go through that and how sustainable that is? It's polar vortex related or something else? Yeah.
So you're right exactly right Travis.
I mean you think about where gas prices were last year and where gas prices are this year they are lower.
And so you see that come right through that line.
Of course oil prices were lower too but gas is the predominant – predominant fuel here.
You're seeing that directly come into that line.
Remember I also mentioned that the prices for wholesale energy were lower and that goes along with that right.
So get lower gas prices and lower power prices preserves spark spread for us and that's what also commented on the value that our hedges provided this year on a year-over-year basis because of that reduction.
That is directly related to the observable market price for gas versus last year.
Got it.
Is any of that gas monetization benefit in that number in terms of reducing the fuel costs? No.
This is just the pure fuel cost and cost of goods sold.
Okay and is it sustainable? Do you think you'd see trends like this over the next couple quarters? Is this a one-off...
So that's really gas price forecast question right.
So we really just use what's in the forward curve when we think about gas prices going forward.
The important thing to keep in mind though is we've got the base load is hedged right in the current year.
So we're really talking about what's happening in the combined cycle and therefore their ability to preserve the spark spread because of how gas moves protects us to an extent but other than using the forward curve it's really hard to predict gas prices.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Next question? Your next question comes from Shar Pourreza with Guggenheim Partners.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Shar.
Good morning.
So if you take your energy strong program combine it with gas modernization sort of what is that – how many miles does that cover as far as replacement of the cast iron steel pipes and sort of where do you see that program expanding to? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I believe it's about 150 miles per year and it would take us 30 years.
Okay.
Got it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So the (38:31) gas system is closer to 800 miles but it would take us 30 years at that spending rate to replace everything.
Okay got it.
And one just reminder what do you – as far as your transmission ROE's right now? What are you earning on? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So it varies.
Shar it's – our base ROE is 11.18%.
We get a 50 basis points RTO membership adder for 11.68%.
We had I guess we still have a couple of projects that get anywhere from 25 basis points to 125 basis points in addition.
However our last four or five projects that we filed for have not received any incremental ROE incentive component.
So a long-awaited answer but there is no one simple number.
It starts at 11.18% it goes up to 12.75% or something like that that being the Susquehanna-Roseland project being the only one that got that big an adder.
Got it and if you'd think about it from a weighted average it's still within the range of reasonableness that you're seeing? (39:34) President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It comes down to about 11.7% which is just a fraction of a bit outside the range of reasonableness.
Perfect thanks so much.
Our next question? Your next question comes from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Well good morning guys.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning John.
Inc.</span></strong> Could you I think you said that the amount of this Hurricane Sandy recovery that was left in the operating numbers of the utility was $0.03 roughly in the first quarter but there would be some amount in the second quarter but I don't think you gave us a breakdown of how much was in Power and how much was Utility.
Right.
So sure Jonathan.
So the impact to PSE&amp;G's earnings for the first quarter benefited $0.01 to the benefit of O&amp;M from the Sandy recovery that goes to PSE&amp;G.
The remaining piece of the settlement that we have – the remaining about $54 million we have to go through the allocation process and we will do that and we'll discuss how that will flow when we do the second quarter results.
So a couple of things to remember.
So on the Power side we don't flow it through operating earnings that's below the line which you can see in the reconciliation.
We don't do that because Power spend was below the line as well.
And on the Utility side remember that the recoveries that we got including a portion of the $50 million – a small portion of that was for PSE&amp;G in the past goes primarily to balance sheet because a lot of the spend for storm recovery that's recoverable under our policy's capital spend and that's on the balance sheet.
So there is balance sheet or regulatory asset offset and just $0.01 of impact for the P&amp;L from the first quarter for Sandy at PSE&amp;G and we'll do the second quarter piece when we do the second quarter results.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay but it sounds like it's unlikely to be that material to the year in the context of the guidance or what have you.
Yeah.
I think that's right in the context of guidance correct right.
So you've seen now we're almost done with the Sandy settlement being booked with just $54 million to go and you've got a big piece already booked in the first quarter and the P&amp;L impact for operating earnings purposes was just $0.01.
So I think proportionally you're thinking of it the right way.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then just on one other topic.
We've obviously it's very – just recently we're seeing the change in the dispatch or at least the generation stack with some of the coal plants no longer there.
What are you guys seeing in terms of just day-to-day as you come into this front end of the summer? Are there noticeable changes in operations or the units of the shopping (42:19) just not really participating already? What are you seeing in the markets? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No Jonathan.
I think one of our slides shows you the capacity factors and we had a slight dip in nuclear capacity that was purely related to an outage at Salem that wasn't planned for and otherwise the units would have been at or better than last year in terms of nuclear.
Our gas units picked up the slack from some of that as well as some of the lower prices that Travis paid attention to earlier but the base load coal units Keystone Conemaugh had a strong winter season.
Prices weren't – gas prices were not below that fateful $1.90 number of 2012 that resulted in some of the dispatch of those and of course our New Jersey coal units as well as our Connecticut coal units did run a little bit during the winter months because of the unavailability.
The head unit saw peakers (43:15) using the demand at the level that they would be called upon.
So really no change in terms of the numbers this year from any kind of a fundamental shift in the market that we haven't over the past four years or five years.
Inc.</span></strong> Ralph I was actually a bit more curious about sort of post the mid-April date where MAPS (43:38) went into effect.
It's obviously not in the quarter so whether there's anyone that could just talk about more real-time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I don't think so.
I think if anything the forward price curve would suggest that we'll continue to see robust capacity factors for our combined cycle gas turbine units and nuclear units will run flat out.
I mean that's pretty much the same.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Well thank you very much.
Next question? And your next question comes from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a great start to the year.
Two items.
One on the regulated side.
Can you just highlight for us what's different in CapEx known for the next few years at E&amp;G today versus what you talked about at the Analyst Day? Several moving parts just want to make sure we have them all.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Michael.
The one thing that's different that has been a – so what we like to show you in the March meeting is what's been approved.
So notwithstanding our complaint in front of FERC there's $120 million – Caroline correctly described it as $110 million to $130 million in Artificial Island was not included in the March Investor Presentation as baked in.
Similarly so that's the only change of things that have been finalized and are now part of the plan.
The other piece that's significantly different is that we filed have not received approval for $1.6 billion over the next five years in this gas system modernization program and that's not in the utilities capital program that we showed you in March.
Got it.
The other question thinking about your coal plants in New Jersey so moving over to Power.
Not running a lot haven't been for a year or two.
Just where are you if at all in the process of thinking about whether these plants will remain economic? And if not kind of how on the edge are they or are they clearly economic? And when you look out for the next three to five five to seven years they're a core part of Power's fleet? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Could you just hold on a second Mike.
I want to get my controller off the floor he fell down.
Obviously those plants have – we made significant environmental commitments to them and the capital requirements going forward on those plants from any kind of regulatory point of view are minimal.
The real question will be their age and their ability to perform in a CP market and the rules there are just aren't known.
So to the extent that the risk reward profile of CP changes our thinking on those plants then we would – we have to address that issue.
But as of now we're happy to run them on coal in the winter and on gas in the summer and they do just fine for us.
They are part of an overall fleet and that fleet has multiple dimensions to it that work well for us from (46:49).
But I said that the new factor in the calculus will be what does CP mean? Got it.
Last question.
Can you just remind us the amount of the HEDD units in terms of megawatts that are going or went off line? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> 1500 megawatts.
Got it.
Thank you Ralph much appreciated.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well thank you.
Sure next question.
Mr.
Izzo and Ms.
Dorsa there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Perhaps this is – we're finishing ahead of schedule.
Thank you all for joining us.
I really do hope you view this as kind of a quintessential quarter for us as opposed to anything special.
I grant you we didn't have anything fancy to tell you about just steady progress in terms of new investment opportunities at the utility and solid operations all around the company.
In other words what we like to do is just deliver on our commitments and then some.
I know that Caroline and Kathleen and to a lesser extent I will be on the road over the next couple of months and we look forward to seeing you until then just enjoy your spring.
Thank you all.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may disconnect and thank you for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Brandy and I am your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference Public Service Enterprise Group Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session for members of the financial community.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Friday July 31 2015 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1 PM Eastern today until 11:30 PM Eastern on August 7 2015.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brandy.
Good morning.
Thank you for participating in our earnings call this morning.
As you are all aware we released second quarter 2015 earnings statements earlier today.
The release and attachments as mentioned are posted on our website at www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also have posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter and the first half of the year.
Our 10-Q for the period ended June 30 2015 is expected to be filed shortly.
I won't go through the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results however as you know the earnings release and other matters that we will discuss in today's call contain forward-looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
Although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time-to-time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless of course we are required to do so.
Our release contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or other filings for a discussion of the factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I'm now going to like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group.
And joining Ralph on the call is Caroline Dorsa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Kathleen.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2015 of $0.57 per share a 16% improvement over the $0.49 per share earned in 2014 second quarter.
The results for the quarter bring operating earnings for the first half of 2015 to $1.61 per share a 7% increase over operating earnings of $1.50 per share earned in 2014's first half.
Slides 4 and 5 contain the detail on the results for the quarter in the first half.
Our business is performing well and meeting the challenges of today's low energy price environment.
The results for the quarter and first half of the year demonstrate the importance of strong operations in providing our customers with safe reliable low cost energy.
PSE&amp;G invested $1.3 billion during the first half of the year as part of its planned capital program for 2015 of $2.6 billion.
This included upgrades to the electric and gas distribution and transmission system.
PSE&amp;G's focus on improving the resiliency of the grid and increasing operational efficiency has also translated into strong performance in a number of the areas of customer satisfaction including price billing and payment corporate citizenship and field service.
PSE&amp;G was recently assigned a share of the transmission upgrade work at Artificial Island.
PJM's decision will increase PSE&amp;G's transmission-related capital spending by $100 million to $130 million over the next four years.
This project will add to PSE&amp;G's robust pipeline of projects that will drive high single-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's earnings over the three-year period ending in 2017.
The New Jersey Board of Public Utilities has begun proceedings related to PSE&amp;G's proposed $1.6 billion Gas System Modernization Program.
The investment would provide for a continuation of the work underway to replace 800 miles of cast iron and bare steel pipe over five years to enhance reliability and reduce the potential for harmful emissions of methane gas.
Approval would also provide a direct boost to New Jersey's economy.
We continue to believe that this is the right time to move forward with this work given the sizeable savings customers continue to realize from low gas prices.
PSEG Power's earnings demonstrate the strength of its asset mix.
Recent economic investments have increased the capacity of existing nuclear and fossil units and have improved the fleet's operating efficiency.
The completion of upgrade work at the gas-fired Bergen combined cycle unit yielded an increase in capacity of 31 megawatts just as the completion of the first phase of the Peach Bottom upgrade which achieved 100% output at the new rating in May provided an additional 65 megawatts per Power's share of this nuclear unit.
In addition Power recently announced plans to construct and operate a new 755-megawatt combined cycle unit at the Keys Energy Center in Maryland at a cost of $825 million to $875 million.
The investment is in keeping with Power's overall strategy of investing in efficient capacity in its core markets.
All three investments will enhance Power's ability to perform on the PJM's recently approved capacity performance program.
Capacity performance with its emphasis on performance is an example of how customer demands for reliability are increasing.
The size of PSEG Power's fleet the diversity of the fleet's fuel mix and its dispatch flexibility should support performance under the new capacity standards.
The real impact of the changes in the RPM capacity auction should result over time as the market recognized the need for increased investment to maintain system reliability particularly in light of anomalous weather patterns.
We are focused on executing our investment strategies and expanding our infrastructure in a disciplined manner a manner that supports the goals of customers and shareholders alike.
PSE&amp;G's investment program is expected to yield double-digit growth in rate base through 2019 as the earnings contribution from our regulated business should continue to exceed 50% of our consolidated earnings.
PSEG Power's investment program is expected to enhance the fleet's efficiency and reliability as we continue to look for opportunities to expand that fleet.
The potential investment in Artificial Island actually the recently approved investment in Artificial Island the announced acquisition of the Keys Energy Center and the gas system modernization program if approved would expand our previously announced capital program for 2015 through 2019 by 15% to 20% or $2.2 billion.
Based on the strength of our results for the first half of the year and the outlook for the remainder of the year we are updating our earnings guidance for 2015.
We have narrowed our range for guidance to $2.80 to $2.95 per share from its original $2.75 to $2.95 per share.
Our financial position remains strong.
The growth in capital spending can be financed without the need to issue equity.
We intend to utilize our financial strength to pursue investments that enhance operating efficiency support our market position and seek to improve on the high levels of reliability expected by our customers as we increase shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call over to Caroline who will discuss our financials in greater detail.
Thank you Ralph and thank you everyone for joining us today.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2015 of $0.57 per share versus operating earnings of $0.49 per share in last year's second quarter.
We provide you with a reconciliation of operating earnings to income from continuing operations and net income for the quarter on slide 4.
And we've also provided you with a waterfall chart on slide 10 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on slide 12 provides you with changes in operating earnings by each business on a year-to-date basis.
So now I'll review each company in a bit more detail starting with PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the second quarter of 2015 of $0.33 per share compared with $0.30 per share for 2014's second quarter a 10% improvement.
Results for the quarter are shown on slide 14.
PSE&amp;G's operating results for the second quarter continued to benefit from the expansion of its capital program and the impact of warmer-than-normal weather on demand.
Returns from PSE&amp;G's expanded investment in transmission added $0.04 per share to earnings in the quarter.
An increase in revenue at the start of the year under its transmission formula rate provides PSE&amp;G the opportunity to continue to earn its allowed return on its transmission investments.
Electric demand benefited from the more favorable weather conditions during the quarter that is the weather was hotter than normal and warmer than last year as well as the recovery of costs associated with PSE&amp;G's capital infrastructure programs.
Together these improved earnings comparisons in the quarter by a $0.01 per share.
Gas deliveries continued to grow in response to sustained low prices.
The growth in gas deliveries also increased earnings comparisons by $0.01 per share.
The improvement in earnings associated with this growth and revenue was partially offset by an increase in pension expense as well as higher storm-related expenses with those increases totaling an impact of $0.02 per share.
An increase in taxes and other items reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.01 per share.
Economic indicators in the service territories such as employment and housing are showing signs of improvement.
Modest growth in electric demand is reflective of the improvement in economic conditions.
On a weather-normalized basis electric sales grew by 0.2% for the quarter and about the same year-to-date.
Growth in demand by residential and commercial customers was partially offset by a decline in demand from industrial customers but weather-normalized deliveries of gas grew 2.7% during the first half of the year in response to sustained low prices something you'll recall we saw last year as well.
PSE&amp;G as part of its annual BGSS filing with the New Jersey BPU requested a further reduction of $70 million in annual revenues reflecting its lower cost of gas supply.
When placed into effect the BGSS rate will be reduced to $0.40 per therm from $0.45 per therm effective October 1 of this year.
And including this reduction the typical residential gas customer has experienced a reduction in his or her bill of $792 or 47% since January of 2009.
PSE&amp;G has maintained a steady level of capital expenditures investing $1.3 billion in the first half of the year as part of its annual planned capital program of $2.6 billion in upgrades to the electric and gas distribution and transmission systems.
The capital investment associated with PSE&amp;G's share of recommended upgrades to the transmission system at Artificial Island will increase investment in the transmission by $100 million to $130 million during the 2016 to 2019 timeframe.
So we are updating our forecast for PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for the year from $735 million to $775 million to $760 million to $775 million.
Given year-to-date results operating earnings for the full year will be influenced by the summer weather and of course the recovery of costs associated with higher levels of capital spending.
Now let's turn to Power.
PSEG Power reported operating earnings of $0.22 per share for the second quarter of 2015 and adjusted EBITDA of $301 million compared with operating earnings of $0.17 per share and adjusted EBITDA of $276 million for the second quarter of 2014.
Power's operating results for the second quarter benefited from improved operations at its Nuclear and Fossil generating facilities as well as higher prices on its hedged output and a decline in the cost of its gas supply.
The benefit to earnings from the improvement in operations more than offset the impact on earnings from an expected decline in capacity revenue and the lower wholesale market prices for energy.
Higher average prices on energy hedges coupled with a reduction in the cost of supply more than offset the impact on earnings of lower wholesale market prices for energy.
These items combined to increase quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons by $0.10 per share.
In addition a 10% improvement in the output over the prior year increased quarterly earnings comparisons by $0.02 per share.
So this improvement in margin was partially offset by the expected decline in PJM capacity revenues which reduced Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.08 per share.
The reduction in capacity revenues reflects the impact both of a lower average capacity price and the retirement of capacity that we've talked about before the capacity that's no longer compliant with environmental regulations.
Higher levels of O&amp;M and depreciation expense were offset by a decline in taxes of $0.03 per share and other items to net improve quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.01 per share.
The lower effective tax rate in the quarter of approximately 23% versus last year's 31% was anticipated and we continue to estimate that the tax rate for the full year will approximate 38% which is about the same rate as you saw in 2014.
The increase in adjusted EBITDA for the quarter is in line with the changes in earnings per share that I just went through on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
The average price for capacity declined in the quarter to approximately $168 per megawatt-day from $217 per megawatt-day.
In addition the amount of capacity that cleared the PJM capacity auction for the 2015-2016 capacity year which we've discussed over the past few years was reduced by about 1 800 megawatts to 8 800 megawatts.
And this reflects the retirement in May of this year of the HEDD peaking capacity that didn't meet New Jersey's nitrous oxide emissions standards.
As we move through the second half of 2015 the average price received on PJM capacity will remain stable relative to the average price received during the second half of 2014 at about $168 per megawatt-day.
However we should continue to expect on a year-over-year basis a decline in capacity revenues during the second half of the year specifically related to that retirement of capacity under HEDD.
The fuel diversity and flexibility of Power's fleet of generating assets was demonstrated once again in the quarter.
Our output increased 10% over a year-ago levels to 13.2 terawatt-hours.
The nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 86% producing 7.1 terawatt-hours of output or about 54% of our generation.
And this level of output represents a 9% improvement from year-ago levels.
The performance on the nuclear fleet reflects the absence of some major repairs to Salem 2 in 2014 which led this year's fewer outage-related days in the second quarter.
Production from the combined cycle gas fleet increased 26% this year to 4.6 terawatt-hours of generation or 34% of our total generation as the fleet's capacity factor improved to 61% from 49% in the year-ago quarter.
Linden's availability improved versus 2014 as the result of upgrade and maintenance work that was occurring in the year-ago quarter.
Dispatch of the combined cycle fleet was also supported by the availability of low-cost gas.
Dispatch of the coal fleet however was hurt by a decline in the price of gas and lower wholesale energy prices.
Output from the coal fleet declined 1.3 terawatt-hours or 10% of generation during the quarter.
Wholesale market energy prices have been affected by a decline in the price of gas and anomalies in the dispatch of generation associated with the volatility in pricing.
Strong production of low-cost gas from Marcellus station and the lack of sufficient takeaway capacity not unexpectedly has resulted in a lower price for gas.
The impact on power prices from the lower cost of gas has been further compounded this summer by repair work on electric transmission lines in the Maryland-D.C.
area and differentials on load given warmer-than-normal weather in Southern PJM versus the more normal demand experienced in the northern part of PJM.
That inability to dispatch energy to meet demand as a result of the transmission constraints hurt the wholesale market price for power in our region.
This situation is alleviated during periods of more normal weather-related demand in the areas served by PSEG Power.
So the dynamics affecting the power markets were not wholly unexpected given that lack of gas transmission takeaway capacity in the Marcellus basin and the work underway to alleviate the constraints on electric transmission to the south of us.
Power's combined cycle fleet continue to benefit from its access to this low-cost gas supply during the second quarter.
And since power prices held up and we continue to access lower cost gas the combined cycle fleet experienced an expansion of spark spreads and Power's fleet will continue to benefit from low gas prices and a somewhat open gas position.
As we look to the full year the improvement in availability of Power's gas-fired and nuclear fleet combined with incremental operating capacity at the Peach Bottom 2 nuclear plant and the gas-fired Bergen Station should allow Power's fleet to produce energy at the upper end of our forecasted output for the year of 55 terawatt-hours to 57 terawatt-hours.
This level of output represents a 1% to 5% increase over 2014's output of 54.2 terawatt-hours.
Approximately 70% to 75% of anticipated production for the second half of the year is hedged at an average price of $53 per megawatt hour.
The average price on Power's energy hedges remains the same approximately $4 per megawatt hour higher than the average price received on energy hedged during the second half of 2014.
For 2016 and 2017 Power's forecast output will remain stable at approximately 55 terawatt-hours to 57 terawatt-hours.
Of this Power has hedged 55% to 60% of 2016's forecasted generation at an average price of $51 per megawatt-hour and about 30% to 35% of 2017's forecasted level of generation is hedged at an average price of $50 per megawatt-hour.
As Ralph mentioned Power has acquired the rights to develop the 755-megawatt gas-fired combined cycle Keys Energy Center in Maryland.
The addition of Keys which represents an investment of approximately $825 million to $875 million is targeted to enter commercial service in 2018.
The plant's location we believe will complement Power's fleet in the core market and add to a fleet capable of meeting PJM's new capacity performance standards.
The forecasted range of Power's operating earnings for 2015 even with lower wholesale energy prices remains $620 million to $680 million as guidance and for adjusted EBITDA it remains unchanged as well at $1.545 billion to $1.645 billion.
Results for the remainder of the year will be influenced by higher average hedge prices that declining capacity revenue that I mentioned and wholesale energy market prices.
Just a quick note on Enterprise and Other.
Operating earnings for PSEG Energy Holdings and Enterprise in the second quarter of 2015 were $12 million or $0.02 per share versus operating earnings of $7 million or a rounded $0.02 per share for the second quarter of 2014.
The improvement in the operating income for the second quarter reflects higher earnings from PSEG Long Island lower O&amp;M expense and higher interest income at the parent.
And we continue to forecast full-year operating earnings for PSEG Enterprise/Other of about $40 million to $45 million.
PSEG closed the quarter ended June 30 2015 with $597 million of cash on its balance sheet with debt at the end of the quarter representing 41.9% of consolidated capital.
During the quarter PSE&amp;G issued $350 million of 10-year secured medium term notes at an interest rate of 3% and $250 million of 30-year secured medium-term notes at an interest rate of 4.05% and we also redeemed $300 million of maturing medium-term notes yielding 2.7%.
As Ralph mentioned we've updated our forecasted operating earnings for the full year to $2.80 to $2.95 per share given the strong operating results at both businesses in the first half of the year.
Estimates of PSEG Power's adjusted EBITDA remain unchanged at $1.545 billion to $1.645 billion.
Finally just on a personal note as you know I announced a week ago my plans to retire from PSEG during the fourth quarter.
I have really enjoyed working with all of you and as I move on I know that PSEG has an outstanding management team led by Ralph Izzo with a strong balance sheet and lots of opportunities to deploy it in the future and possesses a really solid foundation for further growth.
With that we're now ready for your questions and I'll turn it back to you Brandy.
Your first question is from Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
Can we just talk a little bit about the Keys plant and just your thought process on the capital allocation on that front given the fact that you've looked at a variety of other brownfield type projects in generation that haven't passed muster from your cost of capital perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Dan.
So I think in general we're somewhat cautious about injecting new supply into a market where demand isn't growing much.
So most of the investments you've seen us make have been kind of upgrades to existing units and we've talked a lot about (26:54) and replacement of existing units.
This one is a little bit unique for us in that A it's not an existing asset and B it is a new development project.
I think what makes this one a good fit for us is its location it's in Southwestern MAAC where we've seen some seasonal basis advantages.
Number two I think we're ahead of the market in terms of the future delivery of gas to that region which will put a 6 400 heat rate unit in a very very strong competitive position.
And number three this one went beyond the usual forecasting of forward price risk and included an element of construction risk that we believe ourselves particularly well-suited to manage given the project work we've done both in power and in the utility and how well that has all worked out.
So for a combination of reasons we were able to see clear to some value creation here that was different from other opportunities where I can't believe people outbid us.
So I think what you hear me saying is that we remain cautious on injecting copious amounts of new supply in a market that's not growing but this was a fairly special situation that we thought fit our portfolio rather nicely.
And given kind of your history of being pretty conservative on using capital is your view effectively that the energy value of the asset is going to make sense for it since you don't have the lock on capacity that you would have had if you had done Bridgeport or something else? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah that's right.
I mean we did talk in the past about how we – we were attracted to the seven-year lock on capacity in New England.
And this one obviously is more about sparks and energy margins than it is about a one-year price on capacity.
But it will be clearly a CP-eligible unit.
Okay.
And I guess Caroline what – you've talked in the past about how much balance sheet capacity you guys thought you had to redeploy.
How much you think you have left with the Keys investment and because it is more merchant does that lower the amount more meaningfully than just the dollars going into the project? No Dan so we still have plenty of capacity when I think about – remember the slide we showed in March and we know we've talked about before we add capacity and multiple billions of dollars both at POWER and at parent parent mostly for regulated.
When I look at where we landed at the end of the second quarter actually similar to what we've talked about before Power ends with – does it cap at 31% FFO to debt number is well above our floor level.
So we didn't relax any standards here in doing the analysis for Keys.
We will be able to finance that on Power's balance sheet and that doesn't use it up right? So when we talk about those balance sheet capacities remember I've mentioned before that that's the most conservative way to look at them because we look at them assuming they don't start contributing any FFO back and when this goes in service it certainly will.
So when we looked that Keys we didn't look at it from the perspective of well if we do Keys we can't do anything else.
We looked at it from the perspective of Keys is a really good project and by no means does it use up all of our balance sheet capacity.
So we can still continue to look at new opportunities for Power as well.
So I feel really comfortable that it's one balance sheet deployment but it's not the only one we'll be able to do in either businesses.
So this wouldn't preclude the HEDD upgrades or something else then? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
No no not at all.
We'll not preclude other things that we may be considering not at all.
Okay.
Well Caroline I trust we'll have you on the third quarter earnings call so I won't say goodbye yet.
And thank you guys.
Thanks Dan.
Next question.
The next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Julien.
So perhaps to follow-up on investment opportunities here.
I'd be curious to – obviously we're moving forward or PJM is moving forward with Artificial Island at this point.
I'd be curious to get your prospective on the future of FERC 1000 or FERC 1000-like investments in PJM.
And specifically within that your views on the use of cost caps and just other mechanisms to be more "competitive " I suppose to what extent do you anticipate yourself and others continue to leverage those kinds of mechanisms to win as we saw with the Artificial Island example and to what extent do you see that as impeding your ability or enhancing your ability to win et cetera.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So it's interesting that I believe that PJM published an announcement that said that the identification of this project preceded the creation of Order 1000.
So PJM did not feel obligated to achieve the strict terms of the tariff on Order 1000 which is a point that may be we would beg to differ on.
Look Julien there is way to make this process look pretty.
This was a painful process and I would like to chalk it up to the growing pains associated with Order 1000.
My concern and I've expressed this to FERC and to PJM is that we may be heading for a ubiquitous dumbing down of the transmission system as opposed to robust solutions that have advantages over the long term.
The cheapest solution in the short-term may not be the cheapest solutions of long term and I don't want to do get into a full-fledged debate over how you make comparisons across two projects.
I still believe based on everything that our engineering team has told us that not only did we have a more robust solution but we had a lower cost solution.
So this is going to be challenging.
I think efficient markets work when you have good information available to both suppliers and buyers and these are technically detailed painful reviews done by a handful of assessors on the basis of a fairly robust set of bidders.
It doesn't kind of lend itself to the transparency you see at the NYMEX on what's happening in gas markets.
So I don't mean to give a speech but it's showing some real challenges in terms of me having confidence that over the long term Order 1000 will yield a strong transmission system that won't be constantly second-guessed through a challenged – the quarters or more importantly over the long-term in the field as we head towards the least-cost solutions as opposed to the short-term least-cost solution.
Got it.
And the complement – to complement that last question a little bit PJM is talking about reducing their load forecast this cycle given some adjustments for efficiency and solar et cetera.
I'd be curious does that impact your – A your current spending plans with B your prospective plans when you are thinking about transmission and obviously you guys are on the both sides of power and the wires business.
What do you – how does that change your business at all if you can elaborate? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
So I think that PJM is still reviewing its re-forecasted load growth.
And of course load growth is an important consideration in how one designs your delivery system.
But don't underestimate this significant role played by the location of load and the location of supply in having to design the transmission system.
I would contend although I couldn't prove it to you in this call that the reason why we've had such a strong need for transmission deployment is the fact that we no longer have an integrated system where utility planners go from generation all the way to the meter and PJM has had to respond to changes in supply both in terms of unexpected retirements and unexpected injection of new supply.
And that results in the need for an even more robust transmission system and one that you can plan from generation to user.
Now for Power we had nearly all of this forecast in our fundamental model – or fundamental model already.
So when we looked at something like Keys and when we looked at whatever else we might be bidding into RPM we do scenario analysis that includes diminished demand as well as more robust growth.
But well one way of saying it it's not a single variable model it's not just what's the demand it's – where is the load where is the supply and what's happening to the infrastructure that connects all the above.
Excellent.
Well thank you.
Thanks Julien.
Next question.
Your next question is from Travis Miller with Morningstar Inc.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Travis.
Ralph just a follow-up on that the transmission discussion.
When you think about the investments you're making what's on the table how close do those investments get us to kind of next generation grid a grid where you can have distributable generation smart type of grid? Is that kind of what you're talking about there in terms of robustness and where we need to get to relative to the future? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I think it does get us a long way there Travis but I think of it more as building a set of highways so that no matter what happens on one highway you could switch over to another one and not get stuck in a traffic jam.
Other people though I think talk about the future grid as being a more flexible grid so that you don't have to build big highways and you could just direct traffic flows along the back roads intelligently so that nothing gets clogged.
And that's probably not the best analogy.
But I think the Internet of Things is what people speak about in terms of the ability to move power more flexibly.
I'm not a big believer in that being an eventual outcome because of the connectivity that you need at the last mile so to speak.
And I'm more of a believer in the types of things that PJM is advocating which is – look the backhaul has to be robust so that people can get on and off people in the form of power plants can get on and off that backhaul system.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's a central station dispatch model on a robust high voltage system that I think is ultimately one that will be economically more efficient.
Sure.
Okay.
And then more specifically on PSEG Power in the quarter that re-contracting lower cost to serve how one-time type of stuff is that? I'm guessing a lot of that was spark spread versus the BGS but the re-contracting part what are you seeing on that part? Sure Travis.
This is Caroline.
So yes remember that when we talk about re-contracting as well as lower cost to serve we give you that hedging data right so we give you all the details on our hedging data.
And as I just said we've moved up our hedges a little bit and the prices are basically the same as where we are.
So the hedges prove to be very valuable on a year-over-year basis.
I remember last year at about this time we talked about the fact that we had taken advantage of some better pricing last year to put on some incremental hedges.
Now hedging doesn't last forever but when we see those opportunities we've layered on hedges as to beneficial prices and so re-contracting that's kind of what that benefit is about.
The lower cost to serve obviously there is lower cost to serve in terms of the wholesale market prices but also as I mentioned in my remarks $0.02 of that is our Leidy gas access.
So having that access to Leidy gas after the customers and PSE&amp;G have the first call in that access that contributed $0.02 of share in this quarter and you remember that's contributed pennies each quarters of the key quarters in the summer particularly and for each of the last two years.
Now that benefit is one that we've never said we expect to continue in perpetuity.
But if you look at the delta of Leidy gas cost relative to Henry Hub you'll still see benefit.
And because we have that access that's what gives us part of our lower cost to serve is that Leidy access.
And as I mentioned we have higher spark spreads.
We've talked about this last year in the summer as well as starting in 2013 summer that our spark spreads for our access to that low cost gas tended to be about 30% or more higher than the sparks seen in the overall market.
So some of the things are a hedge position some things are a little more structural but together we think they give us a nice position with a combined cycle fleet obviously that operates very well.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks so much and congratulations on the work that you've done while you're at PG – PSE&amp;G.
Thank you Travis.
Next question? The next question is from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes good morning and my congratulations to Caroline.
And thank you for all your help.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> But just firstly could we get – maybe get an update on the gas main replacement program case? If I'm not wrong the first round of settlement talks which have happened in July; didn't seem there was a whole lot of opposition in the hearings.
So any updated thoughts on when we might see that come to a head? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Jonathan.
Thanks for your question.
As you know settlement discussions are confidential so we can't give you a lot of detail.
It's encouraging though that we've had them.
And our hope really is that by year-end or at the very latest early in 2016 we would have this resolved.
As you correctly noted it's something that the state recognizes needs to be done.
The interventions in the case are not many nor has there been any surprises.
And I think lowering the supply tariff from $0.45 to $0.40 in October just once again points out the wisdom of doing this now.
So as I mentioned – as we've done visits with folks I think that the debate and the arm-wrestling will be around the length of the program and the size but we went out of our way to file conditions that were identical to what was approved at Energy Strong and that was approved only 14 months ago.
Interest rates are exactly where they were then and return expectations are exactly where they were then.
So right now my number one nemesis is summer vacation schedules.
So we'll – I think we have a couple more settlement dates that are on the calendar for the fall and we're well on our way to spending the $250 million for gas that was in Energy Strong that goes through early 2016.
So we wouldn't be able – even if we had an agreement today we wouldn't be able to add a bunch of new work in the next couple of weeks anyway.
Inc.</span></strong> Is there – do you see a path a route that – where it might wrap up before these fall dates or is that unlikely? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No that's possible I wouldn't want to bet anything that I hold near and dear to my heart on that.
What we really want to do is make sure we get this done well in advance of running out of the Energy Strong money so we don't have to demobilize the contractor workforce so we don't put pencils down on the engineering.
So we just have a continuous flow and so if we got it done in the fall that would certainly assure that.
If we get it done by the end of the year we should be able to do that.
If it gets done early in 2016 then we create a bunch of inefficiencies that the customers end up paying for which we'd rather avoid.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then one other topic just strategically you've always been of the view that the retail business is not somewhere you want to be.
But we did notice one of your merchant power peers who have been of a similar view is evolving somewhat in that direction this quarter and citing poor liquidity in the forecast.
I was just wondering whether you're seeing similar challenges in terms of hedging and whether there might be any change of thought on your part on the same? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I don't want to send off shockwaves in a third quarter call I'm not a big fan of retail but my short answer to your question is a qualified yes.
I do think that given challenges in hedging and matching those hedges with asset locations and some of the basis challenges one has seen (44:34) the effectiveness of hedges has to be taken into consideration in terms of whether or not some consideration has to be given to that.
So I don't know the details behind what Calpine did but I can certainly understand why they would think of that given the diminishing liquidity and the effectiveness of hedges in terms of where the consumption is and where the supply is and where one hedges relative to those two.
So – but again please don't interpret this to expect any announcement in the next few days that PSEG is launching into the retail business but it is something we are looking at now.
Inc.</span></strong> That you're at least exploring some options on that front there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And mostly – absolutely from a defensive posture about how do we maximize the effectiveness of our Power business as opposed to retail being a new growth strategy or anything of that sort.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that makes it.
Thank you.
Next question? The next question is from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
Congrats and Caroline congrats on your announcement.
Thank you Michael.
One question on CP.
Everybody – most people have been pretty bullish in terms of what the impact of CP would be.
From a contrarian standpoint what's the bear case? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I have no idea.
I'm sorry Michael.
Caroline and I are looking at each other and like no you take it.
No I don't – so well I guess I will default to our usual we don't forecast bullish or bearish prices.
I guess the good news is today is July 31 and in 21 days we'll know the outcome.
But I don't mean to be flip I mean the bear case would be massive injection of new supply with an economy growing at 2.3% demand growing at fractions of that.
You'd have to be pretty undisciplined to inject a whole bunch of new supply but I guess that would be the bear case (46:49).
Maybe there is a bear case if you are just a single asset but we're a fleet right? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right right.
So it feels like this is a good product from our perspective.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah that would be more of a bear outcome in terms of penalties that you may incur...
Right right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If you didn't perform right.
How do you think about – I means lots of people talk about the potential higher bid price because lots of assets – or portfolios have kept kind of "embed" the risk of having penalties into their bid price.
How about the folks like you guys who have really well performing assets? How do you think about what the potential for rewards are? If you're on the other side I mean this is going to be a balancing or settling type market just like New England.
How do you think about preparing for what potential rewards could be where you're not as focused on the penalty side but maybe you're also focused on the – hey what's my upside if I'm actually the better performing units in the market and able to deliver more megawatts than what I cleared.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So that happens in two ways Michael.
We do think about that a lot and think about what it means for us.
One is I set a UCAP of 90% of what my ICAP is and I get the other 10% out of that particular unit which successfully clear the auction.
That's candidly an asymmetric risk-reward relationship right because the downside is the 90% that's strung out for you upside is the 10% of overall performance.
But for somebody like us the more significant upside is in the units that don't clear and their availability to backstop in the event that somebody else underperforms within the LDA.
So we never clear 100% of our units.
And when we look at our nuclear plants they have a very low forced outage rate our combined cycle are slightly higher but still quite low and our LM6000s – our peaking units are also very low forced outage.
And so we'll make some incremental investments in some of the units that don't have the same type of operating profile but I think really for us we have not only that sort of even better performance than in the past but probably more important is the fact that we have a bunch of units that don't clear the auction.
Some of them with high forced outage rates but will be great insurance policies going forward.
Got it.
Thank you Ralph and Caroline much appreciated.
Thank you.
Next question? Your next question is from Ashar Khan with Visium (49:32).
Please proceed with your question.
I'm sorry my questions have been answered.
Thank you.
Thank you Ashar.
(49:43) Next question? Mr.
Izzo Ms.
Dorsa there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Thank you Brandy.
So we tried to do a count – I think this is Caroline's 26th call.
I've teamed up with her on 25 there was an August vacation I couldn't change if I remember correctly.
She is going to tire of hearing me say these things I'm not going to tire of saying these things and I'm going to do them for every one of the different audiences that we somehow manage to find ourselves in front of.
I know you've all met Caroline and have been impressed by what she has done for us as a company.
I can only tell you that no matter how high your opinion is of her you probably only know a fraction of what she's done for us as a company and what she's done for me as the leader of this company.
Her presentation – preparation for these calls is just the tip of the iceberg.
Her discipline day in and day out her knowledge of the business her knowledge of financial markets and while all of that isn't superstar category all of that pales in comparison to just what a pleasure she is to work with.
(50:58) from the times when we've travelled around that people think that we actually like each other but we really do like each other and I can remember the earliest days of those visits and in these calls she would say Ralph you focus on the strategic issues I'll answer the factual questions which was her delightfully professional way of saying Ralph you'll get it wrong (51:19).
So Caroline I can't say thank you enough for our shareholders for our investors and for me and I know I have many opportunities to repeat that in front of employees in front of customers and various other folks.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> So thank you and thank you for all you've done.
With that we'll wrap up the call.
Hope for a hot sticky humid weather for the balance of this summer and we'll see you I'm sure at various conferences.
Thank you all for joining us today.
Thank you Brandy.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect and thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Kelly and I'm your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference Public Service Enterprise Group Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Friday October 30 2015 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 1 PM Eastern time today until 11:30 p.m.
Eastern time on November 6 2015.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.PSEG.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kelly.
Good morning.
Thank you all for participating in our earnings call this morning.
As you are aware we released third quarter 2015 earnings statements earlier today.
As mentioned the release and attachments are posted on our website at www.PSEG.com under the investor section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by Company for the quarter.
Our 10-Q for the period ended September 30 2015 is expected to be filed shortly.
As the earnings release and other matters that we discuss in today's call contain forward looking statements and estimates that are subject to various risks and uncertainties and although we may elect to update those forward looking statements from time-to-time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimate changes unless of course we are required to do so.
Our release also contains adjusted non-GAAP operating earnings.
Please refer to today's 8-K or other filings for a discussion of the factors that may cause results to differ from management's projections forecasts and expectations and for a reconciliation of operating earnings to GAAP results.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Group and also joining Ralph on the call today is Dan Creeg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions and we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow up to give everyone an opportunity to join us on the call.
Thank you.
Thanks Kathleen and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Earlier this morning we reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2015 of $0.80 per share that's a 4% improvement over the $0.77 earned in 2014's third quarter.
The results for the third quarter bring PSEG's operating earnings for the nine months ended September to $2.41 per share which represents a 6% increase over the $2.27 per share earned during the first nine months of last year.
Slides 4 and 5 contain the detail on the results for the third quarter and for the nine months.
We delivered solid earnings in the third quarter and year-to-date and we made excellent progress on our objectives for growing our business.
PSE&amp;G continues to deliver on the earnings promise of its expanded capital program and PSEG Power achieved solid operational and financial results driven by improved performance from its nuclear and combined cycle fleet.
During the quarter PSE&amp;G recent agreement with the staff of the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities and the New Jersey Division of Rate Council that provided for PSE&amp;G to invest $905 million over a three year period beginning next year to replace aging cast iron gas mains.
Approval by the BPU later this year will allow PSE&amp;G to continue the work begun under Energy Strong supporting a clean safe and reliable gas system well into the future.
This agreement follows upon BPU's support earlier this year for a $95 million expansion of PSE&amp;G's investment in energy efficiency programs.
PSE&amp;G's focus on improving the resiliency of the grid and increasing operational efficiency has translated once again into PSE&amp;G being recognized as the most reliable utility in the Mid Atlantic region for the 14th consecutive year.
PSE&amp;G's responsiveness was also recognized with receipt of the outstanding outage response time award for restoring customers 30% faster than any other large investor owned utility.
This is by no means the end of the infrastructure and replacement needs for PSE&amp;G and its customers.
Turning to PSEG Power.
It is increasing its investment in clean efficient gas fired capacity.
Power cleared a new 540 megawatt combined cycle gas plant at the Sewaren station as part of PJM's reliability pricing model base residual auction.
The new unit represents an investment of about $625 million to $675 million.
The development of new capacity at Sewaren is in addition to Power's announced plans to construct and operate a new 755-megawatt combined cycle unit at the Keys Energy Center in Maryland for between $825 million and $875 million.
Both units are expected to achieve operational status in 2018.
PSEG Power's $1.5 billion investment will expand its gas-fired combined cycle capacity in its core PJM market to approximately 3 800 megawatts as Power's overall gas-fired combined cycle capacity which includes facilities in Bethlehem New York grows to represent 4600 megawatts.
PJM's capacity performance initiative under RPM provided the correct incentives for investment.
PSEG Power cleared approximately 8 700 megawatts at an average price of $215 per megawatt day.
Auction prices reflected the increased risk of nonperformance associated with the auction's new rules.
Power adjusted its bidding strategy to reflect this new reality with an emphasis on availability and reliability under capacity performance.
And we believe Power's fleet is well positioned to perform given its dispatch flexibility diverse fuel mix and anticipated improvement in efficiency.
The new paradigm underlying PJM's capacity market is one sign of a more constructive regulatory environment for wholesale generating assets.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's notice of proposed rule-making on energy price formation issued in September is further recognition that rule changes may be required to appropriately compensate generation for the true cost of operation.
Our total planned investment program covering PSE&amp;G and Power for the five-year period ending in 2019 has expanded by 20% since the start of the year and now totals $15.6 billion.
Our investments in PSE&amp;G are expected to improve the resilience of the grid as we replace aging equipment and meet customer needs for reliability.
Our investment programs are projected to result in annual double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G's rate base for the coming five-year period.
Our investment in PSEG Power should enhance our market position with improvements in the fleet's efficiency and reliability.
In a word we are executing well in a dynamic market.
Based on the strength of our results we are updating our guidance for 2015's operating earnings.
We've narrowed our range for guidance as we've increased the lower end.
For 2015 we are now forecasting operating earnings of $2.85 to $2.95 per share which is different from our prior $2.80 to $2.95 per share.
PSE&amp;G has grown to represent more than half of our operating earnings as Power continues to provide strong free cash flow.
We have maintained a disciplined approach to investing as our strong financial position supports growth without the need to issue equity.
We intend to utilize our financial strength to meet the high standards for reliability expected by our customers and enhance the returns required by our shareholders.
I'll now turn the call over to Dan to review our operating results in greater detail.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everybody.
I'll review our quarterly operating earnings as well as the outlook for full-year results by subsidiary company.
As Ralph noted PSEG reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2015 of $0.80 per share versus $0.70 per share in the third quarter of last year.
For the nine months ended September 30th we reported operating earnings of $2.41 per share versus $2.27 per share last year.
We provided you a waterfall chart on Slide 10 that takes you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings by major business and a similar chart on Slide 12 that provides you with the changes in operating earnings by each business on a year-to-date basis.
I'll now review each Company in more detail starting with PSE&amp;G.
As shown on Slide 14 the reported operating earnings for the third quarter of $0.44 per share compared with $0.39 per share a year ago.
PSE&amp;G's earnings in the third quarter reflect the benefit of warmer than normal weather and an increase in revenue associated with PSE&amp;G's expanded capital program.
The improvement in revenue more than offset a moderate increase in operating expenses.
Returns from PSE&amp;G's expanded investment in transmission added $0.03 per share to earnings in the quarter.
Weather conditions which were much warmer than normal and warmer than a year ago provided PSE&amp;G's earnings $0.02 improved PSE&amp;G's earnings by $0.02 per share.
Earnings comparisons also improved by $0.01 per share due to an increase in electric demand coupled with revenue recovery and infrastructure related investment programs.
And consistent with the first half of the year PSE&amp;G experienced an increase in pension expense resulting in a reduction in the quarter-over-quarter earnings of $0.01 per share.
Electric sales grew 7% during the third quarter as residential customers responded to temperatures which produced 38% higher temperature humidity index than levels experienced in the year-ago period and 19% higher than normal.
And on a weather-normalized basis electric sales advanced 8/10 of a percent in the quarter and 4/10 of a percent for the nine months ended September.
Growth for the nine-month period is in line with our long-term expectations for weather normalized electric sales growth.
As Ralph mentioned PSE&amp;G reached settlement in principal with the staff of the BPU and the New Jersey Division of Rate Council on the Company's gas system modernization program or GSMP.
The settlement provides for an investment of $905 million over a three year period beginning in 2016 and under the settlement we would invest $650 million in the program at a 975 return on equity with the remaining $255 million investment recovered as part of our next base rate case.
And you may recall that we agreed as part of our Energy Strong program to file a base rate case no later than November 1 2017.
PSE&amp;G with the addition of programs of proven pending has increased its investment program for the five year period ending in 2019 to $11.8 billion and this represents a 10% increase in PSE&amp;G's capital investment plans since the start of the year and should support estimated annual double digit growth in PSE&amp;G's rate base over this time frame.
PSE&amp;G has also filed an update of its formula rate for transmission at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The update supports PSE&amp;G's ability to earn its authorized return on an expanded capital base and would increase transmission revenues in 2016 by $146 million.
Remember PSE&amp;G's investment in transmission is expected to grow to about 50% of its rate base by the end of 2019 versus approximately 40% at the end of 2014.
We've increased our forecast of PSE&amp;G's operating earnings for 2015 given strong year-to-date results and are now forecasting operating earnings of $785 million to $805 million versus $760 million to $775 million previously.
Now turning to Power.
Power reported operating earnings for the third quarter of 2015 of $0.33 per share and adjusted EBITDA of $401 million and that's compared with operating earnings of $0.34 per share and adjusted EBITDA of $386 million for the third quarter of 2014.
Power's results for the quarter reflect the impact of strong hedging and increase in operation from the gas fired combined cycle fleet and an improvement in spark spreads which offset the effect of an expected decline in capacity prices.
Higher average prices on energy hedges coupled with reduction in the cost of supply more than offset the impact on earnings of lower wholesale market prices for energy and these items combine to increase Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons by $0.07 per share.
This improvement in margin in the quarter was partially offset by an expected decline in PJM's capacity revenues which reduce Power's quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.03 per share.
The reduction in capacity revenues reflects the retirement of 1800 megawatts of older inefficient peaking capacity that was no longer compliant with environmental requirements.
The average price received on PJM's capacity in the third quarter was in line with the year ago levels at $186 per megawatt day.
Increase in O&amp;M expense reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.03 per share.
This increase in operating expenses primarily reflects differences in timing of outages at PSEGs Power's nuclear facilities and is not an indicator of a higher embedded level of expenses.
Lastly the absence of prior year tax benefits reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.02 per share.
As Ralph mentioned in August PJM completed the RPM capacity auction for the 2018 2019 year.
More than 98% of Power's capacity that cleared the auction met the new capacity performance or CP standards.
The price Power will receive for capacity is expected to grow to $215 per megawatt day on average for the capacity year beginning June 1 2018 from the $168 per megawatt day for the current year.
On Slide 28 we have detail on the results of the latest capacity auction including the number of megawatts that cleared the auction as well as the average price Power expects to receive for its capacity.
Power cleared a new efficient combined cycle unit at Sewaren and plans to retire a similar amount of older inefficient steam units at that site.
With the results of the latest auction Power should see growth in its capacity revenues through 2018.
The generating fleet's operational flexibility continues to be demonstrated during this period of low energy pricing.
Improved performance from the nuclear fleet and increased production in the gas fired combined cycle fleet offset a decline in production at the coal fired stations.
Our nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 95% for the quarter producing 7.8 TWh of output representing 53% of total generation.
This also represents a 3% increase in output.
Performance of the nuclear facilities benefited from the absence of repair work at Salem 2 in 2014 and showed improvement year-over-year in spite of an early start to the refueling outage at Peach Bottom 3.
Production from the gas fired combined cycle fleet increased 7% to 5.4 TWh for the quarter representing 36% of total generation.
The fleet operated extremely well running at an average capacity factor of 73% during the quarter in response to market demand.
Output also benefited from the completion of capacity enhancement work at the Linden and Bergen stations which added 94 megawatts to the two stations over the past year.
Warmer than normal summer weather had a favorable impact on the dispatch of our peaking fleet as dispatch of our coal fired assets was affected by lower wholesale energy prices.
Wholesale market energy prices during the quarter continue to reflect a decline in the price of gas based on an overabundance of gas supply in the region strong production of gas from the Marcellus Basin coupled with insufficient takeaway pipeline capacity has not unexpectedly resulted in lower prices for gas.
Power's combined cycle fleet benefited from its access to low cost gas supply in the summer and enjoyed strong spark spreads as power prices held up better than the price of gas.
Power fleet is expected to produce energy at the lower end of its forecasted range of output for 2015 of 55 to 57 terawatt hours reflecting reduced expectations for output from our coal-fired stations.
This was slightly less than our prior forecast and would provide a nominal increase in output year-over-year.
Approximately 80% to 85% of anticipated production for the fourth quarter is hedged at an average price of $52 per megawatt hour.
Moving to 2016 Power has hedged 65% to 70% of its forecasted generation of 55 to 57 terawatt hours at an average price of $51 per megawatt hour.
For 2017 Power has hedged 35% to 40% of its forecasted generation of 55 to 57 terawatt hours at an average price of $49 per megawatt hour.
The percent of energy hedged in ‘16 and ‘17 is consistent with but at the lower end of the range for Power's prescribed ratable hedging policy.
And the forecast for ’16 and ’17 continues to assume that 11 to 12 terawatt hours of annual output are hedged at BGS prices.
Forecast range for Power's operating earnings for 2015 has been narrowed to $620 million to $650 million from the $620 million to $680 million prior range.
This forecast of operating earnings represents adjusted EBITDA for the full year in the range of $1 545 billion to $1 595 billion.
Now turning to enterprise and other where we reported operating earnings of $11 million or $0.03 per share for the third quarter of 2015 versus operating earnings of $22 million or $0.04 per share in the third quarter of 2014 and the decline in operating earnings reflects the absence of prior year tax benefits at Energy Holdings partially offset by lower expenses and higher interest income at the parent.
And the forecast for enterprise and other full-year earnings for 2015 remains $40 million to $50 million.
And lastly relating to financing PCG closed the quarter with $271 million of cash on its balance sheet with debt at the end of the quarter representing 41.5% of consolidated capital.
PCG's five-year capital program has increased to $15.6 billion with the announced agreements for PSE&amp;G and Power's plans to develop new capacity.
PSE&amp;G's capital program represents 75% of our planned capital expenditures with Power's capital program representing 25%.
Given our strong balance sheet and expectations for Power's free cash flow generation we're able to finance our capital requirements without the need to issue equity.
So as mentioned we are pleased to update our guidance for 2015's operating earnings to $2.85 to $2.95 per share and results in this range would represent the third year of growth in operating earnings.
And we're now ready for your questions.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session for members of the financial community [Operator Instructions].
Your first question will come from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Last quarter you were discussing potentially exploring the retail market and I was wondering if you had any update on that or any thoughts given the third quarter and what have you? Paul it's Ralph.
We did talk about it and we still are considering different options.
Again to the extent that we think about retail it's only in the context of the effectiveness of our hedges.
This is not an offensive play.
This is how do we make sure that assets that we own and operate in places like PS zone and in places like Eastern Mac and places like Bethlehem New York are effectively hedged when the liquid hub is at PJM west.
So it's really just about the effectiveness of hedging and how to make sure that we optimize that.
So one thing we did to make sure we hedge effectively by purchasing the Keys Energy Center.
That's not retail.
That's a way to get at managing basis differentials and effective hedges.
So we are still looking at it but nothing imminent to announce.
Okay.
And then on the re-contracting and low cost of service -- again a good quarter for that.
Given where you see things heading into 2016 any thoughts about how that -- how things look with respect to that? So that was definitely explicitly stated in Dan's point of you view right.
So we don't out guess the market.
We have a very clear set of guidelines that we give our trading organization in terms of how much they can hedge in terms of max and mins all based upon calculations of VaR and gross margin at risk and we allow them to use their judgment in terms of how market sentiment might be affecting near term prices that may be slightly out of whack with respect to fundamentals and we allow them to lean a little bit heavier in their hedging as they did last year which benefited us because prices did kind of come up pretty strong after last winter.
And as Dan pointed out right now we're a little bit lighter than we would typically be hedged in 2017 but still within our normal range not taking a strong point of view that the market has this all wrong but you can infer from that that we think maybe there's a little bit more bearishness in the market than is normally the case.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question will come from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Hi Travis.
Real quick one.
I want to clarify.
Do you guys expect the BPU to decide on that gas replacement program later this year is that right? We're told it's going to be on the November agenda.
November agenda.
Okay.
Great.
And then thinking more broadly here those plants that you retired what did you see during the summer in terms of how that capacity and ultimately energy at the peak levels was replaced? Were you guys picking up some of that? Were there other areas where you were seeing that replaced? Our Kearny peaking units did run during the summer.
We did have to run our Hudson unit on gas during the summer but Sewaren the units that we replaced did not run during the summer.
Okay.
So you're picking up that mostly with your other facilities is that? That's right.
We had some expansion in some of our combined cycle units which ran our LM6000s ran but the old steam units that sometimes in the past we had to turn on we did not have to turn on this year.
A little bit of the peaking units were up as well.
Coal units is where our volume was down.
Our peakers picked up some of that volume.
Okay.
More strategically how do you think now about enterprise and what you can do there when investments might go there just that segment in general? Well we see really two primary operating subsidiaries in power and in utility Travis.
The earnings that you see at enterprise really are borne out of some residual legacy leases on real estate that are very very small and of course LIPA which is on an exactly as planned trajectory of starting out at $0.03 going to $0.08 by 2017.
This year I think it's about $0.03 or $0.04.
Next year that will go up to $0.06 or $0.07 and then $0.07 or $0.08 two years after as per the contract.
There are no plans to put a lot up at the parent level in terms of new businesses.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Hey Ralph.
Thank you guys for taking my question.
I want to know if we should see what your investment in Power is for the next couple of years as a bit of a strategy shift or a bit of a view in the market? And the reason why I ask that is if I go back over the prior six or seven six or eight years a lot of what you've done in Power is actually more of the harvest mode.
Meaning once you finish the environmental CapEx on Hudson and Mercer a lot of what you had done at Power had either been divesting assets or realizing the significant cash flow the free cash flow that the remaining assets the large portfolio created.
We're now seeing a little bit of a shift and now you're becoming much more of an investor in new assets whether it's building on existing sites or buying development projects.
Is that a do you think the market has changed type of view or is there some other structural view that you're trying to express in utilizing the cash flow that way versus other potential methodologies either allocating it to the balance sheet or allocating it even more investment at E&amp;G? Just curious.
That's a very good question Michael.
We do get that from a lot of our investors so I thank you for giving us a chance to answer it.
It is definitely not a strategy shift.
We believe that both businesses are quite viable quite strong and need to be tended to in terms of their investment and growth opportunities.
I think if you look at a short enough period of time you could create whatever strategy you want to from a short enough period of time but if I just take you back over the last five years PSE&amp;G made up about 80% of the capital program versus Power being 20% and if I look ahead five years based on what I know today that 80/20 becomes 75/25 and it's no more than that.
So if you think about Power the last five years we spent $400 million operating nuclear units.
We spent a couple $100 million dollars on peakers.
We spent a couple $100 million dollars on advanced gas path upgrades.
So now we're not doing that.
Instead we're going to take an old steam unit that had 550 megawatts of capacity that there was no way it could survive in a CP future and said okay instead of just retiring that and leaving nothing there and losing the injection rights let's build a combined cycle unit because we like the way those numbers look.
Instead of upgrading instead of expanding we're going to build a natural gas combined cycle unit.
As I mentioned before when I was answering Paul's question there's some changes going on in basis.
We want to know how can we manage that better.
We saw a great opportunity handling that in the key investment.
At the same time we announced $1 billion in new utility investments between gas system maintenance modernization and energy efficiency and as we pointed out that program at $300 million a year run rate has 30 years to go.
We only got three years of approval.
So what we have is do very strong businesses both worthy of investment both which we look at where we can maximize the benefit for our customers and achieve the return expectations of our shareholders.
So really nothing has changed; absolutely understandable why people would ask the question.
If you just looked at a three-month window all the sudden you see wow Power's investing $1.6 billion and utility's investing $1 billion.
but I don't think you should look at narrow short windows like that.
One other question you talk about rate-based growth at the utilities meaning double-digit rate base growth.
Do you expect earnings growth to match rate base growth over time? So it will be close but it can't match it.
So the reason for that is quite simple.
I am so proud of our utility folks for controlling costs but even in the best of years you have labor escalation in our union contracts that are like 2.5%.
You just look at management wage growth of 2.5% 3% and then you look at load growth on a weather-normalized basis of 0.4% on the electric side and I think it's 0.8% on the gas side.
So you just do the arithmetic and the O&amp;M expense outstrips the growth in load.
So that bit of a drag peels away at some of the contemporaneous returns that you go get from the rate-based growth.
That's why these things don't match perfectly.
[Operator Instructions] You have a question from the line of Sophie Karp with Citigroup.
Thank you for taking my question.
I wanted to ask you about the nuclear economics as we continue to see very low gas environment obviously in the -- if this prevails do you see any meaningful change in the nuclear economics for your assets and does that change your view of their long-term strategy with respect to those assets? Sophie it's an excellent question.
Each of our units is over 1 000 megawatts.
I think if you look at both fixed and variable O&amp;M I don't know if we've published the operating cost of them but it is $37 a megawatt hour both fixed and variable.
If you look at nuclear fuel costs it's far far far less than that.
So given our capacity prices given our variable O&amp;M costs our units are absolutely fine.
They'd be a lot finer if gas was at $8 and $10 an MMBtu.
But as you well know some of the challenges other units have had is number one their size in terms of their ability to spread their fixed cost and number two some of the distortions that are created by the production tax credit in particular from wind farms.
That's not to minimize the competitive pressures associated with natural gas but what we're seeing is margin compression and we're nowhere near a point operating at anything but positive margins for those units.
I think there will be a period I don't know how long that will be of competitive pressure on them but eventually there's going to be a price on carbon.
I don't know if that's going to be under CPP or some other paradigm and these units will be able to ride through these a little bit more difficult times without any problem and then really benefit from that carbon regimen in the future.
My other question was about transmission investments.
Are you looking into any incremental transmission investment opportunities right now maybe through FERC order 1000 or any other transmission investments that are not currently in your plan or have not been contemplated previously? So I mean the FERC 1000 process has been around for a while and I guess I would say has been gaining traction for a while.
We've been through the most recent and first opportunity here within PJM and with Artificial Island.
So yes we are definitely involved in them.
I think a lot of the areas in the country are still formulating the best way to move into this new regimen so I would say that the prognosis for large investments in the very near term in that regard are probably less but I think over time it is still an area where we think we have the skills and expertise that we can bring to it and we think we can be very successful in that arena.
And Sophie it's important to realize that the $12 billion in the utilities prospective five-year capital program of which I think 60% or 70% is transmission.
None of that is subject to FERC order 1000 competition.
It's all stuff that doesn't meet the criteria for FERC 1000.
The exception as Dan just implied is the $120 million of Artificial Island project that we won that's included in that number.
Your next question will come from the line of Gregg Orrill with Barclays.
Ralph you've talked about having an excess balance sheet capacity of $2 billion to $3 billion against your FFO to debt targets.
Right.
And where does stock buyback stand in the way you're thinking of using that money? Has anything changed about your thinking? Sure thanks Gregg for the question.
So nothing has changed really.
We have this sort of three tiered prioritization on how to use the balance sheet.
Number one is reinvesting in the business and we've been public about the fact that we will bid Bridgeport Harbor combined cycle unit in the upcoming forward capacity market in New England in February.
I just mentioned a minute ago that the gas system needs $300 million per year and we have a three year program.
If you subtract three from five that means there's two years that are unfunded in the plan right now.
You may recall Gregg that we when we originally filed for Energy Strong goodness gracious two and half years ago we asked for $3.6 million as the first part of a five year program and we got $1.2 million approved and it was only put into a three year program so that's halfway done already.
And if you take 1.5 from 5 that means three and a half years of the five year program is unfunded so there's $1 billion plus in investment opportunity there.
So just looking at those three Bridgeport Harbor gas and Energy Strong you're looking at anywhere from $2.5 billion to $3 billion of investment opportunity that we've publicly discussed.
Second thing is look let's face it we know the utility's a steady grower but we know Power's in a commodity cyclical business and we know how important dividends are to our investors and we've been promising consistent growth in our dividend so we'd like to make sure that balance sheet has a little bit of an ability to absorb some of the ebbs and flows of the commodity markets so that's a second priority for us.
And then third but not one that we would never do but something that we talk about all the time if our cost of capital is a little out of whack because the balance sheet is a little too robust and the investment opportunities are kind of far off then let's think about share repurchase as a way to get that cost of capital back in line.
So that really hasn't changed at all in terms of the three tier prioritization but perhaps a little more color on the details.
Mr.
Izzo Mr.
Creeg there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue with your presentation or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
So look I hope your take away is the same as the message we were trying to deliver which is the Company is in great shape.
Our fleet of plants our nuclear units our combined cycle units are running well.
The utility is hitting all of its growth targets as it executes its capital program and the balance sheet remains very healthy.
So we hope that you all come out to meet Dan if you haven't met him just yet.
He stepped right in and fabulous job for us and we'll see you in Florida in two weeks.
Thanks everyone.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect and thank you for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My name is Brent and I'm your event operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to today's conference Public Service Enterprise Group’s Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Friday February 19 2016 and will be available for telephone replay beginning at 2 o’ clock PM Eastern today until 11:30 PM Eastern on February 26 2016.
It will also be available as an audio webcast on PSEG's corporate website at www.pseg.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathleen Lally.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for participating in our earnings call this morning.
As you are aware we released fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings results earlier this morning.
The release and attachments as mentioned are posted on our website www.pseg.com under the Investors section.
We also posted a series of slides that detail operating results by company for the quarter.
Our 10-K for the period ended December 31 2015 is expected to be filed shortly.
I won’t go through the full disclaimer statement or the comments we have on the difference between operating earnings and GAAP results but I do ask that you all read those comments contained in our slides and on our website.
The disclaimer statement regards forward-looking statements detailing the number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements made therein.
And although we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time-to-time we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change unless of course required by applicable securities laws.
We also provide commentary with regard to the difference between operating earnings and net income reported in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States.
PSEG believes that the non-GAAP financial measure of operating earnings provides a consistent and comparable measure of performance to help shareholders understand trends.
I’m now going to turn the call over to Ralph Izzo Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Service Enterprise Group and joining Ralph on the call is Dan Creeg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of their remarks there will be time for your questions.
Given the interest in the call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
Thank you.
Thank you Kathleen and thanks everyone for joining us today.
This morning we reported operating earnings for the full year 2015 and I’m pleased to report that it was a year of significant accomplishments.
As you saw this morning we reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $0.50 per share versus $0.49 per share earned in the fourth quarter of 2014 despite the unseasonably mild weather this past December.
Results for the full year were $2.91 per share or 5% greater than 2014’s operating earnings of $2.76 per share.
This was at the upper half of our guidance of $2.85 to $2.95 per share and it was also higher than the midpoint of our original guidance of $2.85 per share.
Our results reflect the benefits of excellent performance and robust organic growth which offset the impact of low energy prices on earnings.
We’ve continued to successfully deploy our strong free cash flow into customer oriented investment programs that have supported growth.
2015’s operating earnings represented a third year of growth in earnings.
Now let me just mention a few of the year’s highlights.
PSE&amp;G was named Electric Light &amp; Power’s Utility of the Year and was named the most reliable utility in the mid-Atlantic for the 14th consecutive year.
But we’re not resting on those laurels.
PSE&amp;G invested approximately $2.7 billion during 2015 on programs to further enhance the system’s resiliency and its reliability.
During the year PSE&amp;G placed into service key backbone transmission lines such as the Susquehanna-Roseland line as well as the Mickleton-Gloucester-Camden line which are designed to meet the needs of customers today and well into the future.
PSE&amp;G invested over $550 million on programs under its $1.2 billion Energy Strong initiative.
These programs are designed to strengthen and protect the electric and gas distribution system from the impacts of extreme weather.
During the year PSE&amp;G also received approval from the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities to invest an additional $95 million in its award winning energy efficiency programs and to continue the work begun under Energy Strong replacing aging cast iron natural gas pipes.
The $905 million gas system modernization program represents the 14th multi-year investment program approved by the BPU since PSE&amp;G’s last base rate case and this speaks to the state’s support of infrastructure investment that meets the needs of customers.
PSE&amp;G’s investment program supportive revenue recovery mechanisms and tight control of O&amp;M expenses have provided growth in PSE&amp;G’s operating earnings of approximately 13% per year for the five year period ended 2015.
During this period PSE&amp;G’s rate base expanded at a rate of 11% per year and importantly we’ve been able to support this growth as customer builds have declined.
But 2015 was not just a year of PSE&amp;G accomplishments.
PSEG Power’s strong operating performance supported earnings in line with guidance for the full year despite very difficult market conditions.
The nuclear fleet operated at a capacity factor of greater than 90% for the year and accounted for 54% of the fleet’s output.
Power’s gas fired combustion turbine fleet set a new record for output.
This improves on the prior record established in 2014.
The fleet’s performance is benefiting from investments that have improved its efficiency increased its capacity and provided greater access to low cost gas supply.
The flexibility and diversity of Power’s fleet have allowed us to provide approximately $500 million of positive free cash flow in 2015 even during soft energy market conditions.
Power also plans to invest $2 billion over the next 3 to 4 years to add approximately 1 800 megawatts of new efficient combined cycle gas fired turbine capacity.
The Keys Energy station which is located in Southwestern MAAC will extend Power’s footprint in this core PJM market a new efficient unit at the Sewaren station in New Jersey will replace old inefficient steam capacity.
And after clearing the most recent capacity auction in New England Power will construct a new 485 megawatt combined cycle unit at its existing Bridgeport Harbor station site giving us an enviable and growing position in both energy and capacity markets in Southwestern Connecticut.
The addition of these units will transform Power’s generation mix as its ownership of efficient reliable gas-fired capacity will grow to exceed 5 000 megawatts in 2019.
At that time the combined cycle gas turbine fleet will surpass the size of Power’s ownership in nuclear capacity and secure Power’s position as a low cost generator with modern flexible clean assets that remain capable of meeting the demands for reliability in today’s markets.
Power also grew its investment in contracted solar energy.
In 2015 Power added two projects representing an investment of approximately $75 million in utility scale grid connected solar energy.
And earlier this year Power announced that it will invest an additional $150 million in three projects that bring its portfolio of solar projects to 240 megawatts DC of clean renewable energy.
All projects in this portfolio are under long-term contracts with credit worthy customers.
So as you can see we continue to explore opportunities to expand and optimize Power’s fleet although I will add that we do not see any new generation build in the foreseeable future although you never say never but we don’t plan any at this point in time.
Our balance sheet continues to provide us with a competitive advantage to finance our capital programs without the need to access the equity markets.
We ended 2015 with strong credit metrics and the extension of bonus depreciation through 2019 is expected to provide enterprise with an additional $1.7 billion of cash during this period.
Our investment program calls for a 21% increase in capital spending to $11.5 billion for the three years ended 2018 from capital invested during the three year period ended 2015.
Approximately 72% of that amount or 8.3 billion over this timeframe will be invested by PSE&amp;G on transmission and distribution infrastructure programs that customers will require for reliability.
This level of investment is expected to yield growth in PSE&amp;G’s rate base for the three years ended 2018 of 10% per year even after taking into account the impact of bonus depreciation on rate base.
The remaining approximate 27% or $3.2 billion of expected capital investments will be made at Power.
The majority of Power’s investments will be devoted to expanding its position in new efficient clean gas-fired generating capacity as I mentioned already all of which Keys Sewaren and Bridgeport Harbor are expected to exceed our long standing and unchanged financial returns expectations.
With our strong balance sheet we remain in a position to increase our capital investment across the company.
We have a robust pipeline of opportunities and plan on providing you with an update of our 5-year outlook for capital spending at our annual financial conference on March 11.
In total the investment programs at PSE&amp;G and Power are focused on meeting customer needs and market requirements with an energy platform that is reliable efficient and clean.
The strategy we implemented has yielded growth for our shareholders as we have met the needs of our customers.
The continued successful deployment of strong free cash flow into customer oriented regulated investment programs is expected to support 14% growth in utility’s earnings to 60% of enterprise’s 2016 operating earnings as the results for the full year are forecast at $2.80 to $3 per share.
Our guidance for 2016 takes into account the impact on demand from the continuation of unseasonably mild weather conditions in January and early February.
The Board of Directors’ recent decision to increase the common dividend by 5.1% to the indicative annual level of $1.64 per share is an expression of our confidence in our outlook the continued growth of our regulated business and an acknowledgement of our strong financial position.
We see the potential for consistent and sustainable growth from the dividend as an important means of returning cash to our shareholders.
Of course none of our success would be possible without the contribution made by PSEG’s dedicated workforce.
I look forward to discussing our investment outlook in greater detail with you at our March 11 annual financial conference.
But for now I’ll turn the call over to Dan for more details on our operating results and we’ll be available to answer your questions after his remarks.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
As Ralph said PSEG reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $0.50 per share versus $0.49 per share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our earnings in the quarter brought operating earnings for the full year to $2.91 per share or 5.4% greater than 2014’s operating earnings of $2.76 per share and at the upper half of our guidance of $2.85 to $2.95 per share.
And on slide 4 we provide you with a reconciliation of operating earnings to net income for the quarter.
We’ve also provided you with information on slide 10 regarding the contribution to operating earnings by business for the quarter and slides 11 and 13 contain waterfall charts that take you through the net changes in quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year changes in operating earnings by major business and I’ll review each company in more detail starting with PSE&amp;G.
PSE&amp;G reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of 2015 of $0.31 per share compared to $0.32 per share for the fourth quarter of 2014 and that’s shown on slide 15.
PSE&amp;G’s full year 2015 operating earnings were $787 million or $1.55 per share compared with operating earnings of $725 million or $1.43 per share for 2014 reflecting a growth of 8.6%.
PSE&amp;G’s earnings for the fourth quarter benefited from a return on its expanded capital program which partially offset the impact of earnings from unseasonably mild weather conditions and an increase in operating expenses.
PSE&amp;G’s return on an expanded investment and transmission and distribution programs increased quarter-over-quarter earnings by $0.03 per share.
Mild weather conditions relative to normal and relative to last year reduced electric sales and lowered earnings comparisons by a penny per share.
Recovery of gas revenue under the weather normalization clause offset the impact on earnings of the abnormally warm weather on sales of gas.
And higher expenses including pension and other items reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons by $0.03 per share.
Economic conditions in the service area continued to improve.
On a weather normalized basis gas deliveries are estimated to have increased 2.1% in the quarter and 2.2% for the year.
Demand continues to benefit from an improving economy and also from the impact of lower commodity prices on customer’s bills.
Electric sales on a weather normalized basis are estimated to have increased by 0.8% and 0.5% for the fourth quarter and for the year respectively.
The estimated year-over-year growth on electric sales is more representative of our long term expectations for growth.
PSE&amp;G implemented a $146 million increase in transmission revenue under the company’s transmission formula rate for 2016 on January 1.
PSE&amp;G’s investment in transmission grew to $5.7 billion at the end of 2015 or 43% of the company's consolidated rate base of $13.4 billion at year end.
As you know transmission revenues are adjusted each year to reflect an update of data that was estimated in the transmission formula rate filing.
The adjustment for 2016 which we will file in mid-2017 will include the impact of the extension of bonus depreciation which was executed after our transmission formula rate filing.
This adjustment will reduce transmission revenue as filed by about $27 million.
But we will accrue that for accounting purposes in anticipation of the reduction in revenue as we report our 2016 results.
We are forecasting growth in PSE&amp;G’s operating earnings for 2016 to a range of $875 million to $925 million.
And forecast reflects the benefits of continued growth in PSE&amp;G’s rate base and a decline in pension expense.
Turning to Power as shown on slide 19 Power reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter of $0.19 per share compared to $0.18 per share a year ago.
Results for the quarter brought Power’s full-year operating earnings to $653 million or $1.29 per share compared to 2014’s operating earnings of $642 million or $1.27 per share.
Power’s adjusted EBITDA for the quarter in the year amounted to $235 million and $1.563 million respectively which compares to adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2014 of $271 million and adjusted EBITDA for the full year of 2014 of $1.588 million.
The earnings release as well as the earnings slides on pages 11 and 13 provide you with a detailed analysis of the impact on Power’s operating earnings quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year from changes in revenue and cost and we have also provided more detail on generation for the quarter and for the year on slides 21 and 22.
Power’s operating earnings in the fourth quarter reflect the impact of strong hedging and tight control on operating expenses which offset an anticipated decline in capacity revenue and the impact of unseasonably warm weather on wholesale energy prices.
The decline in capacity revenues associated with the May 2015 retirement of High Electric Demand Day or HEDD peaking capacity in PJM reduced quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons by $0.04 per share.
An increase in the average price received on energy hedges coupled with the decline in fuel costs more than offset the impact on earnings from a reduction in gas sales.
And these two items together netted to a quarter-over-quarter improvement in earnings of $0.02 per share.
Power’s O&amp;M expense for the quarter was unchanged relative to year ago levels.
An increase in depreciation expense and other miscellaneous items was more than offset by the absence of a charge in the year ago quarter resulting in a net improvement in quarterly earnings comparisons of $0.03 per share.
Turning to Power’s operations Power’s outputs during the quarter was in line with the year ago levels.
For the year output increased 2% to 55.2 terawatt hours and the level of production achieved by the fleet in 2015 represented the second highest level of output in the fleet’s history as a merchant generator.
Growth was supported by improvements in the fleet’s availability and efficiency.
The nuclear fleet operated at an average capacity factor of 90.4% for the year producing 30 terawatt hours or 54% of total generation.
Efficient commodity cycle gas turbine capacity was rewarded in the market with an increase in dispatch levels.
And Power’s DCG fleet set a generation record during the year at each of the Lyndon Station and Bethlehem Energy Center set individual records.
Output from the commodity cycle fleet grew 11% to $18.4 terawatt hours or 33% of total output during the year.
Power market demand for our coal units reduced output from those stations to 5.8 terawatt hours in the year or 11% of output.
And lastly the fleet’s peaking capacity produced just under 1 terawatt hours or 2% of output for the year.
Power’s gas-fired commodity cycle fleet continuous to benefit from its access to lower priced gas supplies in the Marcellus region and for the year gas from the Marcellus supplied 75% of the fuel requirements for the PJM gas-fired assets.
This supply [indiscernible] and implied by market pricing and allowed Power to enjoy fuel cost savings in the fourth quarter similar to the levels that enjoyed in the year-ago quarter despite weak energy prices.
And for the full year Power enjoyed positive spreads relative to the market.
The year-over-year realized spot spreads in 2015 were lower than what was realized in 2014 given the decline in energy prices.
Overall Power’s gross margin improved slightly to $38.83 per megawatt hour in fourth quarter versus $37.40 per megawatt hour in year ago and for the year Power’s gross margin amounted to $42.25 per megawatt hour versus the $42.41 per megawatt hour last year.
And slide 24 provides detail on Power’s gross margins for the quarter and for the year.
Power is expecting output for 2016 to remain unchanged at 54 to 56 terawatt hours.
Following the completion of the basic generation service or BGS auction in New Jersey earlier this month Power has 100% of its 2016 base load generation hedged.
Approximately 70% to 75% of Power’s anticipated total production is hedged on an average price of $51 per megawatt hour and Power has hedged approximately 45% to 55% of its forecast generation in 2017 of 54 to 56 terawatt hours at an average price of $50 per megawatt hour.
Looking forward to 2018 Power’s forecasting improvement in output to 59 to 61 terawatt hours with the commercial startup in mid-2018 of Keys and Sewaren stations that Ralph mentioned earlier.
Approximately 15% to 20% of 2018’s output is hedged at an average price of $54 per megawatt hour and Power assumes BGS volumes will continue to represent approximately 11 to 12 terawatt hours of deliveries and this number is very consistent with the 11.5 terawatt hours of deliveries we saw in 2015 under the BGS contracts.
Our average hedge position at this point in time represents a slightly smaller percentage of output hedged versus what you saw a year ago and at that time Power was able to take advantage of market prices influenced by the colder-than-normal weather conditions of last winter.
Average hedge pricing includes the impact of recently concluded DGS auction and the auction for the three-year period beginning in June 1 2016 ending May 31 2019 was priced at $96.38 per megawatt hour in the PS zone.
This contract for one-third of the load will replace in 2013 contract for $92.18 per megawatt hour which expires on May 31 2016.
And we do remind you from time to time that the items included in the average hedge price which influenced Power’s revenue but don’t support Power’s gross margin.
Our average hedge price for 2016 of $51 per megawatt hour reflects an increase in the cost of elements such as transmission and renewables associated with serving our full requirements hedge obligations.
And based on our current hedge position for 2016 each $2 change in spot spreads would impact earnings by about $0.04 per share.
Power’s operating earnings for 2016 are forecasted at a range of $490 million to $540 million.
That forecast includes an adjusted EBIT DA of $1.320 million to $1.4 billion.
Forecast reflects a year-over-year decline in capacity revenues associated with the May 2015 retirement of the HEDD peaking capacity.
Operating earnings for the year will also be influenced by the re-contracting of hedges at lower average price and a decline in gas sales.
And most of the decline in Power's operating earnings forecast for the full year 2016 is expected to be experienced in the early part of 2016.
With respect to our enterprise and other we reported operating earnings in the fourth quarter of $4 million which compares to a loss in operating earnings of 44 million or $0.01 per share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
And results for the quarter brought full year 2015 operating earnings to $36 million or $0.07 per share compared with 2014’s operating earnings of $33 million or $0.06 per share.
The difference in quarter-over-quarter operating earnings reflects the absence of prior year tax adjustments as well as other parent related expenses in 2015.
For the year PSEG Long Island’s earnings contributions of $0.02 per share was in line with expectation.
And looking forward to 2016 operating earnings for PSEG Enterprise and Other are forecasted at $16 million.
Next I want to provide an update on our pension.
At the beginning of 2016 PSEG has elected to measure service and interest costs for pension and other postretirement benefits by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve to the plants liability cash flows rather than the prior use of a single weighted average rate.
We believe the new approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by aligning the timing of the plant’s liability cash flows to the corresponding spot rates on the yield curve.
The change does not affect the measurement of the plant obligations and we estimate this change will reduce 2016 pension and OPEB expense by approximately $34 million and $13 million respectively net of amounts capitalized from what would have been without this change.
On a year-over-year basis the pension expense is expected to decline pension and OPEB expense is expected to decline by $25 million from 2015’s level of expense.
We ended 2015 with 91% of our pension obligations funded and minimum need for cash funding of obligations over the next several years.
With respect to financial condition it remained strong.
We closed 2015 with $394 million of cash on hand and debt representing 43% of our consolidated capital position and debt at Power representing 27% of our capital base.
PSEG’s capital program for the three years ended 2018 is currently expected to approximate $11.5 billion.
This represents a 21% increase over the level of capital invested over the prior three year period as PSE&amp;G and Power focused on modernizing their infrastructure to meet the needs of today's marketplace.
We have ample capacity to finance our current capital program.
In addition we estimate that the change in bonus depreciation as Ralph mentioned will provide an additional $1.7 billion of cash through 2019 with most of this cash received over the three year’s ending 2018.
And of this amount $1.2 billion of the cash will be at PSE&amp;G and $500 million will be at Power.
And as mentioned our forecast for double-digit growth in PSE&amp;G’s rate base through 2018 does take into account the impact of bonus depreciation on the rate base.
We plan to provide an updated five year view of the capital spending at the Annual Conference on March 11.
So regarding to earnings for 2016 in $2.80 to $3 per share in line with our 2015 operating results as forecast growth at PSE&amp;G offsets the impact of lower energy prices on Power’s operating earnings.
The company remains on solid footing and we continue to focus on operational excellence we remain disciplined in our approach to investment strategy and maintain our financial strength.
Common dividend was recently increased 5.1% to the indicative annual level of $1.64 per share and we believe we can provide shareholders with consistent and sustainable growth in the dividend going forward.
And with that we are ready to answer your questions.
[Operator instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hey Jonathan.
A couple of questions on the change in pension accounting methodology could you just give - is this designed to bring you more into line with standard practice or something - can you just give us some perspective around what drove that change? Yeah I think it will probably increasingly look more like standard practice.
In applying an interest rate we have normally done a weighted average rate which is across all of the cash flows and some recent determination has been made that in looking at the yield curve and the timing of your actually payments and the timing of the interest by virtue of shape of the yield curve be more accurate method was to apply the near-term interest rates to the near-term cash flows and the longer term interest rates to the longer term cash flows.
So we've been looking at this for a while and in addition to being a more accurate method I think you will start to see this more and more in others.
Your sense is that others have not - who you haven’t adopted this it yet but you think that will go that way is that what you're saying? Yeah so our intel from talking to our advisors is we're probably somewhere between 30% 40% 50% so companies are pursuing and a bunch of the others are investigating the same.
We’ve seen some of this from other leases that we’ve seen from others as well.
Okay.
And can you give us a sense is the change we're seeing in 2016 something that would all else equal will just persist into 2017 just a change of basis one piece? And then secondly can you parse out the impact to the utility versus power? Yeah on the second piece it’s about half and half is the general way to think about it.
And with the yield curve that rises over time you will see a moderation of the benefit of this method over time but remaining positive based upon all the current assumptions in place through the balance of the five year plan period.
It remains positive but declines over time.
Okay.
And can I just add one other topic Enterprises the uptick in 2016 is that mostly the Long Island contract? That was correct Jon.
Some of you heard.
Yeah we missed the answer.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Stanley with Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
The $11.5 billion of CapEx over 2016 to 2018 if you take 72% of that at the utility it seems like utility CapEx for 2016 to 2018 is about maybe I don't know $750 million higher than what you showed in a chart at EEI.
Can you just confirm if I'm reading that right and if so in what areas are you investing more money now over the next three years? So Keith the answer is you’re correct and we will detail not only that but the full five years on March 11 but it’s the same areas we have been.
It’s largely transmission related and there is an element of Energy Strong in there as well but we will give you the details of that as well as any new initiatives that we plan to pursue in the five-year time horizon on March 11.
Okay.
And one other one just what ROE are you assuming at the distribution business that PSE&amp;G in 2016 and what ROE did you earn at distribution last year? So you remember ROEs are a blend of an allowed base ROE of 10.3 and then myriad 14 to be exact of various programs that we have had approved since then that range from 9.75 to 10.3 but with a couple of them also the beneficiary I think that’s the tax credit in some of the solar programs.
So we are earning on a longer term but you have to do the - some of the parts so to speak of each of those programs.
So netting out some of those programs you earned 10.3 on call it core distribution last year and I mean are you just assuming that you're earning precisely your allowed return and that's what you're saying you earned last year? So on the core distribution yes the 10.3 and on Energy Strong we are going to earn the 9.75 and on solar for all we are going to earn 10 and on energy efficiency we are going earn 9.75 and so that’s what I am trying to point out and because of to varying degrees contemporaneous nature of the returns we do stick to those we do accomplish those objectives.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning can you hear me? Yes Julien.
Excellent.
So I wanted to go back a little bit to the latest BGS Auction and ask you if you can elaborate a little bit on what exactly drove the year-over-year results? And perhaps at least our perception of a reduction in the risk premium can you elaborate kind of what the dynamics you saw? Yes I mean some of the bigger pieces Julien I think are fairly transparent from what you can see from a market perspective.
I think we saw a little bit of a decline in the energy prices which is kind of where you spot as a baseline for the auction.
And then probably the couple of other areas where you’ve seen the biggest change is against that decline as you have seen a bump on the transmission side and you have seen a bump related to some of the green costs that are involved.
So you can track the green cost here in New Jersey [indiscernible] and you can track the transmission fact I think the BPU even sends out some of the transmission cost that ultimately get embedded in.
and then finally the last big piece which is also fairly transparent is the capacity piece and those auctions take place in advance of by virtue of their three-year forward market and the BGS three-year forward market.
They place in advance of the BGS auction.
So those are your biggest movers.
And there is other pieces obviously in there there is ancillary and different components but those are the biggest pieces that you see related to the changes.
But just coming back clearly some of those big changes move in year-over-year but at least from our calculations it seems that even adjusting for that there might have been a little bit less of a premium there just curious.
I mean we don’t really talk necessarily about what kind of a premium you would see in the product but I think you can - most of those pieces are transparent enough that you can build out and see what the elements of them are and I think on balance you’re seeing a bit of a decline on the energy side and you’re seeing a bit of a roll up coming off in the other direction related to both transmission agreement.
Got it.
Fair enough.
Maybe going back to the last question a little bit more about the utility regulatory how are you thinking about trackers in a post-great case scenario as you think about rolling at least the legacy programs in the base rate et cetera? Can you kind of talk about perhaps what the subsequent role might look like? Sure.
While we are pleased with the success we have had Julien over these past several years with these programs we have been talking to the staff about - in particular the gas program which clearly has a multi-decade run that it would need to do all of the work that the system requires of it I am talking about replacing the cast iron that we would like to break away from this incremental approach and into more of a longstanding approach.
For no other reason that it would be beneficial to develop the infrastructure primarily people that one needs to sustain these programs right.
So right now the way we run the programs is we work for contractors and we bring in the folks that are needed and we enter into this conversation six months before the program expires.
But will we need more I am not quite sure.
Well we have to wait for the BPU so when can you find out I will get back to you since possible and that’s not the way we typically run a 110-year old company.
We like to have training programs bring people in as an apprentice and have them climb the technical ladder and have a nice long career and that’s a much more efficient way to use customer rates.
So I think that program in particular could be a template for the type of ongoing things we want to do we were close second to that.
As you may recall Energy Strong we had put forth the ten-year plan that got approved for three years.
And some of the cleaner technologies whether solar or energy efficiency that will be needed to meet the state’s own renewable portfolio standard or what eventually becomes of CPP and whatever carnation takes reincarnation that takes I think will lend themselves to more programmatic and longstanding programs that we can anticipate and rationally equip ourselves to execute.
So those conversations are going on with the Board staff now and to their credit their responses well you should have confidence you have come in 14 times and 14 times we said yes and that’s true.
So the question is how much of an investment risk are you willing to make in equipment and training programs and people when the yes it’s pretty much assured but has different forms half the programs half the duration and maybe three quarters of the run rate.
So it’s a very constructive dialog right now to be continued.
Great.
Thank you so much guys.
Your next question comes from the line Praful Mehta with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Morning.
My question firstly you guys sit in a very interesting spot where you own all three assets coal gas and nuclear and it's interesting the trends you highlight with gas capacity factors increasing coal reducing.
My question is how are you thinking about asset life of these three classes of assets given the market conditions you see now? And what does that mean in terms of leverage levels that you're comfortable with for the Power business? So one of the things that’s equally important to the fuel diversity of our assets is the technology diversity and performance features of our assets.
So obviously gas we have some combined cycle gas turbines which once upon a time we called load following which we are looking more and more like base load.
But we also have a pretty robust and healthy peaking fleet.
And similar in our coal assets we have Keystone kind of which are rightfully described as base load and candidly Hudson Mercer and Bridgeport stations have become more peaking with Hudson and Mercer having the additional flexibility to be able to run on gas.
So it’s not just a question of fuel diversity it’s what part in the dispatch queue the asset can play and whether it starts stops features and in that respect our diversity serves us well.
Now you probably picked up that we would anticipate retiring the Bridgeport Harbor coal unit in five years provided that we are successful executing the permits for the new 500 minus combined cycle units at Bridgeport Harbor which we don’t anticipate any difficulties in doing so given the community benefits agreement we have achieved with some important stakeholder groups in Bridgeport.
And I will let Dan finish up on the leverage of power but once again our base FFO to debt expectations are 30% and we will give you more details when we see in March but we were well over that prior to bonus depreciation and with bonus depreciation that number has gotten even bigger.
But Dan you may want say anything? Yes I mean the only thing I would add is obviously from the credit perspective power’s FFO to debts are well above the 30% threshold that we have with the rating agencies to hold our existing rating.
So that’s not something that we get concerned about at all.
We have an awful lot of financial strength there.
But I think as you do look forward we will see a shift in the fleet and maybe be that’s kind of what your question is getting at.
We have got three new efficient combined cycle plants and if you look backwards I said in my remarks that we have some of our HEDD units those were older peaking units that were retired for environmental purposes and they are going to be replaced by new efficient combined cycle clean gas units.
So the fleet really will take out a different look into the future and we will be more efficient and we will have a better profile and be more competitive in the market.
Got you.
So as you see that fleet profile changing are you seeing leverage levels kind of match that in terms of increasing given the quality of the new gas fleet that you’re kind of bringing on? I think we will see some leverage increase by virtue of the spend that will have but I think we will remain well above where we need to from the rating agency perspective.
That capacity at Power is extremely strong and is expected to remain that way and bonus depreciation helps on that side too.
We have - on the Power side of the business we have the benefits of bonus depreciation without the detriments of any rate base reduction.
Yes absolutely got it.
And just secondly is a more philosophical question.
As you think about the fate of Power with the consolidated business is there at any point a view that this business needs to be a stand-alone entity or do you kind of see this more as part of the consolidated business in the next two three year timeframe as well.
So as I have said before I do see over time you’re not going to get me to pick a time frame now.
I see these businesses separating the strategic flexibility of both would be enhanced by doing that.
Some of the tactical benefits is keeping them together right now which is the financial synergy - financial complement that Power provides to utility we have talked about power’s new plants but for the past five years and for the next five years it looks like the utility will be out-spending Power almost 3 to 1 and Power is a great source of equity for that with its funds from operation.
Secondly the complement and utility provide on the customer bill is a huge advantage to us.
And the support cost synergies that exists with two companies are big advantage to us as well.
But as Power grows in New England as it grows in New York State and other places it will need to use its own FFO for investment opportunities and that free cash flow that remains to help the utility will be decreased.
There will be more customers that it will be serving outside of the utilities territory so that complementary nature will decrease.
And as they both grow the corporate overhead vital functions that corporate support groups provide will be a smaller piece of the overall operating budget.
So I think over time the tactical benefits of staying together decrease and the strategic advantages of separating will increase.
But we’re not there today.
So yet again - continue.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
And I know you're not talking timing but I guess the benchmark or at least the milestones as we look for is those three factors in terms of that strategic benefits as that I guess reduces in terms of the fit then the probability or likelihood of some timing of separation kind of increases.
Is that a fair assessment? Yes so qualified yes to that.
I mean there is not magic date there are a host of parameters one looks at what are the market dynamics what’s the composition of the shareholder base are there other triggering events that could accelerate ones point of view of where the tactical benefits are now greatly reduced.
So I don’t mean to be long-winded on it but you ask a very complicated question albeit wrapped in some trout of simplicity that the Board of Directors looks at on a regular basis and so I am just giving you kind of a general point of view on that.
But it’s fraught [ph] detailed analysis on a pretty regular basis.
Got you.
Very helpful thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys congrats on a good year.
A couple of questions and these may be for Dan because some of them are kind of a little bit down in the weeds or in the nitty-gritty.
Can you talk to us about the earnings or EBITDA contribution that maybe Power gets from things like trading or doing some of the optimization as part of the LIPA deal? And can you talk to us about the overall earnings Power you expect to get over time from the broader LIPA O&amp;M services contract? Even though Dan can answer it Michael I just want to point out that I try to pay attention to these things.
I totally understood Ralph.
So Power’s trading group is about a $0.01 a share for LIPA and all-in LIPA is grow to about $0.07 or $0.08 so I think the share will probably be closer to the $0.05 and then stepping up $0.07 or $0.08 $0.05 or $0.06 this year close to $0.07 or $0.08 next year.
But Dan go ahead and tell him I’m wrong if I am.
[indiscernible] right order of magnitude.
Order of magnitude.
It will be $0.07 next year across the enterprise but there is just a small piece of that caught $0.01 or so that’s at the Power side of the business where that's coming from.
Got it.
And do you get a significant margin from things like ancillary revenues or ancillary services in PJM or ISO-New England.
Just trying to think about the components not just within BGS but within your broader margin in Power? I don't have an ancillary number in front of me Michael I don't know that we've kind of provided the breakdown of all the different components of how Power makes money and far and away the biggest pieces are your capacity margin and your energy margin.
There is a host of different elements that we work our way through as we manage a portfolio as a whole.
I mean if you’re kind of talking somewhere in the bucket of a $0.05 a share or something like that on the ancillaries that’s probably in order of magnitude number.
But we haven't broken out a lot of the pieces beyond - the biggest pieces which I think gets folks most of the way home if you look at your capacity margins we’re very transparent about that Math and provide that within the investor relations decks that we end up on together and the same with respect to energy side of the business.
Got it.
And finally when we think about the combined cycle fleet at Power I mean you've seen a significant uptick in terms of how much they can run.
Just curious from a physical standpoint what do you think - I guess I'll use the word maximum output level like how high do think they can physically run from a capacity factor standpoint versus where they been running for the last 12 to 24 months? I don't think that there is a physical limit to what they can do; I mean they are ultimately going to be off-line for maintenance just like any other facility would but there is nothing that snaps those plants from running as long as they are called.
And it’s not a refueling outage like you would see at a nuclear plant where you would have to shut the unit down to refuel it but periodically there is major maintenance that goes on at these facilities were the unit needs to be worked on but I think we’ll have the advantage as well within the units that we have of having a kind of clean and new unit that won't have that effect over a period of time when it starts up.
And don’t Michael we've also had a couple of significant improvement programs on our combined cycles we’ve improved the gas path which has actually allowed us to stretch out the major maintenance cycles and modestly improve the heat rates.
And I’ll double check the numbers we’ll certainly show them in March but I think our forced outrage rates have dropped even while our capacity factors have gone up which is always a great sign and that just means we are taking better care of the machines.
So they're running at about 65% 66% capacity factor now.
You never want to promise 100% on any mechanical device but I have not picked up from any of our team that worried about us over taxing these units.
Got it.
And then last one Ralph just a little curious your thoughts on the impact if any of the Ohio PPA contracts and what that means for that competitive market dynamics and design in PJM? So it depends on how that’s structured right I mean you're clearly - there was situation in New Jersey under what we call the LCAPP law there their statute mandate is that winners of those contracts bid at zero and clear the auction and that was a just an egregious attempt to crush artificially capacity prices in the region.
So we are participating in an industry group in Ohio to make sure that whatever is agreed upon doesn't artificially move the market in a way that disadvantage participants who don't have the protection of these contracts.
I'd like to think that Ohio has been a long-standing supporter of competitive markets and whatever gets structured out there gets structured in that way.
But what I’d like to think that we’re going to carefully monitor what actually is decided to maximize the chances that is indeed what happens.
Got it.
Thanks Ralph thanks Dan.
Much appreciated guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregg Orrill with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could revisit the topic of bonus depreciation.
I think you said that $1.3 billion at PSE&amp;G and $1.7 billion overall was that 2015 to '18 first of all? The $1.7 billion total is $1.2 billion to the utility and $500 million to Power.
And that runs you out through ‘19.
Most of the cash comes in through ‘18.
Okay.
So part of that you were - at the utility you were going to be accruing into the next case is that generally the way you are going to deal with the bonus depreciation accounting at the utility? Yeah I think the way to think about it Gregg is that to the extent of transmission the impact of that will come through on a contemporaneous basis.
So we will while bonus was approved after we filed our formula rate for the 2016 year we know that it’s there and we’ll accrue that from an accounting perspective and we’ll do that true-up in future filings.
But as we go forward you'll see that true-up every year with respect to the transmission piece of the bonus.
Similarly with elements related to Energy Strong with elements related to GSMP all the clause-related updates will take place as we file those contemporaneous and near contemporaneous filings.
And then the balance of what's left which really sits with the base amount or PSE&amp;G that will await the next rate case.
Your next question comes from the line of Travis Miller with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
I was wondering if you guys look across your entire CapEx program both Power and PSE&amp;G what parts of that make you most nervous? And either nervous that you would not meet the budget that you've set out or nervous that you wouldn't meet either the allowed returns or the hurdle rates that you've set out for those projects? If we're nervous about anything Travis we make sure we take action to fix it so we don't stay nervous but I know you know that.
I guess I'd say the biggest things that we pay attention to are regulatory and environmental mandates that don't add to the return expectations of our shareholders and quite candidly on occasion don't really benefit customers commensurate with the costs that need to be put into it.
But other than that as you well know we show up at a lot of places to make acquisitions and to expand our asset base and invariably lose.
So I don't think anyone would ever accuse us of being bullish or undisciplined in how we spend our money.
And the good news is that most of that environmental spending is behind us.
So we talked a lot about hey we're building three combined cycle units and let's make sure we have the team in place to manage those because they're not all within a city block of each other we've got one in Maryland one in New Jersey one in Connecticut and I probably spent an hour and half yesterday with our head of fossil talking about what his needs are and how we can make sure that those are met.
So I say in general its mandates that don't produce the customer or shareholder benefit that the regulator thinks they do.
Fortunately most of those are behind us and to the extent that if we didn't respond to the expanded construction program in Power I would be nervous about that but we are responding and I guess the proof that I put forth for you on that is we have quadrupled in the past five years that transmission program and we've delivered those projects on schedule and on budget.
So --.
Okay that's great and then more you mention the word retail in the past and just wondering if you could update if that’s still in the Lexicon strategy? Yeah it's still it is.
But it remains in the Lexicon as a defensive move to help us make sure we can be more effective in managing our basis risk and key is going to go a long way to that and it's not a retail place so there are things we can do other than retail.
But we are disciplined and cautious as you know I'm not a big fan of the retail business I think everybody falls in love with it in the declining price environment that’s typically when you can make a lot of money in retail it’s when prices rise and people are caught short for whatever reason that life isn't quite so pleasant.
So we would look at it purely as a small part of our output truly for defensive purposes managing basis risk and we're still looking at that and working on it.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
I'm wondering if you could lay out what the year-end rate base was for transmission and then for the utility overall? I don't have that number - transmission was 40 something 13.4 [ph] is the number we provided for the utility and I think 43% of that was transmission.
Got it thanks very much.
And you’ve been - on solely you’ve been continuing to grow there how do you see sort of the overall market opportunity there ability to achieve further growth in solar? So Stephen we've seen as I think you're aware we've carved out for ourselves kind of a modest sized portfolio really it’s the 250 megawatts DC I think consisted 14 or 15 projects.
So these things range in size like 5 megawatts to 50 megawatts and many more closer to 5 than to 50.
And we have very rigid return expectations they’re also supported by 25 to 30 year PPAs and they meet those return expectations.
So generally those returns are not available in some of the larger projects and we’ve developed a couple of partners who are really good about bringing those opportunities that they know we can execute on.
So they're willing to work with us.
I do see that continuing to grow it’s mostly driven by state RPSs and I don't think we have baked in a number in terms of what size that will be.
So when we talk about our capital program there isn’t a dollar of those projects in there yet.
If I look back over the past three or four years we’ve been pretty consistently doing anywhere from $100 million to $200 million of those projects.
I was going to say I think that brings us to the end.
I’m going to turn the call back over to Ralph at this time.
Thanks Kathleen.
So looking forward to see you all hopefully in two weeks but really I hope there are three key points to take away from what Dan and I talked about today.
First of all we are genuinely excited about Power’s positioning.
We’ve long had low cost nuclear and we've had a pretty good highly efficient combined cycle fleet but in three years we’re going to have just an outstanding highly efficient combined cycle fleet.
And all of our assets are going to be well positioned and I mean well positioned in the broader sense of the word there will be near load they’ll be clean they’ll be diversified fleet.
And we’ll continue to look at opportunities to improve upon that fleet but you really should recognize that we’ve talked for a long time now about these three new units and I don't foresee any circumstances at present that would suggest any additional new build on the horizon for us.
Second point is the utility growth continues and we averaged 13% growth over the last five years and if you just take our ‘15 results and the midpoint of the utility guidance for ‘16 we're going to grow at 14%.
And yet utility bills will go down yet again this year because of the expiration of some charges.
So the utility will represent 60% of earnings at the midpoint and it's doing stuff that is very important to customers and will just continue marching along that path.
So we had a good year is the final point and I think you'll find that when we get together on March 11 that the next five years look even better.
So looking forward to explaining that further when we see you in New York.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect and thank you for participating.