Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Aircastle Q1 2011 earnings conference call.
(Operator instructions) All line have been place to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remark there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
I’d now like to turn today’s conference over to Michael Inglese Chief Financial Officer.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I’d like to welcome all of you to the first quarter 2011 earnings call for Aircastle Limited.
Ron Wainshal our Chief Executive Officer will start the discussion shortly.
But first I’d like to mention that this call is being recorded and the replay number is 800-642-1687 from within the US or 706-645-9291 from outside the US with a replay pass code of 60683997.
This call will also be available via webcast from our website aircastle.com in addition to the earnings release and an accompanying PowerPoint presentation.
I would also like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC report.
I direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Mike and thanks to all of you for joining us.
I’ll start by reviewing Aircastle’s first quarter 2011 results our current priorities and broader trends in the marketplace.
Mike will then discuss financials and we’ll open the call for questions.
Let’s start off first with a few key highlights.
This was another solid quarter for Aircastle.
We sustained our consistently strong portfolio utilization and rental yield.
We made tangible progress in the first quarter with asset purchases and dispositions in line with our long-term goal of generating superior risk adjusted returns.
Our new financial results started to reflect more fully the positive impact of the half-a-billion-dollars of new investments that we completed last year.
Our A330 program which accounts for $700 million of contracted asset growth throughout this year and into early next year is progressing as planned with two new aircraft deliveries to South African Airways during the first quarter.
Importantly we maintain a strong balance sheet and access to capital to position the company for further investments.
This progress reinforces our confidence about the long-term growth prospects for the company.
We’re an established well capitalized lessor with a differentiated growth strategy and deep transaction expertise.
Our competitive advantages serve us well in several high growth market segments with tough barriers to entry.
With these competitive distinctions we’re in a strong position to exploit increasing air traffic and the favourable supply-demand balance in aircraft leasing.
Moving to specific operational and financial results we again delivered a strong portfolio performance during the first quarter.
With fleet utilization of 99% and an annualized rental yield of 14% we continue to demonstrate strong demand for our aircraft and the value of our proactive approach matching our portfolio.
At the end of March our fleet count stood at 134 aircraft leased to 63 customers in 34 countries.
Latest-generation models now account for 92% of our portfolio as measured by net book value.
That’s an increase from 90% at year-end.
The weighted average remaining lease term for our portfolio is 4.7 years.
Our lease receivables remain at very good levels.
In fact as of this morning we have no accounts receivable more than 30 days overdue.
We’re also encouraged by the progress we’re making on aircraft placements.
At this stage we have only two scheduled lease expirations requiring placement this year and we’re pursuing several alternatives for both.
We’re also making good headway in placing aircraft we early terminated from two airlines in the Middle East during the first quarter.
More specifically we have commitments to lease three of the five aircraft and we’re marketing the two other units actively.
Additionally we’re seeing a strong interest in our aircraft with scheduled lease expirations in 2012.
We believe the only success we’ve had in placing these aircraft is evidenced in strength in the aircraft leasing sector.
Our financial performance during the first quarter started to reflect more fully the execution of our growth strategy during 2010.
Lease rental revenues grew 8% year over year to $141 million during the first quarter.
Adjusted net income plus depreciation and amortization which we consider an important measure of our fundamental performance increased 20% to about $96 million or $1.20 per diluted common share.
Our liquidity position remains good with unrestricted cash of $240 million.
On the financing side we continue to access attractive debt for eight new A330s which delivered in the February/March.
In both cases we entered into 12-year term loan supported by guarantees from French export credit agency COFACE.
Turning to growth the $700 million expansion of our asset base to the A300 program is progressing as planned.
We expect a third A300 delivering to South Africa to arrive within next week.
Four other A300s are scheduled to deliver by the end of the year and a fifth and final aircraft from our order is to set to deliver during the spring of 2012.
During our last call in March we discussed our plans to make between $500 million and a $1 billion in accretive new investments to capitalize on the recovery in our sector.
So far this year we’ve purchased or entered into letters of intent to purchase five aircraft.
Three of these are 747-400 passenger aircraft which we intend to convert into freighters to satisfy building demand for additional modern long-haul capacity.
This is a market we know particularly well.
It’s hungry for new lifts they both replace roughly 10% of 747 freighter population.
And by that I mean older models which were retired during the market downturn and to allow for growth to support increases in world-wide trade levels.
The other two acquisitions we’re making are into mid-age current technology category.
Both are A320s with modern CFM engines leased to a leading Chinese carrier.
We expect to acquire the first aircraft this summer and the other to be scheduled to close early next year.
We believe there’s excellent value in this segment given the residual value exposure being fairly modest and the strong cash yield.
These transactions were sourced from four different sellers and they exemplify our value-added origination capabilities.
We also demonstrated our focus on deals where we believe we possess competitive advantages including our ability to access unsecured financing to bypass bank market limitations.
As some of you know we have a solid track record of executing profitable asset sales.
We’ve consistently used selective dispositions to help us maintain a diversified in-demand modern portfolio while realizing very good returns.
Since Aircastle’s formation we’ve sold more than 20 aircraft with total proceeds in excess of $400 million with an aggregate unleveraged return on investment of 15%.
In January we completed the sale of four 737-400 aircraft we converted to freighters.
There is a discernible recovery in aircraft prices particularly for new models and for transactions where bank financing is more readily available.
In fact values in this phase and returns available for investments have in our opinion by and large recovered to pre-financial crisis levels.
We intend to capitalize on this recovery with a view towards monetizing our value-add and we’re exploring several potential aircraft sales opportunities.
Plus too early to comment on how many planes will be sold or what the financial impact of these deals might be we’re seeing strong interest.
Now I’ll shift to market developments that affect in our business.
Over the past two years we’ve seen steady encouraging trends across key industry metrics including traffic levels load factors airline profitability and parked aircraft levels.
Last year as the industry resumed its normal growth trend demand for aircraft reached all-time highs exceeding pre-recession levels both in the passenger and the cargo segments of our business.
During the past couple of months we’ve seen a slowdown in the growth rates for air traffic due to some extraordinary events including the Japanese earthquakes and tsunami along with the unrest in the Middle East and North Africa.
These developments are dampening what would otherwise be a healthy recovery particularly out of Asia.
Nonetheless in aggregate we believe improvements in global GDP continue to provide a solid foundation for continued growth in both the passenger and air cargo markets.
Parked aircraft levels remain extremely low for current production models.
And when you exclude aircraft already placed and those owned by several state-owned Middle East airlines where more than 99% deployments for 737 NGs and current generation A320 aircraft.
A continuing rebound in long-haul premium traffic on most routes around the world is driving down the level of parked mid and wide-body aircraft.
And these factors are helping to drive rental levels higher for in-production aircraft.
Of course we remain particularly mindful of increasing oil prices.
We take a balanced view of this.
While we recognize that a sustained and substantial further increase in the price of oil has slowed the industry’s growth rate we’d also like to emphasize falling points.
Firstly current fuel prices are not fundamentally altered to favourable supply-demand balance in the industry.
In fact the recent volatility in the price of oil has increased demand for more fuel efficient latest-generation aircraft which account for 92% of our portfolio as long as demand remains healthy as we continue to mitigate the impact of increased fuel prices and any margin compression among airlines.
In this context we remind that seasonally adjusted load factors are still at or near all-time highs.
Secondly in trying to predict how geopolitical unrest might affect performance of lessors it’s important to distinguish between systemic shocks and long-term trends.
And to remember there are certain aspects of our business model will reliably offset or delay adverse effects.
For example our aircraft are secured on long-term contracts and we have an excellent track record of matching our lease receivables and minimizing the risk of defaults.
Also aircraft are portable assets and may be redeployed relatively easily to markets with stronger demand.
Having said that we are of course watching these developments closely and we are prepared to take steps to mitigate the impact of the adverse effects.
So far we are very pleased with how we manage our business in the Middle East.
As of March 31 our exposure to airlines based in this region is approximately 7.5% as measured by net book value with nearly all of this consisting of two relatively new 747-400 freighters on long-term leases with Emirates one of the world’s most profitable airlines.
As most of you know the competitive landscape for lessors continues to evolve spurred by improvements in global GDP and growing investor interest.
We are encouraged by these developments and we continue to believe that accentuate our competitive strengths such as capital structure transaction expertise a differentiated growth strategy and access to a variety of financing sources.
Based on the industry trends or viewed in our performance strength Q1 we are optimistic about our growth prospects for 2011 and beyond we have a strategic vision in resources to continue to deliver strong portfolio performance and strong financial results to expand our asset base to maintain our dividend and to make opportunistic investments such as the share repurchase we recently announced.
I’ll turn over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
As expected the first quarter of 2011 was another strong quarter as we begin to see the contribution from the Airbus program and the aircraft assets we added to fleet during the second half of 2010.
Lease rental revenue for the first quarter 2011 was a $141.1 million up $11 million from Q1 ’10 due primarily to the impact of the aircraft acquisitions net of dispositions of $14.9 million which was partially offset by lower lease rental revenues due to lease terminations of $2.1 million and lease transitions and extensions of $1.8 million.
Our portfolio yield for the quarter came in at 14% up about 23 basis points from the first quarter of 2010 and revenue utilization for the quarter was 99%.
Total revenues for the first quarter 2011 were a $157.9 million up $27.4 million year over year reflecting an increase of $11 million in lease rental revenue an increase of $11.6 million in maintenance revenue and a $3 million increase in other revenue.
As previously mentioned on our year-end earnings call during the first quarter of 2011 we early terminated five leases four A320s and one A319 and as a result we recognized $13 million of unscheduled maintenance revenue and $2.7 million of other revenue from security deposit coverage and lease termination fees.
Also during the first quarter these aircraft contributed $1.2 million in lease rental revenue prior to lease termination and the impact on lease incentives in the quarter was $500 000 benefit related to the termination.
EBITDA for the quarter was $154.3 million up $33.1 million from the first quarter of 2010 reflecting higher lease rental revenue maintenance and other revenue as well as a gain of $9.7 million from the sale of four 737 freighter aircraft.
These increases were partially offset by an increase in SG&amp;A and maintenance and other costs totaling $2.2 million.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $32.9 million or $0.41 per diluted common share up $12.3 million year over year reflecting the increase in total revenue of $27.4 million.
This increase was partially offset by $5.4 million of increased depreciation $6.4 million in adjusted interest expense and the $2.2 million in higher SG&amp;A and maintenance and other costs.
Adjusted net income plus depreciation &amp; amortization for the quarter was $95.6 million or $1.20 per diluted common share up $16 million year over year due mainly to an increase in the lease rental revenue increase in maintenance and other revenue.
These increases again were partially offset by increased adjusted interest expense of $6.4 million and the SG&amp;A maintenance and other cost increases totaling $2.2 million.
Reported interest for the quarter was $45.6 million which was higher by $4.7 million year over year driven mainly by the higher average debt balance outstanding for the period.
Total SG&amp;A for the first quarter 2011 was $12.5 million up $800 000 from the first quarter of 2010 reflecting a combination of higher personnel expenses and professional fees in the quarter.
Depreciation expense for the first quarter ‘11 was $59.6 million and at the end of the quarter our monthly run rate depreciation was right around $20 million.
In the first quarter 2011 our tax position indicates an effective tax rate of about 7.1% and reflects the revenue and income source remix from the portfolio during the quarter.
For the full year 2011 we expect the effective tax rate to be in the 7% to 8% range.
Switching to our investment activity during the quarter we took delivery of two A330s from Airbus in February and March of this year on long-term leases to South African Airways.
These aircraft were funded with ECA supported 12-year fixed rate term loans with rates of 3.79% and 3.73% respectively.
And as I mentioned we also completed the sale of the four 737-400 freighters which contributed a $9.7 million pre-tax gain in the quarter.
At quarter end our annualized lease rental run rates on the portfolio excluding the freighters we sold obviously in the first quarter was around $567 million of which $93 million was being generated from 18 aircraft we own outright with any financing related encumbrances.
Looking ahead to Q2 2011 expectations we expect the annualized lease rental revenue run rate at end of the second quarter to be essentially flat at the $567 million figure.
This reflects the combined effects of our expected A330 delivery in May of 2011 and the countervailing impact of the revenue downtime from the four A320s and the A319 in the quarter which we expect to return to revenue service during the third quarter as well as the sale of our last 737-500 aircraft which is also expected to close in early May.<br> Maintenance revenue is expected to range between $3 million and $5 million reflecting expected lease transitions during the second quarter and amortization of net lease discounts and lease incentives is expected to range from about $3 million to $5 million also.
We ended the quarter with $240 million of unrestricted operating cash $191 million of restricted cash and $50 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
With a strong balance sheet and steady cash flows and access to capital we are in an excellent position to support our growth strategy continue our current dividend policy and to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities including the stock repurchase program we announced in March of 2011.
As we discussed on our last call we believe that repurchasing our stock at current levels represent a very attractive use of our capital.
And through Friday of last week April 29 we’ve repurchased 2.9 million shares representing approximately 3.6% of the outstanding balance at year-end at an average cost of $12.13 per share for an aggregate investment of about $35 million.
At the end of the quarter we had $2.7 billion of secured and unsecured borrowings with net debt outstanding of approximately $2.5 billon which is 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
Our net debt to equity ratio excluding the mark to market on our interest rate derivates was approximately 1.6 to 1 at quarter end and we are in compliance with all of our debt covenants and financial tests.
To conclude the business continues to perform very well and contribution from our second half 2010 aircraft acquisitions along with the Airbus program deliveries are now beginning to be realized.
With our strong liquidity position and access to the capital markets combined with the expected strong cash flow performance from the existing portfolio we continue to expect a strong 2011.
And with that operator we’re happy to open up the call to questions.
(Operator instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Hi Gary.
Ron you mentioned a month ago at the Investor Conference that you had three LOIs for the five planes in the Middle East you are hoping for more details and it looks like over the last month none of those LOIs were firmed up and the other two planes are still looking for customers I think – is there something happening in the marketplace is there something specific about these aircraft that that might be making it more difficult to release? No we actually did firm up the LOI.
So we have firm commitments on those three aircraft Gary.
I think we’re getting pretty close to on our fourth airplane.
The last remaining aircraft is a 330 that has two engines that need to go to shop and that makes it a little tougher to release.
That one probably is lagger to the group but it’s just the condition of the engines.
Okay.
And as we look forward to second quarter given these five planes and maybe aren’t you seeing any other weakness but what do you expect the utilization rate to look like in the second quarter? I think it’s probably a fair bet through 98%.
Okay.
And then one last one.
You mentioned in the slides that one of the goals is to try to pick up the ROE a little bit do you have a short term or a long term ROE target? Nothing that I can share with you right now but I think you’ll see ROE improving on the following dimensions.
Number one I think the new investments we’re making are quite attractive.
Number two is share buyback program helps.
Number three there is a lot of I think promise on the asset sale side.
I don’t have anything specific to share with you just yet but I think there is a lot of potential there.
We also have a couple of lower key initiatives in regards to third-party management I don’t have anything report on that either but those are also things we’re doing.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Light with Citi.
Hi Mike and Ron.
Hi Andrew.
Hi.
A couple of questions.
Since the loaners repossessed planes it doesn’t seem to be much of a negative impact on the income statement profile I mean will we expect – would you expect I think (inaudible) some maintenance cost etcetera in the one just the (inaudible)? Yes.
I think the first thing to point out is that the grand total of the net book value for those aircraft is 2% of our books so you got to put it in context.
Now as Mike mentioned during his prepared remarks we had during the first quarter significant maintenance and other revenues that are attributable to those lease terminations.
In total it’s about $16 million.
As we look at redeploying the aircraft the results would be– the placements aren’t all set but I think it’s a pretty good guess that $16 million is the estimated the redeployment cost.
The vast majority of that by the way is probably capitalized.
And so that P&amp;L effect is felt only over time.
Right.
That’s what –.
The revenue rental revenue our profile there will be a step-down.
I think during the last call we had broadcast that for the five aircraft in aggregate we expected the rental revenue would be somewhere in the order of $800 000 to $1 million per month.
I think it’s probably coming in a little bit on the lower end of that but that’s probably still our best guess on that.
As Mike mentioned also during his remarks the third quarter is our expectation for when the revenue is big it gets turned on although we are working on perhaps getting more to the back-end service sooner than that.
That $800 000 to $1 million is that for those five aircraft? Yes.
That’s an aggregate per month.
Aggregate.
A second question on the conversions I mean how does it work with these three aircraft you buy do you buy them and then you just wait for conversions loss or do you lease to have you so the conversions no weather you owe – how does that work? It’s a very good question because the downtime obviously has an effect on earnings and on the return.
We have a couple of different scenarios here first aircraft that we bought and already we purchased it is off lease and we secured a slot with aerospace industries to make that into freighter.
We did that because of the – this kind of the strong demand for getting something in service soon; if we were to do an interim lease it could get in the way.
Another aircraft that we have which we hope to close within the next month or two is on lease already with a lessee a passenger lessee and it will have a good earnings profile up until the conversion point.
So it depends and I think in the next call we’ll have a lot more clarity on that.
Finally with the same subject I’m still recounting for the conversions where I can say a rise in sales that of our construction that’s that most of the planes was down on the commercial there is no depreciation or where leases capitalize would that be fair? Yes.
That’s correct.
So as the plane is going through the conversion shop there is – it’s not ready for its intended purpose so it’s not being depreciated and some interest would get capitalized associated with the in-construction cost.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay thanks very much indeed.
Certainly.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Valentin with FBR.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just on the buyback you guys are possibly aggressive I think on purchasing shares.
I’m wondering you have I think the authorization right now is $50 million is there any covenants or any limitations on increasing the authorization? Scott back in March and we do have some covenants in the context of our high-yield indenture that would – that place limits ultimately on the size restricted payments which this would fall into.
But it’s comfortably beyond what was originally authorized and we’ll continue to evaluate the program and the uses of capital here as we move forward.
Okay.
And then just on the evaluation front the return of the aircraft for the Middle-East Africa region that should or any type of evaluation requirements? No in the context of having a lease termination that is one of the indication events that require us to do an impairment assessment.
With respect to aircraft we completed that assessment on all five of these aircraft and determined that there was no need for an impairment of any of those assets.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then in terms of you mentioned the $500 million to $1 billion of additional aircraft.
In the past you’ve said that kind of the outside of five years maybe a little bit older aircraft market is what’s been attractive aircraft due to lack of competition on the bidding side is that still the case? You are seeing more entrants in that segment of the market? It’s still the case.
And I think there are three planks to our growth strategy based on what we saw as being attractive the freighters the long-haul freighters which we talked about.
The current generation narrow bodies these are kind of earlier part of the production line and then I think some high-quality Wi-Fi 777s A330s.
Competition has increased it’s now getting around that.
I think the unlevered returns we are seeing on the new narrow bodies back in the second half of last year we are probably in the 13% 14% 15% return territory that’s how we come in a couple of percent maybe more.
It’s very situation specific and I think we did quite well on this China – Chinese A320s mentioned but it’s very situational.
But what also kind of helps at the same time is that interest rates are still really low.
I think if we really go do a financing in the market right now we probably come out head relative to where we would have been last year from an return on equity perspective.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Ray Neidl with Maxim Group.
Yes.
A more general industry type of question you talked about parked aircraft being one of the components you look at for growth what are you seeing now as far as the parked aircraft? I imagine there is a large fleet out there of aircraft that will never come back a few inefficient aircraft I was wondering the efficient aircraft the aircraft that might come back into the system is that still a big percentage? Is it still out of availability there? Here it’s Ron.
I think that first of all in terms of supply you have two generic sources.
One of them is new production and the manufacturers is still a lot for years to come and the second sources is what’s parked.
And what’s parked – if you look at the new generation narrow bodies 320 family aircraft and 737 MGs you are at about 1% of the fleet that’s on the ground and when you actually stratify that and go into details a lot of the aircraft in between leases.
There is already somebody kind of tags for that aircraft at some point in the near future.
And there is also particularly on the Airbus side a lot of aircraft owned some of the state-owned carriers in the North African Middle-East area.
So those are not effectively competing their part store they are not a source of available capacity for anybody who wants more lift.
So it’s within 1% for that family or class of aircraft.
For the wide bodies the 777s or A 330s it’s 1% or 2% very very strong demand and again driven by the resurgence in high-yield traffic.
Where you see the weakness is in the out of production aircraft or the classic 737 family and for the older-generation Airbus aircraft you are seeing 50% 20% parked aircraft.
And as we’ve said several times in the past I think the outlook for those aircraft particularly against the backdrop of high-fuel prices is not good.
So it’s really the question what you’re looking at.
But in production aircraft very very low levels; basically you’re pretty close to full swing.
Okay.
And Boeing says that they’re probably going to have the Boeing 787 available by late this year.
If that’s true if that comes in the market will that have any effect at all on the leasing market? Well I think – the leasing market anybody with A 330s or 767s for the past several years has gotten the windfall and the first delivery is important but it’s actually not the most important thing.
The most important thing is how fast will they begin delivering aircraft right? Because there is a pent-up need.
In effect the industry has been relying on only one supplier at half production levels if you will for the last several years.
And so there is a pent-up need.
We have several 767s and A 330 coming off lease within the next 12 to 18 months and we are seeing very strong demand for those aircraft notwithstanding that.
So in time it will have an effect Ray and that’s kind of always been our expectation but it’s has been with anything sort of a pleasant upside for us.
Okay great.
Thanks Ron.
Yes.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Streeter with JPMorgan.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just wondering on the focus on improving near-term ROE the 747 freighter strategy I think obviously those will have a great return down the road if you are right in your assumptions and so forth but it does hurt you from a near-term perspective so I’m wondering how you’ve factored that into the equation? For a situation where the aircraft sitting on the ground wings for air conversion you are right it’s short term.
Now we are not going to manage the business based on the next quarter it’s going to be on the long-run.
So on that marginal example about the case for the example where I mentioned the lease is actually in place it’s actually going to be I think a pretty positive thing.
But the main story is we don’t manage the business quarter to quarter it’s through long-run.
Okay.
And then it seems Ron if I interpret if your comment on the difference between the market environment on midway for more older aircraft with the newer aircraft it seems that if you are softening your stance or you are shifting stance a little bit more towards more modern equipment am I hearing you correctly that your preference is changing? Absolutely not.
This has been same strategy we’ve had for the last – in terms of the midlife aircraft since the middle of last year and we continue to believe that’s a very attractive place.
The market always evolves and so we don’t ever kind of set our strategy in concrete but it’s very relevant.
And the returns on the new aircraft as I said during my remarks I think those are basically and pretty close to pre-crisis levels.
The returns on these midlife aircraft are not even close to that yet.
They have as I mentioned also compressed a little bit but they are still very rich.
And we see the demand for those midlife aircraft to be very strong.
Moreover the residual value exposure profile for that type of aircraft is much lower in my opinion than buying last offline the 320 or whatever it might be be it the current generation that’s what we’ve been saying.
Okay.
I just want to make sure I heard you correctly.
And then no one has brought the big fish well it remained nameless because of the worked for who’s out there trading at a big premium to book and you are trading at a discount.
You’re selling your portfolio assets at a premium to book value.
How do you think about this discrepancy in the marketplace in closing that evaluation gap between you and now one of your public peers? How do you think that happens over time? Is it something you are obviously focused on? I’m just wondering if you have a view on how you can get the market sort of respect your portfolio more than some others that are out there with a benchmark in ascent? I think we focus first of all on what we do and I think we are doing a great job in terms of finding accretive investment opportunities and what people think of the value of metals is going to catch up.
Now the significant thing about the Big Fish or the God Father or whatever you want to call them is that they brought in a lot of new money into the sector.
And from what I understand from my banker friends most of the investors are new to aircraft first source that’s a very positive thing.
I think the sector benefits from that directly or indirectly.
And I think the fundamentals of what we do the fundamentals of our sector are extremely attractive still.
So the more interest and more attention the better.
I think fundamentally though you are driven – your successes in the long-run driven by how you do as opposed to the reflection of somebody else.
Do you think that the discount to broker that you and your sort of public peers prior to a month ago experience has something to do with maybe investor perception on portfolio quality or and that’s – the events over the last couple of weeks here would that new public peer indicate that investors just prefer a newer aircraft portfolio and even though you have a higher sort yield out of your portfolio versus the comfort with newer aircraft I’m just wondering if you’ve thought about that or have any opinion on that? I think there has definitely been a lot of talk when you read the press and analyst reports about newest grade and anything that’s not new is not as good.
We take a very different view about that.
Obviously our investment philosophy is not just about lease the aircraft but what you earn.
This is an investment business; it’s not an asset collection business.
And there’s nothing wrong with buying new aircraft.
Like any investor you have to have a view about what you all in return will be over a horizon.
And our view is that there is better value particularly given our capital structure particularly given our advantages in creating value from transactions by doing what we are doing.
That’s not something most people can do.
There is only a handful of guys that can do the freighter conversion work and make that work and generate the teen type unlevered returns that’s competitive advantage.
I think that the fact that we have unsecured market access is a huge competitive advantage when you are trading in the midlife aircraft.
So I think people of it’s a big sector there is lot of ways to win.
We think this is a great way to go.
Okay.
And just the last question for me just on capital structure the unsecured funding strategy and so forth at the same time you’ve got the share repurchase program.
You are still 67% leverage on a book basis and so forth.
Yet starting this summer if you don’t refinance that first securitization and then over the next three years or so you are going to be sort of naturally deleveraging how are you balancing the financial risks that you have on the balance sheet in the business versus this ROE improvement goal and maintain an unsecured access it’s obviously multiple things to balance there.
I’m just wondering if you can give us some more color on that? Yes Mark it’s Mike.
I think as we look ahead and if the securitization stay in place and we are comfortable and happy if they do.
The business would naturally delever it we did nothing else but we think sort of at a corporate level and as we think about the capital structure that’s somewhere around 2 to 1 leverage is a reasonable target and comfortable capital structure for running a business of this type.
And we believe we will have access to debt capital outside of those structures at the corporate level or somewhere in-between that’ll allow us to continue to invest in profitable assets and grow the business.
So we don’t see it in and of itself as in any way inconsistent with our view that we can grow the business and that we can improve the ROE of the business over time.
I think the debt market right now is quite attractive for us.
And realistically I think as we look at growth opportunities it will get abundant from a combination of the cash on hand and the incremental financing.
That I can change but that’s what it looks today.
Great thanks.
I appreciate all the time.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Helane Becker with Dahlman Rose.
Thanks very much operator.
Most of my questions have been answered but one and that’s – what should we think about maintenance revenue going forward? As I said in my prepared remarks Helane we are expecting somewhere between $3 million and $5 million in the second quarter based on the lease transitions that we expect to take place.
Alright.
Everything else was really asked and answered.
Great.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Josh Pinkerton with Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
A couple of questions about the $500 million of additional investments you guys have talked a little bit about is that going to be a long-term increase in the size of the portfolio or do you see some opportunities to maybe buy aircraft do conversions and then maybe sell them on like you have with some of the recent freighter conversions that you’ve done.
The answer is probably a combination of both.
I couldn’t tell you specifically what.
But there is definitely a strategy in our part to capitalize on what I think is a significant increase interest in us.
And what we’ve always done a really good job of is add value to transactions.
It takes a little while to do the freighter conversion and I think you don’t capture value from that scenario Josh until you get the aircraft back on lease with the freighter operator.
But that’s certainly something we look at.
The aircraft that we’ve been targeting for sale are in many cases aircraft that we’ve “added value to” as we’re capturing that premium it makes a lot of sense and I think in net you will see the company increasing in size.
And so it sounds like you guys are pretty bulled up about the unsecured market it doesn’t make sense that you see that as the most attractive way if you were going to increase the size of the fleet to fund it through the unsecured market? I think it depends on the situation.
If we’re buying aircraft one or two at a time it’s very hard to do anything efficient in a secured context.
Doesn’t mean that we wouldn’t look at it but the secured market works better in size we have a bulk transaction.
So it depends on how we come about buying aircraft.
Great.
And just a few more questions I know this has been a topic that you guys have talked a lot about but the securitization the last time we talked it sounded like you guys were pretty comfortable with leaving that 2006 outstanding once that starts to increase amortization in I guess about a month-and-a–half now but I just want to check on so – I get to about $50 million each quarter of increased amortization payments and I want to see if that lined up where you guys are getting? And then where do you think that – you guys are obviously generating plenty of cash but $50 million is a pretty descent chunk do you think it’s fair that stock buybacks may come down in the second half of the year as more cash goes to the amortizations or where would that cash come from? I think – actually I think your numbers are a bit high Josh and we’ll be filing our 10-Q later today and you can look at our estimates of how we think that plays out – Okay.
Going forward.
And I don’t think it in of itself is going to impact our view or our program on stock buybacks that we have in place today.
Great.
I will wait for the K then and then – or the Q.
And then one more question you mentioned – it sounded earlier in previous call that you were comfortable for 2006 or maybe lean towards if the markets were amenable to refinancing the 2007 securitization is that still the outlook you guys have? We are still looking at both of them and we’ll continue to do so over time.
I think as I’ve mentioned before one of the refinancing impediments in the 06’ deal is its existing fixed rate hedge which lasts until 2016 it was 10-year hedge done at the time of the securitization and given where interest rates are today it creates additional refinancing cost friction that doesn’t make any numbers close from our perspective.
The ‘07 deal by contrast has an additional hedge that expires at the fifth anniversary and given the interest environment today we would expect to have a much lower cost of interest on that deal if things don’t change dramatically between now and then.
So you don’t have that correction for a refinancing.
And if I don’t refinance it it will have a – we expect it to have a lower interest expense from the middle of 12 forward.
Given it’s a bigger portfolio it’s a younger portfolio I think the chances of finding a way to do some refinancing are higher than the 06’ deal but we are not making a foregone conclusion in either direction.
Our main message is we would be perfectly comfortable lending a continued run.
Once it reached cash strap mode it’s a non-recourse financing it has very attractive costs associated with it and as I said we believe we can raise capital to grow the business outside of that structure.
That’s great.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
And our next question comes from the line of Jim Altschul with Aviation Advisory.
Good morning gentlemen.
Got a couple of questions please.
You alluded – the previous question alluded to the major new entrant in the field and I believe there have been some other entities that have recently raised money for aircraft leasing do you think that’s going happen how granted.
and not everybody necessarily doing freighter conversions but freighter conversions are not the only thing you do do you think the presence of all this new capital in the space is going to drive down returns in a material way? I think it already has but it has where the – the entrants first of all have kind of come in the bit of barbell more specifically most of the new money is coming on US airplanes and the reason that’s the case is because there’s financing available and you could lever up and hopefully get a descent ROE.
The other basket has been end of life aircraft.
There hasn’t been so much new money in the middle of the market where doing it to get access to debt and historically it has come from banks but the banks aren’t playing in that market by and large.
But there is a – as I said during the remarks for the new aircraft the way I measure it I think your pre-crisis return levels.
So the premium from the downturn has been eroded away to basically zero.
It’s gotten a little bit more competitive in the middle market too and I think some of that competition is coming from people who aren’t levering.
So it is inevitable nothing lasts forever but I think there is little bit of a longer recovery period there and a bigger wind if you will for us.
But eventually that will get competed away too.
And what we are doing is recognizing that there is a – there’s been already a recovery and the new aircraft is focusing our sales efforts there that’s where we can get the return if you will.
Okay.
More technique thank you.
With reference made both in the balance sheet and the cash outflow statement to the liquidity facility there’s also been a cash outflow and a cash inflow from the – relating to the liquidity facility collateral what is this liquidity facility and are there likely to be the major demands for collateral in the near future? The liquidity facility that’s referenced in the cash flow statements refers to – in each of our securitizations and our term financing loan there’re liquidity facilities available to meet certain expenses and obligations if under circumstances which we don’t expect and have never experienced.
The portfolio does not generate sufficient cash to service all of its cash needs in any particular period.
The one that runs through the cash flow statement in 2008 one of the liquidity facility provider experienced a ratings downgrade and rather than just have a standby facility they were actually required to post collateral in a restricted account to cover their obligations.
As the deal delevers that facility is sized as a percentage of the principal balance.
So in each period as the principal balance amortizes the amount that they have to have in that restricted cash account declines and so that is the offsetting and it’s an equal amount of asset and liability on our balance sheet that will go down over time with respect to that deal.
Jim we really don’t benefit or get harmed by that one way or the other.
It’s sort of there to protect the bondholders.
And it was purely – well there’s something that came into place because of the downgrade of that provider.
As far as financial tests go both securitizations don’t have loan to value or they have collateral posting requirements or tests.
Thank you very much for you detailed answers as always to my questions.
Sure.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks.
Ron did you say when you expected to have the 747 freighters enter service? I don’t think I did.
In the case of the aircrafts acquired already there’s the one that’s just recently entered into freighter conversion.
We expect that to come online probably in the fourth quarter some point.
The other aircraft we’re kind of figuring out exactly how to balance that out.
The aircraft that has a remaining passenger lease goes out until Q1 of next year and only at that point would we expect to induct that into a freighter conversion.
The third one we haven’t decided what we’re going to do just yet.
Okay.
And just to be clear you’re going to capitalize all the acquisition and conversion costs so your reported yield might come down a little bit? Yes.
Alright.
Also (inaudible) on the sort of the large freighters and it seems to be a pretty sizable replacement to market for 737 freighters and you do own a few 737 classics.
I mean are you also looking at sort of the narrow body freighter conversion what types of returns might you see there? It’s a very different market.
We’ve played in that market in a couple of ways.
Number one we have an existing program.
There’s one aircraft left.
It’s a forward sale of 757s to a very large operator of 757 freighters.
So that last freighter – the last 757 is scheduled to be sold during fourth quarter of the year.
We’ve probably talked about this a lot but we converted several 737-400 freighters and leased them last year.
There is a market there but it’s a nicher market.
And I’m more comfortable relatively speaking with the long-haul wide-body market.
There’s a bigger customer base.
There’re people who will lease as opposed to just buy and I think there’s a bigger opportunities there.
Having said that I think you’re right.
There’s a pick-up in that but I think the opportunity the amount of focus we’ll get there would probably be relatively lower.
Okay thanks.
Sure.
And there’re no further questions in the queue at this time.
Thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you soon.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your call conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q2 2011 earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn today’s conference over to Michael Inglese Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
Inglese you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I’d like to welcome all of you to the second quarter 2011 earnings call for Aircastle Limited.
Ron Wainshal our Chief Executive Officer will start the discussion shortly but first I’d like to mention that this call is being recorded and the replay number is 855-859-2056 from within the U.S.
or 404-537-3406 from outside the U.S.
with the replay passcode of 83374902.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website aircastle.com in addition to the earnings release and an accompanying PowerPoint presentation.
I would also like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may different material from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause actual results to differ material from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC report.
I direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Mike and thanks for joining us today.
I’ll start by reviewing Aircastle’s second quarter results current trends in the marketplace and our growth strategy.
Mike will then discuss our financials and we’ll open the call to your questions.
Let’s start with a few highlights.
Q2 was a strong quarter for Aircastle providing us with good momentum heading into the second half of the year.
Our portfolio continued to perform well as we once again achieved high utilization and strong rental yields.
During the quarter we also continued to successfully place aircraft and maintain a diverse global customer base.
We’re also realizing tangible benefits from our disciplined value-added investment approach; specifically the $760 million of investments we made over the past 12 months has enabled the company to post higher revenues and earnings.
Complementing the build-in growth from the Airbus A330 program we continue to build a pipeline of acquisition opportunities so we expect to generate more than half-a-billion dollars of attracted investments in the second half of this year.
To be clear this is above and beyond the A330 program.
For these incremental investments we’re focusing on deals that offer great value and where we feel we have a competitive edge be it through our technical and dealer tenation strengths or access to unsecured funding.
Of course we’re watching macro developments closely and will remain disciplined in our acquisition approach.
Consistent with our strategy we’ll continue to seek value-add opportunities in line with our goal of generating risk-adjusted returns.
In the same vein we also look – continue to look for opportunities as we did in the second quarter to take advantage of value in the market through asset dispositions.
We have a solid track record of executing profitable aircraft sales and we’ll seek additional opportunities to capitalize on increasing aircraft prices.
That benefit from new investor interest and these sales will enable us to achieve strong returns.
During the quarter we increased our dividend 25% demonstrating the board’s [inaudible] confidence in Aircastle’s disciplined growth strategy and in the strength of our cash flows.
Given the stock market conditions we continue to review repurchasing shares as an excellent investment that complements our aircraft position strategy and dividend policy.
And as such the board recently authorized an additional $30 million for our repurchase program on top of the 60 million we completed early this year.
All in all through our strong portfolio performance a value-oriented investment program including stock buybacks and an opportunistic approach to asset sales we’re driving earnings per share growth.
Now let’s take a look as some specific operational and financial updates.
Our second quarter utilization rate was 98% and our rental yield came in at 14%.
We anticipate we’ll continue to generate strong utilization in rental units for the second half of the year and we expect to achieve 99% utilization and rental yields also at 14%.
Aircastle’s strong portfolio performance is directly related to our in-demand modern aircraft and a proactive approach to managing our assets.
92% of our fleet of 136 aircraft which are leased to 59 customers is made up of the latest-generation aircraft.
The weighted average remaining lease term for our portfolio is almost five years providing the company with a contracted revenue stream with a nice long duration.
In terms of lease receivables we have no accounts more than 30 days outstanding.
We continue make good progress on aircraft placements.
In early 2011 we had 11 aircrafts with scheduled lease expirations and since then we had an additional eight aircraft to place through their early terminations or our acquisition of off-lease aircraft.
Of these 19 aircraft in total we have new leases lease extensions or sales commitments executed for 17 leaving just two aircraft.
We’re actively marketing the last two aircraft which represent well below 1% of our fleet’s spent-book value.
Looking ahead towards 2012 to begin with we had 24 aircraft with leases expired next year.
So far we’ve negotiated lease extensions for seven of these including five A330s with extension terms ranging from 5 to 8 years.
These seven aircrafts account for almost half of the net-book value of our 2012 lease expirations helping us lock in our revenue base going forward.
We’re also making good progress on remaining aircraft and are in active discussions for most of them.
We’d like to note that [inaudible] early airlines commit to leases far in advance so we believe the progress we’ve made with these aircraft says a lot about our customer relationships the strengths of our counter parties and the demand for the type of aircraft in our portfolio.
In terms of financial performance during the second quarter we generated $143 million in lease rental revenues.
This was a 12% year-over-year increase.
Net income increased 29% to over $23 million or $0.30 per diluted common share.
This strong performance is directly related to the built-in growth from our A330 program and the investments we’ve made over the past year.
Additionally our liquidity position remains strong with unrestricted cash of $184 million at June 30<sup>th</sup> and that’s not to mention $50 million in credit facility which is undrawn.
During the beginning of the year we saw positive trends continue across key industry metrics such as traffic levels load factors and parked aircraft.
During the first half of the year passenger traffic measured by revenue passenger kilometers was up about 8% on a year-over-year basis.
This is better than the industry’s long-term growth rate of about 4 to 5% per year.
Free traffic was also up about 2% versus a huge surge in traffic in 2010 as inventories were restocked then.
More recently these trends have moderated as we’ve witnessed the slowdown in economic growth rates around the world.
Air traffic growth rates have also slowed over the past few months the overall conditions remain good.
Contributing to this was the impacts from high fuel prices; the natural disasters in Japan civil unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and economic weaknesses in Europe along with concerns about government finances in both the U.S.
and Europe.
However the strength of Asian demand in several other areas such as Latin America Turkey and Russia among others is helping to support the overall market.
I’d also note that the weak U.S.
dollar is making aircraft leases which are denominated in U.S.
dollars look really cheap for most foreign airlines.
We continue to see rental rates recover from their lows in 2009 and I’d say they’re nearly half way back relative to their peak in early 2008.
However here too we’re seeing a leveling off in overall rental rates so there continue to be big differences across aircraft types.
<br>In general we see a more robust market for modern wide bodies reflecting the relative strength of the longhaul markets and a much tighter supply picture that factors in continuing delays in the 787 program.
It also appears that longhaul premium traffic is turning a little better than short haul.
We’re seeing the slowdown in demand growth most for narrow body aircraft though notice demand for the Boeing 737 NGs particularly the 800s remains good.
Conversely the outlook for Classic Generation narrow body’s continue to be very tough as more and more operators switch over to modern aircraft and I note these modern aircraft accounts for the vast majority of our fleet.
And this is what enables the company to achieve consistently high utilization levels.
Continuing fuel price volatility is an important driver [inaudible] unless you just want more fuel efficient aircraft.
Turning to developments in new aircraft.
The past several months have been very eventful.
The Paris Air Show was a coming out party for the Airbus A-320NEO.
Airbus success and garnering a large number of impressive orders for the NEO and several major refleeting campaigns appear to have caused Boeing to rethink its strategy and they announce the re-engine 737 in response.
While we’ll need to get more clarity in Boeing’s strategy these developments have attracted a great deal of attention and we’re certainly working on learning more about both of these new and interesting aircraft programs.
<br>But overshadowed by the NEO and the re-engined 737 news were several important developments in the wide-body market that essentially amount to further delays in both existing programs and in potential new aircraft.
<br>This is quite positive for existing platforms particularly the Boeing triple 7s and the Airbus A330s.
It appears that Boeing is shifting its focus away from a triple 7 replacement and focusing it’s engineering resources towards the re-engine 737.
Remember they still have their hands full with a 787 and 747-8 programs.
Airbus announced several changes to its A-350 XWB program including further delays to their dash 1000 program to make sure that they’ve got the engine right and their shifting their initial focus to the mid-size 900 variant rather than the smaller 800.
This effectively pushes out deliveries for the program.
<br>Given these developments and what looks like a slow ramp up in 787 production we believe there’s excellent relative value as well as absolute value to be had in wide-body investments.
<br>I’d now like to discuss our built-in growth and the execution of our growth strategy.
Our A-330 program continues to remain on track.
During the quarter we delivered the third new A-330 in South African Airways.
Then in July we took delivery of a fourth unit leased to South African as well as another A-330 freighter lease to Hong Kong Airlines.
We financed these aircraft with long term ECA-back debt during very attractive rates and providing us with stronger terms on equity.
We expect that two more A-330s will be delivered before the end of this year and then our final A-330 will be delivered in the Spring of 2012.
We expect to make more than half a billion dollars in accretive new investments during the second half of this year through a disciplined investment strategy that emphasizes our value add-deal orientation.
We remain focused on deals were we believe we possess competitive advantages including our teams origination strength technology capabilities and our ability to access unsecured financing to bypass back market limitations.
<br>These advantages fundamentally speak to the value of our enterprise.
We don’t necessarily follow the pack when it comes to aircraft investments.
Our approach is born out of a rigorous critical analysis of supply and demand trends and technological developments combined with our in-depth knowledge of the market.
<br>We’re investors and in addition to the age and the type of the aircraft we believe price and income really matter.
At the moment we think it’s hard to achieve even double-digit ROEs on new narrow body’s and we believe their meaningful downside risk given the way production rates are increasing and then the new re-engine model which are on their way.
However we happen to think newer wide body’s such as the A-330s and Boeing triple 7s represent attractive investments given strong operator demand I think quality customer base and what we think of it it’s a distinctly better residual value outlook.
<br>This allows us competition for transactions in this space.
We also believe there’s very good value in mid-aged current-technology technology narrow body aircraft where prices are low cash yields are strong and customer demand continues to be good.
I think one way to summarize our view on these types of investments is that the payback to part out value is really short.
In fact I think we can achieve it before the end of the decade.
This means that we can recover our investments fully and then some well within the timeframe – within that time period and also during the early days of the new technology narrow body’s.
We think this is a lower risk and higher return strategy that capitalizes on our access to the bond market.
However we’ve seen some price appreciation here as others have begun to follow suit but we’re still very bullish on this segment of the market.
We also continue to see interesting opportunities in the air cargo sector where we’re a market leader.
Turning to dispositions we have a very strong record of executing profitable asset sales.
We’ve been able to maintain a diversified in-demand modern portfolio using a selective disposition strategy.
Since Aircastle’s founding we’ve sold 22 aircraft generating net proceeds in excess of $.5 billion with an aggregate unleveraged return of around 15%.
During the quarter we took advantage of strong asset prices particularly for new aircraft and sold a A-330 for an aggregate unleveraged return of around 50% which translated into a leverage return of even more than double that demonstrating our value-added investment approach.
<br>We’ll continue to valuate asset sales during the second half of 2011 and look to capitalize in market trends and the strong interest we’re seeing.
We expect to continue making progress this year in driving EPS growth between the Airbus deliveries our investment program I expect will have more than $1 billion in new investments coming online this year.
And this will help us generate the growth in flight equipment of 10 to 20% during the year excluding any second half asset sales.
<br>We may have we have a great balance sheet strong cash flows and a proven ability to access multiple sources of capital and this will enable us to fund our growth.
EPS performance will also benefit from continued strong portfolio results as well as our optimistic sales approach and our share buyback program.
<br>We’re quite positive on our outlook and we’re confident in the strength of our cash flows which led us to increase our dividend recently.
Aircastle is an established well capitalized lessor with a differentiated and disciplined investment strategy and deep transactional expertise.
We’re very optimistic about our ability to capitalize competitive advantages and to generate accretive growth providing superior returns holders.
I’ll now turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
Lease rental revenue for the second quarter was 143.4 million up by 15.2 million or 12% year-over-year due primarily to the impact of aircraft acquisitions net of dispositions of 18.5 million.
This increase was partially offset by lower lease rentals due to lease terminations and transition and expansion of about 3.7 million.
Due to 2011 fleet utilization of 98% and rental yield of just around 14% reflects the downtime associated with the five aircraft we early terminated in the first quarter of ’11 and we expect fleet utilization to be back up to 99% for the second half of the year and rental yield to improve slightly as well reflecting the return to revenue service of those aircraft during the second half.
<br>Total revenues for the second quarter were 148.8 million up 18.7 million or 14% year-over-year.
This increase reflects higher lease rental revenue of 15.2 million maintenance revenue increases of 1.3 million and lower lease incentive amortization of 1.9 million.
During the second quarter we early terminated a lease related to one Boeing model 737-400 aircraft and recorded maintenance revenue and reversed lease incentive amortization totaling 3.1 million as well as recorded an impairment charge of 5.2 million for a net pre-tax impact of about 2.1 million.
EBITDA for the second quarter was 142.3 million up 23.2 million for the second quarter of 2010 reflecting higher lease rental revenue and maintenance revenue totaling 16.5 million compared to Q2 ’10.
The increase in EBITDA also includes a gain on sale of 10.3 million from the sale of 1 A-330 200 aircraft.
The impact of these items was partially offset by the impairment charge of 5.2 million.
Adjusted net income plus depreciation and amortization for the quarter was 82.2 million a year-over-year increase of 2.4 million.
This is due primarily toh the increase in lease rental revenue of 16.5 million partially offset by an increase in adjusted interest expense of 9.3 million and the 5.2 million impairment charge discussed earlier.
Adjusted net income from the quarter was 20.6 million up 0.1 million year-over-year reflecting the increase in total revenue of 18.7 partially offset by increases of 4.2 million in depreciation 9.3 million in adjusted interest expense and the $5.2 million impairment charge.
Depreciation expense for Q2 was 58.6 million and at the end of the quarter our monthly run rate deprecation was around 19.6 million.
Reported interest net for the quarter was 55.9 million which was higher by 15.7 million from the prior year and reflects a number of items in the quarter related to the sale of one A-330 aircraft which totaled about 7.5 million.
The 7.5 million that’s comprised of lower termination fees of 3.2 million a non-cash write-off of deferred financing fees of 2.5 million and a non-cash accelerated write-off of deferred hedge losses totaling 1.8 million.
<br>The balance of the increase in interest expenses was due to higher weighted average debt outstanding of 2.7 billion during the quarter compared to the prior year of 2.4 billion and slightly higher overall weighted average interest cost.
In Q2 2011 our tax provision was in an effective rate of about 6.2% and reflects the revenue and income sourcing mix in the portfolio during the year.
For the full-year of 2011 we expect the effective rate to be in the 6 to 8% range.
At quarter end our annualized lease rental run rate for the portfolio was about $566 million up which a little more than 95 million was being generated from 20 aircraft we own outright without any financing related incumbrance.
Looking ahead to Q3 2011 we expect annualized lease rental revenue run rate at the end of the third quarter to be about $591 million.
This figure reflects the combined effects of our July A-330 deliveries as well as four of the aircraft off lease in the second quarter which have returned to revenue service and acquisitions that we’ve closed to date.
In the third quarter we have no scheduled lease transitions and so we would not expect to record any maintenance revenue during the third quarter of 2011.
Our amortization of net lease discounts and lease incentives is expected to range between 4 and 6 million during the third quarter.
We ended the quarter with 184 million of unrestricted operating cash 185 million of restricted cash and $50 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
With a strong balance sheet and steady cash flows and access to capital we’re in an excellent position to support the growth initiatives take advantage of attractive investment opportunities all rewarding shareholders through our recent 25% increase to our quarterly dividend and an increase in the authorized amount for our stock repurchase program.
As we previously discussed we believe that repurchasing our stock at current levels represents a very attractive use of our capital and as such our board authorized an increase to our stock repurchase program by $30 million.
Through July we’ve purchased 4.9 million shares representing approximately 6.2% of the shares outstanding at year-end 2010 at an average cost of $12.21 per share for an aggregate investment of 60 million.
The recent increase of 30 in availability gives us a total program size of 90 million between investments made to date and the additional authorization.
<br>At the end of the quarter we had 2.7 billion of secured and unsecured borrowings with net debt outstanding of approximately 2.5 billion which is 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
Our net debt to equity ratio excluding the mark-to-market on our interest rate derivatives was approximately 1.6 to 1 at quarter end.
And we are in compliance with all relevant debt conveyance and test.
During July we took delivery of two new A-330 aircraft one in passenger configuration on lease to South African Airways and one in freighter configuration on lease to an affiliate of the Asia A Group.
Both deliveries were financial 12 year ECA supported terms loans with fixed interest rates ranging from 3 to 3.1%.
To conclude the business continues to perform very well and the contribution from our second half 2010 acquisition along with the Airbus program deliveries during the first half ’11 are now beginning to be realized.
With strong liquidity position and proven access to capital combined with the expected cash flow performance from our existing portfolio we expect to continue generating organic growth and earnings in the portfolio for the balance of 2011.
<br>With that operator we’re happy to open up the call to questions.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Jamie Baker with JPMorgan Hey Ron good morning.
Morning.
Just a question – first question I’m wondering if you took a look at Aero Turbine or the FLY portfolio that it turns out they’re buying.
I’m not going to comment on any specific things Jamie but we try really hard to be in the mix of everything that is out there.
And that is something we have always strived to do and always expect to do.
I would say in general I was surprised up until this point at how little M&amp;A activity has taken place which is why we have always focused also on the aircraft-by-aircraft approach we’ve taken and in that vain I’d note that since our founding we have done business-we’ve originated deals from 68 different transactions with 57 different counter parties so it’s good to generate the base hits.
We try to look at the multiple base hits as well and I think between the two things we could generate some pretty good growth.
I guess that is a pretty good segue into the second question which is if the core business is as attractive as you say and I’m not challenging you on that point and if there are future potential deals like this why precisely is it that you are increasing your dividend and returning capital to shareholders? It’s a balancing act.
I think the stock in our view is really undervalued.
Stock buyback makes sense but as we’ll demonstrate I think in the coming months some of the investments that we’ve put on the books recently are extremely accretive.
I think we will be able to generate some attractive returns from those and as far as the dividend approach goes we were formed as a dividend paying company that’s kind of the philosophy that we continue to spouse that’s what our board is thinking about.
I think over the long term eventually people will value that.
You can’t change your dividend policy every quarter and expect people to give you credit for that.
That’s certainly true.
Okay I appreciate the color Ron.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets  Good morning thanks for taking my question.
First question involves lease rates.
You mentioned you have 24 aircraft with leases expiring in 2012 and given the current taste of lease rate increases do you see lease rates coming down on those aircraft as they get released or do you think you’ll be relatively flat? It’s a little early to be dialing in a specific number for you for 2012 Scott but I think it is important to understand what the reference point is in the first place.
As aircraft get older our expectation and I think the reality is that rates go down.
So I like to think of it in a real simple way of for every year or so you’ll see a 5% decrease in rental rates so with an average lease term of around five years good same-store comparison starting point is about 25%.
Now you’ve got all sorts of cyclical effects and a lot of noise around that but I think probably a reference point you ought to think about when you look at us and our peers.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful.
You mentioned capital management being a key part of the business story are there any comments on the debt that limit the ability to manage capital either through dividend or buy back? No.
The only covenant we have in our high yield indenture has a restricted payment baskets that could potentially limit buybacks over time but it’s a basket that grows with net income overtime less dividends.
So it’s something we are conscious of and keep in mind but it hasn’t limited what we’ve done or what we intend to do in the near term with respect to dividends or buy backs.
Yeah Scott the other thing we have to think about though is we have several constituents.
Obviously shareholders count.
If we go-take in to extreme – if we do a very huge buy back or a huge dividend declaration that could have an impact on the credit rating agency review of our company.
So it’s a matter of making sure that we are balancing access to capital in several different channels.
Okay fair enough.
Then I guess more on the capital management but stock price is obviously very cheap relative to the book value and buying back stock here is highly accretive to book and EPS but how can you I guess you mentioned before you can’t change your dividend policy every quarter.
But in terms of looking at aircraft and where aircraft returns are how do you balance the buyback idea?  You have the goal of I think a billion dollars’ worth of aircraft being put on the books but how do you balance the returns you generate from buying new aircraft versus the buyback which to me on an adjusted basis it seems like it would be hard to beat a buy back at this level.
It’s a judgment call and as I’ve said before there are some practical limitations about how much you can do in the way of buybacks but I think as we might demonstrate over the coming quarters we’ll have some run rate economics that are attractive on the acquisitions we make.
I think asset sales that you might look to down the road might be pretty compelling so there is a certain attraction – a huge attraction-in terms of the buy back but I think the acquisitions we’ve put on in the last year are really really positive.
Okay thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you gentlemen.
Good morning.
Mike did you say that interest rate on the last two  d30’s was in the low 3’s? That’s correct.
So that’s a big step down from the prior and that’s just a function of the reference rate coming down? A combination of reference rate an [inaudible] particular lenders yes.
Okay and I want to go back to Scott’s question Ron about the 2012 lease – the re-leases.
You mentioned that you’ve extended at least five of the A330’s I think most of those are with one customer.
Using your rule of 5% are you implying something like a 40-50% decline in the prior lease rate? No.
I’m assuming there is an average five-year lease term so I’d say more like 25% is a good reference point.
Okay and that would be a decent estimate of what you restruct those A330’s at? I think that’s a good estimate of what we did as far as the overall portfolio goes.
There is a lot of noise when you look at individual aircraft deals.
Okay.
Also can you give us an update – back in April you sort of strongly suggested that you were looking at the unsecured debt market.
What are the terms looking like there and maybe size what kind of transaction you’re looking at? Our existing bonds continue to trade well.
The market has back up a little bit over the past month but the current indications are rates in the low 7’s which is as I said a little bit outside where we were four or six months ago but not dramatically and we would still consider that as a source of capital for funding acquisitions that we’re thinking of doing in the second half of the year.
Okay and one last one.
I was  a little surprised by the magnitude of the impairment charge you booked on the 37 classic I think you have maybe 15 or 16 more of those planes in your portfolio if those leases expire are we going to have sort of rolling impairment charges on these classics?  That just seems like a pretty big charge for one plane.
I think you have to look – you can’t look at the impairment charge in a vacuum you’ve got to look at it also against the maintenance revenue that offsets it.
The net number was around two first of all.
Secondly as far as the remaining classics in our portfolio each of them are situated a different way.
I think it’s important to note that we go through a fairly thorough review of our portfolio and if we think there’s some time bombs in there we have to address it.
We’ve got a lot of aircraft in different situations and in different places in terms of their values.
We have one aircraft for example that is about to turn 27 years old and that is coming off lease next year perhaps.
There is a chance it may stay on lease even longer.
I would be surprised to see anything in that kind of vain at all.
We also just sold earlier this week I should say a 737 500 for which we basically broke even so it’s really not fair to generalize.
Okay and one last one for Mike.
By the end of Q3 how much of reduction do you expect to see in the PDP balance on the balance sheet? I honestly don’t have that number in front of me Gary but I think we’ve said in the past that we basically pay about a third of the purchase price of the plane in PDP’s before a plane is delivered.
So we’ve had two delivered in July and one deliver in – will be delivering-in September so round numbers that’s about 30 million per plane.
Okay thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Gentlemen could you give us a little color about the four additional aircraft purchases that you have scheduled for the rest of the year just in terms of types of aircraft and timing on this? Sure a little bit.
We’ve previously announced the A-330’s and Mike has alluded to two we have coming the rest of the year.
We’ve got still to come another 747.
Maybe the best way to answer that Arren is not just in the context of the core but also in the context of what we have coming in general in this half a billion we are targeting for the second half.
We’ve consistently identified three different buckets as where we see there being relative value or places where we can in particular use the competitive advantages that we have.
One of them is in regards to the Freighter sector.
We have been in the program of buying 747’s and turning them in to Freighters.
Those are extremely attractive deals.
There is a limit to how many of those you can do but that is one of the aircraft that we have coming on board.
Then we have a mid-aged narrow bodied bucket.
I think in particular we’ve been focusing on the mid-size variance the A320’s and the 737 800s for the reasons I mentioned during the prepared remarks.
We see there being really great yields on these aircraft with a lot less down side than many of the other investments out there and a lot less competition.
The third bucket which is one that we haven’t delivered on yet but we are working really hard on it is these high quality wide bodies.
In some ways they are similar to the A330’s and that’s an asset type we’re interested in.
We also really like the triple 7 ERs.
We don’t see a replacement for those coming in maybe even this decade.
So when you think about cash yield minus depreciation and you compare that to other things out there plus the financing availability on these wide bodies we think these are pretty compelling ROE’s so I think you’ll see the second half pipeline both committed in what’s to come in a mix of those three.
I can’t tell you exactly where it depends on how deals come in.
Okay and then on your assets sale strategy is selling some of the new aircraft where do you expect to use the proceeds from the new dues?  [inaudible] and fund these new aircraft purchases or I guess you’ve kind of alluded to potentially using some toward additional buy backs.
Well cash if fudgable but I think that is a good way to look at it.
In many ways I was thinking about the use of the proceeds from the A330 sale toward funding our stock buyback program and I think that is an incredibly accretive combination but as far as our asset sales program goes as I’ve said during the remarks our initial focus and I emphasize initial was on the new aircraft for which we saw a huge recovery in terms of market demand.
I think you’ll also see us do other aircraft sales.
Sales of aircraft where we’ve bought the aircraft added value now we’re going to capitalize on it.
So you’ll see a little bit of that I think over the next few quarters.
So I think that also reflects the recover beyond brand new aircraft.
Okay then lastly the early termination in the 737 are you scrapping that aircraft or are you trying to release that? I don’t think this is a scrapper but we are exploring three different options.
One is sales one is releasing as a passenger and the other is releasing as a trader.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale with KBW Thank you and good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I would just be curious at this point to get your perspective on how you are managing and thinking about your business vis a vis what’s going on with the global economy certainly the US economy also taking that in to account.
But if people are increasingly talking about the risk of a recession here and you have a global business which I think is a good thing but people have talked about slowing trade flows we’ve seen some sort of a slowdown in air traffic so how seriously are you viewing some of these risks if you look at the next year or two and is anything you are doing differently to position your business for weaker macroeconomic environment globally? Good question.
I think it’s important to emphasize just to kind of set the table here that our business is a function of GDP.
Air travel growth is a multiple historically.
It’s not a multiple of US GDP it’s a multiple of global GDP.
So things in the US are certainly weak and certain parts of the world are also weak but on balance the world economy is still growing at an okay rate.
As I mentioned during the remarks we’ve seen year to date growth of around 80% in the passenger part of the market which is pretty good.
It’s slowed down a little bit but we’re still in pretty positive territory.
We’ve done a couple of things in terms of de-risking if you will.
First of all from a lease place in perspective we’ve taken care of almost half of the net book value from next year’s roll off so from a revenue risk perspective we really think we’ve chopped that down.
In terms of the acquisition strategy we’ve taken less kind of spec risk in the way –what I mean by that is buying aircraft without a lease in place.
We’ll take a little bit more of a careful approach in terms of which aircraft we buy and who the customers will be and maybe nailing that down a little more solidly before we execute.
I don’t take the view that the economy is headed for the toilet.
I think it’s certainly slowed down but remember in our sector there is an awful lot of old aircraft replacement that needs to take place and even if your aircraft isn’t brand new if it’s a better technology you will find demand.
That’s why the classic aircraft there’s still a couple of thousands of those floating around are being cycled out and there’s still good opportunities for us to number one place an aircraft and number two make new investments.
Okay thanks for the perspective Ron.
It just seems like the secular growth story is certainly quite positive for the leasing industry and the aircraft industry.
You talk about the re-fleeting and the growth of emerging markets.
It’s just how will companies navigate the next two or three years of the significant slowing.
You talked a little bit about your asset sales strategy and you’re focusing more at least in the near term on newer aircraft then maybe you could sell some of the old aircraft.
But it sounds like this is an opportune time to sell as many aircraft as you can and try to do the opposite of what most others seem to be doing which is placing orders for buying new aircraft so it seems like you were doing a little bit of that in your strategy but I just wanted to flesh that out a little bit so your perspective is helpful.
I think of us as relative value investors okay.
In many ways like many of your customers.
In some cases the market runs up in terms of value for certain assets and in some cases the assets are undervalued.
I happen to think right now that newer assets particularly the narrow bodies are extremely overvalued.
I think the mid-aged aircraft are undervalued.
I think the end-of-life aircraft seem over valued to me.
That is the first point.
The second point is part of what we do is also buy add value and sell.
That’s one of the things that separates us from our competitors.
So the A-330 that we sold it was an acceleration of our orders.
We effectively did a sale lease back for [inaudible] during the financial crisis and that was an extremely value additives deal.
It provided [inaudible] with funding at a tough time and it provided us with a good deal we put the lease in place and harvested that gain.
There are other types of value add we’ll look to harvest some of those games too and redeploy the money attractively whether it’s through share buybacks dividends or other investments.
Okay that’s helpful and then just lastly in terms of the air cap and the sale of the Air Turbine business I know you wouldn’t specifically talk about if you looked at that transaction or not but as I understand you don’t currently possess those kind of MRO capabilities in house.
Is that something that you would also seek to do?  Their rationale was you have a relatively new fleet compared to [inaudible] so it made strategic sense to set it off but you tend to be more value conscious in I guess the types of stuff that you buy.
So the extent that you have an older fleet would it make sense for you guys to build that capability or buy it or try to expand in that direction at some point? Well I think the first thing I’d say to that Sameer is remember 92% of our fleet is current generation which means it’s a long way away from being parted out.
So that kind of capability is not an urgent need.
We’ve sold a few classics here and there over the last years but I don’t think that merits a flow oriented business like Air Turbine.
From a far it looks like [inaudible] can certainly generate a lot of flow for air turbine and that’s a good fit in that regard.
So I think that developing those capabilities is something we’ve looked at from time to time.
We’ll continue to look at-not necessarily from a defensive perspective but just in terms of attracting new business.
Terrific that’s all I had.
Thanks Ron.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Pickerton with Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
Hi Josh.
You mentioned a couple times today about seeing some opportunities in the wide-body space and the triple seven in particular.
Would you guys consider doing another new order directly with the manufacturers or is this more of a secondary market opportunity?  We look at everything all the time but I’ll say in general the time to get the manufacturers is when they’re hungry.
I don’t think any of the manufacturers are particularly hungry right now.
They’ve got order steams that are sold out for years to come.
It doesn’t seem to me like this is where there’s value.
And remember when you do a new order as we have you have to wait a few years for the airplanes number one.
So you’ve got a capital commitment for a number of years to come.
And you take the risk of funding right?  That’s – that might be a perfectly acceptable risk but you also need to be compensated for that in my view.
Another set of risks you take are who will your customers be and what will the economics on the deal be.
So it really is a speculative play.
Now if you’re compensated for that versus doing here-and-now deals where you know what the economics are going to be and how you’re going ot pay for it great.
I think it’s really hard to achieve that in the market today.
And don’t forget you have to make predelivery payments along the way to the manufacturers and that’s sort of a drag on cash.
And that’s one of the things that you know drove own our financial metrics last year.
And that’s one of the things that’s driving them up this year as we take delivery of aircraft.
So new orders are attractive on the surface in terms of having the “built-in growth” but you also have to happy living with those.
That makes sense.
And then you guys have talked a bunch today about how you’re seeing you know increased competition in the markets for new narrow bodies and how there’s lower returns in that market.
Are you seeing any of that in some of the new money coming into the space flowing out of that new narrow body market into some of the markets you guys have traditionally focused on like the cargo or the mid-life narrow bodies?  Are you seeing increased competition in that as well?  Yeah it’s creeping in.
I would say it’s a flood but it’s starting to creep in.
Just to use numbers I think of returns that – unleveraged returns on new narrow bodies right now in the 5 6 maybe if you’re lucky 7% territory and when you add on the traditional European bank debt which is what people do here you’re barely squeezing into the double digit ROEs if that.
Now that’s based on my subject view of what residuals are but that’s kind of the value set that we imply in terms of evaluating our opportunities.
I think of the unleveraged returns for these mid-aged narrow bodies as being in the double digits.
All right so a lot of guys that are frustrated by number one a lot of competition at very low batting average in terms of getting deals done are saying you know what I’m not going to bid on this new sale leaseback.
Instead I’m going to go buy an 8 10 12-year-old new generation narrow body and even if I can’t get that I’m still making the same total return.
I think of that as much better proposition and I think a lot of other people are agreeing now.
That’s great.
That was all I had.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Light with Citi.
Hey everyone.
On the impairments a comment they might give you seven would that offset higher maintenance revenue on that plane? Yeah.
We basically had about $3.1 million of maintenance revenue and lease incentive reversal to offset the 5.2.
So the net P&amp;L impact was about $2.1 million.
And would you say that’s par for the course for any aircraft particularly that generation if there is an impairment of say roughly half offset by the additional maintenance revenue you have which you won’t have to give back? I think it’s hard to sort of generalize it Andrew but I think as Ron tried to point out earlier you know the impairment in and of itself as a number we do not see as some indication of value of the classic fleet that we still own.
And what the accounting will be for any particular circumstance is going to depend upon the lease and where the lease is in its life if and when you get to that kind of a point.
Okay.
And just a final question.
On the A330 you sold to a competitor seeing I mean a nice kind of gross profit of 10 million or so but then you know large financing fees are offsetting that.
I mean I guess it all has to do with the [inaudible] financing you got for that plane.
How – I mean is there an optimal time in which to sell planes so you avoid most of those fees?  Well there’s a couple things.
There are a number of non-cash charges there.
Part of it was the ECACs that we paid in connection with this aircraft and that’s one of the – there’s nothing that’s completed for free.
When you do the ECA or the EM financings the interest rates are in today’s terms like 3%.
And that’s great but it’s an impediment those fees if you pay up front you can’t recover them when you sell the aircraft so that’s an impediment in terms of aircraft sales.
So that’s something that we’re thinking about going forward in terms of how our future delivers should be funded.
We have the commitments available in that respect but it’s sort of a balancing act.
But much of the rest of that Andrew were hedge rate costs and there’s a lot of non-cash costs that were I’d say 8330 hedging programmatic costs that were done years ago.
And I think of that as the sum cost and it doesn’t affect how we think of the incremental economics on keeping or selling.
Right.
So the key driver is really liquidity that the sales generate rather than necessarily the EPS impact?  Yeah I mean one of the things we do for each of our acquisitions is we say what’s the capital return?  Can we do better with that capital investing it today.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Streeter with JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Ron now that Boeing has sort of laid it’s cards out on the table regarding a re-engine 737 we sort of have clarity for the most part I guess for the next 5 or 10 years in terms of what’s going on with – I think these major aircraft programs.
I mean maybe that’s triple 7 refresh gets moved up a little bit now that they’re going down this path et cetera.
And I’m just wondering what implications that might have for your strategy just across the major aircraft programs given the fact that Boeing has gone down the re-engineing route or maybe there’s no change to you strategy.
I’m just curious to your thoughts.
I think it absolute validates both in EO and the re-engine 737 validates our approach which is to focus on the early part of the product run of this technology.
It’s our view as a fundamental kind of investment matter that buying the last off the line is never a particularly good idea because you’ll need to get a great price to compensate for a shorter life.
Right?  Within a family of aircraft you’ll have some differences over time in terms of performance but they’re small and they tend to vary over the maintenance cycle within that generation.
The step change happens when there’s new technology like this NEO or the deploying equivalent.
And it’s a low-worn path in terms of you know when you look at the very end of the product life things don’t look as good in terms of performance.
Now I think what’s different this time is the extent of the install base of current technology aircraft.
It takes a long time for even the existing technology aircraft to be replaced.
If we go back and look at the classics Mark you’ve had aircraft that have been competing with the new technology now for well over a decade.
And yet you know between 25 and 30% are out of service meaning about 3/4s is still flying around.
Let’s project out to 2016 or so when people are saying they’re going to introduce a new aircraft.
We think the install based of A320s with current engines are going to be almost 6 000.
That means that the current product rates will take 10 12 years to replace those aircrafts assuming there’s zero growth.
It’s a little bit less in terms of the new generation aircraft but the same kind of timeframe.
So if you’re – let me give you a numerical example in that regard.
Let’s say I buy a 12-year-old A320.
Let’s say I’m buying it for 16 $17 million and I have a lease of I don’t know 250 a month for another 2 ½ 3 years and then I leave it again for another six years at 150.
I think that’s kind of representative of the market.
During those two lease terms which will expire well before the end of the decade I’ve well more than recovered my investment.
And that doesn’t count any part-out value.
I think that’s really safe business.
And it has a lot of value because that aircraft is still going to be in it’s early 20s and there’s still going to be very few of the NEOs and I think that’s a much better proposition than buying something in ’12 or ’13 or ’14 and really hoping on keeping several lease terms together in the face of a significant improvement in technology.
Great.
Thank you for the color.
Just a question for Mike.
I’m wondering if you can just update us on how you’re thinking about your liability management in there from a swaps perspective and hedging interest rates and so forth in light of the securitizations you know one moving to the full amortization another one perhaps down the road and just refresh my memory in terms of how those swaps match up or how you’ve locked in your floating rate exposure and how you’re thinking about that going forward.
Sure.
On the first securitization in the 06 field a swap is in place at roughly 5.5 and 3/4s through the middle of 2016.
So given that portfolio where it is and the asset pool we feel pretty good about that rate and it’s ability to take care of itself over time.
In the second deal which reaches it’s cash trap mode in the middle of 2012 the swap that’s in place today at about 5 ½% expires at that time.
So we’re evaluating a new swap strategy at today’s sort of historic low rates to put in place post mid-2012 in the context of what we could do to refinance the overall deal in its entirety.
So we’re looking at both of those options and haven’t concluded just yet which path we’re heading down.
Mark I think if you were to try to affect a swap in today’s interest rate levels you’d be looking at a rate less than 3% fixed.
Well yeah.
I guess what I’m getting at is on that second securitization you know are you contemplating just letting the swap expire and just floating for a while given how low rates are and the potential to maybe refinance that down the road as you move more towards – I guess that’s kind of a balancing act right?  If you feel like you’re going to fund yourself more with unsecured debt going foward and so forth you don’t necessarily want to lock in for a long term the interest rate on that second securitization given that you’re already locked in on the first one.
I’m just wondering how you’re thinking about it I guess.
Well the securitization requires us to hedge a certain amount of the expected notional on a go-forward basis.
So when we reach that fifth anniversary if we do not refinance that deal we will have to put some form of interest rate hedging in place for a forward-looking period under the terms of that securitization.
Yeah I think just fundamentally also Mark there’s – there’s been a few players over time that have taken an interest rate risk-barring strategy and sometimes it works out and sometimes it really doesn’t.
I think if you really wanted to do that you could go buy an interest rate hedge and our stock at the same time.
Almost all of our aircraft are fixed-rate leases.
Right?  So we tend not to take too much of a floating rate exposure as a philosophical matter to our funding base.
Okay.
That makes perfect sense.
And then last question Ron this one’s back to you.
I’m wondering how can we measure the Hazy effect on the business here now that Airlease is public?  I guess I’m wondering have you noticed is there anything anecdotally you can tell us about just your requests for meetings you know interest in this space that you’re seeing from the buy side?  Has there been a favorable sort of Hazy impact on Aircastle?  Look I think the fact that there’s another player in this space is a positive and if here’s another player on top of that that’s a positive too.
Our sector is in terms of market capital pretty small and it’s sort of a strange dynamic in the sense that most of the biggest clearers are not public and that’s in contrast to most the other modes.
Having more participants attracts more analysts coverage it attracts more investors and I think that’s all positive.
And I think the fundamental performance of the sector has also been pretty darn good and I think that also attracts investors and analysts in the like.
But have you noticed increasing requests for meetings or anything like that?  I think there’s been increase in investors for sure.
Whether it’s because Steve Hazy – it’s anybody’s guess.
We don’t ask them.
Okay.
Just wondering.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Valentin with FBR.
Thanks for taking my follow up.
Just with you know the relatively large build out or additions you plan in the back half of the year I assume you’re talking to lenders right now and I’m wondering what you’re hearing from them given what’s going on in Europe and concerns about solvency of some of the banks in Europe typically they’ve been pretty large lenders in the space.
We are looking at a lot of different options and what we exactly do depends on what we exactly buy.
If we look to buy middle-aged narrow bodies current technology we’re not going to be funding those with a bank most likely.
That’s outside of their zone.
It’s one of the reasons we have a better return profile.
The buy market is still good as Mike said before.
The bank market is there.
I mean we’re as an attractive counterparty as anybody out there.
I think the issue is that the banks are wrestling with a number of the topics that you mentioned.
There’s capacity available today.
I don’t think there’s a deep pool of capital available and I’m concerned about where that goes down the road.
That really underscores why we think it’s such a competitive advantage to have the bond market access.
Most of our standalone peers – standalone leasing companies don’t do that.
They don’t have a credit rating they don’t have the track record.
It will be much more difficult for them to do what we’ve done from a capital structure standpoint.
Okay thanks very much.
Sure.
And our next question comes from the line of Adam Tuckman with Golden Trees.
Hi guys.
Just wondering if you’ve seen any of the pre-911 securitization deals that are in wind down or liquidation mode if you’ve seen an increased offering in aircraft for sale?  Yes.
In a word.
Thank you.
The struggle with those Adam is they’re really complicated and they need to kind of deal with a bunch of concentration limits.
Yes.
And there have been some deals where there’s been efforts to get approvals to modify those or to soften those.
And I think those are probably the prudent things to do from a portfolio management perspective but yeah that’s one of the things we’ve seen as an interesting opportunity set.
Yep okay thank you guys.
Sure.
And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I want to thank everyone for joining us today and I look forward to talking with you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your call conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Aircastle Q3 2011 earnings call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
I would now like to turn today’s conference over to Michael Inglese Chief Financial Officer.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I’d like to welcome all of you to the third quarter 2011 earnings call for Aircastle Limited.
Ron Wainshal our Chief Executive Officer will start the presentation shortly.
But first I would like to mention that this call is being recorded and the replay number is 855-859-2056 from within the US or 404-537-3406 from outside the US with the replay pass code of 20331845.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website <a href="http://www.aircastle.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.aircastle.com</u></a> in addition to the earnings release and an accompanying PowerPoint presentation.
I would also like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC report.
I direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks for joining us today.
I’ll start by touching on Aircastle’s third quarter 2011 results then I’ll discuss what we’re seeing in the market.
Finally I’ll cover our strategy.
Mike will discuss our financial results in more detail.
Then we’ll open up call to your questions.
Let’s start with a few highlights.
Q3 was another strong quarter for Aircastle.
We continued to manage our portfolio effectively and to benefit from the earnings power of more than $1 billion of investments made since the beginning of 2010.
These acquisitions have been very profitability and it reflected value-added orientation of our investment approach.
They’ve enabled the company to post higher year-over-year result to Q3 and consistently throughout this year.
We’ve continued to source attractive new investments.
So far during the second half of 2011 we’ve invested about $470 million in acquisitions including more than $250 million since the end of the third quarter.
Among the 12 aircrafts we’ve acquired since September 30<sup>th</sup> is our first Boeing 777-300ER which is on a long-term lease with Cathay Pacific.
During the third quarter we also continued to unlock value from our portfolio through asset sales.
We generated approximately $9 million in gains before certain noncash charges in the sale of two aircraft.
One of these aircrafts was a 747 freighter we had purchased off lease last year put through maintenance and then placed on a long-term lease with a leading Asian airline.
Once again this illustrates the value we bring to the table.
During the quarter we completed our previously authorized share repurchase program buying in additional 2.6 million shares at a cost of $30 million.
In total we purchased 7.6 million shares or approximately 9.5% of the company’s common shares at a total cost of $90 million.
Today we announced – our Board approved a 20% increase in our fourth quarter dividend.
This will be the 22<sup>nd</sup> consecutive quarter we’ll pay a dividend.
The quarterly dividend is now 50% higher than the level at the beginning of the year.
These actions demonstrate the Board’s and management’s confidence in Aircastle’s ability to generate strong cash flows as well as our commitment to creating shareholder value.
Now a few words on our financial performance.
In the third quarter we generated nearly a $146 million in lease rental revenue representing a 9% year-over-year growth.
This is attributable primarily to an increase of $19 million in rentals from aircraft acquisitions net of dispositions.
Net income increased a 164% to $22.7 million or $0.31 per diluted common share.
Our liquidity position remained strong with unrestricted cash of $265 million as of September 30<sup>th</sup>.
Now let’s take a look at some specific operational measures.
Our third quarter utilization rate was 99% and our rental yield came in at 14%.
Based on our operations so far in Q4 we anticipate we’ll continue to generate strong and comparable utilization rental yields throughout the remainder of the year.
In terms of lease receivables we have only $500 000 in payments more than 30 days outstanding.
Our aircraft placements are in good shape.
We have two aircrafts left to place for 2011 both of which are A320 family aircraft and we’ve made significant progress regarding our 2012 lease roll-offs.
Looking at the scheduled lease expirees for 2012 to date we’ve secured lease placements or extensions for more of than half of these aircraft by net book value leaving us to place only 6% of our overall portfolio net book value for next year.
Weighted average remaining lease of our portfolio is five years providing the company with strong contracted revenue stream.
Turning to our view of the overall market I’ll start by noting that air travel is basically a GDP driven activity and we’ve been seeing mixed signals as global economic growth have slowed over the past several months.
Passenger demand has remained surprisingly robust.
According to IATA the International Air Transport Association through September year-over-year traffic is up 6.3% which is higher than long-term average growth rate of around 5% even if September results is reasonably good with the year-over-year increase of 5.6%.
On the other hand air cargo demand has been weak.
September was the fifth straight month where freight traffic dropped year-over-year.
While there is some trade market specific forces at work in these statistics the air cargo market has historically been a leading indicator for the passenger market.
Looking ahead we expect passenger air traffic growth rates to moderate.
With respect to supply the number of part modern technology aircraft remains very low.
But due to a combination of increasing production levels particularly for narrow body aircraft and diminished business confidence we don’t expect to see a continuation of the cyclical recovery in rentals that we’ve been enjoying during the first half of this year.
More specifically rentals for Airbus narrow bodies are weaker than for a comparable Boeing models as evidenced by growing rental premium for 737-800s versus similar A320s.
Additionally smaller variance such as the A319 and the 737-700 are in less demand reflecting what we think of is the fundamental shift in demand for short-haul aircraft towards larger models.
In contrast the outlook for wide bodies is brighter both because demand for long-haul premium travels held in and due to low levels of new supply mostly due to delay in the 787 deliveries.
The biggest change in our industry over the past several months has been in the financial market.
During this time we’ve seen a further contraction in the traditional aerospace bank market with several leading trench banks cutting back on new business or even worse closing up longstanding aircraft finance departments.
We believe this is part of a longer-term structural issue leading to a diminished role for banks in respect to the overall aviation finance market.
And while bank capacity remains available to finance new aircraft for stronger counterparties we believe it will be more difficult for small and weaker aircraft fliers to get financing from banks.
Financing for mid-age aircraft remained limited.
We expect banks will account for a smaller share of the new aircraft financing market and once again export credit agency backed financing will pickup the slack.
In fact we expect the ECAs to grow beyond the roughly 30% of the new aircraft financing that they’ve held for each of the past three years.
We believe this elevated level of ECA support for such a long period of time suggested aircraft production they’ll be at levels that are not commercially sustainable.
Pricing in the US capital markets also got more expensive over the summer.
But it has shown recent signs of recovery.
Fundamentally we believe that this is a bigger and deeper pool of capital in the bank market but it’s one where credit ratings matter a lot more.
In our view Aircastle’s access to this market is a strategic differentiator particularly given the difficulty involving getting a strong credit rating.
Our capital costs plus a somewhat weaker outlook for rentals means prices are unlikely to continue to increase.
In fact for many aircraft types we believe aircraft prices will moderate and therefore we think this is a good time to buy provided reasonably the private financing is available.
As we look ahead in our growth plans we’re pleased for A320 program.
All the aircrafts are placed and have financing ECA commitment to place.
During the third quarter we took delivery of three new A320s two passenger model fleets to South African Airways and a cargo aircraft leased to an affiliated high-end group in China.
We’ve financed two of these aircraft with attractive long-term debt providing us with strong returns on equity.
We also sold one of the South African aircraft upon delivery.
And we have the contract in place to sell the six and final SAA unit which is delivering in December.
The last A320 from an order stream is scheduled to be delivered in the spring of 2012 to Virgin Australia.
Apart from this built-in growth we’ve made significant investments in the open market through a variety of channels based on where we’ve seen the best opportunities.
We’ve invested approximately $210 million during the third quarter acquiring four aircrafts including two 747-400s which we’re converting the freighter configuration.
We’ve executed long-term leases for both aircraft to Southern Air and expect them to be in service during the first quarter of 2012.
Our value-added investment strategy is once again highlighted by the acquisition conversion to long-term lease placement of these aircrafts.
As I mentioned earlier we purchased our first 777-300ER aircraft in October.
This is an aircraft type which we believe has a strong residual value outlook.
We’ve financed this investment with a $90 million term loan provided by a German bank.
To my point earlier this acquisition highlights that even in a challenging environment bank financing is available for quality transactions.
Going forward we expect new high-quality wide body deals such as this will play an important part of our investment program along those for yield year mid-age current technology aircraft which we expect to finance via the unsecured bond markets.
We think that these deals is offering returns on equity in the mid-to-high teens if not more.
All-in-all I think we’ve positioned Aircastle very well relative to our peers in regards to accessing capital.
This is important given what we believe will be a more attractive opportunity set for aircraft purchases.
Aircraft sales continued to be a core function for Aircastle though.
Our level of activity is going to be driven by the strengths of the market.
In addition to allowing us to manage our portfolio exposures asset sales also allowed to demonstrate the value added of aspects of our strategy.
Since Aircastle’s founding we’ve sold or committed to sell 25 aircrafts generating net proceeds in excess of $650 million with an aggregate unleveraged return of nearly 15%.
Importantly by utilizing a selective disposition strategy we’ve been able to maintain a diversified and in-demand portfolio while increasing our return on equity.
To sum up we see great opportunities for Aircastle.
We’re continuing to manage our portfolio effectively de-risking our revenue streams through early and continuing focus on our 2012 placements.
We have no debt maturities until 2015 and one of the lowest debt-to-total capital structures in the industry.
Very importantly we believe we’re well positioned to access capital for new investments.
We are a strategic long-term investors with a focus on achieving superior risk adjusted returns on our investments and creating value in the market through the disposition of aircraft.
Our competitive advantage is service well as our disciplined approach and expertise enables us to identify opportunities in market that generate accretive growth.
We’re confident about our outlook and the strengths of our cash flows which has led to increase our dividend once again.
We’re committed to returning value to our shareholders through our dividend program and increasing our earnings per share and our overall return on equity.
I’ll now turn it over to Mike.
Thanks.
As Ron mentioned earlier the $1 billion plus in new investments completed since the start of 2010 have driven significant improvement in our financial results.
Lease rental revenue for the third quarter was a $145.9 million up 9% over the third quarter of 2010 due primarily to the net impact of aircraft acquisitions and dispositions of $19.2 million.
This increase is partially offset by lower lease rentals due to lease terminations transition and extensions of $6.8 million.
Strong performance from the portfolio contributed to the company’s results with respect to fleet utilization which came in at 99% with a portfolio yield of approximately 14%.
We expect to come in at these utilization and yield levels during the fourth quarter of 2011 as well.
Total revenues for the third quarter of 2011 were $141.5 million up 7% from the third quarter of 2010 and reflect higher lease rental revenue of $12.4 million approximately offset by $2.5 million decrease in maintenance revenue.
As expected and discussed in our last call no maintenance revenue was recorded during the third quarter of 2011 since we had no lease terminations during the quarter.
Portfolio growth also drove improved EBITDA.
For the third quarter EBITDA was a $137.6 million up $21.5 million from the third quarter of 2010 reflecting higher lease rental revenue of $12.4 million gains totaling $9 million from the sale of aircraft and a reduction in impairment charges compared to the prior year of $6.1 million.
The impact of these items was partially offset by the $2.5 million decrease in maintenance revenue and higher maintenance and other cost of $2.9 million compared to the prior period.
Adjusted net income plus depreciation and amortization was $80.2 million or $1.09 a share for the quarter a year-over-year increase of $7.7 million.
This was primarily due to the increase in lease rental revenue the reduction in impairment charges and the corresponding decrease in maintenance revenue.
Adjusted interest expense up $3.4 million and maintenance and other costs higher of $2.9 million on a period-over-period basis.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $15.4 million up $2.8 million year-over-year reflecting the increase of $9.3 million in total revenue reduction in impairment charges of $6.1 million partially offset by increases of $4.4 million in depreciation $3.4 million in adjusted interest expense and maintenance and other costs up $2.9 million.
Depreciation expense for the third quarter was $60.1 million.
And at the end of the quarter our monthly run rate depreciation was approximately $20.7 million.
During the third quarter we recorded an impairment charge of $1.2 million related to one Boeing 737-400 aircraft which we plan to sell.
The lease on this aircraft was early terminated in the second quarter at which time we recorded a $5.2 million impairment charge as well as maintenance and other revenue totaling $3.1 million.
Reported interest net for the quarter was $48.9 million higher by $1.5 million from the previous year.
This reflects higher interest of $1.9 million driven by higher average debt outstanding and higher amortization of deferred losses of $3.4 million including an accelerated amortization charge of $1.7 million relating to the sale of our South African A330 in the third quarter.
The impact of these increases partially offsets by lower deferred financing fee amortization $900 000 decrease due to measured hedging effectiveness and an increase in capitalized interest in period-over-period of approximately $400 000.
In Q3 2011 our tax provision indicated an effective rate of about 5.2% reflecting the revenue and income mix during the full year-to-date results.
And for our full-year 2011 we expect the effective rate to be in the 6% to 7% range overall.
At quarter-end our annualized lease rental run rate of the portfolio was about $579 million of which about $94 million is being generated from aircraft we own outright with any financing related encumbrances.
And as I’ll discuss later our recent purchases will increase the size of the encumbered asset pool as well as its earnings power.
In the quarter we performed our annual recoverability assessment.
This assessment was prepared in the context of broader aircraft specific portfolio review which we assess each aircraft relative to our expectations of current and projected market conditions and trends.
Other than the 737 classic that we impaired in the quarter we recorded no other impairments during the year as a result of this assessment.
As a result of this recent assessment we did make changes to the economical life or residual value assumptions for certain aircraft types to reflect changes in market conditions.
More specifically for our Airbus A319 aircraft we shorten the economic useful life assumptions to be 22.5 years from the prior 25 years resulting from what we believe to a long-term reduction in demand for this lower capacity variance of the A320 family.
For classic and less fuel efficient narrow body aircraft consisting of the Boeing 737 classics to 300 and 400 variance as well as the Airbus A320-200 aircrafts with previous generation’s engines we reduced our end of life residual value assumptions to reflect weaker market demand and lease rate conditions for these aircrafts.
As a consequence of these changes to our estimates we expect future annual depreciation for these aircraft will be approximately $3.5 million higher than our previous annualized depreciation expense for these class of aircraft.
As part of the recoverability assessment we identified assets that are more susceptible to failing what is essentially a test of future projecting cash flow and residual values.
At the end of the third quarter we identified a total of 26 aircrafts with a net book value approximating 9.2% of the total book value of our flight equipment as being more sensitivity to changes in those contractual cash flows and future cash flow estimates and aircraft residual and scrap values.
These aircrafts comprised of the A319s which we discussed the classic narrow body aircraft as well as the number of Boeing 767-300ER aircrafts.
While the rental rates on the Boeing model of 767-300ER have remained firmed over the past year we see continued demand for this aircraft for many years.
We also anticipate a greater probability that lease rates will soften in time.
That’s the result of a continuing success of the A330 program and as the production of the 787 eventually ramps up.
Consistent with our balanced approach of providing shareholder value to investment and return of capital our Board authorized a 15% share dividends for the fourth quarter or 60% annualized a 20% increase over our previous 50% annualized rate.
This increase reflects our continued confidence in the expected cash flow generation capabilities from our existing portfolio as well as committed aircraft acquisitions.
Further as noted in today’s earnings release we’re adjusting the timing of the declaration in payment to the dividend going forward to correspond more closely with our earnings announcements.
Therefore during 2012 we expect to pay dividends in March June September and December.
With respect to our previously announced share repurchase program as Ron mentioned earlier we completed the program during the third quarter by purchasing an additional 2.6 million common shares with the remaining $30 million authorization bringing the total purchases during 2011 to 7.6 million for $90 million or approximately 9.5% of the common shares outstanding at the beginning of the year.
Turning to our liquidity position Aircastle ended the third quarter in excellent shape.
At September 30 we had $266 million of unrestricted operating cash $195 million of restricted cash and $50 million of availability under our unsecured revolver.
At the end of the quarter we had $2.8 billion of secured and unsecured borrowings with net debt outstanding of approximately $2.5 billion which is 60% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
Our net debt-to-equity ratio excluding the market-to-market on our interest rate derivatives was approximately 1.6 to 1 at quarter-end.
We are compliance with all debt covenants and tests.
During the third quarter we entered into a new five-year forward starting interest rate swap agreement for securitization number two with an average fixed rate of 1.27% which is approximately 400 basis points lower than the existing fixed rate swap for that deal.
The new arrangement begins at the exploration of the existing hedge in June 2012 and has structured the hedge approximately 75% of the expected debt balance going forward.
This reduction in rate apply to the average expected debt balance during its first year from June ‘12 to June 2013 would equal approximately $32 million in annual interest savings.
Based on the additions for the fleet so far in the fourth quarter and the expected sales activity we expect to end the year with an annualized lease rental revenue run rate of between $595 million to $605 million.
Of which a $110 million would be generated from aircraft we own outright with any financing related encumbrances.
Further when factoring in the two 747 converted freighter that’s going on lease to Southern early next year that annualized encumbered lease rate would grow to about a $127 million.
Looking ahead to fourth quarter 2011 expectations for certain other elements based on the timing of Q3 and Q4 acquisitions and sales activity and expected lease transitions we expect fourth quarter lease rental revenue to range from a $146 million to a $149 million.
Based on lease transitions we expect maintenance revenue to range between $6 million and $8 million during the quarter.
We expect amortization of net lease discounts and lease incentives to range from $5 million to $6 million.
And in connection with the contracted sale of our South African delivery in December we would expect to record a $5 million to $6 million charge as part of our interest expense related to the termination of the hedge associated with that aircraft.
To conclude with the strong liquidity position and proven access to capital markets combined with the expected solid cash flow performance from the existing portfolio we expect continuing organic growth in earnings and the portfolio for the remainder of the year and continuing into 2012.
And with that operator we’re happy to open up the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you and good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Hi Gary.
Ron you made a comment that there are some freighter market specific forces that work here which speak to the negative view to your comps.
I wonder if you could elaborate on that comment and if you see those forces easing anytime soon.
Yes.
One of the forces was last year we had a tremendous restocking of inventories as this economy recovered.
So the year-over-year comps for this year were made that much more difficult because you can’t restock twice.
The biggest issue that’s affecting the freight market is business confidence.
And when you chart what happens in the business confidence to revenue passenger kilometers time series that’s passenger travel you’ll see there is a pretty strong correlation there too.
So we’re concerned about that.
As the mix of freight travel was also very different we’re focused on long-haul trade that the passenger market is much more distributed across the world.
The weakness in the freight market by the way has been very much focused on traffic out of Asia into North America and Europe.
Freight flows in those direction are getting a little bit better and freight flows to the Middle East and South America are actually quite good.
Currency is I’m sure playing a factor there too.
Okay thanks.
If I can ask a follow-up can you – do you have an update on the status of the LOT Polish 767 to the extent of which the damage was incurred on that plane.
Yes.
That – first of all I would like to say we’re amazed by the skill of the pilot and very very relieved that nobody was hurt.
That aircraft has been toed off the runway and there is an insurance adjustment process is underway.
We expect it’s going to take several weeks before we know anything more.
But this could be like you had earlier this year or last year there could be a gain if it’s deemed in total loss and it could be material.
Yes but first we have to go through a process involving the insurance adjustments.
So it’s premature to say anything about where this is going to end up.
Yes Gary I think – this is Mike.
Just to make the main points on that topic.
The aircraft is fully insured.
When we know the outcome we’ll know what it might mean from a cash end or accounting standpoint.
And lessee is responsible for continuing to pay lease payments while this investigation is underway.
So we’re covered if you will with respect to this incident and we’ll report out what it means when we know.
Okay.
And Mike can you just clarify? You gave a monthly depreciation run rate.
Does that include the accelerated depreciation on the classic and A319s? Yes it does.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Light with Citi.
Hi good morning.
Hi Andrew.
Hi Andrew.
I have got a question on – how do you see the supply of freights both new ones and converted ones let’s say the next 12 months? And do you think that’s going to have any reputations [ph] for lease rates values? I think the supply is a very small part of the story there.
There is a couple of main sources of supply here.
One of which is the 747-8 and that’s been slow to come on stream.
But each one of those aircrafts is in fact very large.
It’s a 130 ton aircraft versus the normal 747-400 workforce aircraft which is more like a little over a 100 tons.
So say 25% bigger.
777 was the other big inflow.
And there is a lot of demand for 777s just across the board.
But I think the bulk of that supply is going into the passenger market.
So a very few actual 777s is going into the mainline trade markets.
FedEx is taking a lot of their – the ferry supply by the way and that’s sort of a different market.
In terms for conversion freighters I don’t see more than half a dozen airplanes getting freighter converted over the next year.
And I see that the freighter supply will reduce quite a lot by the continuing retirement of lesser – less efficient models.
Net-net I’d say that the supply by strength I’d say roughly level depending on the overall economic demand.
So you’re comfortable with the aircraft – with the [inaudible] sort of the freighter values and lease rates in the end of price of the declining freight market? Yes we don’t have any freighters coming off lease next year.
We have one aircraft that we have slated for freighter conversion.
That should come out at the end of next year perhaps.
That’s the extent of our freighter replacement exposure.
And we’ve done historically extremely well in terms of downturn in terms of payment performance.
In fact we went through the last downturn without any defaults whatsoever.
So there is no guarantee of future success.
But I don’t think we’re going to feel too much of an effect from what we’re seeing right now.
All right.
And just a follow-up question on the 250 million odd purchases since the quarter ended.
I mean is that what you’ve done for the year? Would you expect more purchases? I think you originally had a target of 500 to 1 billion? There is going to be a little bit more activity.
During the – we’re not – whether we achieve – I don’t think we’re going to achieve the target that we’ve set up before.
When the financial markets started slowing down we also put the breaks on our investment activity because at the end of the day we’re trying to do is to make a reasonable return on equity on whatever we’re putting to work.
The movement in the financial markets is a lot faster than that in the aircraft prices.
As I mentioned during the prepared remarks we saw a real contraction bank market capacity.
The freight market – sorry the high-yield market also got a lot more expensive.
But in the last two weeks it’s coming quite a lot.
So for us it’s a matter of being disciplined and not getting ahead of ourselves.
So I think there is a little bit more coming for this year but I think there could be a lot more coming in the early part of next year.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Chase with Barclays Capital.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Good.
How are you Gary? A couple of questions.
I guess on just sort of thinking about the some of the commentary you made again on this freight issue.
I’m wondering if you’ve got customer commentary that’s suggesting people are expecting this to last.
Just because – it’s sounds like you’re saying “Well you think the cargo market is a leading indicator you expect passenger demand to follow ” as you’re out sort of talking to less cease in general are they indicating that they expect this weakness to persist? It’s a mix story that depends on what part of the world you’re dealing with.
But I think it’s important to go take a step back and look at what’s driving all this this is basically a GDP driven activity.
And if you will look at most GDP forecasts there has been a progression of decreasing expectations.
A lot of this flows out of the concerns coming out of the European debt crisis.
I think it’s a broader business confidence issue.
And we’re seeing that reflected into demand for goods coming out of North America and Europe.
Having said that I mean if there is some sort of solutions put together that could be a positive catalyst.
But our view is that it’s going to take a while for all those things to sort themselves out.
Okay.
But sounds like nothing specific Ron.
Is that fair? Yes.
Okay.
And again it’s a geographically distinct phenomenon.
If you speak to our goods customers in Korea they’re very focused on the semiconductor and kind of high-end electronics market and that’s very much of a consumer demand driven phenomenon.
Other markets are driven by other sorts of shipments.
And then and I guess this kind of segues a little bit into my next question which is should we take your dividend increases in anyway as a read on what your view of the potential is to deploy your cash in asset acquisitions.
In other words if you say cargo is the leading indicator and you think passenger market may follow.
Is the dividend hike – I realized it’s not huge – but is the reflection of you that maybe returning cash to shareholders is going to be more rewarding than some of the things you might do in the asset markets? No I think it’s a balance Gary.
The broader economic outlook is looking a little bit more challenging than it was say a few months ago.
But historically this is the best time to buy.
It’s also – but our dividend policy is also a reflection of what we think of is the earning power of the company.
We’ve just put on line a lot of very attractive investments in the last year or two.
And broadly speaking the philosophy is to kind of reward shareholders is the earnings base growth.
Okay.
And then last kind of related – you mentioned the public markets and I recognize that you still have access to the bank market should we be thinking that you maybe want to operate with less leverage sort of on a sustained basis going forward like closer to where you are now versus say maybe 2.5 times to 3 times lever? Our strategy has been to be very conservatively capitalized.
Roughly 2-to-1 debt-to-equity type of ratio or for another way 70% debt-to-total capital.
We’re looking below that right now but these numbers kind of fluctuate quarter-to-quarter.
We think that’s the most prudent way to play in this market.
And we look at this from an overall kind of corporate perspective.
Some deals – some of our portfolio securitizations for example be delevering.
And if we were to do an incremental high-yield deal that would be more leveraged but we’re going to stay within that range.
Okay guys.
Thanks very much.
Sure thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Pinkerton with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Josh.
Good morning Josh.
Just a first question just wondering if you guys could give a little bit more color around the decision to lock in that lower interest rate on securitization number two.
And what’s the implications of that for potentially refinancing that? Is it fair to say that you maybe looking keeping that outstanding when that turbo day hits? Yes Josh.
I think as we looked at the overall environment and looked at what our basically historic low rates and the cash trough [ph] date that is in June 2012.
We thought it would be prudent to lock in a hedge at these rates which gives us a lot of flexibility around when is the right time to think about refinancing that transaction.
So we’re perfectly comfortable with this going into cash trough in June of next year.
It will delever faster with this lower interest rate.
But over time obviously we’ll look at the economic trade-off and the access of capital from that set of aircraft versus where we can access capital elsewhere to think about the right time in construct for doing something like that.
So it takes a deadline away from doing something or not doing something.
And if we keep it in place we’re required to have a hedge.
So given where rates were and are fundamentally today we think it made a lot of sense to just put that away and give us the flexibility of the right timing to deal with that particular financing.
That’s great.
Thanks.
And then kind of related to that in some of your earlier comments about the bank market and potentially the capital becoming less available there do you see it so far? Is it really an issue of access and that the lower quality credits are going to potentially be shut out or even the higher quality credits? And you guys are you seeing higher rates now or – for the people who do have access are is that money staying relatively affordable? It’s going to take a little while to kind of manifest itself because the most responsible airline will not wait until the last minute to arrange financing.
So what commitments were made I think are being honored that’s kind of what we’re hearing in the market.
But if you were to show up with an incrementally new deal and go to the bank market – if you’re something like Cathy Pacific you’ll get a good reaction.
You’ll probably pay a little bit more in the way of margin because particularly from European banks they’re going to be passing through their higher borrowing costs.
But nothing earth shattering.
But if you’re a more marginal borrower and – or you’re dealing with something that isn’t brand new you’re going to see a lot less availability.
And we saw this by the level of aircraft trading during the first part of this fourth quarter.
There was a real pickup during the summer in terms of aircraft trading activity and we’ve been benefiting for that from some of our asset sales activity.
But from what we here the reactions to new request for proposal on aircraft sales has been lot less enthusiastic and I think that’s how it shows up.
Great.
And then if I could just one more.
I don’t know if you had a chance to see this morning but one of your larger competitors they actually took down the useful lives on some of their cargo aircraft and they – down to 25 years.
And I believe you guys are still at – yours is 30 to 35 years depending on whether it’s brand new or converted.
I wonder if you had any thoughts about that and if that’s something that you considered as well.
We’ve considered cargo aircraft – every aircraft in our portfolio is part of our fleet review.
And that fleet review involved first of all kind of coming up with a business plan for each aircraft.
And all that’s sort of fed into our impairment analysis.
We’re very comfortable with where we’re at on the freighter market.
In fact I think we consider that to be one of our core strengths and one of the things that we do better than most leasing companies.
We’re comfortable with where we’re at.
Great.
Thanks guys.
The next question comes from the line of Greg Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Yes thank you and good morning.
Good morning.
How are you doing Greg? Hi.
Ron you touched on earlier in the call I guess roughly 6% of the remaining book value is going to be sort of released in 2012.
Could you talk a little bit about the asset mix of that – those remaining aircraft and sort of what your outlook is on lease rates for that 6%? Yes.
We’ve got about a dozen aircraft left.
I’m speaking from memory.
But as I recall about five of them are new-generation air body aircraft mostly Boeing aircraft.
Those will do well because the Boeing aircraft demand has been quite good.
And to – I’ll address each of these things in terms of aircraft types.
In regards to 737-800s we’re seeing lease rates even for next year placements being a little bit higher than what they were say a year earlier.
That’s a lot of say $5000 $10000 a month maybe a little bit more.
And probably the same is true for the 700s as well.
Freight 320s I see rental being down year-over-year.
Not a lot but probably about $20 000 a month per aircraft.
The other important part of what’s coming off leases we have a few wide bodies 767-300ERs and an A330.
The 767 market has kind of hung in there.
And that’s because number one the long-haul markets is reasonably good.
And I think the 787 delays just keep on contributing.
And I think those aircrafts will probably come in little bit higher in terms of rentals versus where they would have been last year.
Okay great.
And then just shifting gears a little bit you touched on some of the banking issues.
When we think about some of the French banks that provide a lot of financing and have some big portfolios have you started to hear any rumblings about the potential for maybe some of the larger French banks looking to start to unload some of their portfolios? What we’ve heard in the market and this is more anecdote as opposed to any direct conversations we’ve had has been that the difficulties they face has been primarily in sourcing long-term US dollar debt and they’re trying to reduce that exposures as much as possible.
The easiest stuff for them to sell is the stuff that’s the highest quality.
So we’ve heard that a number of French banks a number of other European banks have been shopping their XM [ph] backed or ECA backed loans and that’s as far as I know.
Okay.
Easiest things to sell as opposed to regular kind of commercial debt financings.
Sure.
And just given the fact that aircraft values have held in there and they just seems like it might makes sense for that that something that could happen over the next year or two.
I mean – and just thinking about that I mean I’m assuming that if assets do come to market it does sounds like Aircastle is in a pretty good position to maybe take down some of those aircraft.
Yes.
I think look – I think when you look at the market our investment strategy has never kind of set its tone but where we’ve seen things last month still kind of makes sense as we look forward.
The high-quality wide bodies make a lot of sense to us because number one the residual value outlook looks terrific for 777 versus say a new narrow body.
The production levels are much more managed the supply has been a lot more constraint.
And now that we know that the resources of following an Airbus are being directed towards their re-engined narrow – new narrow bodies there is a kind of a longer runway in regards to those airplanes.
There is for a good counterpart like a Cathy Pacific there will be good bank market financing and the ROEs sent from that are very good.
We think there is a very low risk and a very high return potential from the mid-aged narrow bodies we’ve talked about even more so now than say the middle year.
That all depends though in terms of its traction for us on reasonably priced high-yield bond market financings – unsecured financing.
That’s something we can do to lever our peers cannot.
And seems like the market conditions are getting better as the last couple of weeks have progressed.
Okay perfect.
Thank you very much for the time gentlemen.
Thanks Greg.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Valentin with FBR Capital.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
In the past I think you guys have talked about the core aircraft kind of I don’t know eight to 10-year old aircraft kind of middle life type of aircraft just wondering now with the change in the market some weakening of pricing has that changed your attitude at all or changed the target market? Well first of all everything is a higher rate of returned expectation being a lower price I think we can achieve it.
The placement demand for our aircraft of comparable ages remain good for the Boeing aircraft it’s a little softer for the Airbuses and the prices adjust accordingly.
So I guess I mean are you willing to incur what looks like additional risk and acquire maybe cheaper aircraft with a thought that you’ll have a rebound eventually or do you try and stay with the stronger aircraft today? In general what we’ve been trying to do on the acquisition program is take a very hard look at the market and figure out where we want to play.
A year-ago we were in content and we did very well in terms of buying aircraft with short remaining lease terms.
Right now we’re not looking to take as much placement risk on it.
Okay.
And then earlier on I think you mentioned about $500 000 in nonpayment during the quarter.
And I was just curious watch list overall has that grown maturely or is that still relatively short watch list and any new material additions? Yes just to clarify what that was.
That was accounts receivable more than the 30 days due that’s not necessarily a nonpayment.
And I think it’s important to put that in the context of a – on the quarterly rental role of a $146 million.
This is a the really really low level and you can – you shouldn’t expect – I mean that’s a terrific level.
Looking ahead at the industry and what we’ve seen in the let’s say end of the year we typically see a pickup in receivables as the year progresses and we head into winter time.
That’s when cash flow for northern hemisphere airlines tends to get a little bit thinner.
The watch list is about the same as it was a few months ago.
We’ll see how the winter goes and that’s the function of how the economy is.
In terms of weakness and strong points the strong points continue to be Turkey and Asia and Latin America.
We’re seeing weakness particularly from the smaller European carriers.
That’s been the case for a while now.
And I don’t see any major changes in that regard.
And on the return on capital front you guys have done a great job bouncing buying back stock increasing dividend return on capital shareholders.
I think you’ve repurchased $90 million worth of stock in 2011.
Just wondering how much is left.
And what your thought is there if you’re bumping up near the authorization did you reauthorize additional buybacks.
At this time Scott we have exhausted the $90 million of authorizations we had for 2011.
At this point we’ve chosen sort of a balanced marching forward to increase the dividend at this point.
But we will obviously continue to evaluate other forms including a share buyback program in the future to the extent we conclude that to make sense.
But we’re looking to balance the return to a higher dividend accretive investment growth for the business but we’re not taking share buyback out of the equation forever by any means.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
The next question comes from the line of Bill Mastoris with Gleacher and Company.
Thank you.
First question I have Mike has to do with when you think about a reasonably priced high-yield market what parameters do you think about? And then beyond that you talk about some of the opportunities that may exist out there and maybe what vehicle to use and you’ve been pretty nimble particularly with your two securitizations.
I’m just wondering how we should think about on – are you going to access the high-yield market well if you have certain rates and maybe a certain rating or you’re going to use a revolving credit facility.
And I know that – I recognize that’s a little bit comp alluded.
But any additional color that you could shed on that would be very helpful.
Sure.
I think as we think about accessing capital it’s really driven by what will you expect to see in the investments that we’re going to make and what we’ll look at in terms of what that unlevered return would be and what kind of a spread it would produce given capital markets conditions.
And so when we made our first foray into the unsecured market last year we paid a high coupon but we were looking at and concluded investments that we think will be yielding 15% on an unlevered basis.
And so as we continue to look forward and look at our accessing capital and where it makes the most sense for us we would expect when we can get those yields on the investments to be at a place where we can go into the high-yield market and justify what the existing price is.
We would expect to do that again.
In the context of other places as Ron mentioned in the fourth quarter we purchased a few year old 777.
And in the context of doing that we use cash on hand and we access secured bank market which is readily available for a high-quality asset with the high-quality credit associated with it.
This is Ron.
Put another way at the end of the day we’re looking for an ROE that’s in the high teens for something that’s going to be purchased through a high yield type of an issue and so the interest rate base percent and that the ROA is got to be at least something in the low teens.
Okay.
And then Mike you ran through I think some of the financing options do you have for forward deliveries very quickly.
I wonder if you could – and unfortunately your tone was faster than my pen.
I wonder if you could just quickly review that for all of your forward deliveries.
We only have – we have one delivery as we mentioned in December for our A330 program.
We have a contracted sale in place for that aircraft so we expect to sell it and delivery as we did in September.
The final remaining A330 position is a delivery in the spring of next year it’s on a long-term lease to Virgin Australia.
And we have ECA support for that last delivery.
We are in the process of basically pursuing ECA covered debt as well as commercial debt in the context of what the right financing is for that final delivery in the spring of next year.
This is Ron.
I’d just add one other thing in that regard.
The – I made a comment about limited bank market that’s certainly the case.
But for a new A330s for a strong carrier like Virgin Australia they’ll have some good choices.
And there are reasonably good sources of supply in that regard out of the Asian markets and the Australian bank markets.
So that’s probably one where we’ll have a number of good choices and we’ll have to balance the upfront cost of an ECA deal with a lower run rate versus the lower upfront fee and a higher run rate in terms of their commercial bank market.
Okay thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Hermione Decker [ph] with Dahlman Rose.
Thanks operator.
Hi guys I think most of my questions have been answered.
Just two clarification points.
One Ron I think you talked about A320s being seeing less value in those maybe lease rates coming down a little bit.
Are you making a distinction as to engines or are you just saying all A320s as a group? I think the engine – the popularity of one engine versus the other kind of obviously changes with the direction of the wind.
I think it’s fair to say it’s a generalization.
Okay.
And then my other question is this one of the other companies that I follow is an aircraft operator and they’ve been buying used passenger jets and then converting to freighter and they’re seeing some good opportunity in the 767 equipment type I guess for lack of a better word.
I mean just kind of wondering are you seeing similar opportunities or are they seeing it – those opportunities because they’re an operator versus a leasing company? 767 market is one that has – in theory has a good potential and is a converted freighter.
But it’s been a very very narrow operator base.
So an operator’s perspective in this context is probably a little bit different than us as a leasing company because we are really really focused on making sure that there is several choices in terms of placement and we don’t want to be held hostage to anyone – a very narrow operator base.
So we’ve been sitting on the sidelines as far as the 767 freighter conversion market goes and instead focused our resources on the 74 market which we think of it as a much broader operator base.
Right.
And what about the 757 would you put that in the same category as the 67? No I think it’s a – that’s a different market.
Those have a lot more potential but there is a lot of concentration there.
FedEx has been a huge buyer of that aircraft and have continued to be.
In fact we’ve been selling several aircrafts over the years.
The 75 market is one where – and probably in contrast to the 76 and the 74 still has some good legs in terms of passenger demand.
And so the choices that we have for our fleet and for incremental acquisitions are probably of different nature.
We think there is going to be a better set of choices in that regard.
Okay.
So you would seek more of buying used 757s to take them in passenger service for at least another lease round before converting those to freighters.
Is that a good –? That’s right.
We’ll look at how things guard.
But I think it’s important to note that when we look at the re-engine narrow bodies the 73s and the A320s really didn’t – there is really no replacement for the 75 in this new technology.
And so that’s why I’m a little more optimistic about 757 [inaudible] passengers they’ll make excellent freighters but I think we’ll have a choice.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Jon Evans from Edmunds White Partners.
Could you just maybe articulate a little bit you talked about the French banks and the dollar funding issue et cetera? I guess could you take a one step further and – if they start to get out of the market more do you believe that has positive ramifications for the spreads in your lease rates than you were actually potentially be able to make more money over time because there will be less funding out there or is that a stretch? No it’s not a stretch at all.
I think it’s a very good question.
I think you’re hitting on one of the tenants of our strategy which is – this is something that we put in place last year which was a difficult thing for a standalone leasing companies do if we get a credit rating.
We saw the contraction the bank market is starting a lot earlier than what just happened.
It started with the global financial crisis and the contraction in a number of banks number one.
Number two a lot of the banks became state owned or state supported and began focusing on their home markets as opposed to the global aviation market.
And we saw that as something that was going to continue with Basel 3 and with other forces.
And the latest episode with the French banks is just a – in some ways an accelerant.
That isn’t to say banks ceased to lending into the sector.
But if you were to look at the Asian or Australian banks as referenced before there will be a lot more name brand oriented a lot more regionally focused and less inclined to take on used aircraft or aircraft outside the region.
So for us as a leasing company having that credit rating was something that we thought as the key differentiator.
And to do that you have to develop the base of unencumbered assets.
Mike talked a lot about the earning power that we’re generating from that and that’s a growing aspect of our company.
It’s really hard from most leasing companies to do that because the standard leasing company will be financed with mortgage debt for single aircraft.
And it’s always cheaper on the margin to borrow secured versus unsecured.
Having said that if you actually do develop that critical mass it is a way of kind of getting on a different track and I think we’ve done that.
Okay.
And may I ask you one follow-up and you may not want to answer this.
But one of your competitors and you have seemed to talk – talk down the Airbus 320 a little bit.
And I guess I’m curious are you just trying to send a message to Airbus that they need to limit production a little bit since they’ve continued to ramp it or any thoughts there? I don’t think Airbus will change its production levels based on what I say on this call.
But I’m making a pure observation about what I see in terms of demand for aircraft and what we hear in the market.
And I’ll try to quantify that a little bit more relevant to some of the response I gave earlier.
It used to be the case that the premium between a 737-800 and an A320 for same new aircrafts was $50 000 a month.
And that makes sense to me because the 73s has got a capacity for extra seats.
That premium right now looks to me more like a $75 000 level.
And the same is true on the used aircraft side.
And the directions are opposite.
As I said during the remarks we see some strengthening in the 738 market not a lot but some.
It’s going in the opposite direction for the 320 market.
It’s not a political statement it’s a statement of our view of the market.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you for your time.
Sure.
And we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for participating.
Thanks everyone.
I look forward to speaking with you soon.
And this conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Q4 2011 Aircastle Limited earnings conference call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople senior vice president of investor relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Carla.
And good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited’s fourth quarter 2011 earnings call.
With me are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s chief executive officer and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We will begin the presentation shortly but I would like to mention that the call is being recorded and the replay number is 888-203-1112 from within the United States and Canada and from outside of the U.S.
and Canada the number is 719-457-0820.
The replay passcode is 2558049.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website at <a href="http://www.aircastle.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.aircastle.com</u></a> along with the earnings press release and our Powerpoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I’ll direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And I’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and thanks to all of you on the call for joining us today.
I’d like to start by reviewing our accomplishments for the fourth quarter as well as the full year of 2011.
I will then discuss the current market environment including supply and demand factors for aircraft and their effect on our levels capital market conditions and our competitive positioning.
Finally I will discuss our plan going forward before turning the call over to Mike for a review of our financials.
After Mike’s remarks we will open the call for questions.
2011 was a successful year for Aircastle capped off by a strong fourth quarter.
Throughout the year our focus on disciplined accretive growth and effective portfolio management enabled us to drive our earnings higher.
In addition by selectively selling assets repurchasing shares and executing on our Airbus new order program we increased earnings per share and return on equity substantially.
As we begin 2012 Aircastle remains well positioned to take advantage of what we believe is an attractive investment environment for aircraft.
We began the year with almost $296 million of unrestricted cash and have no other meaningful investment commitments following the completion of our Airbus program in April.
We also continue to benefit from our ability to access the capital markets as we completed an unsecured bond issue at the end of last year.
Given the significant decline in bank financing capacity and the long term structural changes that are taking place in the banking sector our ability to access the bond market provides us with an important strategic advantage over competitors.
And it also represents an important differentiator with our customers.
Looking ahead we are quite optimistic for our prospects.
I’d now like to review some of our specific accomplishments for the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2011.
For Q4 our net income was $35.6 million or $0.49 per diluted share.
For the full year Aircastle’s net income increased 89% to $124 million or $0.64 per diluted share.
Full year lease revenue was $580 million rising 9% primarily due to new investments.
In 2011 we invested about $1 billion in aircraft acquisitions including new 330s from our Airbus program.
Of this amount approximately $400 million closed in the fourth quarter including our first 777-300ER which is leased to Cathay Pacific.
We also acquired seven narrow-bodies and in December completed the purchase and leaseback of two MD-11 freighters with EVA Airways of Taiwan.
We also took advantage of attractive asset prices and monetized some of our investments through opportunistic sales.
We sold 13 aircraft for a total of $0.5 billion in 2011 generating $39 million of gains.
Of these five aircraft were sold in the fourth quarter for total gains of $10 million.
Our fourth quarter sales consisted of one new A330 leased to South African Airways as well as several middle-aged aircraft demonstrating that there is money to be made in both new and used aircraft.
In fact since our formation we’ve sold 30 aircraft generating gross proceeds of more than $800 million and an aggregate unlevered return in excess of 14%.
During the course of last year we also broadened our funding base and enhanced our capital structure.
We were able to source attractive secured bank financing for deals with high quality customers such Cathay and EVA.
At year end we also traded $150 million worth of secured debt which provides us with capital to pursue new acquisitions both credibly and confidently.
This capital will help us continue building our unencumbered asset base which comprised 27 aircraft with a year-end book value of almost $700 million.
Combining these aircraft with our unrestricted cash balance we had nearly $1 billion in unencumbered assets on December 31.
We also continued to effectively manage our portfolio.
For the fourth quarter and the full year 2011 Aircastle maintained a utilization level of approximately 99% and a rental yield of around 14%.
These are very strong results and they reflect our ability to manage effectively through several early lease terminations arising from the Arab Spring.
Our accounts receivable more than 30 days late is currently about $1 million which is a very small percentage of our quarterly rental roll roughly $150 million.
Finally we continue to return value to shareholders.
During the year we executed a $90 million stock buyback program.
We also increased our quarterly dividend by 50% to $0.15 per share to reflect the company’s increased earnings power.
Turning to the overall business environment we believe the long term outlook for aircraft leasing remains very good.
Growth in air traffic is historically averaged between 1.5 and 2 times increases in global GDP.
We see this trend continuing especially given the expanding role of emerging markets where economic growth and operating lease market share are both at relatively high levels.
Growth in air traffic which I view as a good proxy for increases in aircraft lease demand have been consistently positive and it’s in contrast to the airline profitability.
In fact there have been only three years since 1970 where passenger traffic levels contracted.
This is a much more stable time series than it is generally understood.
Over the near term we see the global economy slowing and this in turn will dampen air traffic demand growth somewhat.
Worldwide GDP growth for 2012 is now expected to be a little over 2% this year.
In the middle of last year this forecast was for an increase of 3.5%.
Significantly for our business emerging market economies are still forecast to grow almost 5% in contrast to GDP expansion of only around 1% in developed economies.
Turning to overall industry traffic statistics we believe 2011 data was actually quite good especially given the general economic tone around the world.
Passenger traffic was up 5.9% for the year while the more economically sensitive air cargo sector contracted a little over 1% during 2011.
However industry data was more positive earlier in the year and then got a little bit worse during the second half as the effects of the Eurozone crisis and other economic challenges again weighed more on business confidence.
Nonetheless the expansion in air passenger traffic throughout the year paints a positive picture for demand.
On the other hand high fuel costs have reduced airline profitability and their ability to pass along these costs through high fares has become more difficult.
Over the past several weeks we’ve seen a few carriers go out of business or begin restructuring processes.
To put it into context at the moment the airline credit environment doesn’t feel as bad to us as what we went through in 2008-2009.
But there is an increased weakness versus the year ago.
Now to talk about aircraft supply.
One of the important developments affecting our market is the level of new narrow-body aircraft production.
Compared to 2009 A320 family production is scheduled to increase by 25% by next year.
Additional increases are also being discussed.
This is also an issue at Boeing but to a lesser degree.
In our view these are significant increases in supply which we don’t believe the market will absorb well without affecting rental levels.
And while the manufacturer order books appear to be sold out for some time major reason for this is the continued high level of export credit agency financing support.
More on that shortly.
In any case for the reasons mentioned here our investment focus for narrow bodies remains on mid-aged current generation models where the investment recovery period is much faster.
I should point out that in contrast the supply picture for wide bodies remains strong.
The 787 production has really yet to take off after several years of delays and the Airbus A350 XWB program is also behind schedule.
Additionally the shift in engineering priority towards re-engining narrow-body programs means current state of the aircraft like the Boeing 777 should enjoy a longer production run.
So what does this mean for rents? In absolute terms we see aircraft rents being down generally a little bit versus last year although historically low interest rates can soften this effect for investors.
As usual market performance varies considerably across aircraft.
Airbus narrow bodies have been harder hit with absolute rental levels down 10% to 20% compared to early last year.
Demand for the smaller A319s remains particularly weak and you may recall that during the third quarter last year we decided to shorten our economic useful life assumptions for these aircraft.
In contrast rentals for Boeing 737 NGs and in-demand wide bodies like A330s and 777s are more or less flat versus the year ago.
Now a few thoughts on the financing environment.
Overall we expect the financing markets to remain challenging this year.
Adding to that we estimate the dollar amount of new aircraft deliveries will be around 25% higher in 2012 versus 2011 rising to roughly $100 billion.
This increase is due to higher production of existing aircraft types and the ramp up in 787 deliveries.
We think this growth in financing demand coupled with credit market limitations will present an excellent opportunity for Aircastle.
As I mentioned earlier the bank market is shrinking.
This is not just a near term issue but a structural one in our view.
There are simply fewer banks with aviation finance expertise that are still in business and those remaining have challenges.
This is not a new development.
It began with the global financial crisis a few years ago and it continued to last year when several of the larger French banks who long have been key players in our industry largely dropped out during the fall.
Their return looks uncertainty at the moment.
As a result of the contraction in the traditional bank market capacity and due to the increase in new delivery volumes we believe export credit agencies will account for growing share of new aircraft financing.
Historically ECAs have traditionally provided roughly 15% of new aircraft financing during stable market conditions.
However since the global financial crisis the ECA’s market share has nearly doubled to approximately 30% and we expect the ECA market share to exceed this level in 2012.
There remains to be seen how long the ECAs can maintain elevated market shares and in any case the ECA pricing is scheduled to increase materially next year.
We see the trend in our business towards U.S.
capital markets financing which is credit ratings driven.
It’s important to underscore the importance of the U.S.
capital markets given the decline in traditional pure asset based lending capacity.
At the moment bond market conditions for both secured and unsecured debt issuances are quite favorable.
We are one of only three aircraft leasing companies to have issued long term rated unsecured debt and we believe this is a strategic edge for us.
Now to cover how we are doing on aircraft placements.
Our average remaining lease term is 4.9 years.
So we have a relatively strong and long lasting contractual revenue base.
We started this year with 17 aircraft to place in 2012 and now have 12 remaining representing only about 6% of our total net book value of flight equipment.
This is a relatively modest level and reflects significant placement activity that we completed last year.
However we have two more aircraft to address due to the bankruptcy of World Airways which filed for Chapter 11 protection this month.
World filed the motion to reject leases for about half their fleet including our two Boeing 747-400 converted freighters which account for about 2.5% of our total fleet’s net book value.
We are in discussions with several parties including World about leasing these aircraft mostly likely on a short to medium term basis.
This way we will be able to benefit from what we anticipate will be improving cargo market conditions next year or two.
We expect to have both aircraft in revenue service by Q3 if not earlier.
We’ve proven our ability to mesh through these situations consistently over the years and expect this will be the case as well.
I also expect that for the first quarter of 2012 our utilization rates will be at least 98% and our rental yield will be around 14%.
Finally few comments about our strategy.
We are well positioned to take advantage of an investment environment that remains me a lot of 2009 and 2010.
Our liquidity position and our cash flow are strong and our corporate leverage is low.
We have no debt maturities until 2015 and have minimal contractual investment commitments remaining.
In other words we have a lot of firepower to work – to put to work in a good investment environment.
Our goal is to increase earnings per share and return on equity by capitalizing on the strengths on our world class team and access to multiple funding sources including the bond market.
As always our investment strategy will be to focus on where the risk return proposition is best and where we have a competitive advantage.
In general we’re focused more on customized value-added transactions which capitalize on our team’s capabilities.
In contrast we generally stay from super competitive auctions for purchase and leasebacks where the winner is simply awarded for offering the lowest cost of capital.
From an asset standpoint we currently see high quality wide bodies mid-aged narrow bodies and cargo market aircraft is offering particularly good value as much as we have been seeing over the last 9 to 12 months.
For the near term our goal is to invest at least $300 million of capital during the first half of the year including our last new order A330 which is delivering to Virgin Australia in April.
For the full year I think investing $600 million is a reasonable target.
As always this will depend on finding investments that we think make sense.
I will now turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
The fourth quarter was another strong quarter and we’re well positioned for 2012 due to the contribution from the nearly $1 billion of aircraft investments we added during 2012 along with the investing opportunities we expect to come online during the current year.
Lease rental revenue for the fourth quarter 2011 was $149.8 million up $10.5 million or 8% from the prior year due primarily to the impact of aircraft acquisitions net of aircraft sales.
Our portfolio yield for the quarter came in at about 14% and revenue utilization was 99% for the quarter and full year.
I think it’s important to emphasize that as you look in our P&amp;L we believe lease rental revenues represent the best measure of basic portfolio revenue performance.
Total revenues for Q4 2011 were $156.9 million an increase of $22.2 million from the prior year and reflect the $10.5 million of higher lease rental revenues along with higher scheduled maintenance revenue of $10.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 versus the prior year.
As we’ve discussed previously we recognize maintenance revenue at the end of any particular lease whether the lease end was scheduled or not.
The amount we recognize in any reporting period is inherently volatile period specific rather than recurring and is dependent upon a number of factors including the timing of lease expirations or terminations the timing and cost of maintenance events and the utilization of the aircraft by the lessee.
EBITDA for the quarter was $160.1 million up $25.8 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 due primarily to the higher total revenues of $22.2 million lower SG&amp;A of $2.1 million and higher other income of $1.5 million which is driven primarily by higher gains from sale of five aircraft during the fourth quarter compared to the prior year.
Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $31.2 million or $0.43 per diluted share compared to $14.2 million or $0.18 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The year over year increase of $16.9 million reflects higher lease rental revenues of $10.5 million higher maintenance revenues of $10.9 million lower SG&amp;A of $2.1 million partially offset by higher depreciation of $7.6 million compared to the prior year.
Interest net for the fourth quarter was $53.8 million an increase of $4.1 million over the prior year primarily due to an increase in non-cash hedge ineffectiveness of $3.1 million related to the pay down of debt associated with aircraft sales during the quarter and a higher average debt outstanding.
Total SG&amp;A for the fourth quarter 2011 was $9.6 million down about $2.1 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 resulting from lower cash SG&amp;A of $0.9 million over the prior year mainly related to personnel expenses and lower non-cash share based compensation expense of about $1.2 million in the fourth quarter.
Depreciation expense for the fourth quarter 2011 was $63.8 million which was $7.6 million higher than the prior year primarily due to aircraft acquisitions to the portfolio on a year over year basis.
The monthly depreciation run rate at year end was about $21.3 million.
Gain on sale of flight equipment in the fourth quarter was $10.1 million generated by the sale of five different aircraft during the quarter.
Our income tax provision for Q4 represented an effective rate of about 4.8% which brought our annual rate to roughly 5.9%.
This reflects the revenue and income sourcing mix from the portfolio during the year.
For 2012 we expect our effective tax rate to be in the 6% to 7% range overall.
As Ron mentioned our acquisition activities during the fourth quarter we added a mix of 11 aircraft for approximately $400 million during Q4.
At year-end 2011 our annualized lease rental run rate from the portfolio was approximately  $610 million of which $110 million was being generated from 27 aircraft that we owned outright without any financing related encumbrances.
Turning to our capital structure we ended 2011 with approximately $296 million of unrestricted operating cash $247 million of restricted cash and $50 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
We had approximately $3 billion of secured and unsecured borrowings with net debt outstanding of about $2.7 billion which represents about 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
Our net debt to equity ratio excluding the mark-to-market of our interest rate derivatives was approximately 1.7 to 1 at the end of the year.
And we were in compliance with all applicable covenants in our debt financing.
As you have noted in the past our goal is to maintain a relatively conservative capital structure of about 2 to 1 with a mix of secured and unsecured debt.
We believe this capital structure lends itself to flexible portfolio management and opportunistic investing while providing for a balanced maturity profile.
To that end during the quarter we raised $275 million of secured and unsecured capital.
First we completed two secured financings of $90 million loan facility from NordLB to purchase the 777 on lease to Cathay Pacific and $36 million of secured loans from DVB and Chinatrust Commercial Bank for the purchase and leaseback transaction with EVA of the two MD-11 freighters.
Blended rate on these facilities is approximately 4.3% fixed.
We also issued an additional $150 million of unsecured notes and an add-on to our 2018 deal.
The notes were issued at a premium to par at approximately 102.8% of fixed with an annual yield towards 9%.
Also as we discussed during our third quarter call during 2011 we executed a forward starting interest rate swap that would reduce the cash pay interest rates by approximately 400 basis points on our second securitization beginning in the middle of this year.
We expect that to result in approximately a $30 million reduction in interest expense on this facility during the first 12 months after the new swap’s commencement in June.
With a strong balance sheet steady cash flows and access to capital we are in a good position to support our growth strategy by taking advantage of the attractive investment opportunities when they are available in the marketplace.
We intend to remain shareholder focused having increased our common dividend twice during 2011 and successfully completed the repurchase of 7.6 million of common shares for $90 million during last year.
Finally with respect to some Q1 2012 guidance we expect lease rental revenues to come in at around $150 million to $152 million.
Maintenance revenue is expected to be between $9 million and $11 million.
Amortization of net lease discounts and lease incentives is expected to be in the range of $5 million to $6 million.
And total SG&amp;A is expected to be around $12 million and I will remind everyone in our sort of historical quarterly pattern SG&amp;A is typically higher in the first quarter of the year due to the timing of cash bonus payments and the implications for payroll tax payments as well as some stock compensation acceleration expect here in the first quarter of 2012 related to our recent CIO departure.
This estimate assumed the early return of one out of the two World 747 freight aircraft during the first quarter of this year.
As Ron mentioned earlier the 747 freight aircraft at World represented about 2.5% of the net book value of our flight equipment and approximately 3% of our year-end lease rental run rate.
Based on today’s market conditions we expect the net leases on these aircraft would be at lower rates which would translate into an expected reduction in the overall lease rental run rate of about 1% to 1.5% on an annual basis compared to the year-end 2011 number.
In conclusion the fundamental business continues to perform very well.
We remain focused on near term lease placement activities and sourcing new investment opportunities in those sectors of the market where we see the most attractive risk adjusted returns.
Our strong cash position revolver availability and expected access to the unsecured markets as well as selected bank financing we expect to see strong earnings and cash flow performance again in 2012.
Finally before we open up the call to Q&amp;A I just have one other item.
We mentioned over the next few days we will be sending out invitations for our annual investor launch and which will take place in New York City on April 12 this year.
Details will follow soon.
And with that operator we are happy to open up the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Ron you said just in general that there are a lot more appealing opportunities on the buy-side and there are on the sell-day in that it’s highly unlikely you will sell another $0.5 billion worth of assets this year? Yes.
It’s a cyclical market Gary.
And there are sometimes where it makes more sense to focus on buying sometimes it makes more sense to focus on selling.
Sometimes it’s good to do a little bit of both.
I think 2011 was in that last category.
Because of the capital markets pressure I think the buy-side is going to be more interesting this year.
That isn’t to say we don’t expect to selling the aircraft but it’s just going to be our lower emphasis for us.
And based on your earlier discussions for the two ex-world 747s when you release those on how far below sort of the 14% average portfolio yield do you expect those planes to go out at? I think Mike gave you a little color in terms of kind of where the overall rentals would be.
Let me just give you some color on the cargo market first of all.
Cargo market is definitely weaker than it typically is due to the slowdown in the sector.
We don’t think this is a long term phenomenon.
In fact there are some early signs of a recovery.
Our strategy with these aircraft is not to lock in very long lease terms.
I am thinking one two maybe three years maximum.
And these will be kind of tied into heavy maintenance work.
So we will probably see a decline in the lease rental of probably in the 40% level.
And I think that the other thing that’s worth noting is cargo aircraft in comparison to passenger aircraft are a lot easier to redeploy.
You don’t have to worry about seats and galleys and inflight entertainment systems and things of that nature.
So the cost of redeployment and I am not ruling out at least one of the aircraft at World but the costs of redeployment are likely to be quite low.
Aircraft as we understand are reasonably in good shape.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
I noticed you still have $90 million of PDPs on the balance sheet.
Aside from the new A330 what else is in there? Conversion payments for the freighters that were being converted at year end that one came out of the factory in January of this year and delivered to Southern.
The second is scheduled to come out in the second quarter of this year.
When that last aircraft comes back to us delivered from Airbus in April that will be the last of the pre-delivery payment.
And we’ll go to Andrew Light with Citi.
The lease rentals on those two aircraft to be down 40%.
What impact do you think current market conditions are having on just generally the value of the freighters? And with rents down that much what do you think you will have to make impairment charges on not only those two planes but maybe others in the fleet? The short answer is no.
The freight market is little bit volatile inherently than the passenger market.
I’d just point out these are the only aircraft we expect to come off lease this year in the freighter sector.
So I don’t think the rental effect on our portfolio is anything more than what we’re talking about right here.
In terms of aircraft valuations it’s more of a volatile times series than passenger aircraft but that’s also where you can make some money.
The key to us in terms of portfolio management is not to lock in long term rentals because I think things would be better in the year two and the values of these aircraft will recover quite nicely.
I think Andrew it’s just important to point out on these two particular aircraft these leases were executed in late 2007 and they came out of the freighter conversion process in early 2008.
So it was a very different market environment at that time.
Okay.
And in terms of seizing opportunities in your target (indiscernible) freighter slightly older aircraft market are you seeing an increase or decrease in one inquiry levels and two competition? Couple things.
One is I’ll just clarify that in terms of what we are focusing on is not only mid-aged aircraft.
I think there’s good value on some of the newer higher quality wide bodies like 777s we bought with Cathay.
But having said that what happened in the fourth quarter and actually probably also in January was that the market kind of struggled to digest the impact of financing costs.
The deal flow was slow at first but it seems to have picked up a lot in the last few weeks.
And so I think the opportunities of that will be pretty good.
You never know until the deals come over to finish line but I am pretty optimistic about it.
And I think the return levels that we are targeting will do a little bit – even a little bit better than what we anticipated back in the end of last year.
How does that play out over the rest of the year that’s hard to say but I don’t think that the capital markets forces that we are seeing here are short term phenomena.
And the level of competition I mean very large getting a more attractive space (ph)… The level of competition firstly for the wide bodies is a mixed story.
We are seeing more focus from some of the more active players away from some of the new narrow bodies particularly Airbuses.
And so some of that’s going to shift over into the wide body side.
And I think people are coming around our perspective in terms of production levels and rental outlook and residual value outlook in regards to those airplanes.
That’s a bad thing.
On the other side because of the constraints in the bank market it’s going to be harder and harder for those players to source financing effectively and reliably.
We actually do benefit even in the bank market by having a credit rating because we can if we choose to do a recourse financing perhaps take a bigger balloon exposure if we choose to it’s a bigger – it’s a better credit package for bank to take to a more fickle investment committee.
I think the competition there is going to be on average what it might have been say two three months ago.
Competition for mid-aged aircraft is even lower than it was at the end of last year.
So that’s a very positive thing from my perspective.
And now we’ll go to Isaac Husseini with Barclays Capital.
A quick question on the SG&amp;A and maybe that was – Isaac could you speak up a little bit? We’re having a hard time hearing to you.
On the SG&amp;A and I apologize that might be in the prepared remarks that you gave and I may have missed it.
But SG&amp;A expense came in a bit light for 4Q and it doesn’t seem like it was at that level in absolute terms since ’07.
So is there anything that’s going on there is there something that we can expect going forward as a run rate? I think what I said Isaac is the fourth quarter was a bit lower than the prior year due to the level of compensation expense recorded in the quarter as well as a decline in the stock compensation expense.
In the first quarter of this year we expect the total number to be back up of $12 million and part of that is driven by the stock comp expense we expect in the quarter related to our CIO departure and acceleration of some of those stock assets.
And then also in the first quarter we play our cash bonuses and there is a large payroll tax that gets paid and recorded during the quarter in the first quarter of each year.
And if you look at our history Q1 is typically our highest SG&amp;A quarter throughout the calendar.
And then I guess my second question is in light of your share buyback program and the recent increase in the dividend just wanted to get an update on your thoughts and your view on growing the platform in terms of adding assets to the book versus returning capital to the shareholders.
Has that thought process progressive at changing but what’s the update on that please? We look at this stuff – we look at these questions regularly and it’s based on prevailing market conditions.
I think the platform has significant scalability.
I said this before but I will repeat it.
I think we could effectively double the size of our portfolio without increasing our overheads very much.
So there is a lot of bandwidth potential over there.
And we will do that provided that there are good investment opportunities I think we will see that this year.
I think the question about whether you buy back stock or invest is always a good – what’s better in relative terms.
Back when we did our stock buyback program our stock price was lower and investment returns were also lower.
So it made more sense in that context than it does right now.
It doesn’t mean we rule it out but where we sit here today I am a lot more focused on investing in aircraft than I am in buying stock back.
And now we’ll hear from Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets.
Just earlier you referred to I think you have roughly $1 million in past-due lease receivables.
I am just curious what happened to the watchlist – if the number of airlines or aircraft on the watchlist have increased at all? Couple of things.
One is it’s highly tougher overall environment than it was a year ago today.
I don’t think it’s dramatically different but the effect of higher fuel prices and kind of slowing economic growth rates there.
It’s probably more of a – the epicenter is more in Europe than anywhere else although it’s exclusive.
Our receivable levels are quite low in absolute terms.
There is probably more noise than not.
We also have every season at this time of the year a slowdown.
Winter is always the hardest time for airlines because that’s when cash flow is lowest.
It’s a more challenging credit environment than it was year ago as I said.
But I also want to remind just from a perspective of the cycle we actually went through a bit of rough patch in the first quarter last year with all the Arab Spring issues.
So I wouldn’t put what we are going through is anything that’s kind of alarming in anyway.
And then just with the aircraft just curious as to maturing leases in 2012 you mentioned I think you have 12 aircraft left to place in 2012 and the ’17 that you had mentioned earlier.
I am just curious are there scheduled lease expirations or maturities? Let me comment a couple things.
What’s left over actually reflects an awful lot of work that we did last year and I think in general we locked in rates that were better than what we see right now.
So I am happy about that.
What we have left over is a very small part of our overall fleet.
Typically if you think about five years remaining average lease term you’d expect 20% rollover in any given year.
We don’t have that much left right now.
And if you look ahead to 2013 we have only 10% of the fleet value coming off lease that’s scheduled.
For 2014 it’s 14% and the year after that it’s only 7%.
So our revenue exposure is actually quite low in the near term which means our contracted revenue base is a pretty big percentage of our overall picture.
And then just a final question.
In terms of the higher fuel prices obviously the classics have been under pressure for a long time.
Do you envision maybe the pricing moving up to more of the kind of mid-aged asset class? I think the fuel prices affect the overall market number one.
They are absolutely killing the classics.
I think bigger effect – it’s not a nice thing for us but the bigger effect that we seeing recently is production levels.
And so they are affecting the current generation aircraft more Airbus than Boeing.
And that’s a problem that I worry about over the longer term.
I think if you – it’s very hard for an OEM to dial back production.
These are long industrial lead time processes.
It’s also kind of hard to lay off people.
So I am concerned about that.
And that’s one of the reasons we’re avoiding the new narrow bodies because aircraft have to last a long time to justify the economic propositions we see before us.
And if you are worried about the next lease the lease after that and one after that that’s a challenge.
For the aircraft that we are focusing on and I’ll give you an example.
We just purchased a 15-year old A320 for $15 million.
It’s got the remaining lease term that’s going to – remaining lease with a decent carrier that’s going to pay us between $7 million and $8 million.
I think the balance for our investment which will – is going to be covered by part of the value.
So at the age of 18 we’re covered.
I think that’s a pretty safe investment and there’s an awful lot of upside if we get another lease or two to go.
However if I contrast that with a brand new airplane I think there’s an awful lot of risk there.
And now we’ll go to Jamie Baker with JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co.
Ron it seems clear that the weakness right now is primarily on second-gen for aircraft particularly on the A320s.
That seems to be what everybody is complaining about right now you said as much in your prepared remarks and it’s consistent with what we are probably all hearing – the 73 market does seem to be holding up better.
I am wondering if that’s your observation as well and whether there is any opportunity here that might be specific to Aircastle other than just hoping the market firms up in the coming year too? Yeah I think the NGs are holding up better.
If I were to look at call it 10-year old 737-800 and its rental rate today versus a year ago it’s about the same.
I think that’s probably in the low to mid $200 000 a month kind of territory.
So it definitely help up.
It’s probably a little bit higher during the first – kind of middle of the year and softens just a little bit but largely it’s held in pretty well.
The Airbus aircraft definitely weakened and it’s not just the overall level of – the number of choices we have in terms of placing the aircraft.
We’ve been thinking more and more is there a play for us even on a part outside.
It’s not a capability that is something that we have resident with our company but it’s something we’re kind of exploring as a business concept.
So at some point or another all these old 319s will be difficult to justify reinvesting in to keep them leased.
And I think there is an opportunity for us to buy those and actually manage those.
But that’s a comment it’s not something we’ve kind of decided to do for sure it’s something we kind of look at.
And actually Ron you gave NG comparison flat year on year $200 000.
Can you give a comparison again on the A320? I missed that if you gave it earlier.
I think to talk about specific rental levels but I would say that the same vintage A320 was probably going for about call it $200 000 a month in rent last year.
And right now we are looking at $160 000 to $180 000.
And we will open the floor up to Gregory Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Ron can we assume that the 12 remaining aircraft to be leased are on narrow bodies this year? No there is mix.
There is a couple of – there is one A330 there is four 767s and the rest in narrow bodies.
Okay great.
And then my last question is just going to be on the maintenance revenue.
Is there any way to provide some detail on how much of that revenue was related to early redeliveries that were on plan? Actually in the fourth quarter it was all scheduled lease expiries.
And the reason we came in a little bit higher than our guidance was the return compensation on one of those leases turned out to be a bit higher than we originally forecasted.
And just to add to that in regard to the first quarter much of what we got in there relates to our assumption of one of the World aircraft coming back to us.
And now we’ll hear from Josh Pinkerton with Goldman Sachs.
So first question is on the new wide body market that you talked a little bit.
It seems like you are not necessarily interested in placing a new order with the manufacturers or doing some of these competitive sale leaseback transactions.
Where do you see is the best place to kind of get involved or to put on or to find new wide bodies for your fleet how do you think about that? Couple of things.
One is we will look under every rock and every opportunity.
We have a regular dialogue with the manufacturers.
But having said that timing is everything and versus a here and now investment where we know what – the sale leaseback for example or purchasing an aircraft from other leasing company we would know how we are going to pay for an aircraft we’d know what rental’s going to be and we’d also not have to deal with pre-delivery payments.
And so I would want an investment return premium for taking all those incremental risks for a new order.
Now it could be that there is an opportunity that pops up and you never know.
I don’t think that’s kind of the highest likelihood.
I think you will see it’s much more likely for us to find new investment opportunities by buying aircraft leased from airlines or from other leasing companies.
The next it was just on some of the customer weakness or not necessarily yours but the kind of broader market weaknesses is that concentrated in kind of the geographies that people would think of them? I mean is this mostly the European problem a global issue and what’s going on there? There is more of a European centricity to this if you will particularly on the peripheries.
And most of the airlines involved here tend to be relatively small.
We saw a few bigger ones like Malev and Spain Air really this year.
But I think most of what else is left – the way it looks like to me is smaller and therefore less impactful from a lease market perspective.
Having said that the Indian market even though it’s growing like crazy it seems to be pretty dysfunctional.
And that seems to be an area of weakness.
In that context I will say our grand total exposure in India consists of two 737-700 is coming off lease from Jet next year.
So we are really really underweighted over there.
But that’s kind of one we are watching.
And there is a couple of pockets here and there but I think the epicenter like I said is probably in Europe.
And then just a last question it seems like there is a bit of a step-up in your restricted cash line this quarter.
Do you expect that to go that down and what’s going on there? Yeah the step-up across year end Josh related to some of the fourth quarter asset sales because the waterfall dates in a particular financings don’t correspond with calendar.
And some of the asset sale proceeds were actually in restricted cash and then subsequently in early January that cash was taken out and paid off the associated debt with those aircraft with those financings.
And now we’ll hear from John Gordon with Morgan Stanley.
Hey it’s actually Bill Greene.
Thanks for taking the question.
Hey Ron I was hoping you can add a little bit of color to normalized ROE.
You talked about some potential secular challenges more on the financing side.
So what does that do for normalized ROE if you think about in overall a cycle? Well let me tell you where I see investment returns today.
I mean there is what we own today and then there is what we see incrementally.
Okay and I will divide that into two generic categories the first of which will be these kind of higher quality wide bodies.
Those aircraft just to begin with are probably unlevered returns of or ROAs and this is an accounting number it’s economics of 8% 9% 10%.
Okay.
And in those contexts we might choose and I guarantee that we may choose to also finance some of those with secured debt.
Secured debt based on the bank market profile probably gets us to an ROE of something in the mid to high teens.
But perhaps a little bit higher.
So that’s one category one flavor of investment.
The other one is kind of the middle-aged aircraft turning the market opportunities.
These are aircraft that we are likely to fund through the unsecured debt.
And the way I think about those is they will probably have unlevered returns of 12% 13% 14%.
That varies by type.
If I issue debt for example at 9% which is what we did back in December and I assume that two-thirds of my capital structure is debt I can opt for an ROE and that comes out to be in the high teens or higher.
Right now if my debt cost is not 9% but 7% or 7.5% the ROE is a lot higher obviously.
Sure.
Now how important when you look at it as in total not just segments of the fleet but in total how important are gains on sale to getting the ROEs at a firm level to this mid-teens target? Those economic numbers assume a hold – a long term hold.
Now as it relates to our GAAP results from time to time they will be very different.
Last year the sales had a big effect on our returns on our ROE and our earnings per share and this year I am not expecting they will be very high at all.
Just to say in this regard our goal is not to just kind of pop a gain every year and to kind of maintain that every year because I think leads to a kind of skimming of the cream off the crop during a bad time of the market.
Our general rule of thumb is can you take the money that you generate from an asset sale and redeploy it more profitably? If the answer is yes then we will do it.
If not we won’t.
And when you think about the challenges in the financing market how do you think about the marginal cost of debt? I think the marginal cost of debt has to be considered against the marginal investment opportunity.
It is one of the most misunderstood things about approach to the debt markets.
So if I am going to buy this hypothetical high quality new narrow body – new wide body aircraft I can fund the debt cost as we did with the Cathay deal call it 4% -- 4.5%.
The unlevered returns on those aircraft will be lower to begin with but the ROE that gets cranked out at the end of the day is going to be something in the mid high teens.
Having that if I am going to buy a 10-year 737-800 I am not going to be able to – even if I wanted to I am not going to be able to go get bank debt financing for it.
So my only choice there is to get that higher cost debt but the returns on that – the higher cost on secured debt but the returns on that are so much better and the resulting ROE is even better.
You kind of have to match these things up a little bit.
And the last question can you offer any color on the RBS transaction what’s sort of the read across from your perspective to Aircastle? Thanks for the time.
Sure.
I am looking at this a bit from outsider’s perspective.
What I read suggests that RBS got a very good price.
We know the RBS team people they’re super team they are very competent.
And two guys (ph) got a group to join them.
But as I look at it and I am looking at this more from a metal perspective I’d be paying a big price.
Now the big question for kind of the general buyer is what is the platform worth? And this gets into valuation for companies like ourselves.
You can look at our value as some of the metal minus the debt.
I think what this RBS deal demonstrated and if not unique at the time is that people do value a platform right? And this happened previously with Pegasus it happened with AWAS it happened with Boullion it happened with Singapore Aircraft Leasing (indiscernible) Bank of China.
So that’s just something that doesn’t seem to factor into this from my vintage point and how people look at aircraft lessor valuations all the way around.
And now we will go to Glenn Engel with Bank of America.
I have two questions.
One it sounds like you expect the market gets tougher before it gets better.
And so one why wouldn’t the middle-aged aircraft be vulnerable in that environment? And two when does waiting make sense for even better deals in pulling the trigger earlier? The middle aged aircraft they are absolutely exposed just the new ones are.
I think my comment is not that the rental levels on the middle aged aircraft won’t go down.
It’s just that we don’t expect that they’re going to be exposed to that pressure for as long a period of time.
They’re going to be eventually to a residual value level off sooner.
So that’s one comment.
It’s very hard to play timing games with either investments or placements.
With the placement side first of all you do get a little bit of lead time notice.
And what we do as a systematic manner is we begin remarketing aircraft well over a year in advance because even putting market timing aside it’s an orderly transition of an aircraft from operator to the next is by far the best way to go because you will save a lot more in terms of transition costs.
You will find the best match in terms of the customer.
(indiscernible) you know what you’re going to get and transition costs are often even bigger deal than the rental differential.
So we don’t play too many games with that.
In terms of market timing that’s on the investment side there is a couple of different equations which go into it which are a little bit tricky for an investor.
Number one is what you will earn and it takes a few months to get deals closed generally.
And then how will you finance that and what will those rates be? And the approach we have taken so far as a business model is we are going to generally raise the capital first and then deploy.
So we have a bit of a negative carry.
But what matters us in the long term is reputational – our ability to actually execute.
Because we actually win a lot of deals I am confident that we are not necessarily the high price but when you go to another counterparty and they know that you can deliver that counts an awful lot.
And there appear to be no further questions.
Thanks everyone.
Look forward to talking to you in the near future.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good day.
And welcome to the Q1 2012 Aircastle Limited Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kelly.
Good morning everyone.
I’m Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and I’d like to welcome all of you to Aircastle Limited’s first quarter 2012 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We will begin the presentation shortly but I would like to mention that the call is being recorded and the replay number is 888-203-1112 that’s from within the United States and Canada from outside of the U.S.
and Canada the number is 719-457-0820.
The replay passcode for this call is 4711325.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and an accompanying Powerpoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from these estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I’ll direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And I’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Hello and thanks for joining us today.
I’d like to start by reviewing our accomplishments for the first quarter of 2012.
I’ll then discuss our current view of the overall market environment and provide an update on our plans and in doing so amplifying some of observations we made during our Investor Day meeting in mid April.
Mike will then review our financial results and capital structure.
We’ll then open the call up for questions.
We are off to a very good start in 2012.
Our revenues are up thanks to the billion dollars aircraft acquisitions we made last year and due to the consistently strong portfolio performance we’ve been achieving.
Moreover the present market is attracted for aircraft acquisitions as demand for lease financing grows from airlines.
We are taking advantage of these favorable conditions by pursuing and capitalizing on accretive investment opportunities.
We’ve proven our ability to access capital through the unsecured debt market and believe this is strategically significant given structural change is taking in the traditional bank sector for aircraft financing.
Last month we issued a $100 million unsecured debt and we paid our bank comp facility.
This provides important benefit to Aircastle.
It enhances our capital structure extensive debt maturity profile increases our unencumbered assets base substantially frees up cash flow for additional high return investments and provides additional growth capital.
Mike will discuss this further during his remarks.
In short with significant unrestricted cash balance today good operating cash flow going forward no debt maturities for several years and no major remaining capital commitments we are excited about Aircastle’s position to continue executing on our strategy of discipline return oriented growth.
Now let’s turn to our performance during the first quarter of 2012.
Regarding our topline results total revenue grew to $165 million with lease rental revenue accounting for around $152 million of that.
Lease rental revenue is up 8% due to our investments in 2011 more than offsetting the revenue loss from last year’s profitable asset sales.
Net income was $32.6 million or $0.45 per diluted common share while adjusted net income was $32.4 million.
At the end of the first quarter our fleet stood at 145 aircraft which are leased to 64 customers in 34 countries.
The average remaining lease term was 4.7 years providing the company with the diverse and long lasting contractual revenue base.
Portfolio performance during Q1 was solid with fleet utilization coming in at 99% while rental yield stayed at 14%.
As evidence by these results we continue to keep our fleet well deployed as we done throughout the business cycle and despite geopolitical development such as the Arab Spring last year.
In fact managing through customers issues is something all leasing companies must address and do well.
Over the past several weeks we reacted quickly to the bankruptcy filling with World Airways which leased two 747-400 freighters from us.
We agreed with the World to terminate lease for one aircraft and quickly sign new lease agreement with another operator.
We also re-negotiate the lease for the other aircraft which World is continuing to operate.
Our team did a terrific job of managing through this situation and keeping plains flying.
This morning one of our customers Cimber Sterling a small airline in Denmark filed for bankruptcy.
We had four 737-700 on lease there representing less than 2% of the net book value of our fleet one aircraft had already completed it return process and another was schedule to come off lease later this quarter.
Last unit is schedule to come off lease in Q1 next year.
Cimber has been operating in a very difficult market environment for some time and it’s been on our watchlist so the overdue payment balance is quite low and we’ve been marketing these aircraft actively for sometime.
I’m quite optimistic they will be able to redeploy the aircraft quickly.
Mike will cover more details in his remarks.
We are also making progress placing the aircraft perhaps schedules lease expirations this year and next.
Over the past several weeks we signed lease agreement to extent leases on A319 due to expire early this year and 767-300ER coming off lease next year.
We also agree to sell our Boeing 757 due to come off lease later in the year to the current lessees.
In addition to our four aircraft coming out of Sterling that leases with eight schedule lease expiration to place this year accounting for approximately 4% of our portfolios net book value.
I’d now like to address the market environment.
Firstly air traffic levels remain surprisingly resilient despite slowing economic growth rates around the world.
International Air Transport Association results for March show that for the first three months of 2012 passenger traffic grew by 7.4% while airfreight declined slightly above 0.7% versus the Q1 2011.
On the passenger side the results look little better than they reflect given the effect of last year’s traffic level of Arab Spring and the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Nonetheless the growth rate and demand is higher than 5.3% increase in supply driving up load factor in short these are good results.
As we discussed during our Investor Day meeting we believe the freight market may have hit bottom a few months ago and the most recent IATA results are consistent with this view.
During the month of March we saw slight increase in traffic versus last year’s volumes and even larger sequential increase versus February results.
While we are still a long way from where the market was in late 2010 there also appears to be a more positive sentiment among freight market participants.
While this statistics are positive rising fuel prices are continuing to dampen airline profitability along with weak economic conditions in certain parts of the world.
We see this fuel price affect reflected in lease demand for older technology aircraft as airlines accelerate to shift towards current generation lift.
We also see this along with capital scarcity translating into growing demand for leasing.
However as a general matter lease demand for most aircraft is relatively flat relative to year ago so there are very big differences across aircraft types.
We see two main forces that for the moment are getting in the way of rental increases.
Firstly there is business confidence which remains weak making airlines reluctant to add capacity there is upside in rental demand to the extent that these improve so we are seeing some signs of that.
Secondly there are supply pressures on certain aircraft models be it from increasing production levels or due to supply rising from airline restructuring.
Turning to financial environment this is a key factor driving aircraft prices and our growth strategy.
The global financial prices led to a structural shift in aircraft financing as bank slowdown or stop lending for aircraft acquisitions.
Increasing deliveries combine with bank market contraction means the ECA financing will become even more critically important in this respect there are some political headwind but in any case Export Credit Agency financing is going to get lot more expensive next year once the rule change and we anticipate this playing to our benefit.
In our view U.S.
capital markets are becoming increasingly important sources funding and we anticipate more leasing companies and airlines seeking credit rating agents the credit rating to obtain assets.
However our sourcing equipment efficient financing in this market is challenging and we believe our track record and unsecured credit ratings are significant competitive advantage as evidence by recent bond deal.
I’d now like to make a few comments about how we are doing on our business plan.
In addition to effecting a meaningful improvement to our capital structures to the refinancing or bank term loan our recent bond deal provide us with growth capital to take advantage of the favorable investment environment.
We are executing on that with a discipline return oriented approach that involve investing selectively in airplanes at attractive prices with cost effective financing.
We are seeing increasing deal flow with investment returns that are consistent with or better than the expectations we had the beginning of the year.
So far this year we’ve closed or have commitments to acquire $4 million of aircraft most of which we expect to close during the first half of the year.
We anticipate these investments will further enhance the company’s long-term earnings power.
These new acquisitions include three transactions which closed during the first at cost of approximately $80 million.
In early April we delivered our last new order A330 to Virgin Australia marking the end of our successful Airbus new order program.
At this point we have no more major capital commitments outstanding leaving us free to pursue the attractive opportunities we’ve seen today’s market including recent commitments to acquire about $225 million in aircraft.
Having said that we believe we can achieve a total of $700 million or more in new investments for the full year given our robust and growing deal pipeline.
So far the majority of the new acquisitions we made this involve aircraft leased to Asia-Pacific airlines reflecting the growing opportunity set in this part of the world.
Our new aircraft purchases are generally falling within the three investment categories we’ve been targeting narrow wide-bodies mid-age current generation narrow bodies and freighters.
However we are seeing some good and interesting values in mid-age wide bodies and also in the Embraer E-Jet family and exploring opportunities there too.
I’d like to conclude my remarks with the few bigger picture observations.
We remain very bullish about the long-term outlook for the aircraft leasing sector as it continues to increase it share of growing industry.
We are well-positioned to take advantage of the attractive environment for aircraft acquisitions particularly given our ability to source of financing effectively through a variety of channels including the critically important U.S.
capital markets.
We have strong portfolio of assets a profitable business mix and considerable scalability in our platform.
Above all we remain absolutely focused on creating value for shareholders be it with accretive investments a healthy dividend payout and where appropriate to repurchasing our own securities.
With that I’ll turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
We began 2012 with the solid first quarter and also made significant progress in transforming the overall capital structure of the business with our recent $800 million senior note issuance.
For the first quarter of 2012 lease rental revenue was $152.2 million up $11.1 million or 8% from the prior year’s quarter due primarily to the net impact of aircraft acquisitions net of our asset sales last year.
Our portfolio yield and revenue utilization for the quarter was once again strong came in at about 14% and 99% respectively.
Total revenues for the first quarter were $164.9 million an increase of $7 million from the prior year driven by the higher lease rental revenue of $11.1 million and lower amortization net lease discount of $1.5 million resulting from lower than expected incentives paid out to our lessees.
These drivers are partially offset by lower maintenance revenues of $4.2 million reflecting the higher level of unscheduled transitions in the first quarter of 2011 of $13 million versus $9.9 million in the current period.
As a reminder the Q1 2011 results included significant unscheduled transition activity resulting from the Arab Spring.
EBITDA for the first quarter was $15.6 million down modestly from the first quarter of 2011 as higher lease rental revenue of $11.1 million was offset by lower maintenance and other revenues of $5.6 million and $9.5 million of lower gains from the sale of aircraft during the first quarter compared to the prior year.
During the first quarter of 2011 we sold four aircraft and realized a pre-tax gain of $9.7 million versus very modest gain from one aircraft sale in the first quarter of 2012.
Adjusted net income for the first quarter was $32.4 million or $0.45 per diluted share compared to $44.5 million or $0.56 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
The year-over-year decrease of $12 million primarily reflects higher total revenues of $7 million offset by higher depreciation of $4.9 million higher adjusted interest expense of $4.4 million and lower gain on sales aircraft of $9.5 million compared to the prior period.
As a reminder during our Investor Day in early April we mentioned to be more consistent with our peers and beginning with the first quarter of 2012 we change our definition of adjusted net income.
Adjusted net income will no long exclude gains on sales and losses on sales of assets and will add back stock comp and hedge loss amortization the charge related to the repayment of our term financing number one beginning in the second quarter of this year.
Comparisons with Q1 are shown in today’s press release as well as Q1 ’12 earnings PowerPoint presentation posted on our website.
Turning back to the specific line items in the P&amp;L for the quarter interest net was $49 million for the first quarter an increase of $3.4 million over the prior year primarily due to higher average debt outstanding of $2.9 billion versus average debt of $2.7 billion in the first quarter of 2011.
Total SG&amp;A for Q1 2012 was $13.2 million up about $700 000 over the first quarter of 2011 as expected.
This resulted from higher personnel expenses due to the departure of earlier of our Chief Investment Officer and higher professional fees partially offset by lower non-cash share based compensation expense of about $700 000 compared to the prior year We expect full year SG&amp;A of about $47 million to $48 million consistent with recent annual totals.
Depreciation expense in the first quarter was $64.5 million which was $4.9 million higher than the prior year primarily due to the net aircraft assets we added to the portfolio on a year-over-year basis.
The monthly depreciation run rate at the end of the quarter was about $22 million.
Gain on the sale of flight equipment was lower by $9.5 million as I mentioned previously we sold four aircrafts for a $9.7 million gain in Q1 of 2011.
As we mentioned in Investor Day and our fourth quarter year-end call we expect gains from asset sales to be more modest in 2012 given the current environment versus 2011 where on a full-year basis we opportunistically sold 13 aircraft and generated $39 million in gains on sale.
In the first quarter of 2012 the income tax provision represented an effective rate of approximately 8.2% and reflects the revenue and income sourcing mix from the portfolio during the year.
For 2012 we expect the full-year effective tax rate to be in the 7% to 8% range up modestly from what we suggested at year end of 6% to 7% reflecting the impact of additional hedge loss amortization resulting from our Term Financing No.
1.
Looking at our acquisition activities thus far in 2012 we completed the acquisition of three aircrafts for approximately $125 million.
This includes delivery of our final A330 that was leased to Virgin Australia in early April.
We have commitments to add approximately $225 million which we expect to come on line in Q2 and early part of Q3.
At the end of the first quarter our annualized lease rental run rate from the portfolio was approximately $598 million of which $105 million was being generating from 29 aircraft that we own outright without any financing related encumbrances.
Pro forma for the $800 million senior notes issuance and the repayment of Term Financing No.
1 the unencumbered run rate from those unencumbered aircraft would be approximately $251 million.
Turning to the capital structure we ended the quarter with $257 million of unrestricted operating cash $185 million of restricted cash and $59 million to $60 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility.
We had about $2.9 billion of secured and unsecured borrowings with net debt outstanding of about $2.7 billion which is about 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
Our net debt-to-equity ratio excluding the mark-to-market on our interest rate derivative is approximately 1.7 to 1 at quarter end and we remain in compliance with all applicable covenants in each of our financings.
Our goal continues to be to maintain a relatively conservative capital structure of about 2 to 1 with a mix of secured and unsecured debt while we are targeting a greater proportion of unsecured debt moving forward we continue to believe that this blended approach towards capital management increases our financial flexibility and gives us the ability to invest opportunistically while providing for a balance maturity profile.
We also expect our increased use of unsecured debt to enhance our overall capital structure and strengthen the company’s credit profile over time.
As we discussed at Investor Day in early April we raised $800 million of unsecured debt at a blended rate of about 7.08%.
This represents the [spread] of time that we have accessed the unsecured market in the past two years.
We used $583 million of the proceeds in this offering to repay our term financing number one which is scheduled to enter into a cash strap mode in May of 2013 and having original maturity in May of 2015.
In connection with the refinancing we incurred and hedged settlement charge of approximately $51 million and as we’ve explained we were able to fund this settlement by releasing approximately $70 million of restricted cash related to this term financing structure.
This refinancing not only enabled us to extend the 2015 maturity or to 2017 and 2020 but also freeze up investable cash flow that would have otherwise gone to debt repayment and an increase of the encumbered asset pool from approximately $1 billion to about $1.7 billion on a pro forma basis.
I will also remind you that we are forward starting interest rate swap on Securitization No.
2 becomes effective in June of this year and we’ll reduce the cash pay interest rate by approximately 400 basis points thus reducing significantly the interest expense beginning in June of this year.
We expect the new swap to result in a $30 plus million reduction in interest expense on this facility during the first 12 months.
We also paid a first quarter dividend and declared a second quarter dividend of $0.15 per share.
And finally with respect to Q2 we are expecting to filing elements which is taken into account today’s news on the Cimber bankruptcy filing.
We expect lease rental revenues to come in at about $151 million to $153 million maintenance revenues are expected to be between $10 million to $12 million.
Amortization of net lease discounts premium and lease incentives is expected to be about zero for the quarter reflecting the reversal of accounts with Cimber.
We expect total SG&amp;A to be in the neighborhood of $12 million and our total GAAP interest expense is expected to range between $65 million and $67 million for the second quarter.
This amount reflects the impact of our recent repayment of term loan no.
1 including about $3 million of one-time write-offs of deferred financing fees and about $4.5 million related to the amortization of the hedge loss.
In conclusion the business continues to perform well and we remained in the strong position to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and further enhance our profitability.
Consistent with our past success we will also continue to evaluate additional opportunities to enhance long-term value for the shareholders and with that operator we are happy to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll go ahead and take our first question from Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo.
Thank you operator and good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Ron it doesn’t sound like a lot has changed since the Investor Day other than some of your interest in assets like E190 and maybe some mid-life wide-bodies.
Can you talk about maybe more detail what you see in those markets? It seems like a lot of lessors are targeting the E-Jets maybe just your thoughts there.
We’ve been looking at the E-Jets for sometime but the retail market is not one that we’ve been drawn to historically but Cimber has done a very nice job of developing a very big global customer base which is an essential requirement in our view for investing in airplanes because you need to be able to have choices when leases expire and as you look at the production levels the growth from demand the lack of really viable competitive alternatives it’s becoming more of an attractive operating lease asset.
So that’s not a brand new change in view.
It is something that we are seeing some interesting opportunities arising in.
As far as the mid-age wide bodies this is an area we’ve also played in over the last couple of years and I see they are being some really interesting kind of lease to part of type of layers where there is a lot of upside let’s say part out.
That sort of an underwriting viewpoint but widebody sectors have said the four is one where the apply pressures are lesser.
There have been very significant delays in the 787 program.
There is delays in the A350 program and there is still great (inaudible) so we see some opportunity there.
Okay.
And also on your cash flow statement there is a $43 million purchase of debt investment (inaudible) also if that is.
Yeah.
We purchased a secured loan from some European banks that were quite anxious to sell for other reasons.
The aircraft is securing this loan at a 777-200 yard.
We are getting return on this that’s consistent with returns we are seeing on leased aircraft.
It’s a short-term loan it expires next year.
It was this opportunity that came up that kind of tied into our core competencies and at the end of that term we’d be very happy to own the aircraft at that loan balance although I don’t think that’s going to happen.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
And we’ll move next to Andrew Light with Citi.
Hi.
Hi Andrew.
On the (inaudible) side they said they were also targeting mid-age market.
Are you seeing increasing competition despite maybe a lack of historical funding for mid-age aircraft are you seeing competition beginning to pickup at all? Yeah.
In fact I’m seeing more deal flow and that’s kind of my comments about the returns that we are seeing.
I think a number of leasing companies that are looking at the public markets at the capital markets in the U.S.
is increasing that it all takes time and you really need to get that kind of an access to play effectively in that type of an asset sector given the lack of bank financing is available.
It’s going to happen over time if they used corporate excess returns that could be the way.
I think it’s going to take a little while.
So you think you might be in a bit of sweet spot between right now and the end of the year to maximize opportunities.
Yes.
And then Mike you gave in the guidance those line items what about maintenance costs in this quarter in the second quarter particularly associated with maybe really seeing more of the world aircraft on the (inaudible) planes and also the Cimber plains? With Cimber I think it’s really early to tell I think I’d point also that one of those leases expired at the end of the first quarter and the second was scheduled to come back next year.
So they are thinking about what we would be doing in terms of maintenance expanse with those aircrafts is kind of already embedded in our thoughts about our business plans for the year.
I think you mean next quarter.
In Q2 and in the balance of the year and then the other two from Cimber were scheduled to come out in early 2013 as we mentioned so there maybe some shifting forward of some of those transition expenses into 2012 from 2013.
With respect to the world aircraft there will be some additional maintenance costs.
I would think directionally is probably up a little bit from where we are in the first quarter where we were about $2.8 million so maybe we are in the $3 million to $4 million range I think in Q2 with a little bit of a reservation about Cimber because it’s a little early there but I don’t see a significant pickup as a result of either of those things.
Yeah.
Andrew we’ve been anticipating or anticipating stronger.
But we are not surprised by the filing at Cimber.
They’ve been on the watch list and in general they’ve done a pretty good taking care of the aircraft and we’ve been monitoring that pretty carefully.
We’ve been also out marketing this aircraft pretty actively for sometime now and as I said during my prepared remarks I expect we will be getting those aircraft back on this pretty quickly.
Biggest issue with those is always is just balancing the rental opportunity with the redeployment cost opportunities with a bit of trade-off there.
But these are pretty standardly configured aircrafts.
So I don’t anticipate they are being at least from a configuration perspective anything substantial.
Okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks Andrew.
And we’ll go next to Josh Pinkerton with Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
First question just related to some of the stuff going on with Cimber.
Are you seeing any other weakness from any of your other major customers particularly in Europe? No.
The big customers that we have in Europe were all without considering pretty solid.
We do have I think that the weak points in that market are kind of described as on the (inaudible) Europe.
We have a few customers with one or two kind of older lower ticket aircraft where we are little bit more vigilant but nothing of any de-consequence.
I think Europe is a weak point notwithstanding what I call surprisingly strong traffic results out of the (inaudible) marked results.
But the exposure we have in Europe is pretty spread out over many many less fees and again most of the top customers are pretty strong.
Great.
And then going back to the loan purchase that you guys made this quarter are you seeing any other opportunities from banks in particular European banks and is that something you consider doing in the future.
I don’t think of it is a big source of deal flows Josh.
We did this back in our early years and not so much with the bank market that we are buying AA (inaudible) securities that were distressed.
The sort of skill set for investing in these types of instruments is pretty complimentary to what we do.
Most of what’s for sale doesn’t really suit us it’s lower returns stuff that doesn’t really play to our strength but this was a short-term loan in our aircraft we like an awful lot and we’d be more than pleased to own it if (inaudible) showed up.
I think those are few and par between but the market in Europe – the bank market in Europe is still pretty dodgy and we are keeping our eyes open.
That’s great.
Thanks.
That’s it from me.
Thanks Josh.
And we’ll go next to Gregory Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Good morning everyone.
It’s actually Anthony Sibilia for Greg this morning.
I just had a quick question.
You kind of mentioned the freighter market you guys see it kind of bottoming out.
Is it now the kind of time where you guys could start maybe investing more money in freighter assets and especially in freighter conversions where you kind of it might take a while before you can actually start leasing them? Well I think you’ll see us doing more in the way of freight -- freighter asset investment.
That’s part of the mix of the new commitments that we talk about.
But I think it’s still little early yet to go out and sort of take effect to the position in terms of freighter conversion.
That could change.
But what’s really interesting to me is that there is so many attractive opportunities we’re hearing now deals where you don’t have to take placement risk.
Okay.
And then you also kind of said you see -- you're seeing a lot more transactions in those kind of -- that volume increasing.
Are they kind of sales leaseback opportunities? Are they becoming like less one-off opportunities when you -- where you’re seeing airlines kind of may be do two or three planes at once.
Is that becoming kind of more common? I think that will be more sale leaseback opportunities at every type over the course of the year.
And we are not competitive not that interested in the brand-new narrow bodies.
But when you go far away from that I see them of being extremely good value and then some of those transactions are bigger.
Okay.
Fine.
Thank you guys.
Okay.
And we’ll go next to David Fintzen with Barclays Capital.
Good morning.
This is actually Isaac Husseini filling in for David.
Ron thank you for the thorough overview of the current market conditions.
But I just wanted to go back to something you told actually in the presentation this morning.
As I go back to 2010 the same time 2010 and 2011 it looks like you had 17 out of 19 and seven out of nine aircrafts placed.
We had a couple that you were working on for that year.
It looks like you’re going to be working on 10 to 12 placements.
Should we lead them into how much could it be taking you in terms of placing aircraft lessees or are we just looking at different aircraft types for 2012 versus what you had for 2011 and 2010 that may be incrementally a bit more difficult or tougher to place? I think the market environment is very different when you’re relaxed and so is the mix of the airplanes.
So we aren’t relating into it.
We are chipping away what we have.
You will always see a bit of seasonal effects in aircraft replacements.
In the passenger market the demand always picks up in the spring and it slows down in the fall and winter.
In the cargo markets a little bit different you see more of a peak interest in July through January and that kind of coincides with the Christmas shopping seasonal shipments to go with that.
So there is a seasonal effect there.
But I think it’s just apples and oranges completely.
And as I said I’m pretty happy we’ll get our 2012 lease placement done pretty efficiently.
We’ve done with some unforeseen setbacks in the context of our world.
And I’m pretty confident we’ll get the Cimber airplanes put away quickly.
I think the revenue effect of Cimber is probably in total 1 million bucks to 2 million bucks -- $1 million to $2 million for the full year 2012 just to put it into some context.
Okay.
And then the next question I have for you is I look back since early 2007 the yields look like they hovered around (inaudible) of financing cost.
If I just look at LIBOR and some kind of spread look like them more volatile.
Could you share your thoughts and may be provide some color on how Aircastle manages that spread risk if we were able to environment or maybe the financing cost increase and yield will remain at that 14% level? I just want to make a couple of comments.
Firstly I’d like to elaborate that.
We -- our financings are to -- historically have been LIBOR based.
The recent unsecured bond yields are fixed but we’ve had policy of hedging.
Almost all of our revenues are fixed and so the policy on the financing side is to keep the interest fixed too.
So if LIBOR moves up and down.
That doesn’t really affect us because of how we’ve locked in those interest cost.
I think the best parameter of cost is what’s happened with our bond yields.
While we first did our deal in 2010 the effect of yield on that was 10%.
The add-on deal we did in December was 9% and the deal we disclosed was a little over 7%.
So I think as the margin being an expanding one.
Now the investment opportunities don’t stay stagnant either you’ll see in the market today I think better yields.
And so what we’re targeting it depends on the asset type probably yields in the low double digits depending on aircraft type.
So if you’re doing that you’re borrowing two thirds and your cost of debt is around 7%.
Churn on equity in the incremental investments is going to be in the high teens if not better.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
We’ll go next to Halane Becker with Dahlman Rose.
Thanks very much operator.
Hi guys.
Just one clarification question first and that’s on interest expense or the charges there are these considered -- should we see think about them as ongoing or one time item? As I said earlier that will be a one-time write off of deferred financing fees of about $3 million in the second quarter.
And then on an ongoing basis through May 15 which is the original expiry of the bank loan that we repaid.
There will be a hedge amortization loss that gets amortized and that amount in this -- will be about… What about decline every quarter or would that be the same in every quarter? It will -- balance of 2012 it will be about 4.5 million a quarter.
Okay.
I think you actually might have said that at the Investor Day.
Are there any balance sheet impacts to that that you’re concerned about? In what context I mean if we swap one form of debt for another and we freed up restricted cash and used some of that to pay the hedge termination fee in the second quarter.
Okay.
All right.
It will then -- those will be adjustments but I guess I’m thinking on that.
Thank you.
Just in terms of our customers I think Ron you might have mentioned that on the portray you’re seeing may be one or two customers that might have issues but just in general are you seeing any signs in some other markets that have been confused that those markets are bottoming out like in India.
Is there any signs that things are stabilizing over there as one market that’s kind of been and more down and uphill? Yeah.
That’s an interesting question.
There are different stories out in the world but since you mentioned India.
India has -- is still kind of very complicated market but it’s improved.
I’ll say that much simply because one of the competitors is effectively gone.
Kingfisher has reduced its fleet.
It’s operating from 60 to 70 aircraft year ago to somewhere around a dozen airplanes today.
And that certainly has a positive impact on everybody else who is playing.
It’s still kind of a messy market because you have one government-owned airline that isn’t kind of playing the same way that the other guys are.
And you have a lot of other government factors sort of getting in the way of good operating performance for the sector.
But it is a sector.
It has a tremendous amount of promise and it is one that we’re always looking at.
We’ve decided while ago to kind of bow out of India because of all these issues.
And our exposure there is grand total of 2737 NGs which come off next year.
But we look at opportunities incrementally from time to time.
I do think it is improved and that’s -- it's something that’s kind of (inaudible).
Looking at other parts of the world there has been a slow down of growth rates in Asia but we’re seeing good demand there in general.
Turkey continues to be an interesting market for us.
Russia is also interesting.
We’re being very selective about that market.
I think the one kind of -- I wouldn’t say the placement market but it’s investment opportunity in North America is becoming more and more interesting simply because of the discipline at one hand and because of the capital demands on the other.
Okay.
And then can I just ask you one question about 757.
I know that there -- not attractive necessarily for passengers.
If airlines do… I agree with that.
….passengers about anymore right.
You will or would not? I would not agree with that comment.
I do think they are attractive for passenger aircraft in fact.
I think the MAX and the NEO do not adequately replace all the capabilities of 757s posses.
Okay.
And I still see -- you've seen a number of kind of late (inaudible) aircraft that were very tired from a maintenance perspective get kicked out of American Airlines.
I’ll turn to that.
Those were kind of -- that may be about 10 12 aircraft in total.
We’re seeing good demand for 757s.
I do think they will be an excellent freighter.
I think that FedEx has moved to kind of continuous program of switching out its 727s which were quite old and quite efficient with 757s it’s a definite positive.
The FedEx program right now is authorized for 120 130 aircraft which is more than 10% of the entire fleet ever built.
So that kind of provides underlying support but you don’t have aircraft that can effectively fly from the mainland Hawaii in this kind of density or that the MAX will not fly across the Atlantic like 757 does so.
There are submissions that are uniquely still suited for 757.
I’m sure.
That was -- you cleanly answered the question which was given FedEx’s demand for the 757 -- use of the freight.
Can you kick them effectively out of passenger source and put them into the freighter market and then you give me even better answer so.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
And the other thing is we have over the last two years three years sold FedEx five 757s.
Well they could do some more.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Welcome Halane.
We will go next to John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hey.
Thanks.
I was hoping that you could -- Ron you could elaborate on sort of the trajectory of lease rate trends that we’ve seen.
It seems like we went through this period of softening trends and now they are kind of bottoming.
And there is hope for an inflection.
And I know we can’t quantify this but could you just kind of speak to what extent slowing demand played a role in the softening and then to what extent it’s important in the inflection.
To what extent manufacture over production played a role and to what extent extra supply hitting the market? Do the delinquencies play a role in sort of the outlook here? I just want a better sense hopefully of what we are betting on so to speak as we see the leasing cycle on full term here? Well I’m trying to think of a way to give you an answer just taken an hour.
There is such a different impact by aircraft type.
I think the general point of business confidence is one that goes across the spectrum.
And you’ll see it transmitted more immediately in the freight market than you own in the passenger market.
Because it’s a less tricky situation.
Big planning happens in a much more reactive way in the freight market.
And we’re seeing an increase in demand for 747-400 freighters.
I think if we were to look at lease rates for the aircraft that come out over the next year or too that probably went higher than what we saw in the first quarter.
I don’t know if we could put a (inaudible) perhaps it may be 10% 15% higher.
The 737 NG market has been more robust.
I think there -- I'm less worried about the production increases because they have been smaller and they have only taken effect recently.
With the 320 market you have -- I should say the 320 family market you have the number of things already once you have production increases that have been kind of wrapping up over some period of time.
And whether I like it or not I think those were continued because of the fleet times involved.
I also think you have kind of ebbs and flows in terms of additional supply that gets kicked out in the market.
The Arab spring was particularly Airbus heavy and that’s just a customer mix issue.
Some of the bankruptcies have affected the market this year.
The Kingfisher reduction (inaudible) bankruptcy were more Airbus oriented.
And so those are stealing the effect little bit more.
I don’t know that could quantify it.
Maybe that’s kind of the bottom line answer but I think the business confidence issue is even bigger one when it comes to white bodies and freighters and you know if you look at the most recent IATA release they have the nice presentation.
It shows revival in business confidence that these things can usually reverse but it’s kind of a nice trend.
I think the other things that got worth noting in the freight sector is the level of inventory overhang which has been pretty low.
And so if you have low inventory and increasing business confidence -- thanks for the freight structure.
That’s really helpful color.
And Ron I think at the Investor Day made this comment that the platform could handle basically double the amount of business or the size portfolio can double without really adding to SG&amp;A.
Can you just sort of help us think and I know -- and I am not asking for our growth target that we’re going to hold you to but can you help us think how many years would it take for the portfolio to double what or alternatively what might sort of a CAGR that you sort to hope to achieve in terms of portfolio growth annually look like as we look out for number of years any commentary on that would be helpful.
Let me give you one historical fact we grew to $4 billion in our first three years with the much smaller team.
So we can certainly do it.
The passive growth is something that I don’t want to sit down (inaudible) because I -- our philosophy is not that you kind of play hockey-stick and grow irrespective of what’s going on in the world (inaudible) stepwise.
And if there is good investment opportunities and good financing opportunities for same time and even may earn a good return equity and we will grow.
If both of those same through on line and you don’t and it’s a cyclic market and there are sometimes for you want to step on the accelerator I think this is one or two times and there are sometimes you don’t.
So I don’t see as doing its straight line growth and I am lot more nervous about making fix commitments for long period of time given the volatility to market and given our kind of more conservative stands on financing.
I do think that looking after five years seeing a company double or size it’s not unreasonable growth prospect.
We have been in the straight line we have been it all I don’t know.
It probably won’t be a straight line you can does.
But the -- our philosophy look embrace to cyclicality of the market take adventure.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And just changing topic a little bit and I know the timing isn’t right for returning more cash to shareholder just given some your recent debt deals.
But as we kind of think longer term down the line -- what is the path look like from here towards seeing some dividend increases or you guys authorizing and executing some buybacks.
How do we see that involving is that years down the line is that later in 2012.
I am just trying to understand that a little bit better.
To put in the some historical context last year we increase our dividend twice in total 50% increase.
And obviously we implemented $90 million share buyback program that was done in a lower share price and lower invest in return market.
We are not close monitor and we look at this our board looks to this from time-to-time in terms of share buybacks.
But its dividends I think the key way there is a sustainability.
And as we grow our earnings base as we improve our cash flow and by the way I think that the cash flow improvements from our [bamboozler] we are really really substantial.
We look at it increasing the dividend.
I think the Board and management are committed to being dividend paying company.
I think it’s sort of tie to a sustainable growth in our earnings call.
All right.
That’s great.
Thanks guys.
We will move next Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Thanks.
(Inaudible) if can you tell us a little more details about the private aircraft that you have signed for purchase and I guess you said most of those we closing in the 2Q and if any details on timing -- for as well? There are -- is one freighter.
One Widebody freighter there is one new Widebody passenger aircraft and there is three mid air bodies.
Timing is that on that is probably towards the back half of the quarter.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then also that the lower lease discounts can you help me understand how those folk through are use to this is the lowest level that you mentioned 1Q ’09 and I guess you said there will be roughly 01 in the second quarter.
How do you -- how to those fluctuate they have been fairly study for while and what would have been impacts they are making at bounce around recently? Yeah.
What’s happened recently Arren to some of the unscheduled terminations are lease expiries and when you have been accruing a lease incentive for something that it turns out you don’t actually have to do anything for our fund that liability goes away.
And so we have some of that effect in the first quarter with the return of the aircraft from world and we expect more of that if you will in the context there is a Cimber bankruptcy filing are earlier today.
Okay.
So buying additional returns in about half of the years that shouldn’t bounce back to a more normal? Probably bounce back to little more certain normalized level that we saw last year.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then lastly on the Cimber 700 coming back I guess folks have been talking for while that the 700 and 319 assay classes -- relatively weak over the past year too.
Can you talk about whether or not there is going to be any accelerated depreciation or impairments related those aircraft? No.
The seven -- first of all you are right.
I mean that market sector in generals weaker than I used to be and that’s a structural shift.
We don’t see short haul market being a premium market anymore it’s all kind of low cost and so bigger planes like the 800 versus 700 to do better.
Having said that the 700 is a lot stronger in terms of market demand in the 319 last year we took a move to (inaudible) economic life assumptions on 319 we don’t feel the same way about 700 and given the re-marketing efforts so we have been putting today into this aircraft in any case feel pretty good about -- we’ll be able to generate and I don’t see any impairments coming around.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
We’ll move next to Glenn Engel with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
The $43 million debt investment good effects show up in terms of the returns so that show up in net interest expense? It’s going to show up two other revenue on a go forward basis as you accrete the discount to pore and the interest that you received in that going forward.
Both unexpectedly and expectedly what’s happened in two lease rates and how is that different from normal? I think lease rates have been kind of continuing a steady pattern and talking about it if you ask me how’s you -- our expectations today compared to what we talk about during our year-end call there will be discuss same.
And for the simple plans what would you expect to see drops in this freight is result those re-leases? Those aircraft when allow 200 and I would expect them to be in the mid to high 100.
Thank you very much.
We -- a question of who is the counter party and the reconsidering cost and so on.
Thanks.
And we’ll move next to Mark Streeter with JPMorgan.
Ron good morning.
Question for you I think the market expect to Delta to take the 717s that Southwest now has the air trend in building capital (inaudible) although Delta has done a little bit of curve.
They are now talking about maybe given that (inaudible) A319 fleet of significant size in used market and if we are going back to number of 717 Southwest that’s 60 70 planes something like that.
I am just wondering if they were to go down that route.
Is that something that could clean up to used Airbus in narrow-body market? Is that enough would it take a lot more? I’m just wondering if you think there is counter cyclical controlling and play to make any Airbus Narrowbody’s given the weakness there? Delta is not the only company looking -- upsides looking at 319s as a replacement for older aircraft or for regional aircraft.
And I think the really sensible thing for them to do.
What they actually -- and by the way that 717 in that context looks very vulnerable to me.
This could simply because of its narrowness of its operating base.
That’s because of its airplane because so few alternatives for that airplane.
The 319 can be a play.
We have been looking -- it could fit into our call our mid life narrowbody strategy where you have a quick payback to put up value.
The engines on 319 are buy and large the same engines flying on the 320s.
And so if you get into the right price and if you have the decent enough (inaudible) you could do quite well.
And we look at that from the time to time.
So far on 319 market we haven’t seen owners of aircraft to part with their (inaudible) to acceptable price.
So you think that if Delta would have move forward would that is that enough to clean up that market or another potential big operator of that fleet type? We just more in entry 20 but… If that’s were to make it big move in (inaudible) huge effect.
I don’t cleaning up is not sort of a scientific term but it have a dramatic impact on rappels.
Yeah.
I just thought because we are talking about the 757 and (inaudible) forth and it seems like – it’s relatively new news the Deltas looking that 319 do you certainly when you look at that we get the Airbus now about between 319 and 320.
How do you view that is – are the 320 more we could and (inaudible) 319? Yeah.
319 are the weakest of the family.
Okay.
And so Delta has been really opportunistic over the last several years in terms of fleet and they picked up these empty 90s a very very low prices and by the way the empty 90s are flying to same engines as we (inaudible) into the same engine 320 because to that family.
The 319 are separately relatively my earlier remark because of the shift in short haul market that’s been they a long standing phenomenon it’s towards 320 so far.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Ron.
Sure.
We will take a follow-up question from Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Michael I am trying to understand the revenue guidance for the next quarter you have a basically flat with Q1 maybe a down little bit but you (inaudible) A330 in early April that’s going to be $2.5 million of around straight there and we’ve already more plans to (inaudible) 330.
I know you have Cimber (inaudible) why revenue should be flat that up in Q2 (inaudible)? A couple thing.
I think what we said is the acquisitions in the second quarter absent the Airbus A330 or going to be back end of the quarter and some of the may in fact slip into Q3.
Also at the end of the first quarter we have 747 which is on the passenger lease come off lease that was at a very attractive lease rate for sometime and I am not expecting that to be back into revenue service during the second quarter.
Okay.
What was the actual number the dollar amount of acquisition that close in the first quarter? 80.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
This is some other kind of minor noise there when you have lease extensions you have average down the rental.
And those are not going to be driving the result that much but they did have an effect on some of the result last year when we extended for example U.S.
service A330s for those.
And we’ve got few extensions in place and that was a great deal that had negative effect from a GAAP perspective.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Thank you for your time.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Q2 2012 Aircastle Limited Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Melanie and good morning everyone.
I’m Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and I’d like to welcome all of you to Aircastle Limited’s second quarter 2012 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We will begin the presentation shortly but I would like to mention that the call is being recorded and the replay number is 888-203-1112 from within the United States and Canada from outside of the U.S.
and Canada the number is 719-457-0820.
The replay passcode for this call is 5002334.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and an accompanying PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from these estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filing which can also be found on our website.
I’ll direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And I’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and thanks to all of you on the call for joining us.
I’ll start by reviewing our recent accomplishments then I'll discuss the current overall market environment touch on our results for Q2 2012 and provide an update on our plans.
Mike will follow with a more detailed review of our financial results and capital structure.
After that we’ll open up the call for questions.
Let's start with some second quarter highlights.
We invested $400 million in Q2 building on approximately $1 billion of aircraft acquisitions completed over the previous 12 months.
Our investments are focused on modern high utility aircraft in market segments in situations where we believe we have a competitive advantage.
We expect these accretive and attractively priced investments will generate strong returns and enhance the company's financial performance.
Secondly we completed an $800 million unsecured bond offering in April.
In addition to providing flexible growth capital we used part of the proceeds of this offering to repay a secured bank deal and to further increase of our unencumbered asset base to $2 billion from $700 million at the end of the first quarter.
Our demonstrated capital markets access lets us capitalize on the opportunities arising from the ongoing contraction in bank financing for aircraft.
Thirdly we continue to manage our portfolio effectively once again achieving a 98% fleet utilization rate during the quarter.
In short we're continuing to execute on our business plan in a disciplined way.
In doing so we are extremely mindful to putting our capital to work in the most effective way possible from a long-term shareholders' perspective.
In this regard we'll continue to consider the best mix of aircraft investments repurchasing our securities and returning capital to shareholders through a dividend payout that reflects the company's growing earnings base.
Now let's turn to the discussion of the business environment.
Passenger traffic levels have been surprisingly resilient this year.
Year-to-date through June the International Air Transport Association said passenger air traffic is up 6.5% versus last year.
However as we've anticipated we're now starting to see a slowdown in growth rates.
Travel during the month of June was just 0.3% higher than in May.
We believe that weakened business and consumer confidence is causing this slowdown.
Additionally while there are always regional variations in performance we anticipate these differences will narrow as GDP growth begins moderating in some of the large emerging market economies.
Nonetheless I must say that passenger traffic levels have been quite good considering the global macroeconomic circumstances.
For airfreight the data continues to support our view that the market hit bottom during the fourth quarter of last year but has improved only modestly since.
In June trade volume was just 0.8% better than the same period last year and it's about 2.5% higher on a seasonally adjusted basis in the low point during the fourth quarter of last year.
Airfreight traffic is still at a week level.
Here again we believe the current lack of business confidence is to blame.
However as business confidence improves we would expect this to result in higher inventory levels and in turn a pickup in air cargo activity.
Now I will discuss aircraft supply.
On one hand there are very few apart current technology aircraft that are already committed customers.
That's good news.
However we continue to be concerned about increasing production levels particularly for narrow body aircraft.
While it's true that there are large order backlogs we believe that these will be very difficult to sustain without the persistently high levels of export credit agency financing support we have seen over the past fiver years.
Aircraft leasing demand continues to be weak as operators are reluctant to make new long-term commitments.
As a result rental rates remain generally steady but at low levels.
We see this now across aircraft types in vintages and view this to be a reflection of the broader economic sentiment.
In this softer demand environment we have been most successful in executing shorter-term lease extensions as airlines defer long-term decisions.
In the same vein with less orders across the world we're having a harder time placing aircraft with new operators and good terms.
Concerning the aircraft financing markets long-term structural change is continuing apace.
Bank capacity continues to shrink and we do not expect it to return anytime soon.
We expect ECAs to support roughly one third in the aircraft deliveries this year largely replacing bank financing.
However more than doubling an ECA guarantee fees scheduled for January next year will create an interesting market dynamic that we believe will shift more demand for financing towards leasing companies that are able to access the capital markets effectively.
The US capital markets continue to be robust.
And not surprisingly we're seeing in the growing number of airlines and leasing companies seeking to raise capital here.
However we believe consistent market access particularly for unsecured debt will be limited to those with strong capital structures and compelling business models.
Aircastle's use of the capital markets is not completely unique among aircraft leasing companies.
However our percentage of unencumbered assets more than 40% as of June 30 and the growing role of unsecured debt in capital structure sets us apart.
We believe this will lead us to a strong standing with capital market debt investors.
I will now touch on our second quarter performance.
Lease rental revenue which we believe is the most consistent measure of revenue for our business increased to $153.6 million in Q2 from a $143.4 million in Q2 of last year reflecting the growth in our investing activity and good fleet utilization levels.
Adjusted net income during the quarter was $25.8 million or $0.36 per diluted common share.
Income was lower this quarter versus last year primarily due to a reduced gain on sale and in aircraft specific impairment.
We expect gains on sale this year to be a quite smaller role than last year given the weak pricing environment which we're capitalizing on as buyers.
Mike will discuss the details.
Looking ahead the new swap for 2007 securitization financing began in June and is expected to reduce our interest expense by around $30 million over the next 12 months.
Mike will also provide interest expense guidance in his prepared remarks.
Turning to our liquidity position business remained strong as evidenced by an unsecured and unrestricted cash position that stood at $291 million at June 30.
We have no significant debt maturities until 2017 nor do we have any outstanding aircraft order commitment at this point.
Portfolio performance once again was solid with fleet utilization at 98% and a rental yield around 14%.
We continue to anticipate high utilization rental yields for the second half of 2012 and it's through the worst revenue base with an average remaining lease term of 4.9 years.
We made good progress with aircraft placements both in regard to the scheduled lease expirations and in also addressing customer issues.
We began this year with 17 aircrafts replaced in 2012 and have worked down this to three remaining scheduled lease expirations for this year.
We expect three additional aircraft will return to us in the fourth quarter two are former Cimber Sterling aircrafts on short-term leases and one is an agreed early return.
The six aircrafts we're currently marketing for 2012 represent about 3% of our total fleet net book value.
We've also been making good progress on 2013 placements and have already placed or extended five of our expiries next year including Boeing narrow-bodies 767 and an MD-11 freighter aircraft.
The net book size remaining placements we have for 2013 is now 9% of the total.
Following the end of the second quarter we began to a part out disposition of the 747-400 passenger aircraft originally was to Singapore Airlines and that was originally targeted for future freighter conversion.
Challenging air cargo market conditions and a significant cost of converting the aircraft on one hand along with a strong demand for spare engines on the other led us to this approach.
To-date we've disposed of the airframe and it's over swapped out three of the four engines and we're pretty close on a deal on the fourth engine.
While this wasn't our original plan we estimate this investment will result in a very respectable and leveraged return to more than 13%.
Our approach to this aircraft highlights both our asset management skills and our thoughtful methodical approach towards getting the most out of our investments.
Now a few word on our investments and the sales activity.
As I mentioned before we completed about $400 million of new investments during the second quarter consisting of 12 aircraft acquisitions.
This included the last of our A330 order stream deliveries.
In addition we also signed commitments to acquire more than $200 million in aircrafts during the second half of this year.
Here's more color on our recent aircraft acquisitions.
All these aircrafts have medium to long-term remaining lease terms.
Approximately half of this new investment volume is made up if newer light body aircraft and majority is leased to Asia- Pacific carriers reflecting growth in this part of the world.
In general we are focusing on aircraft we think will either obtain stronger residual value performance due to better supply and demand characteristics or where we have very good visibility in regards to residual value of the aircraft.
Turning to aircraft sales activities here has been primarily oriented towards disposing of older aircrafts what we determined is better to sell rather than to reinvest and release.
Since the end of the second quarter we've completed a breakeven sale of the oldest aircraft in our portfolio a 1985 Boeing 737-300 that had been on lease to South West Airlines.
We're pursuing a number of other sales in the classic generation aircraft.
As we look ahead we believe the investment environment will remain attractive although we believe macro issues will persist.
As such we will remain focused on our modern high utility asset strategy with a keen eye for excellent value.
Our ability to raise flexible debt capital in the bottom market provides for a great opportunity.
To this end we're making investments that we expect incremental cash ROEs in excess of 15%.
We are bullish about the investment opportunity set and the potential positive impact on our EPS and return on equity over time.
We intend to remain disciplined and we'll continue seeking the best employment of our capital for a shareholders perspective meet new investments repurchasing securities or making dividend distributions.
To this end we have $15 million in share repurchase capacity available.
In regards to dividend our board just cleared a 25<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarterly dividend and our 4<sup>th</sup> consecutive payment of $0.15 per share.
We last raised a dividend in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Based on our growing earnings base larger contractual revenue stream and strong cash flows we believe Aircastle is well positioned to maintain and grow our dividend over time.
In evaluating future dividend levels the board will continue to maintain a balance approach creating shareholder value through accretive investments dividends and share repurchases.
The board intends to review our dividend level next quarter in conjunction with our annual business planning process.
I'll now turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
During the second quarter we continued to execute on our plan to add accretive assets and to strengthen the capital structure of our business continue to successfully source new investments maintain a strong asset yield and utilization rate and have a solid contracted revenue stream.
In addition as we discussed in our last earning’s call during the second quarter we continued the transformation of our capital structure with an $800 million unsecured bond issue in early April.
This transaction continued our migration towards the larger mix of unsecured debt increased on unencumbered aircraft asset base by approximately $1.3 billion to $2 billion overall extended our earliest debt maturity from 2015 to 2017 provided us with additional operating flexibility and growth capital and in addition we no longer have any financings with LTV tests associated with them.
Turning to the second quarter results our lease rental revenue was $153.6 million which is an increase of 7% primarily due to the net impact of aircraft acquisitions made over the last 12 months.
Total revenues were $172.2 million an increase of $23.3 million or 16% primarily driven by higher lease rental revenues lower amortization of lease incentives and higher maintenance revenue in the quarter.
You'll recall from our last earnings call that we early terminated leases on two 737-700 aircraft that we are associated with the bankruptcy of Cimber Sterling on May 3.
One other 737-700 lease at Cimber also terminated as scheduled during the second quarter.
As a result we recorded higher maintenance revenue of $5.4 million primarily associated with Cimber and two other scheduled lease terminations.
Also we had lower amortization of lease incentives of about $5.1 million compared to the prior year quarter primarily due to the reverse of accrued incentive payments specifically related to Cimber.
All four of the Cimber aircraft that came off lease in the first half of 2012 have been released and are now back in service with other carriers today.
Other revenues for the quarter were $3 million which includes interest income from financial lease treatment associated with the sales leaseback transaction we did with Thomas Cook’s German subsidiary Condor for six 767-300 ERs which closed in early June.
This transaction is accounted for as a financial lease since the 8-year lease has run through what we think of it as the end of the aircraft’s useful life and is not captured on the other revenue line of our income statement as opposed into lease rental revenue.
The gross cash lease rental yields for this transaction are approximately 18% per annum.
Our growing portfolio also contributed to improvements in EBITDA.
The second quarter EBITDA was $146.8 million 3% increase over the prior year.
The increase is driven by higher total lease revenues at $10.3 million higher maintenance revenue of $5.4 million and higher other revenue of $2.6 million.
These increases were offset partially by higher maintenance and other expenses of $1.9 million due to the Cimber early returns lower gain on sale of aircraft of $7.4 million year-over-year and a higher aircraft impairment charge of $4.9 million.
During the second quarter we point on the recoverability assessment on the 757 and a 767-300 ER and we recorded impairment charges of $10.1 million related to these two aircrafts.
Impairment charges are driven by changes associated with an aircraft economic useful life residual value or estimated future lease stream and net maintenance cash flows.
In the case of the 757 the impairment was driven by a decision to sell the aircraft at slightly below book value to the current operator based on the specific attributes and maintenance condition of this particular aircraft.
In the case of the 767 which came back on a scheduled lease expiration in the second quarter the impairment was driven by unanticipated engine work that will be required for this particular aircraft in the next lease reducing the expected future maintenance cash flows.
It is also important to note that we recorded about $2.5 million of maintenance revenue associated with the end of the lease on that 767.
Also during the second quarter we settled an insurance claim on the lot 767 aircraft which resulted in the net gain of $2.9 million.
This compares with the $10.3 million gain from the sale of an A330-200 aircraft during last year's second quarter producing the year-over-year reduction in gain on sale approximately $7.4 million.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter was $25.8 million or $0.36 per diluted share compared to $32 million or $0.42 per diluted share for Q2 '11.
Net net the year-over-year decrease is largely attributable to a lower gain on sale associated with aircraft sales activity compared to 2011 along with the impairment charge taken in the quarter.
As expected and as we discussed in our last call interest expense net for the quarter was $64.1 million an increase of $8.2 million over last year.
This included two impacts on the repayment of our term loan number one with the proceeds from our April bond deal.
The $2.9 million write off of deferred financing fees and a $4.4 million charge of related deferred hedge amortization on the hedge termination related to that repayment.
These adjustments are included in our calculation of adjusted net income.
During the quarter our average debt outstanding was approximately $400 million higher year over year.
SG&amp;A was essentially flat with last year while depreciation expense for the second quarter was $67.1 million versus $58.6 million in 2011.
The increase related to the growth of the fleet on a year-over-year basis.
Our Q2 tax provision was $1.3 million right around 8% and we expect the effective tax rate for the full year to remain in the 7% to 8% range.
At the end of the quarter we owned 155 aircraft versus 144 at year end.
At the end of Q2 the annualized lease rental run rate on the portfolio approximated $646 million of which $294 million is associated with 67 unencumbered aircraft including the total lease rental payments from our finance leases.
These aircrafts had a net book value of about $2 billion or roughly 42% of the net book value of our aircraft portfolio.
Including our unrestricted cash balance total unencumbered assets approximate $2.3 billion.
As stated earlier the gain on sale of flight equipment was $2.9 million a bit lower than last year.
As Ron mentioned we sold 13 aircraft and generated $39 million of gain on sale in 2011.
We continue to believe that 2012 is proving to be a better year to acquire as opposed to selling aircraft and accordingly we are not anticipating material gains from the sale of aircraft in the second half of the year.
Turning to our capital structure at the end of the quarter our unrestricted cash balance totaled $291 million with restricted cash at $138 million.
We also had $50 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility with secured and unsecured borrowings totaling approximately $3.2 billion.
Net debt outstanding was $2.9 billion which is approximately 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
The ratio of secured debt to total debt at quarter-end was 60% down from about 85% at year-end.
Our net debt to equity ratio excluding the mark-to-market on our interest rate derivatives was approximately 1.9 times.
And finally as a remainder we have no asset coverage test in our unsecured bond indentures no LTV tests in any of our secured financings and we are in compliance of all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities.
As we previously discussed in early April the $800 million of unsecured debt was issued at a blended rate of about 7.08%.
We have paid down $583 million of term financing number one debt and refinancing.
We released approximately $70 million of restricted cash and unencumbered 27 aircraft with a net book value of $1 billion.
The refinancing also resulted in a hedge breakage cost of approximately $51 million which is funded partially with a portion of the restricted cash that was released.
Also the new interest rate swap that we executed in 2011 for our second securitization became effective in June and will reduce our cash pay interest expense on this securitization by about 400 basis points which we estimate will save about $30 million in interest expense over the next 12 months.
Finally turning to Q3 guidance on selected elements we expect lease rental revenues of $157 million to $159 million.
Maintenance revenues associated with one scheduled exploration in the quarter are estimated to be $1 million to $3 million.
We expect amortization of net lease discount premiums and lease incentives of $6 million to $8 million.
Our SGNA level is expected to be between 11 and 13 consistent with current run rate depreciation expectations are $67 million to $69 million an interest net of $52 million to $54 million including about $4.5 million of amortization of the hedge losses on the repayment of term loan number one.
To conclude we continue to successfully execute on our business plan and we are well-positioned on a perspective of portfolio strength operating performance capital structure and capital markets access as we enter the second half of the year.
We expect our proven access to capital and strong cash position will enable us to take advantage of investment opportunities that are consistent with our return-oriented investment focus.
And with that operator will now open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions).
We'll go first to Isaac Husseini with Barclays.
Ron maybe a question for you.
Going back to your scripted remarks I guess the language that was used to describe leasing demand as weak feels a bit different than slightly more optimistic language that was used in the past couple of quarters.
Is that a fair assessment or are we reading too much into the remarks that you made there?  I think it is pretty consistent with the way we see it.
What hasn't happened is any kind of economic recovery and that is basically the bigger problem across the industry.
As I said during my remarks business confidence consumer confidence isn't very strong and the airline planners are reluctant to make new commitment.
I do not think it is a big change from the last quarter; we are just not seeing any kind or recovery.
Okay.
Got it.
And then another question on asset values.
We heard that from some that some asset values have come down to level that make selling them and booking losses unattractive for owners.
Have you seen any resistance when you are trying to purchase aircraft in the second day market from owners that are not willing to sell because of those values? All the time.
It goes in ways I mean I think you generally have that going on.
And then you have periods of time where people kind of come to a realization that if they do want to sell they will have to just deal with the levels that are out there.
And that's kind of accounted for little bit of lumpiness in deal flow on our side.
But as I said looking beyond the quarter-to-quarter kind of variations I think the outlook is very good for new investments.
And we are seeing them from all quarters whether it is existing aircraft leasing company owners or airlines.
And so I guess because of that you are not is it fair to say that you are not seeing anything different now than you were in the beginning of the year?  You will still be net buyers you still think you will hit that target of $600 million to $700 million of asset acquisitions going into fourth that has not changed right? No it has not changed at all.
In fact if you look at the acquisitions that we announced this for the second quarter plus the new commitments we have made we have hit the investment target for the year at this point.
Okay great thank you so much.
And we are continuing to look.
We'll go next to Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Maybe you could talk about the $400 million that you purchased this quarter and I apologize if I missed any specifics but maybe get into details of what type of aircraft do you purchase? Hi Arren it's Ron.
If you go to the PowerPoint that’s on our website there is a little bit more detail I'll just kind of read it off for convenience.
For that $400 million there are two relatively new A330s including the last aircraft from our order stream which is on lease to Virgin Australia.
There are five current generation new narrow bodies that are mid age there are six 7-300ERs on finance leases to Condor as Mike mentioned during this remarks and there is one 747-400 freighter.
In addition during the first quarter we also acquired a 777-300ER secured loan.
Great sorry I missed that in the presentation.
The is the impairment on aircraft I know these popup once in a while but I guess just since you do have some additional 767s and 757s in your portfolio these are I am assuming you are going to say that these are aircraft specific and you don’t need to run test on the existing portfolio? No Arren when we look at any particular impairment that occurs it does cause us to look at the type of aircraft broadly across our fleet to do a more detailed look at that each quarter.
The 767s have been on our watch list as we reported in our 10-K and 10-Q over the last few years.
And so this assessment that concluded this quarter with this plane that was returned resulted in impairment as we detailed today but did not result in impairment for any of the other 767s in our fleet at this time.
Yeah the other thing I noted in regard to 757 that was in our watch list that was the only 757 on our watch list and there was some aircraft specific issues with regards to return condition relative to maintenance condition of the aircraft and so that one was not a surprise.
And as I mentioned to you in terms of under what circumstances we sell aircraft it’s in situations where we believe it is just better to sell rather than reinvest and release and that was certainly the case with 757.
The other 757s in our fleet we feel pretty good about.
Okay thanks.
And then lastly the share count did you make any share repurchases during the quarter with new authorization? No we still have $50 million under our existing authorization.
We'll go next to Gregory Lewis of Credit Suisse.
This is actually Anthony Segoya for Greg this morning.
Good morning everyone.
I just have a quick question.
I noticed in the presentation there was a slide kind of showing a shift in exposure from Europe to Asia and I was wondering if there were any kind of benefits that you guys are seeing in Asia when you guys are putting the planes on leases whether its longer lease terms or better maintenance terms anything like that was kind of structurally different as you guys move planes there? Hi Anthony it's Ron.
The move to Asia is coming from two different forces.
The first force and the bigger one is the new investments that we are making.
And as I said in my remarks more than half of the new acquisitions we talked about are going to Asia Pacific airlines and those are aircraft with quite long lease terms.
So and the lease terms are quite strong.
Where the lease terms are weaker and it's not a geographically specific issue it's just on placements that have come up in the last year.
And that’s the different market conditions.
I don’t think there is really a material difference between the lease terms that we get in Asia versus anywhere else.
We make an aircraft placement decision we try to get the best deal possible looking for around the world as we can.
And then I guess I was just wondering if you kind of provide a little bit more guidance on the amortization of the net lease discounts.
Obviously in the guidance for Q3 like pretty high historically and I was just wondering if that will kind of continue or if that’s just related to like planes coming off of lease and transitioning more so in that quarter? Yeah I think it’s a combination.
I think it’s more instructive about a current run rate going forward.
Obviously the second quarter was distorted by the reversal associated with the Cimber aircraft but as we have recorded more maintenance revenue we will be in most circumstances recording more lease incentive amortization against the next lease going forward.
So I think what we have put out today is probably a reasonable look for what we think the second half of the year will look like.
We will go next to John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hi everyone.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions.
Ron I just wanted to follow up on some of your demand comments just so that I understand a little bit better.
When we think about the idea that reiterates sort of stabilized here and maybe there is some reasons to be optimistic going forward is that really a bet on global demand kind of improving from here or is there something about where lease rates or aircraft value has stabilized that creates sort of unique downside support where even if demand got worse we wouldn't see another step down because some aircraft types are at part-out value or something like that?  I'm really just trying to explore the downside risk if demand actually keeps getting weaker.
John it's a good question and I think the answer is aircraft type specific.
The investment that we made on the 767s that are treated as finance leases were done with a very very kind of return condition specific deal residual value.
So we've a really really good idea provide the lease run that's as opposed to what we're going to get at the very end.
And we've a pretty good visibility particularly now in Pratt 4000 engines which is what's going on with these aircrafts.
That's one thing.
Where I am the most concerned about from a downside perspective and where I'm avoiding making new investments is in the "last off the line" new narrow-bodies.
Anybody who buys an aircraft is going to have a take a view whether they hold it or not that it's going to last a long time.
And because of the production levels and because of the eventual introduction and new technology I think that's a tougher proposition with "last off the line" narrow-bodies.
I think that's where this whole downside is.
Okay.
And if I could just follow-up on your comments on air cargo it sounds like you're sort of maintaining this view that cargo has turned a corner.
Can you just talk about to what extent that's -- that's kind of reading the data that that's out there that we all see versus what you're hearing actually from customers on the margin as you try to kind of as you just operate in the air cargo leasing market? Turning to corner is probably true but I wish it was more than where we're at right now.
The recovery this year has been very modest.
And there are a bunch of very kind of specific to regions and market issues going on.
But you've a bunch of different kinds of operators.
I think the cargo market in general is suffering from business confidence issues.
We're also seeing for certain operators a decline in the U.S.
military spending which was very important for some of them.
That's one of the reasons that lead to the World Airlines bankruptcy.
In talking to customers this is the critical time of the year for airfreight long haul airfreight it's basically July August through January which is a busy season and it's a mixed story.
We're getting some folks that are a little bit more optimistic and some people gotten a little less optimistic.
It's really kind of mixed.
Okay it's really helpful and just last one Ron or maybe Mike I don't remember who somebody made the comment that cash ROE is a target of 15%.
Can you just kind of give us a sense of how the idea of buyback kind of relates to that?  It seems like the cash ROE on buybacks in certain scenarios here could be 15% or higher.
I don’t know how buybacks sort of fit into that underwriting standard.
John this is Mike.
We look at buying new assets.
We look at buybacks in sort of the same vein on what we think can do to shareholder value over time.
As we've I think elaborated through the first half of the year we've been very focused on what we think are very accretive asset acquisitions.
We have put a new authorization in place and we'll continue to look those two elements as well as the concept Ron talked about around the dividend and the regular return of capital to shareholders in the context of a higher underwriting standards to drive the overall ROE of the business higher as we move forward.
Yes definitely the stock buybacks are in our toolbox and its something we monitor along with the other alternatives.
We'll go next is Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets.
Just with regard to I know your strategy in the past are currently is kind of focused on middle aged aircraft where it's probably a little less competition from buyers.
But just wondering you mentioned over production by the OEMs.
Is there a chance if you see opportunity to switch to maybe newer aircraft and then couple of that maybe the change in ECA financing that presents more sale leaseback opportunities? Scott it’s a good question but let me make a couple of comments.
First the new acquisition we've made this year about half of them are newer light bodies.
So it's not entirely a one dimensional strategy.
And our strategy is to function of what's available in the market both in terms of raw returns and also in terms of how one can finance them.
So we'll look at anything but we also have to be realistic about what the options are.
Where we see value right now is based on our advantages having unsecured debt market access the team's capabilities our expertise in the freight market etc.
But we're open top things and we look at different ideas from time to time.
As I mentioned one of the things we've looked at in the past are the E-Jets the Embraer E-Jets to be clear.
But it's not a---it's not fixed.
The one thing about ECA financing is I kind of mentioned in our prepared remarks is that while that is reliably once you get the guarantee it’s pretty using the finance but the guarantee fee more than doubles next year.
And you’re looking at depending on the credit rating of the borrower 10 11+% upfront fee on the debt issued.
That’s huge.
And so if you intend to hold that asset forever fine as you can spread that over say 12 years.
But if you ever want to sell it you’re going to have a very expensive financing on your hand.
And I think that’s a point that will increasingly become -- will come to the fore with both airlines and lessors because that everybody wants to hold everything forever.
Right.
I see you expect maybe a great opportunity for sale lease back transactions once the new financing region takes effect? Yeah definitely.
I think this is an opportunity but in order to play there you need to find a different way to finance.
That’s why the capital markets access is so important.
Okay.
And so the last question.
There’s been some debate and I guess you kind of referenced that may be on the last of the line aircraft but do you think there’s been a shift in economic life of aircraft and the gap is 25-year amortization 15% residual but it seems like maybe high fuel prices have fueled a shorter life but it seems like there’s a debate now about is the true life of aircraft 25 years or has it shortened? I think it’s a fair question.
I think it’s a question that we’re going to ask ourselves in the context of our fleet review but I think the really important second level questions get ignored which is number one where in the production line are you buying.
So if I look at A320 with the current engines Airbus started delivering those in the mid-'90s and they’ll continue to deliver those until 2015-2016.
I would tell you that 2015-2016 deliveries are really unlikely to last 25 years but the ones first off the line has much better chance maybe longer.
So you can’t ignore the context of the situation.
And as investors we have to be extremely mindful of that.
I also think that the family of the aircraft is going to make a big difference too.
My view about a 777-300 ER is going to be very different in my view about a 319.
So it’s a fair question to ask but you really do as an analyst you need to look at the next layer of detail.
And I think my comment about field production is largely driven towards the narrow bodies.
We’ll go next to Andrew Light of Citi.
Are you saying given the 15% ROE you can get in the older planes and indeed I recommend Thomas Cook there was a lot higher than that.
Are you seeing more competition for example I think last year Guggenheim was also to the portion of that Thomas Cook transaction? The competition for mid-age aircraft is a most credible from people who can access the unsecured debt markets because there is really no secured debt financing the position for mid-age aircraft okay.
So let's look at the list of the people with credit ratings and access to unsecured debt that claim the mid age aircraft.
Maybe it is only [AVOS] everybody else is either not doing it or doesn’t have unsecured debt access okay.
So I think there is great opportunities there to kind of refer to an earlier question there is a reluctance by sellers to accept what they'll deal from a price perspective but we have a much better batting average in that market.
Having said that I do think that there are opportunities with the white bodies as we demonstrated by through the acquisitions we have made.
So it's not purely focused there and I think the white body opportunities that could expand particularly if the ECA fees increase substantially.
Okay.
And on the impairments side when would you say the flip side of being in a buyers market is the impairment risk when your own portfolio has gone up particularly with 56 or so aircraft coming off lease in the next two years? Well you have to look an impairment analysis is a projection of cash flows against a book value.
And so the cash flows don’t necessarily contemplate a sale of an aircraft.
I think what's germane as what your projection both now and for cash flows over time plus the residual at some point about what you can realize.
So I don’t think you should confuse the relevance of the sales price for the "current market value" is in what you would reduce your book value but the first test the test that gives rise to whether an impairment exist or not is based on the forecast of cash flows.
Last question for Mike I can't remember if you mentioned this in your guidance for Q3on the lease rental revenue of 157 to 159 but that include the finance lease income from any of the Condor planes? No that’s just reported lease rental revenue.
Well but that just come in as other revenue? That will come to the other revenue line.
We will get the next question from Gary Liebowitz of Wells Fargo Securities.
Ron a couple of related questions on the large cargo market.
It looks like Boeing is really going to ramp up deliveries of the Dash 8 starting the second half year.
Is that an asset type that you are interested in seeing any opportunities in those sort of first off the line aircraft?  And then the related question is on the 747-400.
You have got a lot of those which seem to be a good number those that already parked; you are not converting a 747 like you originally planned.
What is your appetite to add that sort of asset to your portfolio? Let me answer the first question in the following way.
When we look at investing in aircraft we like to see a large operator base and that doesn’t exist today for the 747 Dash 8 freighter.
The airplane is I think and the very interesting asset for a small number of operators for a specific set of applications but we're a leasing company and when lease ends we need to have some choices.
So until that market materializes I'm reluctant to -- same story with the 380 by the way in the passenger side.
It's a question of having alternatives and redeployment possibilities when a lease is over.
So I like in terms of the new freighters the 777 is much better much more versatile.
When you talk to customers including guys that have the Dash 8 everybody is very excited about the 777s.
I think that would be where I would direct my new freighter investment dollar.
As it relates o the 747-400s during the first quarter we had to -- we had to deal with the bankruptcy at World then we redeployed successfully 747-400 with another operator.
It's not a great market but it exists and its certainly (inaudible) when it was say at this point last year.
There are a lot of parked aircraft but part of it is also a question of how good are you at marketing this.
So in terms of placements it is not easy but it is doable.
In terms of new investments it's a deal specific thing.
I will note that we did buy one 747 freighter during the second quarter which was on a very long term lease with Asiana.
So we continue to find the interesting things in the sector and we continue to look at opportunities in this sector.
So I'm not set it all throwing in the towel on that aircraft type.
We will take our last question from Glenn Engel with Bank of America.
Couple of questions one from a customer basis.
When you look at your customers are they -- is there any change in their ability to pay on time and any metrics you look at showing signs of the distress or no signs of distress yet in your customer base? I think our accounts receivable it's probably the most direct way of looking at it's been pretty stable throughout the year.
Now that's good but as always as you head into the which is when cash flow turns more negative with airlines that’s when you have to kind of look a little bit more carefully and monitor more carefully.
At this point we are doing fine.
I am actually pleased with where we are at from a collections perspective.
The places where I see weakness continue to be on the periphery of Europe on one hand and that was evidenced by the bankruptcy of Cimber Sterling and we have placed all those aircraft; we did that very quickly.
The other place where I see weakness is in the freight market.
And the freight market story is it’s been kind of persistently weak.
I am hoping it will get better it’s just been really slow.
I don’t see anything imminent there but it’s just never good to be an operator in a weak environment that stays with you for a while.
On the CapEx side have you given a full year estimate for 2012 CapEx? Well we had and we achieved it.
Now I'm not in a position to tell you how much more we are going to do we are going to be very patient very disciplined we talked about in our remarks.
We had signaled $700 million and if you add up with what we have done to-date plus the commitments we have that we expect to close in the second quarter at $700 million.
And there is a target rich environment for us but we're taking our time and we are being very disciplined.
And third you sort of touched on this but to finance a plane there is the interest rate and there is also how much money you have to put down on the aircraft to be able to buy it for both the relatively newer planes and your old ones.
How is that changing?  Are the banks requiring more and more money for you to put down?  And is there any sign of that stabilizing? Are you referring to how much equity on a secured loan? Yes I'm sorry yes.
Okay.
The bank market is shrinking as we talk about a lot.
For new aircraft I think it’s fair to say that depending on the situation you are looking at 65% to 80% available in terms of a debt.
So or put the other way 20% to 35% is a down payment.
That’s for the best of the best.
When you get more and more down market not only is it the amount of equity you have to upfront but how fast you have to repay the loan.
And that has a dramatic impact on what your ROE turns out to be even more than the margin on the debt I don’t think people get that.
That’s where you are seeing the greatest pressure.
So while to loan values upfront might be shrinking a little bit banks are looking for a much fast repayment and much more belts and suspenders in the way of loan to value test and things of that nature.
And that’s for the relatively new pairings.
For the older aircraft how much do you have to put down?  It’s just not there period okay.
Yeah I mean I am speaking in extremes; there is always exceptions.
But I think once you get into the 8 9 10 year old aircraft range it’s really hard to find anything that makes sense from our financing perspective in the debt market.
Thank you very much.
That’s why these are still relevant aircraft.
That’s why the buyer markets are so compelling from our perspective.
And by the way anybody who has secured debt they may have got it from a banker from some other source that has a balloon that has to be refinanced that’s going to be the issue.
And I think that’s what brought some of the other new players into the market there there is just no way to refinance that with that with the traditional bank market unless you find somebody that’s over a barrel and they kind of have to play with you.
Okay thank you very much for your time today.
If you have any follow up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
Thank you operator.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the third quarter of 2012 Aircastle Limited Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon.
Good morning everyone.
I’m Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and I’d like to welcome all of you to Aircastle Limited’s third quarter 2012 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We will begin the presentation shortly but I would like to mention that the call is being recorded and the replay number is 888-203-1112 from within the United States and Canada from outside of the U.S.
and Canada the number is 719-457-0820.
The replay passcode for this call is 8983455.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from these estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filing which can also be found on our website.
I’ll direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And I’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank we appreciate everyone joining our call today.
During my remarks I’ll touch on the business environment our annual fleet review Aircastle’s performance during the third quarter the company’s plan going forward.
Mike Inglese will follow with a review of our financial results and then we’ll open the call for questions.
We delivered very good operating results during the third quarter of 2012 despite a tough business environment.
Our cash flows were strong driven by portfolio growth and a fleet utilization rate of 99%.
In addition we continued to execute on our acquisition strategy and make a creed of new investments.
From a strategic standpoint now is a very good time for Aircastle.
Asset prices are attractive and capital markets debt costs are low.
It is unusual for these two dynamics to occur at the same time.
Our access to the capital markets for unsecured debt continues to be a powerful tool and we’re enhancing our standing in the debt market by building our unencumbered asset base which now include 70 aircraft with a net book value of $2 billion.
In terms of deploying capital we continue to take a balanced approach.
Our focus is on growing profitably increasing our operating cash flows and returning capital to shareholders with dividend increases.
Our decision to raise dividend by 10% which is the third increase since the beginning of 2011 reflects growth and the company’s earnings power and cash flow over the past year.
It also reflects our board’s optimism about Aircastle’s long term prospects.
During third quarter we also re-purchased from our founding shareholder the remaining shares in Aircastle for $28.5 million.
Since the spring of 2011 we’ve returned $119 million to shareholders via stock buybacks.
We continue to believe our shares are undervalued and as a result we just increased our share buyback program again to $50 million.
In our view buying shares at current market levels provides good long term dive[ph] for shareholders.
I’ll now touch on the business environment.
The long term outlook for aircraft leasing remains positive.
The world’s commercial aircraft fleet continues to grow and less order so an increasing share of it.
We believe major shifts in the financing marketing including the client traditional aerospace bank capacity and more expensive expert credit support will drive more business to leasing companies.
In other words we see aircraft leasing companies playing an even bigger role serving as a bridge to financial markets for airlines.
However the macro-economic environment has been weak this year as the global economy has slowed.
Growth in air travel and global GDP are closely linked and in our view slowing world economy will inevitably lead to reduced space or air traffic expansion.
However the most recent international air transport association data was surprisingly strong on the passenger side.
During September passenger air traffic increased 4.1% versus a year ago.
This is lower than the year-to-date rate of 5.7% but still very respectable in light of the economic environment.
The picture on the freight side is clearly weaker and has been for the past year and a half.
I IATA’s freight statistics for September showed a small increase of 0.6% versus last year’s relatively weak level of traffic.
We are in the midst of the busy season for air cargo but not seeing much recovery although a few new hightech product introductions will help a bit.
There is certainly also re-allocation of flying going on with the big three gulf carriers Emirates Etihad and Qatar picking up market share just as they are in the long call passenger market.
On the supply side we continue to be concerned about increased production at a time when demand growth is slowing.
This puts pressure on rentals and has pushed an increasing number of modern aircraft into storage particularly narrow bodies and long-haul freighters.
The number of part A320 family aircraft with latest engines continues to grow and is now at the same level two years ago and has had an even higher level than 2009.
Fortunately we only have two of these A320s to place over the next 12 months.
Earlier technology models like the 737 classics and A320s with over-generation engines are becoming increasingly marginalized.
We are seeing very high levels of storage aircraft to these types.
However these models represent only 1.3% of our fleet by net book value and we have been gradually disposing them.
Lower business and consumer confidence is the key driver in explaining diminished demand for leased aircraft.
This is a big deal for airlines operating wide bodies given the more substantial investments and operating costs involved in comparison narrow bodies.
Rents for 777 and to a lesser extent new A330s have remained relatively firm.
However 767s have been particularly hard hit by the slower confidence levels.
Even though parked aircraft levels for 767s are modest in comparison with older narrow body models.
On the other hand 767 should have a better chance of rebounding should conditions improve.
Nonetheless as I’ll discuss in a moment we have made adjustments to carrying values useful lives and residual values for 767 fleet reflecting market conditions and our current expectations for future cash flows for these aircraft.
We recently completed our annual fleet review.
Due to this process we updated our business plan and cash flow projections for each aircraft in our fleet.
The Aircastle were big enough to have an excellent market advantage point get small enough to carefully evaluate our aircraft individually.
In general we believe our fleets are performing well.
In our view the value of our fleet is well in excess about suggested by our stock market capitalization.
We are particularly pleased with the success of our investment program over the past three years.
Nonetheless we are focusing on improving returns on capital and continue to make smart investment decisions based on a realistic assessment of future cash flows for each airplane.
As we evaluated current market conditions and our cash flow projections we recorded non-cash impairment charges related to 10 older generation narrow bodies or 767 300ERs and an A310 freighter.
These charges totaled $78.79 million or approximately 1.7% of our fleet’s net book value.
All the aircrafts involved are older technology models their average age is 21 years.
There are few newer but last off the line in 737 400s.
Simply put these are all older airplanes that are generally getting towards the end of their economic lives having said that only one of these is currently off lease.
So the aircrafts are not operationally obsolete.
There has been a great deal of market commentary recently about useful lives and residual values as there tends to be during more challenging economic circumstances.
We believe two important distinctions have been lost in the discussion of these accounting measures.
Number one useful life and residual value estimate the rough approximation is done on a fairly generic basis often early in an aircraft’s life.
These estimates are not supposed to be skewed either too high or too low.
We and other lessors must reassess these estimates periodically and if such – some levels of impairment is to be expected overtime particularly during busing slowdowns.
Likewise residual turnouts to be conservative or market conditions robust sales will generate gains as we’ve seen on numerous instances.
Secondly we believe that the useful life of an aircraft will be driven in large parts by works dated manufacture falls in the production life of the platform.
The aircraft produced towards the end of the production run will likely have shorter lives.
It is not just an aircraft’s age that matters.
This has been born out in our philosophy and it is an element in our investment program.
As an investor we are focused on the capital efficiency of our assets and whether it is makes sense financially to continue re-investing in an aircraft or disposing it no matter it’s age or soon residual value for book purposes.
For example we negotiated an early lease termination with a customer in Turkey for two 21-year-old A320s with older generation engines.
Even if the aircraft is still 4 years shy of their 25<sup>th</sup> birthdays.
All four engines reduced (inaudible) imminently and re-investing the cash maintenance reserves would help made no economic sense.
So we impaired these aircrafts in Q3 upon entering into an early termination agreement for the lease and recorded around $11 million in maintenance revenue.
We expect to complete the part-out of sale of these aircraft in Q4 for an amount roughly equal to the reduced net book value.
Mike will provide more details about our fleet analysis and it’s accounting implications.
Now let’s turn to our performance in Q3 2012.
Strong lease revenue growth drove our operating results in Q3.
We reported operating and finance lease rental revenue of $163 million versus $146 million in Q3 2011 a 12% increase.
Excluding our non-cash impairment charges for the third quarter we generated net income of $32.8 million or $0.47 per diluted share.
An adjusted net income was $41.2 million or $0.59 per diluted share.
For the first time nine months of 2012 cash flow from operations before working capital changes was over $300 million that compares to $265 million in the year earlier.
We believe these are very good results they reflect positive contributions from our new investments as well as strong portfolio performance evidenced by our 99% fleet utilization and 14% rental yield.
Regarding new investment we acquired 4737-800 aircraft during the quarter for approximately $120 million that brings total investments in 2012 through September 30 to about $610 million.
An additional $170 million of investments closed or is expected to close during the fourth quarter including our first (inaudible) acquisitions.
More specifically to E195s which are in long term leases to (inaudible) in Brazil.
It is worth noting that a majority of our investments this year have involved aircraft lease to Asian carriers.
This is one of the reasons lease rental revenues from carriers in this region increased to one third of the total during the third quarter versus a quarter a year ago.
Turning the aircraft placements we’ve been very active in addressing 30 aircrafts coming off lease this year 25 of these have been replaced or sold and an another subject to a lease letter of intent there are at least four to go with a net book value of 2.5% of our total fleet.
The remaining four aircraft of this year consist of 2747-400 freighters of southern which is undergoing a chapter 11 restructuring.
Additionally there is 1767-300 ER and an A320.
In addition to the 17 aircraft was scheduled lease expirations this year obviously we also addressed few other situations this included airline restructuring as well as transactions where we sought to work with our customers to meet their business objectives on a mutually beneficial basis.
For example we agreed to early terminate 1747-400 freight release that had been with Martinair one of our largest customers.
In exchange they agreed to extend the lease on one MD-11 freighter that had been set to expire in January of next year.
This arrangement allowed the airline to downsize it’s cargo capacity for providing us with a long term lease arrangement for an aircraft that is more difficult to place in the current environment.
Recently we signed the lease with a leading ACMI provider for the 747-400 freighter exiting the Martinair fleet.
This transaction was a win-win for both Aircastle and our customer.
It also demonstrated our freighter placement capabilities even in the phase of weak air cargo market.
For 2013 we had 18 aircrafts scheduled to come off lease during the year.
The net book value of these aircraft is only about 6% of our total fleet leaving us with a relatively modest exposure what we believe will be a relatively challenging year for placement.
Nonetheless we’ve been making progress in reducing this list.
Looking ahead we believe we’re poised to continue carrying strong operating results.
Our portfolio is comprised of while these aircraft to be still large and diverse customer base and has an average remaining lease term of almost 5 years.
In addition Aircastle has a strong team and is well positioned from a financing standpoint.
We have a good cash position no remaining aircraft orders and no refinancing needs until 2017.
Capital markets conditions are currently very attractive and we believe our access to the unsecured debt market is a strategic advantage.
This is a good time to grow.
There are a lot of transactions in the market today and we are optimistic about deal flow.
However the extent to which seller price expectations match up with those of our own and other buyers remains unclear.
We’re going to be disciplined patient and look to the origination strengths of our team.
In that regard I’ll note that we have built our portfolio over time to 91 transactions with 62 counter parties providing us with a broad range of market contacts.
We are going to continue focusing on areas where we feel there is good value and where we believe that we have a competitive edge.
These situations include purchases of higher quality new wide-bodies which we expect to account for about half of our new investment volume this year.
We also see great value in mid-age aircraft where competition is lower and the payback to part-out period is relatively short.
We’ll also continue to keep our eyes open for other situations that offer compelling risk adjusted returns.
While we sold more than half a billion dollars of assets for gain of nearly $40 million last year.
We expect aircraft sales will play a much more modest role this year and next given the weakness in asset prices.
In general we think this is the better time to buy than sell.
However we’ll continue to explore opportunities to increase the capital efficiency of our fleet particularly for aircraft that are older.
We’re also continuing to review engine sharpness as rigorously given the rising cost and at the same time the downward pressures on the engine prices.
In short I am very bullish about our ability to grow profitably thanks to the favorable investment climate and the attractive capital market conditions.
This should allow us to drive enhanced economic performance for Aircastle even in softer markets and again our philosophy is to sharing the company’s growth through increases in our dividend over time.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
During the third quarter the investments that we made towards the end of last year and through the first nine months of 2012 have led to solid topline growth and continued strong cash flow from operations.
Regarding third quarter results our lease/rental revenue was $159.5 million an increase of 9% primarily due to the net impact of aircraft acquisitions made over the last 12 months.
Including finance lease income leased rental revenue rose 12% to $163.1 million.
Total revenues were a $172.9 million an increase of $31.4 million or 22% over the prior year period primarily driven by higher lease rental revenues higher maintenance revenues partially offset by higher amortization of lease incentives and lease premiums in the quarter.
During the third quarter we acquired four 737-800 aircraft on lease to an Asia carrier and as Ron mentioned this brings year-to-date aircraft acquisition total to about $610 million and we have another 170 that has closed or is expected to close during the fourth quarter.
Other revenues for the quarter were $9.2 million which consist of interest income on finance leases of about $3.5 million dead investments of $1.3 million also during the third quarter we recorded $3.9 million in early lease termination fees.
Adjusted EBITDA which excluded the impairment charge was $166.3 million up 18% over the prior year’s quarter.
This increase was driven by lease rental revenues of $13.7 million higher maintenance and other revenues of $19.8 million which were partially offset by lower gains on sale of $9 million.
As Ron mentioned we performed our annual recoverability assessment in conjunction with our fleet review during the third quarter and determined that the estimated future cash flows is certain of our aircraft did not support the carrying values.
Specifically we have observed weak market demand for all the technology narrow bodies certain mid bodies based on slowing global economic growth rates declining business confidence levels and higher fuel prices.
As a result we recorded impairment charges of $67.4 million on 737 classics four 767-300ERs and A310 freighter.
To write the value of these aircrafts down to their estimated current market value.
In addition as part of recoverability assessment we considered the usable life and residual value of each aircraft in our portfolio and as a result for 7 other aircraft that has the recoverability assessment in addition to the aircraft that we impaired we shortened the estimated lives and reduced residual values for those aircrafts.
These changes in estimated lives and residual values across all 22 aircrafts the 15 that were impaired as well as the other 7 will result in very modest uptick in depreciation run rate in 2013 of about $2 million and finally based on pure cash economics we made the decision not to invest additional capital in two A320 200 classics and instead entered into an early lease termination agreement.
We expect to part these aircraft out during the fourth quarter for their reduced carrying value.
As a result of these terminations these aircrafts fail the recoverability assessment and recorded impairment charges of $11.3 million across these two aircrafts.
These charges are offset by $10.2 million of associated maintenance revenue and $1.2 million recognition of lease incentive benefits both of which were recorded during the third quarter.
Our adjusted net loss for the second quarter was $37.5 million or $0.53 per diluted share compared to adjusted net income of $26 million or $0.35 per share in third quarter of 2011.
The year-over-year decrease is largely attributable to the total $78.7 million impairment charge taken during the quarter versus $1.2 million in 2011 lower gains associated with aircraft sales activity and $8.2 million of higher depreciation expense associated with aircraft required over the last 12 months.
A $31.4 million increase in total revenues partially offset these increase expense items.
Excluding the impairment charge adjusted net income was $41.2 million or $0.59 per diluted share for the quarter.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $54.1 million an increase of $5.2 million over the prior year.
The change is primarily due to an increase of $4.1 million related to higher average debt outstanding higher non-cash hedging effectiveness and hedge loss amortization totaling $4.8 million and $1.7 million of lower capitalized interest.
Partially offsetting these items was a decrease of $4.8 million due to lower weighted average interest rate on our borrowings primarily driven by the effectiveness of our securitization number to interest rate swaps which became effective during late second quarter of this year.
Adjusted net income which adds back the hedging effectiveness of the Term Financing Number 1 amortization and after the impact of our adjusted interest expense for Q3 was about $1 million higher versus third quarter of 2011.
SG&amp;A was roughly flat versus last year while depreciation expense for the third quarter was $68.4 million versus $60.1 million for 2011.
The increase in depreciation is primarily related to the growth in the fleet on a year-over-year basis.
Tax provision for the third quarter was $1.7 million which is approximately 5% of pre-tax income excluding the impairment charge in the quarter.
We expect the effective tax rate for the fourth quarter to remain in the 7% to 8% range excluding the impact of the year-to-date impairment charge.
At the end of the quarter we owned 157 aircraft with an annualized lease rental run rate including finance leases of about $631 million of which $274 million is associated with our 70 unencumbered aircraft.
For the nine months ended September 30<sup>th</sup> our cash flow from operations before working capital changes was $301.4 million up 14% compared to the $264.8 million for the prior period.
Our unencumbered aircraft had a net book value of approximately $2 billion or roughly 43% of the net book value of our total aircraft portfolio.
We continue to actively manage the portfolio and sold one aircraft during the quarter and for year-to-date.
Our year-to-date gain on sale was approximately $3.1 million.
We disposed the Boeing 767-300 two 737 Classic and one 757-200.
The $3.1 million of year-to-date gains from aircraft sales compares to $29 million for the first nine months of 2011.
We are value investors as Ron mentioned and since our formation we have sold over 35 aircraft for gross proceeds of just over $900 million and have generated an overall unlevered cash-on-cash IRR of 13.6% from the aircraft sold.
As we continue forward we will focus on the cash flow base economics of these investment and re-investment decisions.
Turning to the capital structure at the end of the third quarter our unrestricted cash balance totaled $224 million and we had restricted cash of $109 million.
We have $50 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility with secured and unsecured borrowings totaling approximately $3.1 billion.
Net debt of $2.9 billion is approximately 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
The ratio of secured debt to total debt at quarter-end was about 59% down from about 85% at year-end 2011.
Our net debt to equity ratio excluding the mark-to-market on our interest rate derivative was approximately 1.9 times.
As a reminder we have no asset coverage test in our unsecured bond indentures no LTV test in any of our secured financing and we are in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities at the end of the quarter.
Finally turning to fourth quarter guidance on selected elements we expect lease rental revenues of $152 million to $154 million and finance lease income of approximately $4 million.
Maintenance revenues are estimated to be $14 million to $16 million amortization of net lease premiums and lease incentives of $7 million to $9 million SG&amp;A is expected to be between $11 million to $12 million consistent with our recent run rate and depreciation of $69 million to $71 million.
Finally interest net of $52 million to $55 million including $4.4 million of hedge loss amortization relating to the refinancing of Term Financing Number 1 in the spring of this year.
We remain confident that Aircastle is well positioned from the perspective of portfolio of strength operating cash flow performance capital structure and capital markets access as we enter the back end of this year.
We expect our proven access to capital and strong cash position will enable us to take advantage and continuing investment opportunities that are consistent with our return to oriented focus.
And with that operator we are happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you operator and good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Ron I was a little surprised that the impairment charge that you booked did not include any of the 747 freighters especially given your comments earlier about the conditions in the freight market and the new supply coming online.
Is this something that we need to be concerned with possible future impairments as you place the – as you try to market the Southern airplanes or do you think this is into the impairments for a while?  Just a note on what the impairments represent they represent a comparison of the future cash flows the particular aircraft compared to its carrying value.
For some aircraft particularly the ones we impaired we didn’t see a particularly long remaining life.
For the freighters we feel pretty confident about those aircraft flying around for a while number one.
Number two obviously we feel pretty good about the relationship of the rental levels versus the carrying value.
Now as it relates to Southern yes that’s a path we have to address.
We did it earlier this year with the airplanes coming out of the world bankruptcy.
And as I mentioned during my remarks we just placed a 747-400 that was early terminated as part of a consensual agreement with Martinair.
The market it’s not strong as it used be but let me remind you the rental levels there were pretty strong year year-and-a-half ago and as you look at an aircraft that has a good utility good remaining life there is a possibility for better times ahead.
So we are managing through this as we have in the past and I am still pretty confident about the 747s.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
Ron given your comments on the target-rich environment for the types of assets that you prefer and your comments about the capital markets I know you are not giving any formal outyear guidance but should we think of the $800 million or so that you are acquiring in 2012 as sort of the baseline for the 2013?  I think that’s a reasonable number to forecast out for the next 12 months Gary.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure thank you.
Our next question is from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hi John.
Hi guys.
Thank you for taking my question here.
Ron you made a comment that we have heard before about sort of tighter general financing conditions driving more activity towards the lessors.
I feel like we haven’t seen a flood activity yet but are you seeing something change on the margin as we get close to 2013 when somebody’s financing requirements kick in are you actually securing from customers more on the margin?  Well I think there are two different parts to your question if I understood it right John.
One part of it probably relates to the higher ETA cost regime that kicks in in January.
Is that right?  Yes.
Well we have seen a flood to the Ex-Im and ECA markets over the last several months and it’s pretty obvious why.
I mean it’s just the last opportunity to kick to use the lower cost regime.
The guarantee fees that borrowers have to pay for these guarantees from U.S.
Ex-Im Bank in one case for Boeing aircraft or for the European ECAs.
On the Airbus aircraft we are more than double on January.
And so that I think is a good thing for anybody who is a commercial financier.
So we are looking to a little bit more business in that respect and I am sure our peers are as well.
The other thing that I wanted to touch on was was not related to the ECAs but the lower level of transaction activity in the secondary market.
In 2012 we are actually so far at the all-time lows in terms of secondary market transaction activity.
And the reason for that is two-fold.
Number one there is really no commercial bank debt available for used aircraft on meaningful quantity basis.
That puts into context the value of our unsecured debt.
The other part of it is that we and other buyers that are prepared to move here are being disciplined about it.
There are a lot of people with book value problems a lot of people who are awaiting for better times and I think that field flow will pick up as the next few months roll around.
Okay.
But I guess what I am getting at is are you getting those indications of interest already or is this sort of a bet on the future?  There is a larger amount of RFP activity in regards to sale leaseback for 2013 aircraft number one.
We are focusing on the wide-bodies I think we will leave the narrow-bodies to the investors who sparkles and rise about the residual values for those aircraft.
So that’s already happening but I think there is a lot of (inaudible).
Okay.
And you made another interesting comment in your prepared remarks about the A320s and how the parked aircraft were climbing and how you don’t have too much exposure there.
It sounds like that’s a trend that you think is going to continue.
Can you just kind of elaborate on your view on A320s as we look out the next few years? How much of sort of a structural headwind just there on aircraft type in supply demand?  The first thing to notice that demand here is driven by the overall economy.
If there is a pickup in the economy I think that benefits A320s 737s all the aircraft.
So I think you are seeing a pickup in the parked level of A320 activity because number one demand is down number two production of the 320 family happened earlier than the 737s.
737s are not immune from this issue either and then the third issue is that there have been a number of A320 oriented carriers that had financial hardships and that affects the parked supply as well.
I think the bigger thing though is just to come back to the first point is that it’s the slower rate of growth and I think if there is a pickup it’s going to be as much of an issue but we have reflected our investment philosophy into away from those narrow-bodies and more into situations where we consider way to part that value.
Okay.
And could you update us on credit risk outside Southern what are you seeing out there has anything changed? Look I think our receivable levels are in pretty good shape right now.
We have a little bit of money tied up in the Southern bankruptcy as well as the world bankruptcy from earlier this year but otherwise our levels are pretty modest.
However we are heading into traditionally the slower season where cash flow gets tighter for airlines.
I think the weak points right now are among the less well-capitalized freighter airlines that are sort of dealing with persistently tougher environment for a while and I think smaller carriers in more challenged jurisdictions I think is the other way to kind of categorize it.
I wouldn’t say that there is any real big exposures that we are imminently afraid of but it’s going to require a lot of diligence and hard work like just as we had in the last few winters.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And just last question really quick of course I know it’s a global market.
But do you get any sense there – a certain amount of pent-up activity that could become unlocked after the presidential election? I just thought it would be timely question I just want your thoughts there.
Thanks.
John I don’t.
Most of our business is outside of the U.S.
There is kind of a fuzzy general concern that kind of transmits around the world but I think it’s most pronounced here obviously.
It will have the more pronounced effect on the stock market and on the capital markets here in the U.S.
I don’t think whether Romney or Obama are elected is going to change lease demand halfway around the world.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thanks John and don’t forget to vote.
Good morning.
Good morning Ray.
You said that 18 aircraft are coming off of lease next year.
How many of those are freighters?  One and that’s an A310 that we impaired and that we expect to part out.
Okay great.
Do you guys have any target prices or targets that you have for return on equity or ROIC? Our new investments were looking for ROEs that are in north of 15%.
So let me just comment on that briefly.
We buy aircrafts or finance aircrafts in two different ways.
One is with secured debt and that’s going to be primarily newer aircraft where you can calc the ROA pretty easily because they are direct debt financing.
For aircraft that we are purchasing with unsecured debt it’s more of a general calculation where we are assuming that our capital structure is roughly two-thirds debt and one-third equity.
So just to illustrate it if I were acquiring an aircraft with the return on assets with 12% and two-thirds of the cost structure is debt and let’s say 6% the resulting ROE for that one remaining third is about 24%.
Maybe that helps you in terms of calculation.
Okay that was good.
One last thing is you sounded if you are mildly pessimistic about the economy next year and one I was just wondering if that’s a correct interpretation and number two if you are it might not be a good time to be increasing the dividend you might want to be letting down the hedges a little bit if the economy doesn’t (inaudible) next year going through the recession? Well look Ray there is a couple of things.
One is my expectations about the economy are not any great increases I also don’t expect any major decreases either.
Remember that particularly for the passenger market there is a stickiness both on the way up and on the way down.
We have seen pretty robust results in terms of traffic levels so far.
I don’t think you are going to see that the passenger market move very quickly one way or the other.
The freight market is the one market it’s a business to business market where there is a pretty direct transmission of sentiment in terms of activity.
I think there is more upside there than there is downside and there will be more pronounced it’s more amplified.
Maybe I will turn it over to Mike to comment about the dividend in terms of our capability to do that.
Yes I think Ray just fundamentally we have a cautious view about the economy but we are looking at the portfolio that we have and the earnings power in light of the cautious view and we think a 10% dividend increase makes a lot of sense and we feel very comfortable as the sustainable level given our view of the world and the performance of our business.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Just to add the weakness in the economy is not a new thing yet the operating cash flow statistics for our business has been very robust.
Two Mike and team’s good work on the capital structure we don’t have any debt refinancing for 5 years.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question is from Helane Becker with Dahlman Rose.
Thanks very much operator.
Hi guys.
Hi Helane good morning.
Thanks you very much and I will remember to those.
Thanks for the reminder actually.
Here is one of my questions.
I guess with the change in technology products are getting smaller lighter and so I was wondering if the 747-400 freighter still makes a lot of sense or if your customers aren’t starting to look at maybe the 777 freighter and what you think about shifting the mix away from the bigger aircraft to the more fuel efficient aircraft? Well a couple of comments.
The stuff that flies on freight is certainly influenced by high technology products and they are getting smaller and air freight charges are based on weight.
However that’s only a part of the picture.
There is pharmaceuticals there is perishables there is machinery there is a lot of things that fly by air and I don’t think you should over estimate what the effect of technology is.
For some customers it’s a bigger deal than others okay.
So that’s point number one.
Point number two is there are a few different types of 747s out there.
There is something call the -8 which is coming out right now which is 25% 30% bigger than the 747-400.
I have said this for a long time I think that’s a real niche aircraft that particularly in a market like this it has a harder time justifying itself.
For some carriers it may make sense but as a lessor I am not inclined towards it.
I have also said consistently that over time I think the 777 will become the workhorse of the industry.
It has roughly the same cargo capacity as a 747-400 freighter.
Problem is you have got to wait years to get one.
I think there is also a certain number of customers that are extremely capital cost sensitive.
So 777 is not a cheap item and it works along certain networks but for a number of others that are perhaps low utilization or focusing on shorter geographic segments 747 works just fine and we are still bullish on the type.
Got you.
Okay.
And then I think you said and I think it’s in that handout as well that Asia is now a third of your portfolio and Europe actually come down to below 40% of the portfolio.
As we think about the business over the next 18 months with the aircraft that are coming off lease should we think about that kind of shifting mix away from Europe into Asia and do you have targets in mind or how are you thinking about that opportunistic or how should we think about that maybe a better question? A couple of different things.
One is the portfolio reflects the evolution of the market and we don’t have a specific target for Europe or Asia or any one region.
When we buy aircraft we make a decision about whether it’s a good deal or not we are cognizant of exposures and concentrations but I think the biggest impact isn’t the fleet rollout because we only have 6% of our book rolling off next year.
It’s going to be acquisitions.
(inaudible) No I think the aircraft availability is there.
I think a lot of the growth opportunities particularly for the wide-bodies would come out of Asia.
Okay got you.
Are you being approached by any airlines to do like financing for some of their newer aircraft or some airlines that might have aircraft coming off lease looking to maybe refinance them by selling them and leasing them back from you guys anything like that going on? Yes that happened last quarter where we did a sale lease back with an Asian carrier for 737-800s.
This is ongoing.
Got you.
Okay well thanks very much for now.
Sure thanks Helane.
Our next question is from Isaac Husseini with Barclays.
Hi good morning everyone.
Ron I was wondering if I can follow-up on something from the earnings release.
You mentioned that one 747-400 that was supposed to be converted to a freighter aircraft is now being part of that.
Which makes sense given the data that we have seen on the cargo side globally.
I was wondering if you had more color to add on the specific aircraft because (inaudible) cargo weakness is something else.
If it was because of cargo weakness do you have any reason how that segment might perform in the next two to three or four quarters? Yes hi Isaac.
We talked about this a little bit in our last earnings call but let me just refresh and amplify that.
This was an aircraft that we bought back in 2011.
It had a lease with Singapore Airlines that expired early this year.
The freight market really hasn’t been strong.
The last thing we wanted to do is to put another $25 million into an airplane have it sit in the ground for half a year and not to have the good lease in place.
So it was a decision about the incremental deployment of capital number one.
So as we sat there with this airplane we look at what was the best deployment of this asset and what we conclude was because of some strength in the engine market that it made sense for us number one to sell through the engines to customers.
And also we have – these are 5400 engines which also operate on the 767s in our fleet.
We had two engines 767s that required extensive shop visits and it was far cheaper for us to take those run out engines sell them and avoid the shot visit costs and in turn contribute this engine on the 747.
In the end we sold the airframe as well and we made about $2 million profit on the whole proposition.
That last bid is supposed to close in the fourth quarter.
I think it’s more commentary on the best deployment of capital as opposed to the freight market per se.
Incrementally we got a good return on that investment than we avoided having something that’s was going to yield something sell parts.
Okay that’s helpful.
Maybe one for Mike the question got asked but I want to try to get at it differently.
Receivables look like they have ticked up in 3Q relative to the total revenue there about 4.5%.
That looks like it’s relatively high it haven’t been high since 2008 or maybe even early 2009.
Is there anything going on over there in that line item that we should be aware of or think about? No I think as Ron said if we look at where we were at the end of the quarter and where we are today we have like $1 million that’s over 30 days and 80% plus of that is related to the world bankruptcy.
It’s a receivable that’s tied up and won’t get cleared.
We have security deposits in excess of that amount sitting here but there are locked up if you will until the world bankruptcy is resolved and until they exit.
So it’s not a particularly worrying thing for us at this point in time.
Okay.
If I can just speak one quick one.
The two A320s that were terminated are they going to be parted out? What’s the average age of those two aircraft and have you tried remarketing those? Those are 91 and they are the older engine aircraft.
To remarket those means you have reinvest those aircraft to reinvest in those engines it really just doesn’t make sense for us.
I think the highest return on our capital is to keep the cash and sell them as they are.
Okay perfect.
Thank you so much for the time.
Thanks Isaac.
Our next question comes from Jamie Baker with JP Morgan.
Hi good morning gentleman.
My first question I guess for Mike on the write-down it works out to roughly $5 million per sell you gave it for the effected aircraft types.
But what does the write-down work out to on a percentage basis for each of the aircraft types? More a dollar basis if you would rather give it to way.
We didn’t break it out by aircraft type Jamie.
I mean the total was about 1.7% of the net book value of the overall fleet of the business.
So it’s not a significant impact or item for us in the context of thinking about the future of the business.
So it’s not significant as it relates to the overall book I am just trying to get an order of magnitude as to what it was for the individual types.
So if it works out to $5 million was that $20 million to $15 million or $10 million to $5 million? Jamie it’s Ron.
We are not going to get into the details but I think it’s fair to say that the write-down is bigger for the 767s and for the 737-400s and for the 737-400s it was bigger for the later mile aircraft and the early ones.
Okay that’s helpful.
Second Ron well I have you.
There has been an uptick in 737 classic freighter conversions obviously off a really low base but an uptick nonetheless classics are part of your business freighters are part of your business.
Should we be thinking it all about this in (inaudible) scare market or should we just ignore it? Ron Wainshal We have looked at this before and we will continue to look at it.
But as you may have detected from our team a lot of what we are doing is about capital efficiency.
So if we think that investing an extra called $3 million of classic is a good return on capital as opposed to whatever other course exists for that airplane then we will do it.
But at the moment I don’t see that being very big of what we are doing.
We only have two 737s coming off actually one 737 coming off lease in the next year so the real opportunity for us isn’t that big.
Okay that’s what I think.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Hi Justine.
I was wondering if you guys are buyers of assets and you said that now it seems to be a better time to buy than to sell.
I suspect that we might hear the same thing from other lessors.
So I was wondering what kind of parties do you think are going to be sellers of assets? Do you think other lessors are going to sell assets to you do you think that you are going to end up with airlines that have classics to sell? I mean what kind of entities will be the sellers as I suspect many lessors will be better buyers.
Not every lessor is situated in the same number one.
I think it will be a real mix like it has always has been for us.
I gave the statistics about how many different transactions we have done how many different counterparts we have done over the years it’s a huge number.
It will be mix.
I mean there are some lessors that have more financial pressures than others.
For example those that have debt balloons coming due truly hard to refinance those these days.
So airlines that are looking at growth airlines that are looking kind of an exit strategy for certain aircraft types those are good customer targets as well.
It will be a mix like it always has been.
Would you be willing to buy aircraft types similar to those that you wrote-down maybe not really old A320s but would you – it seems like they probably be more willing to sell older aircraft types rather than newer and would you be willing to buy some of those older aircraft types given that you took the impairment charge? I guess with the right price I think it makes sense but – Well I am a very firm believer in the right price.
You may note that earlier this year we did a sale lease back with Condor [ph] for number of 767s those were treated financially since they are basically to our sense of part out value.
So those are I think very rich deals and I would do that deal again.
So the answer is yes.
There are some aircraft types that I think just because of the scale and because of the outlook that I have about them are probably not worth the time.
I mentioned during the call that the number of part 737 classics keeps growing and that means that the residual value pressures keep growing as well.
The ticket size is pretty small probably not a good use of our time.
Okay.
And then on the loan that you guys bought in March I was just wondering I know that you holded it available for sale.
I don’t know have you got increase from others potentially (inaudible) how is the counterparty to that loan doing from a credit perspective given that we’ve seen a weakening environment? Well the counter party is American and I am actually quite comfortable with that loan as an investment.
I would be a happy owner of that airplane a very happy owner if that’s (inaudible) happening but I don’t think that’s going to take place.
The high yield markets pretty hot although everyone is looking for yield but I am very comfortable with this investment.
Okay.
And then sorry one more question.
I don’t know if you guys would be willing to give us any color as to what the usual lives what usual lives you wrote assets down to? A couple of things.
One is we do an annual fleet review.
Last year we made a number of change.
This isn’t the first time we’ve done something in the form of adjusting our fleet.
For example last year we reduced the useful life assumption for current generation A319 to 22.5 years.
We reduced the residual values on our classics 737 classics to $0.75 million which was our sense of half flight breakup value.
So the write-downs that we have this year and the other adjustments that we have get into more of an asset specific determination.
When you do a useful life estimate in the beginning of the acquisition you will probably take a view of something generic.
But our approach is when you get to the last life of the airplane you will have some specific views about maintenance cycle and whether it makes sense to reinvest or not.
The short answer is it depends on each aircraft.
Each aircraft is evaluated specifically for its maintenance that was projected and generally when there is a shop visit that’s when we pull the plug on it.
And Justine just a little more color.
In the contracts of the 737 classics basically the lives were shorten in the range like 2 to 4 years across each of those plans.
On the 767s it was closer to a year across the group of assets that got impaired based on where they are in the age and what we think is most likely economic profile for those assets as they head towards the 25-year original assumption.
Right.
It’s a triggering event in most cases and not a heavy short visit.
Okay.
Super thanks so much.
Our next question is from Scott Valentin with FBR investment bank.
Scott Valentin - FBR Capital Markets Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions.
With regards to some of the other activity we have seen in the space we have seen especially Japanese banks coming in and buying some of the lessors.
Conceivably the banks have a cost to capital advantage.
Is there any fear that as banks become more involved in the space they start pushing down lease rates to add the lower cost of capital? I think the place where you see this and this is not limited to the two Japanese banks that bought Jackson’s Square and RDS.
There are other banks like the Chinese banks that have been active for some time.
There is a group of lessors I will say that are no reliant on funding on their own and they have been quite aggressive and they do have low debt cost because they don’t have to do on their own.
Most of the capital is deployed in new narrow bodies.
That’s not a sector we chose to play.
We will see this in wide bodies from time to time and if we intent on growing at some really big great then that would be more of a concern.
But I think our approach is to find the right situations and make sure that we are much disciplined about it.
I don’t really think that is a particularly new issue.
I understand the rational for those acquisitions but I am not particularly troubled by them.
Okay thanks.
And then just a follow-up question.
You mentioned the idea that you will see more sale-leaseback transactions in ’13.
In terms of the RFPs received is there more competition now than it was in the past in response to those RFPs? It seems like if internal “growth area” as many lessors are looking at some of the aircraft that airlines make [ph] available? Growth area for many lessors because there is more to do.
I don’t think the competition is more than it has been in the past.
I think on the wide-body side there may be a few guys on margin as we do that the narrow-bodies were overbought.
But I don’t think it’s a real sea change.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Andrew Light with Citigroup.
Hi good morning.
Good afternoon.
Couple of questions.
First of all on that impairment charge of $78.7 million what would that be as a percentage of the total net book value of those planes? Can you just give us a rough idea?  It’s a mix across the planes Andrew and I think this is what Andy was getting at we just haven’t broken down that level of detail.
And I think as Ron said it’s a higher percentage of the 76s [ph] generally speaking in the newer 737s that were in that bucket and a smaller percentage in the context of the older Classic 73s and A310.
Fine.
I was just looking for the summary.
I am not interested in individual aircraft types.
(inaudible) for example your price to book value.
We don’t have that detail broken out and we are not prepared to provide it.
Yes it would be a good indicator of anything to be honest.
Just interested in the percentage.
Never mind.
On your cargo exposure I think it was about 25% of your portfolio is that something you are happy with to maintain at that level given that this is considering more than the reflection in the installed base or is this something you actually have purchased $800 million a year or so you would like to diversify away from?  Look I don’t think that cargo market is long-term something we will stay away from.
We just look at deals one at a time to see if they make sense.
There isn’t a priority percentage that’s allocated to one type for another.
Would I buy more cargo aircraft? Yes but it’s obviously going to have reflect the riskiness in the return profile of that particular investment.
I don’t think you are going to see a big shift in the percentage of cargo.
I am not particularly focused on taking placement risks unless I am really well compensated but if the right sale-leaseback opportunity shows up I might go for it.
All right.
I mean where do you stand on the (inaudible) the Boeing 5% a year twice GDP and then there is the fuel prices and these interest rates and shippers generally trying to avid airfreight as best they can and use more surface and sea freight.
Well look I think you have to take a view of this horizon that’s somewhere between these guys.
Boeing is looking at 20 years out which is not something that I use particularly in investment decisions.
I am looking at something with a near-end environment and I am also not making an investment decision based on six months horizon either.
The shifts in the air cargo market happen in a faster rate than a passenger market and it’s not the first time we have we have seen this happened in 2009 and 2010 and yes the market went roaring back in the back half of ’10 into ’11.
So you have to take a more stable view of the future when you are buying aircraft because you are not trading these things on the Bloomberg.
I think the outlook for the cargo market is pretty good.
We are mindful of the changes in technology and the way people use air cargo and so on but I think in general with increased Internet shipping and increased trade flows the future is just fine.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Glenn Engel with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
A couple of questions please.
First is why does it waiting make sense? You are saying there are good opportunities now but there might be better opportunities a year from now than they are today.
So why do you – and probably that was true versus a year ago.
So why do you feel you have to do something today? Why don’t you just hold your cash and wait until things get even better? Look when we find something that makes sense we will pull the trigger.
And maybe we will be right maybe we will be wrong but we have some hurdles and we have some – the deal flow doesn’t happen in a completely smooth and predictable way.
And I think the folks that are able to move the sightscreen do well.
And I don’t worry about the extra dollar or two that I might have left on the table or you know I worry about the opportunity I might have lost.
We have been very patient this year.
Second question during the summer it seems not as much from you but some others review that lease rates had somehow stabilized is that still true or they started to soften again as we’ve hit this seasonably cash flow weaker period.
When we look at lease rates it is important to remember that negotiating a lease happens not in the very last minute if you are doing your job right and it doesn’t happen instantaneously it takes several months to negotiate a lease.
So when things slow down on the margin if I ask for me today would you like another aircraft on lease they are probably thinking 6 months ahead or maybe a little bit longer.
There may be a (inaudible).
I think in general the answer to your question is that it is kind of generally stable but some aircraft types are a little bit better relatively speaking than others.
We’ve talked for a long time about the A320s and the weakness eventually you expect Boeing 737 and (inaudible) kind of fall in the line somewhat and we’ve actually seen a little bit more of a drop in the 737-800 lease rates.
I would say there is an increase in the 320s.
I think the strength has been more on the bigger airplane side.
Finally when would you expect the delays in deliveries for the 787 and I guess the A350 certainly help smaller wide body market when do you start expecting that start putting pressure on some of the mid-age type wide body planes? It’ll take a few years I think what is affecting the market right now is just the economy and confidence levels.
I don’t think the 787 will really be felt in the market for a while.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Thanks just wanted a point of clarification on the two aircraft that you received the A320 the order A320 of the year I guess you mentioned that about 10 million impairment that was separate from the 78 million impairment that you had from 15 aircrafts.
11.3 of the 78 was related to those two A320s that we did an early termination agreement with.
Okay because I thought you said something about there was an impairment related to those as well that made it -- loss of one million or something like that? No we had an impairment of 11.3 but offsetting it in the case of those two aircraft was maintenance revenue recognition as well as reversal of lease incentives that basically netted to net zero for the third quarter.
Okay in the 11.3 was that in the 78.7 impairment line.
That’s right.
Okay got you.
And then I guess on to the guidance the lease rental revenue guidance seemed a little bit lower than I was anticipating the 152 to 154 was there anything driving it a little bit lower on a quarter-to-quarter basis? The recognition that we are going to have three 747 freighters largely off lease during the fourth quarter is the primary driver for the affect they see -- and then the transition from the Martinair one to a new customer.
Having said that I expect that you’ll see those on lease maybe late this year maybe early next year.
And that is offsetting that as a little bit of an elevated maintenance revenue guidance of the 14 to 16 million? You’ll see in some time we have a number of aircraft transitioning during the fourth quarter including our expectations of the southern aircraft and then a few other narrow bodies so some of that is embedded in the maintenance in the revenue guidance in the quarter that is correct.
Okay thank you.
And that just conclude today’s question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference over to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks for your confidence if you have any follow up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today’s conference we do thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the fourth quarter 2012 Aircastle Limited earnings conference.
And at this time I would like to turn things over to Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good morning everyone.
I'm Frank Constantinople and I'd like to welcome all of you to Aircastle Limited's fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle's Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly.
But I would like to mention that this call is being recorded and the replay number is 888-203-1112 from within the United States and Canada from outside of the U.S.
and Canada the number is 719-457-0820.
The replay passcode for the call is 5347970.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and a PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which were not historical facts maybe deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filing which can also be found on our website.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And will now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and hello to those joining the call.
During my comments today I'll first discuss the business environment for Aircastle.
I'll then comment on the company's fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
I'll finish up by addressing Aircastle's plan for 2013 and beyond; and then our CFO Mike Inglese will address our financial performance.
Then we'll open the call up to questions.
2012 was a good and eventful year for Aircastle.
We successfully executed on our business plan and took advantage of attractive investment opportunities while sourcing low priced growth capital.
Revenue in 2012 increased 13% year-over-year thanks to $843 million in new investments as well as effective portfolio management in face of a challenging business environment.
We transformed our capital structure raising $1.6 billion in new debt and increasing the proportion of unsecured debt.
This provides the company with greater flexibility to pursue new investments and to manage our assets optimally.
With each new bond issuance we're able to decrease our cost of funding.
This will enhance our net interest margin over time.
In doing so we also increased our unencumbered asset base to more than $2 billion in aircraft and in excess of $600 million of unrestricted cash at yearend.
Our growing operating cash flow allowed us to provide value for shareholders in the form of higher dividends and share repurchases.
We increased the dividend during the third quarter of 2012 a total of three times over the past two years for an overall increase of 65% during this period.
With the 16.5% per share dividend declared for this quarter I'm pleased to say we'll pay the dividend for 27 consecutive quarters.
Following a $20.5 million share repurchase in August when our founding shareholder exhibited we also bough back 20 million of our shares in December and January.
In fact over the past few years we've completed nearly $140 million in share repurchases.
We ended our 2013 with significant investment capacity but also with a commitment to declare a capital in a discipline and accretive manner.
We have a sense of cautious optimism about demand for leased aircraft and are bullish about the investment opportunities for Aircastle 2013.
Now I'd talk about the business environment.
The overall business environment in 2012 was mixed in absolute terms but relatively good considering the economic and political challenges experienced during the year particularly in Europe and United States.
Passenger air travel grew 5.3% during 2012 which was in line with the long-term historical growth rate.
This is surprisingly strong and it reflects the increasing role of the global transport market played by the faster growth emerging economies.
The more economically sensitive air cargo market contracted 1.5% in 2012.
There have been some positive signs in recent months but we believe this sector will remain weak until there is a clear pickup in global trade flows and in business confidence.
Having said that we do think this sector will eventually recover as world GDP growth improves.
Over the past year supply side pressures from increased aircraft production levels offset through relatively strong demands side performance.
We remain concerned about increased production particularly for narrow-body and freighter aircraft.
Having said that so far this year we're sensing a modest uptick in lease demands as customers appear to be a little bit more confident about business prospects that's important to remember there are some big differences in regional growth expectations.
I expect this improving sentiment will allow rentals for current technology aircraft increase modestly during the year.
Although I would anticipate some types like 319 320s their levels will remain low despite some recent improvements.
High and volatile fuel prices and a greater availability of new-generation aircraft will continue to drive older technology models out of service as others find it hard to cover the operating cost and to make sense in investing in the maintenance cost necessary to keep these planes in the air.
So I add this forecasting modest improvement in airline profitability during 2013.
Earnings margins remain quite low on the industry-wide basis.
And as we've seen in each of the past few winters several small-to-mid size airlines have gone out of business particularly in areas with weaker economic conditions.
Consolidation will be an important role as illustrated by the recent merger of American Airlines with U.S.
Airways which is one of our biggest customers.
Consolidation can serve as a positive for us improving financial health and stability and fostering greater capacity discipline.
A great example of that can be found right here in the U.S.
which is a slow growth market but one where industry profitability has improved thanks to the new competitive landscape.
Given the airline industries challenges and improving profit margins the capital intensity of the business and the increase in the number of new aircraft deliveries we believe there will be many good opportunities for leasing companies to support the industries growth.
We believe that to a large degree lessors will serve as financial market intermediaries for airlines that are less able to access capital efficiently.
We think companies that are able to draw on low priced flexible financing will succeed.
With respect to financing the big story last year was the strength of the U.S.
capital markets.
During 2012 more lessors in airlines turned in this direction as we first did in 2010.
However for this market particularly with respect to unsecured debt the barrier to entry is having a strong credit rating.
As for credit agency back debt continue to support a significant percentage of new aircraft deliveries in 2012.
Real indications are that this large role will continue this year despite the doubling and the cost of guarantee fees.
We expect bank financing will continue to be available on reasonable terms for new aircraft delivering to top tier operators.
However small airlines will find it harder to source financing.
And additionally asset-based financing for mid-age or older aircraft will remain scarce and we expect airlines and lessors with bank balloons will have a more difficult time rolling over these financings.
Now I'll make a few comments about our 2012 results starting with topline performance.
Our lease revenues were strong primarily reflecting the growth of our portfolio but also good asset management.
For the full year total lease revenue was $632 million versus $508 million in 2011 that's a 9% improvement.
Our portfolio utilization rate remained strong at 99% and our rental yield continues to be approximately 14%.
For the fourth quarter we reported adjusted net income of $36.4 million or $0.52 per share and ANI or adjusted net income was $57 million or $0.80 per share for the year.
Adjusted EBITDA was nearly $648 million in 2012 versus $608 million during the preceding year.
Aircastle was an active investor during the year.
We made $843 million of aircraft investments including five aircraft that we purchased was $235 million during the fourth quarter.
About two-thirds of our 2012 investments were in aircraft leased to Asia-Pacific carriers reflecting their growing portfolio in the industry.
To that end at yearend Asia accounted for 34% of our portfolio that's up from 26% two years earlier.
About half of our investments during the year were newer modern light bodies on long-term leases with good operators.
We also invested in high yielding mid-age aircraft and purchased a total of four new Embraer E-Jets also on long-term leases.
Thanks to these 2012 aircraft acquisitions and $1 billion of investments in 2011 we're gradually reshaping our portfolio decreasing the proportion of younger or wide-body aircraft and lowering the average age roughly modestly.
In fact $1.2 billion or roughly two-thirds of the $1.8 billion in aircrafts investments we made over the past two years is less than five years old.
Also the average remaining lease term has increased to five years.
For the same reason our acquisition activity was good in 2012 aircraft sales activity was lower and we're focused on end of life aircraft this year.
During 2012 we sold or disposed eight aircraft with an average age of more than 17 years.
Also during 2012 we completed 39 lease extensions placements for dispositions of aircraft that come off lease.
This was our busiest year ever.
While the majority of this was scheduled we successfully work through several bankruptcies and airlines restructurings demonstrating our team's asset management skills.
At yearend we had two aircraft off lease a 767-300ER and a 747-400 freighter both of which were marketing actively.
In each case we thoroughly evaluate placement alternatives looking for the most efficient deployment of capital after considering the risk and returns.
Turning to the task at hand for 2013.
We have 17 aircrafts to schedule lease expirations.
This represents about 5% of our total net book value of flight equipment.
Compared to last year this is a very matchable task and added the only freighter aircraft scheduled to come off lease in 2013 there's net return that we plan to part out.
In addition our work of share includes five aircrafts that we took back during the first quarter due to financial issues with three largest customers.
We are actively marketing the aircraft and now withstanding these early terminations.
We anticipate being able to achieve a portfolio utilization rate of 97% or better during the first quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we're cautiously optimistic about lease demand improvements during 2013 where we intend to carefully review the alternatives for our aircraft with the approach to lease expirations or other improvement events.
Looking ahead we're bullish about our ability to grow profitably with a strong balance sheet with significant amount liquidity which we can put to work on new investments.
We also don't have any refinancing requirement until 2017 nor do we have OEM order book commitments or progress payment obligations.
The current business environment offers the unusual combination of good opportunities to make acquisitions at an attractive price while also allowing for excellent financing terms for those who have positioned themselves to access the capital markets as I believe we have.
We view ourselves to be value-oriented investors specializing in aircraft.
Aircastle applies a rigorous disciplined approach to investing and we're not afraid to take a different view than the rest of the pack.
We're emphasizing superior risk adjusted returns of our quantity.
More specifically we're targeting incremental cash ROEs at 15% or better.
Our focus is on situations where our competitor advantages give us a better chance of running business.
Also our investment approach is not fixed and we use a strong and virtual platform to adapt changing market conditions.
So far in 2013 we find letters of intent or made commitments to invest $210 million in five aircrafts.
I expect roughly half of that amount will be deployed during the first half while the other half relates to new aircraft delivering in December.
Additionally our investment pipeline is building well.
For the full year 2013 we'd expect to invest an amount comparable to 2012 and if the right situations are available we'll do more.
We intend to increase the capital efficiency of our fleet and we'll continue to put aircraft in the portfolio when reinvesting would not generate a satisfactory return.
We're also regularly revisiting opportunities to improve our capital structure.
Also we expect to continue to increase unencumbered asset base in the year to further improve our liquidity and credit profile.
We have a solid profile of aircraft that we expect will continue to generate strong cash flows.
We're committed to deploying our capital intelligently to generate good risk adjusted returns for our shareholders.
This will include optimizing aircraft acquisition strategy repurchasing our securities where appropriate and increasing the dividend over time as our earning base grows.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
Our investments over the past two years continue to perform well during the quarter enabling us to generate strong topline growth and increased cash flow from operations.
In addition we continue to successfully access the unsecured debt markets further strengthening our balance sheet and providing additional growth capital for 2013.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 lease rental revenue was $158.1 million up $8.2 million or 6% year-over-year due primarily to the net impact of aircraft acquisitions.
Total revenues for the quarter were $176.6 million an increase of $19.7 million or 13% for the prior year reflecting higher lease rental revenue of $8.2 million higher maintenance revenue of $4.2 million and an increase in other revenues of $8 million reflecting our purchase of secured loan in the first quarter of 2012 and revenue from finance leases from acquisitions in 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $172.3 million up $10.5 million or 6% reflecting higher lease rental revenue maintenance and other revenues totaling $20.5 million partially offset by a $7.4 million year-over-year decline in gains in the sale of aircraft.
During the quarter we reported $7.7 million of impairment charges largely from an A320 that came off lease during the quarter.
These charges were for the most part offset by end of lease maintenance revenue related to impaired aircraft totaling $7.5 million.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $36.4 million down $6 million year-over-year and reflects higher revenues of $19.7 million offset mainly by higher aircraft impairment charges of $7.7 million lower gains in the sale of aircraft of $7.4 million higher depreciation of $6 million and higher SG&amp;A and adjusted interest expense of around $4 million.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $55.6 million an increase of $1.8 million over the prior year.
The increase includes a $5.2 million increase related to higher average debt outstanding and $1.9 million increase related to lower capitalized interest.
Partially offsetting these items was a decrease of $4.7 million resulting from lower weighted average interest rate on our borrowings.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $11.8 million approximately $2 million higher compared to the prior year reflecting higher personnel cost and professional fees.
Depreciation expense for the quarter was $69.9 million up $6.1 million from the prior year reflecting the growth in our aircraft portfolio.
Our fourth quarter tax provision and effective tax rate was $1.9 million and 5.9% respectively.
For the full year our 2012 effective tax rate was approximately 5.7% when you exclude the impairment charges recorded during the year.
Our aircraft portfolio at yearend consisted of a 159 aircraft with an annualized lease rental run rate including finance leases of approximately $650 million of which $296 is associated with our 72 unencumbered aircraft which had a net book value of $2.1 billion.
During the quarter we completed the part-out for one 747 aircraft and recorded a net gain of $2.7 million.
Since Aircastle's formation we've sold a total of 38 aircraft with growth proceeds of approximately $1 billion.
We continue to manage the portfolio and were focused on a cash flow based economics of each investment and reinvestment decision.
Turning to our capital structure as Ron mention we raised approximately $1.6 billion of capital during 2012 which included $1.3 billion in the unsecured market.
During the fourth quarter we issued $500 million of 6.25% senior notes due in 2019 at par and we increased our unsecured revolving credit facility to $150 million up from $50 million.
This facility was undrawn.
At yearend our unrestricted cash balance totaled $618 million and we had additional restricted cash of $112 million.
In addition the unencumbered aircraft totaled $2.1 billion or 44% of the net book value of our flight equipment up from 15% at the end of 2011.
Total borrowings at yearend were $3.6 billion and our net debt outstanding was approximately $3 billion which represent 62% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
For the full year 2012 our cash flow from operations before working capital changes was $407 million up 12% compared to the $365 million in 2011.
A ratio of unsecured debt to total debt at yearend was 49% up from 15% at the end of 2011 continuing the transformation of our capital structure to a more balanced mix of unsecured and secured debt.
Our net debt to equity ratio excluding the mark-to-market on our interest rate derivatives was approximately two times and as a reminder we have no asset coverage tax in our unsecured bond indentures no LTV test in any of our financings and we are in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities.
We currently have $30 million remaining under our existing share repurchase authorization.
We repurchased 4.1 million shares at an average price of $11.78 per share since August of 2012 and since the beginning of 2011 have repurchased 11.7 million shares at an average price of $11.87 a share.
Finally turning to selected Q1 '13 guidance elements.
We expect lease rental revenues of $154 million to $156 million and finance lease income with approximately $3 million to $4 million.
Maintenance revenues are estimated to be $8 million to $9 million amortization of net lease premium and lease incentives of $8 million to $10 million.
Our SG&amp;A level is expected to be between $12 million and $13 million consistent with our current run rate.
Depreciation is expected to be $71 million to $73 million and interest net of $58 million to $60 million including hedge loss amortization.
In conclusion we continue to successfully execute our business strategy generate strong results and return capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock buybacks.
As we enter 2013 we're well positioned with significant liquidity and proven access to capital to pursue our return oriented investment strategy and to continue to create value for our shareholders.
And with that operator we'll now turn the call up for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) We'll hear first from Isaac Husseini of Barclays.
Ron thanks for the color that you gave on the cargo market but I was wondering if I can tie that with some of the information that you gave in the presentation.
It looks like the percentage of cargo aircraft in the portfolio has declined from 33% to 29% over the last couple of years.
Is that a trend that we should expect to continue or is it going to reverse given some of the maybe opportunities that you can see in the freight market? It's a function of where we see value in terms of investments.
Realistically this year you'll probably see a continued reduction.
But we don't have a specific target.
And then a question on ROE I know you guys talk about maximizing ROEs when you look at incremental opportunities.
But if we just look at the portfolio as a whole and if you look at over a business cycle how do you think of ROEs over a cycle for Aircastle? Well last year we had a couple of things that brought down the ROE in terms of the impairments.
I shall hope that's not a repetitive thing.
We are seeing as I said during the prepared remarks these are cash ROE opportunities which are a little bit different than the GAAP.
But cash ROEs incrementally at 15%.
We have some parts of our portfolio that are performing worse in that.
So what we're trying to do at each juncture is to find what's the best deployment of capital should we release the airplane should we sell it? That's been a more discipline part of what we've been doing over the past year.
And I think the A320 that we referred to during the prepared remarks also fits that.
It's an airplane that the markets a little bit weak for.
But the rental has come back a little bit but the market for the engines as spare part has been incredibly strong.
And we found it better to get our money back basically and put it back to work in some other way.
So the focus on our side is add good incremental returns and do better with the portfolio.
And just a quick follow-up on the 17 planes that are going up for release in 2015 can you give us a sense of what assets types they are? Yes it's a real mix.
I think there is a little bit of a bias towards some older aircrafts that we are seriously going to think about disposing of.
There is I think three or four different 767 in that mix.
There is a couple of 7-5s those are all candidates for disposition in addition to a classic and A310 freighter as I mentioned as well.
We have quite a number of 737-800s in the mix.
But what's important to note is that the really high value stuff was placed last year.
And by that I mean a lot of bigger ticket items and that reflected the kind of an improving demand profile.
So if we start the year with a scheduled placement list of only about 5% or 6% of our net book value.
So it's a smaller layer in our portfolio.
And moving on we'll take a question from Gary Liebowitz of Wells Fargo Securities.
Ron can you explain to me maybe how you compute asset utilization you came out 99% for the quarter but it looks like you had seven early leased terminations which is more than you had all year and then you had another eight schedule leased terminations during the quarter.
I'm just wondering how you have 99% utilization with that level of turnover.
Garry simply revenue utilization is revenue earned on your assets if divided by the time available to be in revenue service.
And when a lease terminates you have to take into account the construct of each lease.
So if you have security deposits that take you for a full quarter for a lease that terminates in early December you're calculating it on the construct of the cash you have from that customer in the context of the available utilization for that asset.
Right.
It's also dollar-weighted so if you have a very small ticket item it's not going to have a big effect.
The number of aircraft that you mentioned that came off lease early five of those actually happened in Q1.
So it had no effect on Q4.
Ron are seeing any aircraft portfolios that are coming out for sale maybe five ten aircraft at a time instead of sort of the one or two type deals that you've been more of lately? Yes.
There is one comment I'll make about secondary market volume in general for 2012.
2012 was incredibly a dry year in that respect.
It was the second worse year for secondary market transactions after 2009.
I think part of it reflected an inability by sellers to get the prices that they wanted and I think that in turns is a function of the bank market being pretty limited as far as used aircraft.
I think the book value issues for some sellers is also a factor both for lessors and for airlines the currency effects are not small.
If you have a say a European airline that has the balance sheet in euros and euro keeps on appreciating it's really hard to make sense of the sale for dollar-denominated asset.
Now withstanding that I do think that there is going to be a little bit of pick up in volume in 2013 versus '12 not hugely so and we're certainly going to be in the mix.
And then just one follow-up for Mike would be all the early terminations you've had in the first quarter are you expecting any fees to be collected associated with those? I think it's in the context of early terminations in the first quarter I expect there will be some modest elements of fees associated with those customers.
And in the context of any potential impairments I would expect if there is any they would be offset by maintenance revenue.
Next we'll take a question from Helane Becker of Dahlman Rose.
Just a couple of questions.
Are there any change of control provisions with U.S.
Airways and pending the merger with the aircraft you have out to them? No.
That is difficult feature you would find in an operating lease.
It's something you might find in unsecured bond but not in the operating lease.
And then in terms of some of the early terminations that came back in the first quarter if you can't say who the airlines are can you say the geographic distribution for them? Yes.
I'll give you a little more color on that.
We had one aircraft that came out A319 that came out of Italy.
Those are only remaining exposure in that country.
We had two 737-700s that came out of Ukraine and we had one A330 and one 767 that came out of the U.S.
Military charter operators it's a passenger aircraft.
All three of those airlines have been on our watch list.
And we've been sort of pre-marketing them for a little while.
I expect by the way that one of those aircraft the 767 might be sold on a part-out basis.
And then I think you had last year two aircrafts 747 freighters out to southern.
Whatever happened to those aircrafts? Did they come back to you or were they out on lower rates or what's the deal with those? We restructured one and the other is the aircraft that we had to place that had referenced as an AOG as of the yearend.
We are looking at a couple of good opportunities for that by the way.
So there may be something would be forthcoming in the quarter or earlier in the next quarter? We should see.
One housekeeping item.
What Mike should our share count be for the first then? Post buybacks we were at about $68.1 million but I would refer you to read the 10-K when it gets published later today.
And you can look through the details of what's out what's restricted stock and for what you need to use for your modeling purposes.
And next we have a question from Richa Talwar of Deutsche Bank.
I was hoping you could talk about the freighter.
It might get a little bought more particularly on your 747 exposure.
From your comments it seems that the cargo market remains generally weak.
And I was wondering you felt that impairment risk for those aircrafts to 747 is greater today than it was maybe a few months back considering that we may not see a bounce back in the market for sometime? I'll make a few comments one is I'm not feeling any differently about the freighters in terms of the impairment versus before.
The 747 market is definitely still feeling the effects of overcapacity.
Having said that last year we had five aircrafts that came back at us and we restructured and released four of those five.
So there is a tone to it and we're pretty good at that.
Now if you look at what's going on in the freight market over the last year year and a half we've seen global trade flows down significantly due to lower economic growth and weak business confidence.
Weak business confidence drives inventory levels and the set that flies on an airplane versus a boat is very high value and time sensitive.
Now if you look at the freight ton kilometers which is sort of a measure of the actual demand they've remained pretty steady.
It's shrunk a little bit but not terribly.
There has been some big shifts in the business.
First of all a lot of businesses has shifted towards the Gulf carriers and that's very similar to what's happening with long-haul travel on the passenger sector.
That's an important trend to note.
The other thing that's important to note is that on the supply side Boeing has been cranking out the 747-A.
That's a significant increase in capacity.
And I think it's causing a little bit of indigestion in the market given the tone of the economy.
As I said during remarks though we're optimistic about the economy.
We're optimistic that this sector in particularly given the sensitivity will bounce back.
I'm not expecting it's going to happen right away but that we still feel good about these as a long-term investment.
And just my second question as if you could just comment generally on the competitive market we've recently seen some new players coming to the space particularly in China Japan.
I was wondering if you are sensing a change in market conditions because of new competition.
I think it's more of a continuation the kind that we've seen for the last year or two.
When you look at newer aircrafts particularly in narrow bodies it's incredibly competitive.
Cash rental yields if you will are probably in the 7% or 8% per annum territory.
And that's not a lot considering that these aircraft depreciate.
For some time now we haven't seen any value in new narrow bodies I should say for that reason and also because we have a different view about investing in last off the production line models of any type.
But I think with fueling that competition is perhaps a different approach to residual value but also very low cost of debt by banking oriented institutions.
I don't see any abatement to that.
And so we're prepared to sit that dance out and focus our capital on places where we can make better returns.
On the wide body side we have seen more competition.
I think some of the same investors that I mentioned before have been looking for yield and shifting in that direction.
But having said that I still find that there is some good opportunities there.
We're not looking to invest billions and billions of dollars in a given year.
It's very much quality versus quantity oriented and there is still big enough market for us to find some very good deals.
In the middle of the market which is where we've had a lot of success over the years there is still the absence I would say of competition with the same kind of financial resources that we have.
Our unsecured debt makes it standout in that sector versus all the other participants.
I don't see any of the big guys really playing in that space not in the serious way not as we have.
And I think that's very difficult to replicate.
In terms of the part-out market there has been a descent amount of activity over there.
During my prepared remarks I mentioned that there is good trading values there but that's very much of a platform-specific thing.
I think it's probably going to slow down though in terms of the amount of money that's got into that versus say two years ago.
And next we'll take a question from Mark Streeter of JPMorgan.
Two questions one very big picture I notice that Allegiant Air did a sale leaseback the other day with one of your competitors.
And I sort of put them in the bucket of airlines that have been way too dependent on export credit.
And I'm wondering with the export credit rules now tightening up for 2013 and going forward are you starting to see more airlines that might have been either buying new or too dependant on export credit starting to diversify a way maybe more sale leaseback maybe looking more into the used market is that phenomenon taking hold yet? It's been really slow Mark.
I think that the biggest impediment to that is the advanced rate.
Now when you go and if you're buyer of a new airplane and you go to the Export Credit Agencies for financing support the fees are now double.
However you can finance those fees.
And if a buyer of aircraft has to write a bigger equity check there is going to be much more pressure on them to do to look for alternative financing than at the moment.
So that's probably the biggest impediment to what lessors and another commercial finance that you're seeing more of a market shift in our direction.
I think in time that will happen.
Somebody like Allegiant Air with the order strength that it has really ought to be looking at the lessor market and the fact that they did something is a good sign but it's going to take a little while for this to be discernible.
And then something a little bit more specific to Aircastle just looking through your slide and noting on your progress throughout the year I just think about the improvement that you're seeing in your debt cost the reduction in secured debt the strong portfolio result and so fourth.
Moody still has this negative outlook on your credit which I did scratch my head at.
I'm just wondering if there is any update on that and why that disconnect still exists between sort of the story that I think everyone sees and how they view you? Moody's put their outlook out when we did a bond deal in late November.
Their specific attributes were raising debt without specific application or proceeds.
We think overtime and over the course of this year we'll address their main issues in that context and we'll see how their view point changes over time.
We certainly agree with you we've made significant progress in both transforming the capital structure driving the cash flow from operations and we'll have to work our way through the Moody's outlook issue overtime and that's going to be dealt with through performance.
There is a couple of things I'd just add to that.
Moody's does have a financial company methodology which makes it really difficult for any kind of financial institution whether its an aircraft leasing company or anybody else to be a standalone investment grade and there is nobody in our sector that fits that bill.
Having said that when you look at how the markets reacted to our financings I think it's been viewed positively and I am not sure to what degree that factors in or not.
Our goal is to continue deliver on what we've told the bold market which is we're going to increase the amount of unencumbered assets.
It's over $2 billion dollars as of yearend.
We intend to buy a lot more aircraft with the proceeds that we raised and that should grow.
And for us probably more than other leasing companies unsecured debt is an integral part of our strategy.
Flexibility is important.
So I think that's something that time will cure.
Moving on we'll hear from John Godyn of Morgan Stanley.
We've seen some examples of airlines taking advantage of lower prices across older aircraft just as lower ownership cost offset efficiency but not many.
And at the same time demand for new aircraft continues to be pretty robust.
The numbers of lessors are talking about attractive sale leaseback opportunities in the next couple of years.
Just speaking to the airline customers is there any growing willingness to more aggressively favor the secondary market opportunities to take advantage of I guess what might be an arbitrage there or there are reasons the market has bifurcated to this somewhat extraordinary degree just structural in nature as far as your concern are going to stay in place for years to come here.
It's a growing phenomenon.
I think there are limitations to what you can do there.
Somebody like Delta Air Lines isn't going to take a one-off airplane from the lessor somewhere.
However some of the moves that they've made and some of the moves that Allegiant and others are considering I think is inevitable.
There is a bias.
And I think from particularly from old line airlines towards I only want new it's got to be one way or not.
But anybody who is doing investments on new aircraft today needs to think about what's residual value will be whether it's an airline or a lessor and I think the growing number of airlines were thinking about these as investments which they are.
If you believe that everybody will only want new then the residual value chunks has been revisited.
But airlines like Allegiant and like Delta have kind of picked up on the map.
And I think that's something that will show up.
The practical implementation of that's going to be more kind of sub-fleet oriented as opposed to one by one.
And are there any catalyst that would drive that you're looking just as you look out the next couple of years that they are thinking about that might drive maybe more of an uptick in some of these secondary market opportunities I guess more broadly maybe it's as simple as fuel need to fall significantly.
And maybe we don't believe that but I'm not sure if there is more to it than that? Well I would say it's not just fuel falling but fuel being less volatile.
But I think that would be a catalyst.
I think just a basic difference between brand new versus used is the main driver.
But it's important to remember John that when you look at certainly in aircraft as it's gets older it's a little bit more money to maintain and it's a little bit less fuel efficient.
But the real big step change happened across generation.
So if I were to look at an eight year old airplane that just ran out of shop it's not that much different than something that's two or three years old.
And I think that's a fact that's lost on a lot of investors.
I think more airlines are picking up on it though.
The other thing that's going to play out overtime is going to be interest rates.
Interest rates pick up the financing costs of the new plane are going to be that much higher and it will make the existing stock of aircraft that much more attractive.
If we just sort of assume that some of these factors driving this bifurcation just stay in place for the next two years.
And then if you think about rising delivery rates and new technology around the corner do you think that current asset prices for things like A320s or other aircraft types affected by this incorporate any sort of or enough of that tail risk that we might see on a multiyear basis or do you think that the prices are not there yet? In short I think not there yet for the new planes.
I think the secondary market airplanes once you get out beyond five years there is a very clear difference.
And that's why we've been finding good values there.
When we look at investments we have a bias it's not shared by the industry but our bias is against last off the line.
We don't think those aircraft will fly as long simply because there will be lots of newer and more efficient step-change efficient airplanes.
We do think though that there is good value to be had because there is a lack of competition and because it's a lot easier to see your way towards getting the residual value which is primarily engines from that first part of that production line.
And I think we demonstrated that with the TAM transaction the A320 that we took back.
I think the cash-on-cash returns on these middle aged aircraft are so attractive relative to the residual risk that eventually the market will correct but for the moment we're happy that to kind of pickup what we can as buyers.
And just last question on the topic I know that of course you have this kind of well communicated bias against last off the line and you don't have a lot of exposure there but broadly just thinking that some of these asset prices have incorporated this tail risk how do we get comfortable that your own current portfolio doesn't have more downside residual risk? Look I think the bias side the buy prices that we've put on over the last few years have been pretty good.
The asset management strategy we put on that that we've kind of developed over last years is also been pretty good.
I think that that 320 is a good example.
Remember the impairment test in U.S.
is not a test on present value or on capital efficiency it's based on sum of future cash flows.
And as we focus on doing the best we can with our portfolio base selling an aircraft and basically breaking even by the way a lot of the things that are complicated by our industries accounting like the net book value not including the maintenance reserves and lease end compensation kind of muddied the water little bit.
When you look at how we've done on the asset dispositions that we've actually put in the place over the last a year two years we were thinking mid-age older aircraft and effectively broken even that should give you some comfort.
And our next question today comes from Scott Valentin of FBR.
Just Mike one quick question on the lease revenue guidance of the first quarter how much impact does the five of those termination have on our lease revenue is it little bit what were we looking for? Yes it's clearly part of what you're looking at in terms of the first quarter guidance there is some impact on our expectation.
For lease rental and as Ron mentioned in his remarks we have some expected downward pressure on the utilization rate as well in the first quarter.
Is there a way to quantify whether or not it could be on the five aircraft?  I'm not going to get into specifics at this point.
I think it's a function of how fast we get those back in service and when we look at that there is always a trade-off if you take the first available deal or do you hold off for the best economics over the long-term.
Just follow up question on the 11 aircraft with U.S.
Air I know its early days with the merger but did you take any of those aircraft back or lease is terminated at all? The merger doesn't have any affect whatsoever in that regard Scott.
If anything it's a credit positive.
The bulk of our exposure with U.S Airways or A330 is that we extended last year until 2018 or so.
And I think those are looking pretty good to me.
The other part of it is mostly 757s.
We extended several of those last year.
There is a number that come off at least next year but those are wingleted and I think they're in pretty good shape we'll see.
The only aircraft that I think is a good candidate for coming back is a 767-200ER which is in our business plan a part-out at September when it comes off lease.
Having said that there is a possibility it might stay there a little longer.
One follow-up question just in terms of balance sheet management I guess you talked about trying to increase leverage a little bit but also just looking at the cash balances it's pretty right now.
Just wondering what you guy view as being the necessary amount of cash you need to operate the company versus what you view as excess? Simplistically we think the minimum operating cash balance is somewhere around $75 million or so is reasonable in context of the current size.
So anything beyond that we view as available for investment to business.
Right and when we do bond deals there is an efficient size to it doing a small deal doesn't trade well.
And it's important for us to have a good profile standing in the market.
When we did our deal in the late last year we viewed it as attractively priced and one where we were content to kind of lock that in and go hunting with that as far as new investments go.
Having said that it's a long-term investment business and we're being very careful and disciplined about it.
And so far we've got a little over $200 million of that committed.
So the pipeline is looking pretty good.
And I think the bulk of that's going to be put to work in new assets and timing will sort of this be a function of how the deals come in.
But we're gong to be very disciplined about it.
And moving on we'll take a question from Arren Cyganovich of Evercore.
Your big leasing revenue are stronger than expected this quarter and I think quite a bit above your prior guidance.
Is there anything special in that that drove to be relative to your guidance last quarter? I think a couple of minor factors.
Number one we bought a few planes in the fourth quarter that weren't part of our thinking when we put out our guidance in early November and those planes were bought in December.
And then also some lease transitions that I expected to take place during the quarter took a little longer and therefore we had more collections from those customers before existing leases expired.
Those are the two main drivers for that.
Just a little bit on that second part sometimes our leases require that the aircraft be delivered in certain conditions.
And if those conditions are met then this takes a little longer for the airline to do what it has to do and that's kind of what gets to my second point.
And then I just want to make sure the maintenance guidance of $8 million to $9 million in Q1 '13 that includes any expected early termination maintenance revenue from the five aircraft that are coming? My guidance assumes planes that are coming of lease naturally in the first quarter.
The early terminations we've received as I said before when Gary asked the question I would expect any maintenance revenue we have coming off of those planes to sort of net out with any potential impairment analysis.
But we haven't done the work on those assets.
So I'm not including either of those things in the context of my guidance for the quarter.
But roughly speaking I would expect those to be offsetting.
And then lastly with the 787 issues have you seen any I guess more of a short-term nature of question.
But have you seen any increase demand or firming of lease rates for 757s or A330s any of those impacts on the wide-body market? Not really.
There's a short answer to that the more complete answer is there is a couple of situations that might pop-up for short-term leases.
I don't know whether it's worth or not because when you do a short-term lease you've got to invest in the first part in terms of transitioning the airplane.
And then it's not a long-term proposition.
That the hard part for anybody who's an operator but for that matter an owner of the aircraft if not the operator is planning.
And nobody sitting here today knows exactly when the problem will be rectified and how long it will take for it to be kind of implemented across the fleet.
So there is a few situations that might give you different answer about it if things are not fixed in the near term.
But at the moment I think the opportunities are very limited in kind of short lift.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Constantinople I'll turn the call back to you.
Thank you for your time today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentleman that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining us.
Good day.
And welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Aircastle Limited Earnings Conference Call.
Today conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Carla.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to Aircastle Limited's first quarter 2013 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle's Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly.
But I would like to mention that this call is being recorded and the replay number is 888-203-1112 from within the United States and Canada from outside of the U.S.
and Canada the number is 719-457-0820.
The replay passcode for the call is 8072225.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and a PowerPoint presentation.
I’d like to point out that statements today which were not historical facts maybe deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filing which can also be found on our website.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and welcome to the call.
In my prepared remarks I’ll discuss Aircastle’s transaction activity and financial results for the first quarter of 2013.
I’ll also cover our views on the current business environment and talk about our plan for the rest of the year.
Our CFO Mike Inglese will then Aircastle’s financial performance then we'll open up the call to questions.
During the first quarter we once again demonstrated the strong asset management skills that distinguish Aircastle.
We secured lease or sale commitments for all of the aircraft we took back during the first quarter or otherwise head off lease.
We also disclosed profitably our several end-of-life aircraft being good investors in just about buying it’s also about selling and validating investment thesis.
In terms of investments so far this year we’ve closed or entered into commitment to acquire more than $450 million of aircraft capitalizing on our strong cash position and our ability to identify new business around the world.
I expect these transactions to close during Q2 or early part of Q3.
Beyond these commitments we are encouraged by the flow of new investment opportunities for this year and believe we’ll meet or exceed the $150 million to the new investment that we achieved last year.
We continue to be disciplined value-oriented investors focusing on opportunities where we believe we have a competitive advantage and can also earn cash ROEs that are 15% or better.
During January we also continue to repurchasing shares buying back $8.6 million in common stock.
In addition our Board declared a $16.5 per share second quarter dividend our 28th consecutive dividend payment demonstrating a balance approach deploying capital for the benefit of our shareholders.
We are also pleased to welcome Mike Kriedberg on Board as our Chief Commercial Officer rounding out the senior management team.
Mike has a wealth of experience in originating well structured transactions with airlines around the world.
And he is very well known and respected in the aviation finance community.
We’re looking forward to his contributions.
With the growing investment pipeline a very capable organization and proven access in the capital markets I believe we are in very good shape to capitalize on an attractive acquisition environment and well priced capital.
These conditions don’t often come together at the same time.
We are excited about the opportunities to grow Aircastle accretively and further increase our base of distributable earnings.
As we discussed on our Investor Day last month we are cautiously optimistic about the business environment for this year.
In our view demand for leased aircraft is fundamentally driven by GDP.
We believe that in general aircraft lease rates and prices will benefit from a pickup in global GDP and also from historically low interest rate environment.
As we look at the International Air Transport Association statistics we continue to see healthy growth in the passenger market.
IATA lease forecast for 2013 calls for 5.4% increase in revenue passenger kilometers which we think it was good measure of demand.
Clearly though there are very big differences in growth rates around the world and that has been -- also been shaping the geographic distribution of our fleet where Asia-Pacific business now accounts for 34% of our portfolio up from just 20% at the beginning of 2010.
IATA’s most recent forecast also calls for modest resumption of growth in the air freight market this year.
After two years where demand has measured by freight ton kilometers contract about 3%.
We expect demand to pickup as business confidence increases.
In our view there is a fundamental demand to transport high value time sensitive good to be here.
The big challenge in this market currently is one of our oversupply and this is issues will be through in time.
Turning to passenger aircraft we are seeing an improved ton and demand and a little more competition from potential new leases for our aircraft as they come off lease.
This is also the case from modern widebodies given the better supply and demand dynamic to such as aircraft.
While the story is still for third-generation widebodies in our view increasing production levels will to some extent offset the benefit from demand growth.
Turning to our first quarter 2013 results Mike will discuss this in more detail but I wanted to highlight a few statistics.
Revenue growth and cash flow were strong lease rental revenues including finance leases were $160.5 million during the quarter up 5% from a year ago.
Adjusted EBITDA which is a good measure of cash flow generation was $169 million for the quarter up 11%.
For the quarter net income was $23 million and adjusted net income was more than $27 million.
Cash ROE was 12.8% for the past 12 months.
Portfolio performance was strong despite several early returns as I mentioned earlier.
Q1 ‘13 utilization was 97% and rental yield was 13.6%.
During our call to discuss the Q4 and year end 2012 results we mentioned taking back several aircraft.
I’m pleased to say that we have commitment to lease or sale each of them.
Three aircraft consisting of mid-age A319 and two older 767-300ERs have been or in the process of being disposed on a part out basis.
At a modest profit after netting out maintenance revenue.
The four aricrafts have leased or subject to lease commitments including one 747-400 freighter.
In addition the actively I just mentioned we are also sold the 737-300 Classic and disposed some engines during the first quarter.
Our realized gain from the sales completed during that the first quarter was $1.2 million.
This activity demonstrates our skills as an asset manager and also as an investor.
We have 16 aircraft with scheduled lease expirations for this year representing less than 5% of our total fleet net book value and we believe this plays in task is long hand.
We expect half of this aircraft mostly older 767 757 and 737 Classics will be addressed to be a part out sales since we view this to be the most efficient -- most capital efficient approach.
In this regard we have only one freighter aircraft coming off lease and A310 which we expect to dispose on our part out basis as it comes off lease.
Here again in aggregate I expect we’ll be able to dispose such asset to the modest profit.
Of the remaining aircraft left to place five are in demand 737-800 coming off lease later in the year.
Regarding new investment activity we are of to a good start.
The $450 million of closed or committed investments we sourced are relates to 10 aircraft.
Consistent with our investment activity over the past three years roughly two-thirds of these investments were made in aircraft -- we will be made in aircraft to less than two years old.
Mostly widebody aircraft subject to long leases with good counterparties.
We also continuously good value mid-age aircraft pursuing them as well.
Our ability to sort through and find well valued investments across a very broad market continues to set Aircastle part from other large aircraft leasing companies.
Since our inception we’ve purchased aircraft from more than 60 counterparties.
As of most market we believe that what constitute good investment value evolves over time and over market cycles.
Our approach is to have a platform and a financing structure flexible that enable us to capital on such changes.
As we look ahead for the reminder of the year we’re encouraged by level of attracted new business opportunities and we’re seeing -- we are seeing that combined with the strength in the capital markets.
As I said earlier these conditions don’t often come together.
We are well on our way toward matching last year’s new business levels and we’ll keep growing if we find the right investment and financing mix.
I’d like to emphasis our commitment to grow in a discipline and return driven matter in order to increase our cash flows and equity -- the cash returns on equity.
U.S.
capital markets remain very active and current conditions are quite favorable.
Aircastle will continue to take advantage of the bond market as we build on our fleet while also increasing our unencumbered asset base which currently stands at $2.8 billion including unrestricted cash.
We’ll also look for opportunities to further improve our capital structure.
Consistent with that we will also be continuing to work on managing our existing portfolio to get the best risk-adjusted results we can.
Our placement needs for the year are largely address as I noted our ability to get good results from part out dispositions is an important skill set to which we dedicate a lot of human capital.
We have a top-notch experienced team with an ability to grow efficiently flexible capital structure and a great opportunity set.
We are well-positioned with close to $700 million in unrestricted cash at the end of Q1 and no significant maturities until 2017.
We are excited about our potential to grow the company accretively in the current environment and for the opportunities to increase our base of distributable earnings.
I’ll now hand the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
Aircastle’s success implementing its value-oriented investment approach and investing $1.8 billion over the past two years has enabled the company to increase both its earnings power and cash returns.
Specifically over the past 12 months our cash ROE increased to 12.8% compared to 11.8% for 2012 and 11.4% in 2011.
Lease rental revenue and finance lease revenue for the quarter was $160.5 million up $8.2 million or 5% year-over-year due primarily to the net impact of aircraft acquisitions and dispositions.
Total revenues for the quarter were $176.2 million an increase of $11.3 million or 7% from the prior year reflecting higher operating lease rental revenue of $4.3 million higher revenue from finance leases of $3.9 million higher maintenance revenue of $4.2 million and increase other revenues of $4.3 million reflecting interest from our purchase of secured loan during the first quarter of 2012 and $1.7 million of early lease termination fees partially offset by $5.5 million increase in amortization.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $168.6 million up $16.7 million or 11% primarily driven by higher lease rental revenue maintenance and other revenues totaling $16.8 million.
During the quarter we recorded $6.2 million of impairment charges associated with the part out of several aircraft that were returned to us.
These charges were offset by end of lease maintenance and other revenue related to these aircraft totaling $9.8 million.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $27.4 million down $5 million year-over-year and reflects higher revenues of $11.3 million higher gains from sale on aircraft of $1 million.
These increases were partially offset by higher aircraft maintenance charges of $6.2 million higher depreciation of $5.4 higher adjusted interest expense of $3.9 million and higher maintenance SG&amp;A and taxes of $1.7 million.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $59.2 million an increase of $10.2 million over the prior year.
Cash interest increase $4.5 million mainly due to higher weighted average debt outstanding.
We also had $1.6 million increase in non-cash hedging effectiveness and $4.2 million increase related to the non-cash amortization of deferred swap losses associated with the payoff of Term Financing No.
1.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $13.3 million basically flat from the prior year and depreciation was up $5.4 million that’s roughly $70 million reflecting the growth in the portfolio.
Our first quarter tax provision and effective tax rate was $3.6 million and 13.4% respectively.
Our tax rate in the first quarter of 2013 increased from the first quarter of 2012 as a result in the shift of the mix of our business in higher tax jurisdictions during the quarter.
We expect the tax rate to range between 11% and 13% in the second quarter of this year.
At the end of the first quarter we owned 158 aircraft with an annualized lease rental run rate including finance leases of $644 million of which $293 million was associated with 72 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of approximately $2.1 billion.
During the quarter we sold two aircraft weighted average age of 20 years and some engines for net sale proceeds of $20 million which resulted in a net gain on sale of $1.2 million.
Since Aircastle’s formation we've sold a total of 42 aircraft or gross proceeds of approximately $950 million producing an unlevered internal rate of return of approximately 12.1%.
We continue to manage the portfolio and we will maintain our focus on cash flow based economics of this investment and reinvestment decision.
Turning to our capital structure at the end of the first quarter our unrestricted cash balance was $693 million.
Our operating cash flow which includes collections from finance leases was $94.6 million in the first quarter and $453 million over the past 12 months.
This is a 23% increase over the prior 12-month period ended March 2012.
Our unencumbered aircraft totaled $2.1 billion or 44% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
This is essentially flat with year-end and up from $677 million or 15% of the end book -- net book value of our flight equipment at the end of 2011.
Total borrowings at quarter end were $3.5 billion down from $3.6 billion at year-end and our net debt outstanding was $2.8 billion which is approximately 60% of the net book value of flight equipment at the end of the quarter.
Ratio of unsecured debt to total debt was at 50% up modestly from 49% at year-end 2012 and up from 15% at the end of 2011.
Our net debt-to-equity ratio excluding the mark-to-market on our interest rate derivatives was approximately 1.9 times and we are in compliance with all applicable covenants in all debt facilities.
During January we repurchased approximately 700 000 shares at the cost of $8.6 million.
Since the beginning of 2011 we repurchased 11.7 million shares at an average price of $11.87 a share.
We continue to have $30 million remaining under our existing share repurchase authorization.
And finally turning to selected guidance elements for the second quarter of 2013.
We expect lease rental revenues of $156 million to $158 million and finance lease revenues of approximately $4 million.
Maintenance revenues are expected to be between $8 million and $10 million amortization of net lease premiums and lease incentives are expected to be $8 million to $10 million.
We expect to have a lease termination payment from a schedule lease termination in the second quarter of about $4.5 million.
SG&amp;A is expected to be between $12 million and $13 million consistent with our run rate.
We expect depreciation of $68 million to $70 million and interest net of $58 million to $60 million including approximately $5 million of deferred lots hedge amortization.
To conclude we began the year on a strong note and our business performs well and we continue to successfully execute our value-oriented investment strategy.
Going forward our growth increased cash flow from operations and conservative balance sheet as Aircastle well-positioned to generate healthy return to the shareholders in the year ahead.
And with that Operator we’ll now open the call for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hello everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First I was hoping you’ll give us an update on where you stand regarding possible ongoing discussions with credit agencies.
I know you recently pressed on this at your Investor Day but I believe you said an investment credit rating could be achievable on coming years and I just wanted to know if you could provide an update on that in light of today’s reported results.
Yeah.
Look there is no fundamental change in our view on that topic since three weeks ago.
So our results continued to be strong.
Our abilities to deploy our capital and address one of the agency’s issues in terms of having raise debt without specific application or proceeds we think we will prove itself out.
And we continue to drive the business and manage the capital structure to match things we are going to be investing in the balance of this year.
Okay.
Great.
And then secondly I was hoping you could talk a little bit more on your dividend policy.
Now how often you consider dividend raises and what factors you consider on making those types of decisions? Sure.
I think as we've been telling people over the past year we are going to look to revisit our dividend sizing later this year and we will expect to do that sort of on a once a year basis in the construct of how we can grow the business and how we can grow the sustainable earnings of the business that goes with that growth.
So we would expect probably to revisit it in the fourth quarter with our Board and based on where we think we will be and what we think the kind of year will look like at that point we will size the dividend appropriately.
Okay.
Are there any particular ratios or anything that you look at as we consider what a dividend increase might look like? I mean what factors do you particularly pay attention to as you are making that decision? It’s really about what is your portfolio what’s a sustainable earnings base from that portfolio and what ratio of distributable cash do you think is appropriate in the context of deploying capital overall.
We don't have a strict formulae like X percent of some X number.
Okay.
Great.
I guess that’s it from me.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you Operator and good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Ron it feels like over the last 6 to 12 months there has been more of a trend to part out mid-life to older aircraft as opposed to putting them out on one more shorter-term lease.
Is that your sense and what do you think is driving that? I’m not sure if I would agree with that.
I think that there has been more activity in our portfolio but I think part of is just a reflection of the flow of leases.
We for 767s have a view that that the future isn’t as bright and in that context.
And in the context of very strong engine values we made a decision to part out number 767 because it’s the best thing to do.
We've had in A320 and now in A319 that were mid-age so we decided to part out.
And here again it was I think a play on engine values is more than anything else.
I don’t know that I would draw a trend to that but we have a team now that gives us the ability to benefit from the strength of engine values much more than that we did in the past as well.
Okay.
Thanks.
And you both mentioned the cash ROE metric I think to a greater extent than you have in the past.
And I was just wondering that 12.8% how that compared to sort of the total targets and do you think that number should continue towards the 15% number that you target from your incremental acquisitions? Look I think where we are today is a little bit below where we are using in terms of an underwriting standard and deploying additional cash.
And so we would expect over time for it to continue to grow.
It’s not going to go from where it is today to 15% in a short period of time.
We have a $5 billion portfolio.
So it’s going to take some time and it’s going to take investing new capital at higher rates and paring down some of the assets in the portfolio that don’t earn sufficient returns on the capital that’s deployed into them and redeploying that capital.
Okay.
Thanks Mike.
And we will take our next question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hey everybody.
Thank you for taking my question.
Hey John.
I wanted to follow-up on this 15% cash return concept as well.
Obviously there's sort of an advertising picking your underwriting standard and what you think is realistic within the market what the market will give you.
But also a standard that’s attractive for shareholders.
15% isn’t that far off from your overall ROE year.
And we could obviously argue that if you chose a higher underwriting standard we might see ROE expansion across the enterprise faster.
Can you just kind of talk about the thought process that goes into that 15%? Why that’s the right level for the market and why that’s sort of the right level for shareholders? Hey John.
It’s Ron.
A couple of things.
One is I think it’s important to remember the interest rate environment in which we live today were at all-time lows today versus a very different environment five years ago.
So we think 15% return on equity in this market is very attractive first of all.
Now in regards to the individual investment decisions that we do there are a lot of factors that go in.
It’s not just solving for return.
We look at the risk and as you noted there's a lot of judgment that goes into what constitutes return particularly when you get through residual value assumption.
So we have as we talked about on many occasions but somewhat different perspective about the what the future might hold for certain different types of aircraft.
And so that return expectation is to a large extend driven by that as well.
So I think the target is a good target if not before.
When we do better we try to do better.
And then we weigh that against the riskiness of proposition.
When i think about what we hear from other lessors they would probably cite a similar target just as a concept.
However because of your cargo exposure and maybe some of your other exposures I think investors sometimes look at Aircastle as sort of operating a riskier portfolio that should generate higher returns than the peer group if everything is kind of functioning the right way.
Where is this sort of discontinuity happening? Is it because you guys just sort of look at it and say well our portfolio was actually not riskier than the peer group that's why targeting a similar ROE is a good idea or perhaps the 15% is just the conservative number that you have out there? John I can’t really comment about our competitor’s target.
I think 15% in an absolute sense is a very sensible one particularly given our assumptions.
We happen to think the risk return mix that we have has been quite good.
We understand the concerns about freighter market.
But as we went through in quite some detail on Investor Day the performance of our freighter portfolio has actually been this is good as our passenger portfolio.
In other words we've had utilization of about 98% or so for the last several years on our freighters which is better than most of our peers on their whole fleet.
And we’ve had a rental yield which is in excess of our peers on their whole fleet of freighters.
So look I think our view on residuals is very different.
We happened to have a view that the first to know part of a production aircraft will hold its value much better and don’t see the investment math making sense for the new narrow bodies.
So time will tell whether we’re right or not.
But we think they are pretty good target and we think our track record is pretty good.
Fair enough.
And could I just ask one more on sort of the buyback versus capital allocation.
I'm assuming that the buyback decisions are sort of embedded through the same rents of a 15% target and you did buyback a bit here just recently.
Is that correct or are there other reasons why you might be buying back shares irrespective of that 15% target? Perhaps you just sort of look at it today and say well we need a balanced approach to the capital allocation in buying back a little bit it’s just part of that.
I’m just sort of curious if you could elaborate on the thought process there.
Thank you.
It is a mix of math and judgment.
I think the best way to say.
Yes we look at that similar rents of 15% and we look at where it’s trading and what we think use of capital can be.
Share repurchases again we think are reasonable tactical used in allocation of capital from time to time.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks guys.
And we’ll take our next question from Helane Becker with Cowen Securities.
Hi.
Thank you very much Operator.
Hi guys.
Thanks for the time.
Hi Helane.
Just a question on India and what your thoughts are there? I know you have according to slide nine anyway six aircraft out to Jet Airways.
And I know that the country or the government is not really being cooperative.
So is that you have no interest in putting aircraft into India anymore? What are your thoughts about what they're doing? Well we've had a kind of underweight view on India for some time.
And the most recent difficulties in removing aircraft that of Kingfisher are on the margin not helpful.
We think India has tremendous promise in the future.
And I wouldn't rule out doing business in India.
This would have to be with higher returns and otherwise and with the right collateral protection.
In other words big security deposit or maintenance reserves or some other structural features that get us comfortable.
Now with Jet Airways we’re encouraged by the news about the developments with Etihad there.
So we’re comfortable with our situation there.
But it’s a broader country it's a place we continue to look and we will be careful.
Okay.
So you wouldn’t necessary rule it out but it won’t be your first choice? It’s a higher standard.
Okay.
That’s there.
All right.
Also yeah everybody else kind of went through the questions I had and you were very thorough on the conference call.
I appreciate the time.
Thank you Helane.
And we’ll take our next question from Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Hey Justine.
Hey Justine.
I just want to first of all ask a clarification question on CapEx.
So I know that you said you had $450 million of commitment as of now.
And I was just wondering how we’re going to see that flow through on the cash flow statement? Will most of that come through under cash flow from investing I guess in the second third and fourth quarter.
Now I’m assuming it refinanced with withdrawings on the warehouse facility.
Based on that how we should think about it given that we didn’t really see a big CapEx number in 1Q despite the fact that there were a lot of commitments? I think you’ll see most of that money go through the aircraft investments line.
I mentioned during prepared remarks I expect most of it and all of that to close by the early part of Q3.
Okay.
And then I just wanted to ask about the wide-body market.
You saw that you’re seeing more competition for wide-body deals because of what’s going on in the narrow-body market.
Are you seeing increased desire to finance wide-bodies from the financing community as well.
I mean I don't -- they may not have necessarily been a unique lack of desire to finance wide-bodies previously.
But I know that they were frequent to narrow-bodies and sometimes financers aren’t as excited to finance us.
But as you get more lessors you are looking at the wide-body market or are you seeing more banks and other sources come and ready their financer’s point? I think there has been a modest shift towards wide-bodies’ greater demand over the last year too as more of our competitors feel as we do about the end of the line in production increased effects on the narrow-bodies.
This has been a very competitive market on the new narrow-body side.
And people are naturally migrating.
As far as finance few years ago I would say that post the A330 and a 777 are considered to be very desirable assets from a lender perspective.
But the bank market as we talked about in the past has been shifting.
And I think if you were to find an opportunity to finance a brand-new high-quality wide-body on a long-term lease with a good customer you’d have good demand.
I think if they were short-term lease and not a brand-new airplane it starts becoming a little bit patchier.
So it depends on the situation.
I think the best way to characterize it is a good new deal will have good demand.
And we've been able to cap into that over the last several years with our wide-body investments.
Okay.
And then is it possible for you to give a little more color about what drove the early returns of the aircraft that you had this quarter.
Was it an airline that’s suffering just from the general macro conditions in Europe.
For example was it something specific to that airlines such that we shouldn’t expect this to be potentially reflective of a trend in some small airlines or other airlines that you might have on counterparty risk with? Well I presume you’re talking about Q1 right.
Yeah.
So during Q1 we took back five aircraft during the first quarter.
Two of them were from an airline that did military charters that leased operations.
The military charter market has been under a lot of pressure as the pullback from Afghanistan and Iraq is taking place.
And so I think that’s just a kind of market segment issue.
I mean obviously each of these situations has some individual airline specific things.
But that’s probably the more market-oriented thing.
The other aircraft we took out were from Italy and from Ukraine both of which are suffering from economic issues.
We have no aircraft left in Italy.
In fact I would generally characterize our exposure to Europe at this point is actually very comfortable.
Part of it is because the exposure is widespread and generally the bigger exposures over the pretty strong counterparties.
But I think part of it is also a reflection of working through weeding out these issues.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
And we’ll take our next question come from Scott Valentin with FBR.
Good morning.
And thanks for taking my question.
Hi Scott.
So just with regard to the targeted aircraft acquisitions for the year I believe you could manage with $800 million as a target for the year? Well we’ve referenced last year’s amount which is around $850 million.
Okay.
$850 million.
And then so the $450 million I guess I’m trying to figure out are you seeing more aircraft available.
Generally I think the $450 number in terms of closely committed unchanging rentals.
Few weeks ago you had your Investor Day but just wondering increasing more aircraft become available and just -- if you couple that with 850 number? In short yeah.
There is more deals that are out in the market.
As always we’ll have to see how our price expectations match up with the sellers.
But I’m reasonably optimistic for this year.
It feels pretty good.
Now there is a couple of market color points I’ll add.
One is the production of new aircraft has been increasing steadily every year.
And so there is just a bigger pie for everybody to pursue.
The secondary market has been going through some big changes in large measure because of the drying up of bank debt financing.
Last year it was the second worst year ever in terms of used aircraft trading.
We’re seeing that pick up a little bit and I think our situation in terms of not relying on banks and being able to fund through the bond market gives us a leg up.
So I think we’ll do more than our fair share in that part of the market.
Okay.
And just a follow-up question on just the availability of capital.
Clearly you guys have access to capital with the capital markets.
But just wondering is it getting -- is there too much access do you have any fear that the capital now that everyone is seeking the investor is seeking yield are handing out credit to almost anybody and therefore you’re seeing more competition for aircraft acquisition? Well first of all I think the access to capital is reflected by our bond prices on one hand.
I think we’ve been delivering on a story we started talking about investors in 2010 being pretty early on into the unsecured market and by growing our unencumbered asset base to $2.8 billion when you count the cash that’s actually been delivering on it.
So I think we get a little bit of market reception for that.
And I think the way our bonds are trading is very attractive.
Now in terms of competition there is a lot of different guys coming into the market playing the opportunities at many different ways.
There have been a few new funds that are going after aircraft that are mid-aged.
And I think they are doing so with the low return expectations in traditional private equity model which I don’t think really works -- that really worked very well in our business.
I think a lot of those guys are credible smart folks.
They don’t have the team and capital markets access that we do.
So I still feel good about our competitive situation.
I think the biggest change there has been on the brand new narrow-bodies where we’re seeing a lot of interest a push-up in prices in corresponding return drop.
And some of that is fueled by very low interest rates.
There are some players in that market that just have ultra-low debt cost and that might make sense for them.
It doesn’t make sense for us.
And for that reason we’re kind of step aside and let that market do it does.
Okay.
The color is very helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we’ll take our next question from Glenn Engel with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Couple of small questions.
First the amortization of leases was $7 million and you were looking for $8 million to $10 million at the start of the quarter and you’re still looking for $8 million to $10 million in the June quarter.
What’s the shortfall? It’s not a shortfall Glenn.
Good job.
Thanks.
It’s just a reflection of two factors.
One part of that number is on acquisitions where you buy a plane that has a market lease rate higher than the current lease rates.
You can only record the market rate as rental revenue and so this is an offset to that.
So hardly enough when you make a good investment and get a high lease rate GAAP requires you to normalize that through your income statement.
The other factor is the concept of lease incentives.
When you transition an aircraft to a new lessee and you make a commitment to contribute to the first major maintenance event in that next lease you’re amortizing your expected CapEx over the term of that lease.
And so it’s just a factor of our acquisition activity and the continued re-leasing activity in a larger portfolio.
And it was $2 million in light of your projections because you had less new activity.
The combination of timing of investing and also actual payouts on certain leases that didn’t materialized.
There was an airline who at least temporarily stop service Air Cargo Germany that is 2747 lease from you what’s going on there? Are they current with their payments? Those are actually aircrafts leased to Martinair and they are subleased by Martinair to Air Cargo Germany.
So those aircrafts are on lease and they are current.
I can’t really speak too much for Martinair.
I’m sure they are discussing where things go with Air Cargo Germany.
But as far as we’re concerned those are performing leases.
And on the leases the eight planes that you’ve re-leased this year how do those market rates compare to what they were before and how does that compare versus history? There is a different story to each of those.
I think in general they’ve been pretty consistent with what our expectations were going into the year.
The freighter aircraft is a little bit lower than what it was last year.
We had a number of aircraft we took back last year but I think still a reasonable result.
As I said before the demand for the wide-bodies is quite strong and what I’d add in that respect Glenn is our leasing activity hasn’t been limited to those aircrafts.
In fact we signed up two A330s that were coming off lease next year to relatively long extensions replacements.
And that’s a sign of the strength in demand for the wide-bodies.
I’d say on the narrow-body side in general it’s been kind of flattish maybe a little better.
And finally the $850 million target this year is that a target of closing of that $850 million or is that what you hope to reach agreements to and some of that CapEx will flow into 2014? It’s cash investment.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we’ll take our next question from [Derek Winger].
Yeah.
What are the primary differences between the portfolio yield of 13.6% and the cash ROE that you’ve referenced at 12.8%?  The portfolio yield is simply lease rental collections divided by the carrying value of the flight equipment held for lease.
The cash ROE takes your cash flow from operations and subtracts depreciation and adds or subtracts gains or losses on aircraft dispositions.
Okay.
So cash ROE is after paying your interest expense then all your debt outstanding.
Okay.
Super.
Thank you.
Sure.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Constantinople I’ll turn back to you for any further remarks.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks for your time.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Thanks again and have a good day.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Aircastle Limited Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Head of Investor Relations Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Lynette.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited’s second quarter 2013 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We will begin the presentation shortly but I would like to mention that this call is being recorded and the replay number is 888-203-1112 from within the United States and Canada.
From outside the U.S.
and Canada the number is 719-457-0820.
The replay pass code for the call is 7828965.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and PowerPoint presentation.
I’d like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts maybe deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I will direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and welcome to the call.
In my prepared comments I’ll discuss Aircastle’s financial results for the second quarter of 2013 as well as our business activities this year.
I’ll also cover our views on the current business environment and talk about our plans for the future.
Mike Inglese our CFO will then address Aircastle’s financial performance.
Then we’ll open up the call to questions.
Using transaction activity as a measure the past few months have been some of the most active in our company’s history positioning Aircastle for growth while also enhancing our aircraft portfolio.
So far this year we have completed or secured more than $960 million of investment commitments for 2013 and we are optimistic about sourcing more business this year.
We made very good progress with our asset management efforts addressing most of our aircraft placement needs this year and completing some important profitable sales.
On the financing side we more than doubled the size of our unsecured revolving line of credit while enhancing its terms.
Since the end of the quarter we also completed the sale of 12.3 million shares or 15.25% of our firm to Marubeni Corporation one of Japanese premier trading companies.
In doing so we have gained a strategic shareholder with a long-term investment horizon an informed view of the aerospace market and a truly global mindset.
We believe Aircastle’s earning power will benefit not just from the $209 million from capital that Marubeni provided but also through the power of working together.
I believe that will be an excellent partner and I am excited about having them on board.
We are pleased with the second quarter results and we are particularly encouraged by the steps we have made towards long-term success and increasing our future earnings power.
We remain optimistic about our ability to source additional business that provides good value to shareholders.
Having said that we are committed to disciplined growth a responsible capital structure and a balanced approach deploying capital for the benefit of our shareholders including paying dividends.
To that end I am pleased to say our Board of Directors declared a $0.165 per share third quarter dividend.
This is our 29th consecutive dividend.
Turning to the business environment global passenger traffic levels which we think of is a good barometer for aircraft lease demand remained strong despite slower economic growth rates in several key countries such as China and India.
According to the International Air Transport Association or IATA revenue passenger kilometers for the year through June are up 4.8%.
Growth levels were particularly strong in the Middle East and Latin America.
I’d also note IATA’s most recent market reports includes some interesting commentary regarding medium and long-haul routes contributing more to the total growth of international travel and this factors into our investment outlook.
On the other hand air cargo traffic measured in freight ton kilometers remains more abundant with an increase of just 0.1% year-to-date through June.
This reflects the low rate of growth in World Trade since 2011.
The long-haul freight sector upon which we are focused continues to suffer from weak European demand as a result of the continuing economic issues in the region.
We remain convinced there is a fundamental demand that transport high-value time-sensitive good buyer.
So we are more bullish over the long-term.
However even though we are heading into the annual seasonal second half peak for air cargo traffic we currently don’t see any major sustainable catalysts.
Now let’s turn this supply using available sea kilometers as a measure passenger supply had increased 3.9% through June this year.
This increase was outpaced by strong demand growth as evidenced by the high 79% load factor.
Robust demand growth has so far enabled the market to absorb increased levels of passenger aircraft production.
To this end the supply and demand story has been stronger for modern wide-bodies with the slow ramp up of the 787 continues to be a big factor and with the retirement of older fuel inefficient aircrafts such as 747-400s and A-340s gains momentum.
The same can’t be set for the air freight market overly high production levels probably attributable to new models are causing supply glut.
In our view in the near term this growth in supply is the bigger threat to this sector in the sluggish demand growth.
And a growing pool of parked aircrafts can inhabit recovering lease trends.
However many of the aircrafts are going into storage and it could end up staying there permanently or getting partied out.
Rental levels are steady for current generation passenger aircraft.
In general we aren’t seeing too much in the area of rental increases over the past several months but in many cases there has been more and better quality competition for our available aircraft.
Customer demand for wide-bodies has been stronger given the more favorable supply and demand balance.
Regarding narrow bodies 737-800s continue to enjoy steady demand.
For A-320s market interest in earlier vintage aircraft remains weak so there has been some firming for new units.
In general larger variances in each model line are doing better.
It’s worth nothing there is strong demand for spare engines as parts for current technology aircraft.
We believe this underlies the recent success we’ve had in several product sales including for mid-age current technology A-320 family aircraft.
It also validates our investment approach would certainly emphasize this early to the middle part of the production run we believe there is a better chance of maximizing exit value.
There has been a bit of turbulence in the capital markets over the past quarter in the wake of concerns regarding the federal reserves direction among other factors.
While overall our interest rate levels are higher than historical lows is achieved during the spring they are still very low.
The bond markets have recovered over the past few weeks and we have seen some airline dealers price recently including Unite Airlines deal last week.
Bank market conditions are also good as the number of participants for commercial aircraft deals has increased.
There are several factors in play here including more ECA/XN business going into the capital markets rather than the banks and a larger number of participating Asia-Pacific financial institutions.
Thanks for continuing to focus on newer aircraft and our deals involving longer leases and counterparts of better credits.
As a general matter we see prices for aircrafts for particularly for current technology passenger aircrafts going up reflecting strong capital inflows into this space both from new and existing players.
The bulk of the inflows continues to be towards new narrow-body aircraft which we view is being used every bought.
In our opinion wide-body still offer good investment value particularly given the available credits and long lease terms.
Well still low by historical standards transactions volume from mid age aircrafts seems to have picked up this year.
However we are witnessing in increase in level of competition in aircraft despite limited opportunities for livering this aircraft as some participants are simply targeting lower leverage and lower returns on equities results? With regards to the air line credit environment we believe it mostly positive.
Industry profitabilities improved in aggregate as airlines have generally been able to keep hold line on revenues while jet fuel prices have stabilized towards lower end of the trading range we have seen over the past two years.
It’s still summer time in northern hemisphere so cash balances are relatively healthier this time.
However there is a considerable amount of retail variation and we are keeping our eyes open particularly with respect to Europe.
Let me now address our second quarter results.
They are very good with net income coming in at $32.9 million or $0.48 per diluted share.
Adjusted net income was $46 million or $0.67 per diluted share.
These results benefit from gains on sale offset by costs relating to the great financing for the sold aircraft.
Cash Roe dealing the past 12 months was 12.2%.
Portfolio utilization during the second quarter was 98% as we sold or put back on lease all these aircrafts come off lease during the first quarter and this is consistent with the pattern we have developed turned – we in over the business cycle.
We had no off lease aircrafts at the end of the quarter and none are off leases we speak.
Our investment activity during the quarter was strong with more than $450 million in acquisitions completed during the period.
Due to date we have secured more than $960 million in committed and closed aircrafts investments of which $554 million has been completed today.
We are bullish about the pipeline and now we believe we can achieve $1.2 billion in new investments in 2013.
With respect to our portfolio aircraft sales are replaying a bigger role for our company this year although there are two different situations that play here.
Firstly we sold three relatively new A330 freighter aircraft an affiliate of HNA Group of China in response to an inquiry from them.
The sale was responsible for most of the gains on sale realized during the quarter.
After completing the sale freighter aircraft now account for 23% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
Secondly since the beginning of the year we sold 8 older aircrafts with an average age of 21 years 6 of these were sold during the second quarter.
In several cases we sold the airframe and rotated the engines with greed time or remaining life to other aircraft in our fleet to optimize our maintenance spend.
These dispositions highlight the asset management strengths of our company.
In our view very few big lessors have the capability to do this work well.
Lease market conditions are good.
But absent the tick up in global GDP growth we don’t see rents going much higher over the next year or so.
As such to the extent that we see good quality lease placement opportunities we are securing in that rather than waiting.
In each case we are going through a disciplined process of considering all alternatives when an aircraft comes off lease.
That means outright sales and partout plays of one sort or another may come into play more often for mid-age aircraft.
In this situation our team’s asset management’s expertise is extremely valuable.
With regards to lease placements we have made considerable progress over the past few months.
We now have only 5 aircraft to place for 2013 3 are high-demand 737-800s of which one is subject to a lease letter of intent.
Aside from the 737-800s we have two older aircraft which we expect to sell at approximately breakeven.
Thanks to our placement of sales successes.
We expect utilization levels to be very high for the balance of the year.
We have also been making very good progress on our 2014 placement needs.
As things stand presently we have 34 aircraft to address next year representing approximately 15.5% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
I expect we will sell at least 8 of these aircrafts which are older and lower value units.
That leaves 26 scheduled lease expirations to take care of next year many of which we already have were working actively to address.
All-in-all I consider our task for 2014 to be quite manageable especially considering the 39 aircraft we sold or placed last year.
Our acquisition and asset management efforts have had several important impacts in our portfolio.
Firstly the customer base is continuing to shift towards Asia and away from Europe.
The share of our fleet lease to Asia-Pacific Airlines as a percentage of total flight equipment has now increased from 20% to 34% since 2009 and that’s despite the sale of those three Hainan A330s.
This reflects the large opportunities at the region.
In addition to this geographic shift there has also been a change in our aircraft mix with modern wide-bodies playing a growing role in our acquisition program.
These aircrafts are typically on long-term leases with strong customers and offer attractive ROEs.
However they entail lower cash yields for middle age aircraft.
At the same time we have been exiting from the older types effectively.
At this point we are almost out of 737 Class 6 and have no more A320s with older engines.
Our 757 and 767 fleets make up a much smaller part of our overall fleet notwithstanding some attractive and opportunistic lease to part out value additions to the portfolio that we completed in the last two years.
We continue to critically evaluate aircraft investment opportunities and keep our eyes and ears open to attractively price deals.
Our liquidity position at the end of the third quarter – the second quarter was $430 million in unrestricted cash.
Together with the cash provided from the Marubeni investment our newly enlarged $335 million unsecured revolving line of credit and attractive opportunities to leverage some of our new wide-body acquisitions were terrific say to execute our acquisitions program.
Looking ahead we remain sensitive to what’s going on around us.
Over the past few months there has been a great deal of regional noise in some cases in countries that were considered relatively stable like Brazil.
Additional several high growth economies are showing signs of slowing down a bit.
Our approach is both to remain vigilant from a defensive standpoint but also to seek out new opportunities that might arise in these situations.
With regards to portfolio growth we will continue our disciplined value-oriented approach towards investing.
We are emphasizing a thoughtful and targeted approach to the transaction origination focusing on situations to play to our strength.
We continue to target economic ROEs of at least 15% and the level of deal flow in that regard remains good.
Based on market conditions today we expect the large continuing role for wide-body aircraft in our portfolio.
These aircrafts have played an important part in the evolution of our asset base.
During the past several months we have gotten a lot more clarity as to the timing and nature of the next generation of wide-body aircraft and we remain very comfortable with the residual value outlook for our investments.
We are also continuing to pursue higher yielding mid-age but current generation aircraft purchase opportunities.
While the level of deal flow is higher than last years it’s still low by historical standards.
And as we said for sometime we are concerned about narrow-body production levels but we think the returns here are still good given the risk are low particularly when you consider the short payback to part-out value metrics.
We are encouraged by the investment environment we are seeing.
We will also continue to look opportunistically at potential sales both with regards to end-of-life plays as well as newer aircraft.
We are very excited about the moves we have taken to improve our capital base.
Marubeni’s investment in our company is an exciting step and we are very glad to have them on board.
We believe we can deploy the capital they provided.
So it will be EPS accretive by next year.
We have also begun discussions on how to work together.
And fundamentally we believe we could be a better company with them.
Moreover we believe the internationalization of our shareholder base is a positive development that reflects nature of our business.
We are also very happy about the funding flexibility we have built for ourselves particularly with our newly enlarged and enhanced unsecured revolving line of credit facility.
We intend to continue focusing on maintaining strong credit metrics like a conservative debt-to-equity ratio and on building our unencumbered asset base.
We consider the bond market to be very important strategically and continue to monitor conditions closely for opportunities.
While interest rates modestly increased over the past two months from historic low levels we believe they are still at attractive levels.
The biggest impact on us relates to potential refinancing activity though in that regard I would note that the increase in rates offsets to some degree the potential hedge break exposure for refinancing existing and secured debt.
We will continue to monitor opportunities particularly with respect to our 2006 securitization.
Finally a few words on dividends our Board’s approach has been through reevaluate the dividend level on an annual basis and to announce this together with our third quarter results.
This is the current plan.
I’d also add that our philosophy is to share sustained increases in the company’s earnings base with shareholders and in general to achieve the balanced approach of deploying capital for the benefit of our shareholders.
I will now turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
We had a very active first half and continued to successfully execute on our value-oriented investment approach.
We invested more than $2.3 billion over the past 2.5 years and our earnings power and cash returns continue to increase.
Specifically our cash ROE increased to 12.2% compared to 11.8% for 2012 and 11.4% in 2011.
As Ron noted earlier our Board declared our 29th consecutive dividend since our IPO in August of 2006 and including this dividend we have returned over $590 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock buyback since going public.
For the quarter lease rental and finance lease revenues were $162 million up $7.5 million or 5% year-over-year primarily due to the net impact of aircraft acquisitions.
Total revenue for the quarter was $170.4 million a decrease of $1.8 million or 1% from the previous year primarily reflecting higher operating lease rental revenue of $4.3 million higher revenue from finance leases of $3.2 million offset by higher amortization of lease premiums incentives and discounts of $10.8 million.
To note in the second quarter of 2012 we had lease incentive amortization reversals that drove the year-over-year comparison to be an odd-looking phenomenon.
Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter was $183.4 million up $26.3 million or 17% reflecting higher lease rental revenue finance lease and other revenues totaling $10.6 million and gains from the sale of flight equipment of $18.5 million.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $46 million up $20.3 million year-over-year and reflects higher gains on the sale of flight equipment of $18.5 million lower aircraft impairment charges of $10.1 million and lower adjusted interest expense of $1.1 million.
These improvements were primarily offset by higher depreciation of $5 million higher tax provision of $2.4 million and slightly higher SG&amp;A and other expenses of $1.5 million.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $66.7 million an increase of $2.5 million over the prior year and includes $5.8 million of non-cash charges related to the write-off of deferred hedge loses and financing fees and $3 million in loan termination fees connected with the sale of our three A330 freighters.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $13.2 million up $1.7 million versus the prior year primarily reflecting higher personnel costs.
Depreciation expense for the quarter was $72.1 million up $5 million from the prior year reflecting the growth in our aircraft portfolio.
Our second quarter tax provision and effective tax rate was $3.7 million and 10.2% respectively.
Our tax rate for the second quarter of 2013 increased from 7.6% from the prior year as a result of the shift of the mix of our business in higher tax jurisdictions.
We expect our tax rate to range between 10% or 11% in the third quarter and for full year 2013.
At the end of the second quarter we owned 158 aircrafts with an annualized least rental run rate including finance leases of $659 million of which approximately $321 million is associated with 76 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of $2.3 billion.
Including our unrestricted cash balance at quarter end total unencumbered assets totaled approximately $2.8 billion.
During the quarter we sold nine aircrafts including the opportunistic sale of three A-330 freighter aircraft for net proceeds of over $230 million and recognized $21.3 million of net gains.
Since Aircastle’s formation we have sold the total of 49 aircrafts for gross proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion generating an un-levered internal rate of return of approximately 12.3%.
As we continue to manage the portfolio going forward we’ll maintain our focus on cash flow based economics of each investments and reinvestment decision.
Turning to our capital structure on August 2nd we increased our revolving credit facility from $150 million to $335 million and expanded the bank group from four to seven institutions adding three international lenders to our already top tier lending group.
This increase in our revolver further enhances our strong liquidity profile and will give us added flexibility around the timing of future capital raising activities.
At the end of the second quarter our unrestricted cash balance is $430 million and our expanded revolving credit facility was un-drawn.
Operating cash flow was $103 million in the second quarter and $435 million over the past 12 months that’s an 11% increase over the prior 12 months period.
Our unencumbered aircraft totaled $2.3 billion or 49% of the net book value of our flight equipment this was up from 44% at the end of 2012 and up from $677 million or 15% of the net book value of flight equipment at year end 2011.
As our encumbered assets continued to increase our liquidity and overall solid credit profile also improves.
Total borrowings at quarter end were $3.4 billion down from $3.6 billion at year end and our net debt outstanding was $3 billion which is approximately 62% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
The ratio of unsecured debt to total debt at quarter end was 52% up from 49% at year end 2012 and up from 15% at the end of 2011.
During the first half of 2013 our secured debt went down by $209 million.
In June in connection with the sale of aircrafts we sold we repaid this outstanding principal balances on two of our related ECA financings totaling $112 million.
In May we assume bank financings totaling $92 million in connection with the acquisition of four narrow-body aircrafts.
In addition the outstanding principal balance of our two securitization transactions declined by approximately $150 million during the first half of the year.
Our net debt to equity ratio excluding the mark to market on our interest rate derivatives was approximately 1.9 times and we are in compliance with applicable covenants in all debt facilities.
Finally turning to Q3 2013 guidance we expect lease rental revenues of $160 million to $162 million and finance leased income of approximately $4 million maintenance revenues given the modest level of lease transition activity in the quarter are expected to be $2 million to $3 million amortization of net lease premiums and lease incentives of approximately $10 million to $11 million.
SG&amp;A is expected to be between $12 million and $13 million consistent with our current run rate.
Depreciation we expect to be $70 million to $72 million reflecting the asset sales activity and acquisitions in the second quarter.
And interest net we are expecting $57 million to $59 million including approximately $5 million of hedged lots amortization.
Including the Marubeni transaction we expect to have weighted average diluted shares outstanding of $78.5 million for this quarter.
To conclude our business is performing well and we continued to success we execute on our strategy.
Going forward on our active portfolio management focus increased cash flow from operations and conservative balance sheet has the company well positioned to generate healthy returns for our stockholders.
And with that operator we are happy to open our call to Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) We will take your first question and that will come from Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you operator and good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Ron you mentioned the Marubeni cargo market with no apparent catalyst how are you thinking of investing in that space going forward? Is that all or have prices not come down to the point to sufficiently compensate you for the risk of buying those types of planes? It’s a good question Gary.
There is a couple of different scenarios in the freight market.
One is for the newer what I’ll call it kind of next generation airplanes which I think of basically its 777 freighter.
And then there is everything else the 777 freighters I think have a terrific future and they will replace basically most of what’s flying around today.
As far as anything else I think the same approach that we take in regards to older narrow-body aircraft which is kind of a lease to part out value metric is the way to go.
We haven’t seen too many deals that make sense for us.
We haven’t shut the door on the freight market but we are looking for high returns there.
Okay.
And just a follow up on that can you give us an update on the two 747 freighters that were at Air Cargo Germany are they still there are they still current? Our lease was with Martinair.
And as far as I know Air Cargo Germany is no longer leasing those aircraft but the lease of Martinair remains in place and they are performing.
They are performing.
And just one housekeeping for Mike.
Mike what were the total sort of non-recurring type expenses that flow through interest expense in the quarter was about $9 million? It is just shy of $9 million Gary 5.8 related to hedge lots write-offs for the A330 sales and about 3 million of loan breakage fees also related to those assets.
Great thank you very much.
Sure.
We’ll move next to Isaac Hussani from Barclays.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Ron I know just you remarked about the increased competition in the mid-age aircraft market and I also noticed your remark in the press release about how majority of your new investments have been in the new wide-body aircraft.
As a result of these competitive changes should be expect to increase the margin to shift away from the strategy of investing in mid-age aircraft? Well I think that’s already happened.
It’s first of all let me say a couple of general things.
First we still like mid-age aircraft at the right price.
Secondly we fundamentally view ourselves as value investors so as market shifts totally but having said that there are number of situations in the freight – sorry in the mid-age aircraft where we think we have terrific competitive advantages including just the ability to buy without a financing contingency.
So we still see opportunities there.
In more competitive situations we find ourselves losing more often.
That’s it.
Yes that’s helpful.
Okay.
And then I guess I wanted to ask a question on ROEs so you are effectively hedged against the rising interest rates on the short-term the impact of rising rates should be minimal but can you just help us understand the puts and takes on a longer term basis that could result from an increase in interest rates and perhaps give us a sense of what the current 15% ROE target could look like? Yes.
Isaac as you said our existing portfolio and our existing debt structure is completely hedged.
So we don’t have any real direct exposure to any interest rate changes.
As we see the interest rate environment increasing I think we would expect with some modest lag time that we would see lease rates and asset values increase as well.
And so in the context of how that environment changes and how we think about deploying capital will adjust our ROE expectations on a risk adjusted basis accordingly.
Yes just to add to that Isaac as we make incremental investments we look at the incremental ROE effect.
And so if interest rates are higher we are going to price that in and if we can make it work we want to put the money to work.
Okay but you are not ready to give some sense as to what the 15 could look like in a higher interest rate environment just yet? Yes.
Okay thank you.
We’ll move next Richa Talwar from Deutsche Bank.
Hello gentlemen.
My first question is just on – we heard from many of us was you included that there is solid buying opportunities in the market rate right now but I want to hear more about aircraft sales you recognized a solid gain this quarter.
And I know I believe Ron you said you expect to sell two aircrafts for breakeven for the remainder of the year but I was wondering if there was some upside risk to seeing some aircraft sale gain for the rest of the year maybe looking out? Well I will say this when I mentioned there is more competition sometimes we would like to provide our competitors with product.
I can’t be more specific in that but the amount of capital in our business is much higher than it was a year or two years ago.
It’s not evenly distributed as I said during my prepared remarks most of the money has been focused on new narrow bodies and for that reason we haven’t made any sense of the economics in that space.
To the extent that there is more and more competition in places where we own assets we will look at monetizing them using the following as a guidepost.
If we can take money that’s currently deployed and deploy it better through a sale then we will do that.
Okay and then my second question is just on your 747 fleet.
There was some news recently that Boeing was buying up all those 747 technology aircrafts from airlines to incentivize them basically purchased newer generation 747-8s.
And I was wondering if you could just are they offering similar deals to (indiscernible) or if you could just comment on whether that phenomenon is having any impact on the value of the older generation aircraft and then just share maybe your general thoughts and the value of the 747s in your fleet? Thanks.
Right it’s an interesting phenomenon what you point out.
In a fact what Boeing seems to be doing is trading in older aircrafts to facilitate the sale of new ones.
We haven’t shown a tremendous amount of interest for the 747-8.
As I said earlier I am much more bullish about 777s as freighters.
And so I can’t say we have had very much in the way of discussions of trade-ins.
The big question from a market perspective is what happens to those trade-ins.
Do they comeback and reenter service and that would be the bad scenario or do they just sit or get parted out and that would be the good scenario don’t know yet.
I think the issue with the 747 values is one of fundamentally of how fast will demand pick up hopefully will relative to supply.
On the supply side we have seen two kinds of different forces as you pointed out there is the new production aircraft and there is the retirement of the old one.
On the demand side I think the key thing to look for is trade flows into and out of Europe both from Europe to North America but even more so Europe and Asia.
Okay and then just one final one.
From a debt to equity perspective what are your targets I think 1.9 is where you currently stay in that debt to equity what are you willing to push back up to? Depending upon what we see in the investment environment I think we have communicated consistently over time that we would be comfortable being at a slightly higher debt to equity ratio I think sort of two and a half times would probably be sort of the outside in context of how we see the world today.
So we have a fair bit of room in the construct of where we are sitting with debt today the new equity we have just raised and looking at opportunities to deploy additional capital.
Okay thanks.
Operator Instructions.
We will move next to John Godyn from Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
This is (indiscernible) on behalf of John.
I know that you are going well dealing in size of manufacturers for some time but any appetite to place more orders directly with manufacturers and how do you compare that to opportunities we are seeing in the secondary market? We are always in discussion with our friends at Boeing and Airbus and for that matter also at the Embraer.
I think the way we look at wide-bodies is perhaps a little bit more risk averse than some of our peers.
We are much more focused on the opportunity cost involved with first of all the pre-delivery payments.
And secondly when you order a new aircraft you have a risk on who the less you will be what the rental profile will be and also what the financing environment will be at the time you take delivery.
Having said that if we can achieve a sufficient premium to what we can achieve today where a lot of those variables are known and we will look at it.
It is all kind of a price question and I don’t have anything to tell you but we have discussions all the time with manufacturers.
I think we are just a tougher sell for them than most of our peers.
Alright great.
And one other question I think you mentioned that you guys are bullish on the cargo market in longer term and with the sale of several freighter aircraft this quarter how do you see the mix between passenger to cargo aircraft changing over time? Well I think there will be a place in our portfolio for freighter aircraft.
We don’t have a target.
I don’t see anything in the horizon that will suggest much of a shift from where it stands today.
If anything maybe there is a little bit of downward pressure as we execute on the acquisitions that we have which are at this point entirely non-freighter.
But we don’t rule that out as just we don’t have a specific target.
But as I said before if we do buy on a new aircraft side it would be probably oriented towards 777s because we take those as the back bone of the freighter fleet in the future.
And secondly if there is opportunities they will be more on a priced on a lease to pod out type of a basis.
Great thank you.
Sure Scott Valentin from FBR Capital your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just with regard to our aircraft type it seems like more of the industry is getting interested in wide-body just wanted if you can comment on the competition you are seeing for those aircrafts if it’s increased? You are right to point it out and it’s not a brand new phenomenon I think we saw the wide-body competition level really increased early last year.
And what drove it was I would say buyer fatigue at the returns available on narrow-bodies.
So it’s not an entirely new phenomenon.
And as we do else – in every aspect of our business we are always looking at deals where we have an angle where we have the competitive advantage through a relationship or through a financing source or just by being able to move quickly.
It is just an example that in the second quarter we purchase an A-330 from Guardia brand new one and that situation arose when the original bitter was unable to follow through because of our liquidity and because of our relationship with this sale and we are able to step in get the deal done in just a few weeks.
So it’s a business model on our side that’s not conditioned on investing billions of dollars every year.
If we find a handful of wide-bodies that’s a big impact in terms of the investment targets we have talked about.
Okay thanks.
And then just on Marubeni I think the investment they made you guys from a leverage perspective or liquidity perspective did really need the capital just wondering what – was it more strategic opportunity than really a financial opportunity? I think it’s the combination of things.
Firstly I think of them as a strategic partner and it was in the financial transaction ling going after the market if we are in a race.
There is something longer term that we are looking for.
Secondly the deal was sold at a large premium to our then trading price and the way we were looking at it we are pursuing the acquisition pipeline growing.
And a lot of things just came together in that situation so we felt we can deploy the capital accretively we felt that making our shareholder base stronger with something like Marubeni good long-term partner was a good strategic thing to do.
And we were able to generate a decent bump in terms of the stock price without giving away effective control.
Okay thanks very much.
Yup.
Moving on to Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Just kind of expanding on that what are the – can you kind of elaborate a little bit on what types of business relationships you might expect to have with Marubeni and over what timeframe do you expect to get of your debt-to-equity ratio kind of back to where you would consider normal? I will take the first one.
I think I’ll divide the opportunities of Marubeni in terms of low hanging fruits in long-term prospects.
What low hanging fruits encompass of few different situations for example aircrafts who has never done leasing business with the Japanese airlines.
I think our ability is to do that’s probably much better now that we have Marubeni as a major shareholder.
We probably can stand a better chance of raising money from certain Japanese financial institutions now that we have Marubeni as a shareholder.
Now one area where we have had some success over time is buying mid-age aircrafts from Japanese investors as those aircrafts come off lease.
I think we can do much better accessing those opportunities by having Marubeni on the ground and plugged into that business community that we can do on our own this is increase rate for examples.
Marubeni has a whole host of other business relationships for example their risk sharing partner with Rolls-Royce on the Trent engine.
I think we can leverage these things in a lot of different ways.
Those could be more longer term oriented things but there is a terrific amount of synergies I see between the two of us.
Some of which will be more more of the long-term prospects as I said.
Got you.
And as far as the debt to equity ratio that’s a function mostly of the pipelines build and we have increased the target this year from what we will achieve last year $850 million give or take to $1.2 billion.
That’s not a cap obviously.
And I see the pipeline building very nicely not just for all the way through December but beyond that.
So I think some of this capital gets deployed in the ROE as far as the debt to equity ratio builds over the course of the early part of next year as well.
Okay thanks very much.
Up next is Glenn Engel from Bank of America.
Good morning.
Talked about of the remaining CapEx this year should be evenly split among third quarter and fourth quarter and would you expect 2014 to be similar to 2013 in CapEx? It’s going to be back-ended Glenn.
It’s a bit really to say anything about the full year of 2014 but we are seeing the momentum of ‘13 going into the first quarter of next year.
And so the $960 million closed or committed does that all show up this CapEx in 2013 or does some trickle into 2014? No that’s all this year.
The maintenance and other revenue was $13.5 million I think you were looking for $8 million to $10 million at the start of the quarter why didn’t that being higher? We had an additional transition during the quarter and estimating maintenance revenue is always a bit of veggie for Glenn.
So we try to be conservative when we tell people what we expect.
And the maintenance and other costs should that come down as the maintenance revenues come down as well in the second half? Yes I would expect with the fewer lease transitions in the second half compared to what we saw in the first half that we would see in maintenance and other cost trend down as well.
Thank you.
Sure.
Moving on to Bill Mastoris from R.W.
Baird.
Thank you.
Ron with now a broader access to the capital markets than you have ever had in your in ever had in your company’s history and better liquidity than you have ever had and growing acquisition pipeline.
I am just wondering now would now not be also an opportune time maybe to take a portion of that liquidity along with what is a very attractive high yield market and maybe refinance some of that high cost debt? We have thought about that.
And it’s something we are looking at.
I can’t tell you anything more than that right now but it’s something that we are considering.
Okay.
And just following up on an earlier question just in terms of expanding maybe that debt to equity ratio up to 2.5 I mean will we be looking at a gradual increase or might we be looking at 2.5 and I recognize that it is a function of investment opportunities out there by sometime next year the end of 2015? Is this going to be something that’s gradual or is something where it’s really going to accelerate very quickly? It’s going to be hard to tell you when it’s going to be there or if it ever gets to 2.5 it’s going to depend upon what we buy and how we think the most efficient rate of finance it is.
So to the extent pipeline opportunities materialize sooner.
We would expect to see leverage drift into the more normal range in the sooner fashion but that really will depend upon what we see in the investment environment.
Okay thank you.
Yes.
And at this time we have no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Constantinople for any concluding remarks.
Investor Relations</strong>  Okay thank you for your time today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today’s teleconference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Aircastle Limited Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Aaron.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited’s third quarter 2013 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We will begin the presentation shortly but I would like to mention that this call is being recorded.
The replay number is 888-203-1112 from within the United States and Canada and from outside of the U.S.
and Canada 719-457-0820.
The replay pass code for the call is 6107583.
This call will also be available via webcast on our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and PowerPoint presentation.
I’d like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts maybe deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I will direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and welcome to the call.
In my prepared comments I’ll discuss the business environment Aircastle’s performance during the third quarter of 2013 and the company’s future plans.
Our CFO Mike Inglese will then address Aircastle’s financial results and also speak about our annual fleet review.
We’ll then open the call to questions.
Aircastle’s operating results in Q3 2013 were very strong.
During the quarter we achieved 100% fleet utilization and all of our aircraft remain on lease.
We also continue to achieve strong rental yields.
For Q3 it was 13.7% on an annualized basis.
In addition we made excellent progress in securing lease extensions our new releases for our aircraft coming off-lease.
As a result of all this Aircastle is a very strong and the company recorded a cash return on equity of 13% over the last 12 months.
Our investment activity this year and during the quarter has been excellent.
Today Aircastle completed or secured a total of $1.5 billion in aircraft investments for 2013 including $525 million closed during the third quarter.
And we expect to close nearly $0.5 billion of new business during the fourth quarter.
We have also gotten off to a good start for 2014 having secured an additional $210 million in investments which we expect to close during the first quarter.
The company is deploying the capital raise for the shares held in Marubeni effectively and these investments should enhance our future earnings power and cash flow significantly.
I am pleased to announce our Board authorized an increase in the dividend of $0.20 per share for payment during the fourth quarter.
This is a 21% increase and it’s also double the rate from three years ago.
This increase is consistent with our policy of sharing with shareholders growth in the company’s sustainable earnings and in making such announcements during our third quarter earnings calls.
As I will discuss in greater detail shortly we are benefiting from industry conditions that are generally strong with the notable exception of the airfreight sector.
Air cargo demand continues to remain flat while capacity from dedicated freighters and from belly space and passenger aircraft continues to grow.
The cumulative effect of diverging supply and demand trends for the past two years has manifested itself in a glut of aircraft which has become increasingly visible over the course of this year.
So our aircrafts are all currently on lease in conjunction with our annual fleet review we wrote down the book values of the six 747-400 converted freighters we have on short-term leases.
These six aircrafts come off lease over the course of next year.
Our other four 747-400 converted freighters are all on long-term leases with strong customers and the cash flows from these leases support their carrying values.
Beyond the freight sector our outlook for Aircastle fleet remains very good.
This reflects very good asset management as we have successfully been implementing our sales program for older aircraft and it also evidences generally improving rental levels.
Our overall outlook is quite positive.
We are committed to our strategy of remaining a disciplined value driven investor.
I am pleased with the way we have been able to evolve our capital structure so that provides us with the flexibility of pursuing our investment strategy effectively in doing so we have developed strong access to capital to several different channels.
I am also very excited to have two large very long-term minded international diverse shareholders with Marubeni and Ontario Teachers.
We are a better company with them on board.
And I believe they will allow us to better capture the considerable value our platform offers.
Turning to the business environment as I mentioned earlier we believe industry conditions remain strong.
According to the most recent international Air Transport Association statistics this came out this morning global passenger traffic is up 5% through September of this year.
Load factors remain exceptionally high averaging 80%.
This means the industry is operating at pretty close to full capacity which is quite positive given the relatively slow world economic growth rate.
Industry profit margins remain very thin but are improving.
The most recent IATA forecast calls for $11.7 billion of net profits in 2013 for the world’s airlines.
That’s up from $7.4 billion last year the forecast for next years for profit to rise to $16.4 billion.
Now this sounds good the EBIT margin entailed by this forecast is only 4%.
Given these thin margins and the capital intensive the airline business we continue to see growing aircraft financing opportunities for lessors as airlines seat renewal and growth programs progresses.
Consistent with my earlier comments the latest air cargo statistics from IATA show continued weakness in demand with global freight ton kilometers increasing only 0.5% year-to-date through September.
The average load factor dropped less than 45%.
While many industry observers including IATA have for some time now called for pickup in demand we believe the only thing we can expect reliably is for supply to continue to increase.
Turning to the leasing market we are seeing rentals continued to increase modestly across the aircraft types benefiting from tightening near-term supply as evidenced by declining storage levels for most current generation aircraft the.
The narrow bodies A-320 rentals have seen greater improvement due both to improved demand and from the resolution of delivery overhang at several large lessors.
The rental gap between A-320s and 737-800s is narrowing but still remains substantial by historic standards.
For wide-bodies leasing demand remains stable and so do rental levels.
We are seeing Airbus pushing new A-330s very hard against Boeing’s new 787-9.
For missions of 2000 to 4000 nautical miles which constitute the vast majority of A-330 routes the A-330 is very cost competitive given the high capital costs of the 787.
Debt markets are strong.
The aviation bank market is rebounding lower margins and more favorable amortization profiles are available as more banks are prepared to take balloon risk exposure against aircraft value at the end of the loan.
The U.S.
debt capital markets have stabilize after a period of volatility driven by concerns about the direction that Fed will take regarding its bond purchase program.
And even the asset-backed securities market is showing signs of new life with one aircraft deal and one aircraft engine deal getting done recently.
Turning to our performance operating and finance lease rental revenue grew modestly to $165.3 million during the third quarter I think you will see a bigger pickup back to the next quarter to that as the effect of our recent acquisitions will become felt.
Cash flow from operations with finance lease collections increased 4.2% over last 12 months and 12 months cash ROE was 13%.
For the quarter we had adjusted net loss of $69.1 million after taking into account a non-cash pretax $97.6 million impairment arising from our fleet review.
Excluding the impairment charge our adjusted net income would be $26.5 million or $0.34 per share.
As I mentioned our operational performance is very good with excellent fleet utilization and increasing rental yield.
We have made very good progress in addressing our aircraft coming off lease over the next year or so.
For 2013 we are basically done with only two low-value 767-300 ERs left to sell and we expect to sell these roughly on a breakeven basis.
When we spoke to you about the 2014 lease roll off during our second quarter call we had 34 aircrafts to address.
At this point we are down to 23.
These represent about 8.8% of total net book value of our fleet.
10 of these 23 aircrafts are likely to be end of life sales or part outs and they account for 2% of our fleet net book value.
We are making very good progress on the rest of our 2014 placements 747-400 freighters are the biggest challenge with three coming off lease in each half of the year.
We believe we have a good chance of extending some of the freighter leases and we have noticed historic success in keeping our fleet deployed.
The aircraft sales including part out dispositions have played an important role with Aircastle this year.
So far we have sold 15 aircrafts for gross proceeds of $285 million and generated a gain of $25.6 million.
Three of the aircrafts sold were relatively new A-330 freighters the other 12 had a weighted average age of 18 years.
During Q3 we sold two 767-300 ERs and two 757s resulting in a net gain on sale of $3.1 million.
We believe that effectively managing the disposition of mid-age and older aircraft is one of our strong suits and that it sets us apart from other large leasing companies.
Turning to new investments we closed $980 million in acquisitions through the end of Q3 for 2013.
During the third quarter we closed $525 million.
We have an additional $480 million committed to close during the back half of this quarter and as mentioned before $210 million committed for the first quarter of 2014.
We continue to remain disciplined and focused on achieving incremental economic ROEs of at least 15%.
Our track record of being able to move quickly and of being a reliable counterparty allowed us to win several deals even when we aren’t the highest bidder.
Consistent with our acquisitions over the past two years roughly two-thirds of our acquisitions this year’s have been less than five years old.
Most of these have involved wide-bodies where we are seeing good relative values particularly when you factor in the effective attractive bank loan terms on ROEs.
Mid-age aircraft investments have generated good returns for us and we will continue to play an important role in our investment mix.
While deals flows still remains low by pre-financial crisis standards for older aircraft we anticipate this will improve over the next several quarters as more airlines look for fleet transition deals and more purchase opportunities arise from lessors.
Our investment and sales programs have had to combine the fact of reshaping our portfolio.
At the end of the third quarter new technology wide-body such as the A-330 and the 777 ERs accounted for 41% of our fleet net book value.
Most of these are on long-term leases with strong customers.
Current generation narrow-bodies account for about 30% of our fleet net book value though majority in terms of numbers of aircraft.
In this regard we are continuing to focus our investments on models built during the early to middle part of the production run because we see better value and low residual value exposures.
We are in a strong competitive when it comes to investing in mid-age aircraft whereas the new narrow-body deals are ultra-competitive with un-levered returns for lessors that we believe are comparable to what their secured lenders will achieve.
Freighters now account for 20% of our fleet down from 31% at the beginning of 2012.
Finally older classic technology aircrafts are down to 6% of our portfolio mostly 757s and 767s.
These are also gradually exiting out of our fleet successfully.
Taking a step back this is an interesting time for aircraft investors given the large number of new aircraft programs underway.
After more than a decade without a new product introduction we are seeing new programs across all size categories.
We believe there will be significant opportunities for lessors both with respect to new aircraft models but also in helping airlines renew their fleets.
As we look ahead our team is focused intently on following through on the acquisition commitments we secured.
We believe these will be strong contributors to our cash flow and our profitability.
Even with all this activity I am excited about other opportunities developing in our deal pipeline.
As I said we continue to target economic ROEs of at least 15% and the level of deal flow remains good.
Although I would note that in certain parts of the market competition has picked up.
We have also made a lot of progress on our lease placement and aircraft disposition efforts.
We intend to continue executing successfully on our end-of-life asset disposition strategy.
We will also expanding our asset sales effort to capture price increases we are seeing in the market.
As always these placements will remain a priority for the company and we expect our fleet utilizations to remain at the high levels we have achieved consistently over time.
Over the past several years we have evolved Aircastle’s capital structure strategically so that it matches with our nimble value-driven investment approach.
We are looking to seize on attractive financing opportunities in the debt markets and more specifically we see good opportunities to back-lever some of our new wide-body acquisitions with banks.
We also remain interested in exploring further bond market opportunities both for refinancing and for new money deals.
We are also pleased with the funding flexibility we have built for ourselves particularly with our newly enlarged and enhanced unsecured revolver facility.
Marubeni and Ontario Teachers are excellent additions to our shareholder base and we are excited to have them with us.
We believe the internationalization of our shareholder base is a positive and it reflects the global nature of our business.
And we are looking forward to capturing the benefits of working together with them.
All-in-all we believe these factors will collectively help us drive cash ROEs and adjusted earnings per share higher.
We also remain committed to being a dividend paying company that shares increases in sustainable earnings to our shareholders.
I will now turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
During the third quarter we positioned Aircastle to continue to increase cash flow from operations along with cash earnings.
The 12 months ended September 30 2013 our cash ROE was 13% compared with 11.8% for the year ended 2012.
With respect to third quarter results our operating and finance lease rental revenues were $165.3 million an increase of 1.4% primarily due to the net impact of aircraft acquisitions and sales over the last 12 months.
Total revenues were $170.1 million a decrease of 2.8% or 1.6% versus the prior year period primarily driven by lower other revenues versus last year’s third quarter.
In the third quarter of 2012 other revenues were enhanced by a $3.9 million early lease termination fee.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter 2013 was $169.2 million up 1.8% over the prior year’s quarter.
This increase was driven by higher operating and finance lease rental revenue of $2.2 million higher maintenance revenues of $2 million higher gains on sale of flight equipment of $3.1 million.
These improvements were partially offset by lower interest income of $1.3 million and lower other revenues of $2.8 million.
The gain on sale of flight equipment was related to a 767-300 ER that we sold during the quarter at a profit.
The decline in interest income was driven by an aircraft back debt investment acquired in March 2012 that was repaid in the first quarter of 2013.
Our adjusted net loss for the third quarter was $69.1 million or $0.88 per diluted share compared to an adjusted net loss of $37.5 million or $0.53 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
The year-over-year change is largely attributable to an increased impairment charges taking during the quarter versus last year a $2.1 million increase in depreciation and an increase in adjusted interest and other expenses of $6.6 million net.
Higher gains in the sale of flight equipment of $3.1 million an improvement in the tax provision of $2.3 million were partial offsets to this wider adjusted net loss in Q3 2013.
Excluding the non-cash impairment charge related to the annual fleet review adjusted net income was $26.5 million or $0.34 per diluted share.
During the third quarter we performed our annual recoverability assessment in conjunction with our fleet review whereby we reevaluate our business plan for each aircraft in our portfolio to determine the best course of action for maximizing its future cash flow.
As a result of this year’s review we determined that the estimated future cash flows in certain of our aircraft did not support their carrying values.
The total non-cash impairment charge related to our annual fleet review was $97.6 million.
On an after-tax basis this represented a $1.22 per share.
Excluding this charge our net income was $0.27 per share and adjusted net income was $0.34 per share.
Due to sluggish market demand increased supply and rising storage levels for large freighter aircraft we impaired six Boeing 747-400 converted freighter aircraft for a total of $88.6 million to mark these aircraft to their current market value.
This non-cash charge represented about 30% of the prior quarter’s carrying value for this aircraft.
The remaining four converted freighters in our fleet which were not impaired have remaining average lease term of 5.1 years with strong rental levels.
Also related to the annual fleet review we impaired one mid-aged 737-700 aircraft in the amount of $8.9 million which represented about 35% of its prior carrying value.
Distinct from the annual fleet review during the third quarter of 2013 we negotiated an early termination of one lease on one of our 767-300 ERs.
This transaction resulted in end of lease maintenance and other revenues of $12.9 million which is partially offset by $8.5 million of a transactional impairment charge.
As part of the annual fleet review and recoverability assessment we also assessed the useful life and residual value of each aircraft in the portfolio.
Accordingly for two MD11 freighter aircraft that passed our recoverability assessment we had shortened the economic expected lives to these aircraft from 35 years down to 25 years from their 1997 production date.
At the end of the third quarter our monitoring list of aircraft that we consider more susceptible to impairment charges consisted of 11 aircraft with a combined net book value of $208 million or roughly 4% of our fleet and net book value.
Although the monitoring list is an imperfect indicator it’s important to note that the carrying value of aircraft on this list has been trending downward as we have been growing the portfolio and actively managing it.
Looking back to the end of Q3 2011 this list consisted of 26 aircraft with a combined net book value of $388 million or 9% of our fleet NBV at that time.
As I said today’s list consists of 11 aircraft at about 4% of fleet net book value.
So over the last few years this list has come down quite a bit in the overall context of our business.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $57.8 million an increase of $3.7 million over the prior year a verbal non-cash hedge in effectiveness in deferred swap loss amortization offset $6.3 million of higher cash interest in Q3 2013 versus Q3 2012.
Our debt balance was $3.3 billion at the end of third quarter versus $3.1 billion for the previous year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter on a year-over-year basis increased $0.9 million due to higher personnel costs driven by increased headcount on a year-over-year basis.
Depreciation expense for the third quarter was $70.5 million versus $68.4 million for 2012.
This increase primarily relates to the growth in the fleet period over period.
The tax provision for the third quarter was a benefit of $600 000 and was primarily driven by a non-cash impairment charge.
At the end of the quarter we owned 161 aircraft with annualized lease rental run rate including finance leases of about $708 million of which $376 million was associated with our 80 unencumbered aircraft.
For the nine months ended September our cash flow from operations before working capital was up to $319.3 million or 4.4% compared to the prior period.
Our unencumbered aircraft had a net book value of approximately $2.7 billion or roughly 53% of the net book value of our total portfolio up from 44% at the end of 2012.
During the third quarter we acquired $525 million of aircraft bringing our year-to-date total to nearly $1 billion.
We also continued the managing the portfolio to enhance cash flow and cash earnings and in that regard we sold four aircrafts during the quarter and 15 aircrafts year-to-date.
Year-to-date gain on sale of approximately $26.5 million generated by gross proceeds of $285 million through the sale of those aircraft the $25.6 million year-to-date gains from sales compares to $3.1 million for the first nine months of 2012.
As we continue forward we will focus on cash flow based economics of these investments and reinvestment decisions.
We feel that this is the most appropriate way to create and maximize long-term shareholder value.
Turning to our capital structure in July we issued 12.3 million shares to Marubeni Corporation Japan for net proceeds of $205 million.
This additional equity represented 15.25% of Aircastle’s outstanding shares at issuance.
At the end of the third quarter shareholders’ equity stood at $1.6 billion versus $1.4 billion at year end.
Marubeni is the strong like-minded long-term partner for the company and they have continued to acquire additional Aircastle shares in the secondary market.
And currently own approximately 17.8%.
Under the terms of our shareholder agreement they can increase their ownership to 21% through July of 2016 and afterwards up to a maximum of 27.5% through July of 2023.
At the end of the third quarter our unrestricted cash balance totaled $238 million and we had restricted cash of $192 million.
We have $335 million of availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility and our secured and unsecured borrowings totaled approximately $3.3 billion.
Our net debt up $3.1 billion is approximately 61% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
The ratio of secured debt to total debt at quarter end was 47% down from 59% at the end of Q3 2012.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 1.9 times and our net debt to total cap was 63%.
We are in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities at the end of the quarter.
And finally turning to a few of the selected elements of guidance we expect lease rental revenues of $168 million to $170 million and finance lease income of approximately $4 million.
Maintenance revenues are estimated to be $4 million to $5 million amortization of net lease premiums and lease incentives of $9 million to $11 million.
SG&amp;A is expected to be between $12 million and $13 million consistent with our current run rate.
Depreciation is estimated to be $72 million to $74 million and interest net of $58 million to $59 million including approximately $4.8 million of hedge loss amortization related to term financing number one and securitization number one.
And for the full year we expect our effective tax rate excluding the effect of the fleet impairment to be approximately 9% to 10%.
We remain confident that Aircastle was well-positioned from the perspective of portfolio strength operating cash flow performance capital structure and capital markets access.
We expect our proven access to capital and strong cash position will enable us to take advantage of the continuing investment opportunities that are consistent with our return oriented focus.
And finally in conjunction with the strong growth in aviation assets and cash flow performance our Board of Directors approved an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.165 to $0.20 a share representing our 30th consecutive quarterly dividend and consistent with our belief that we continue to grow the dividend along with the sustainable operating cash flow growth of the business over time.
And with that operator we are happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you operator.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Ron can you give us a little more detail on the types of assets that you purchased here in the third quarter and committed to over the next six months it seems like they skew towards younger wide-bodies but just wonder if you have any more details you could share? You are right.
And as I mentioned throughout the year about two-thirds of our investments have been in A330s or 777 ERs.
We have also been successful in buying a number of mid-aged aircrafts primarily 738s and A320 family aircraft.
Aside from that there has been one other ERJ one 767.
Those are kind of unique plays in their special situations but I think the main thrust of our of our investments as it has been for the last two years proceeding have been roughly two-thirds of narrow wide-bodies and one third kind of mid-age aircraft.
Okay great.
And did I hear you say that the plan for the freighters with lease expirations over the next year is to try to re-lease them or have they been written down to sort of a part-out value? I think the best economics are from re-leasing and even with the weak market conditions.
Okay.
And then just one last one on the financing of your recent CapEx you mentioned that you could back-lever some of these younger wide-bodies.
Can you talk about some of the terms either LTVs or coupons that you could expect on your incremental borrowing for these assets? Yes Gary I think we would be looking at pretty conservative advance rates.
And in terms of spread I think we are looking at something around LIBOR plus 250 with upfronts in the 1.25 to 1.5 range.
Great thank you very much.
Sure.
We will go next to Isaac Hussani with Barclays.
Hi good morning.
Thanks everyone.
Ron you said you are on track to acquire about $1.5 billion of assets this year which is the second highest level of acquisitions since 2007.
Obviously the availability of financing as well as the attractiveness of the investment opportunity drives your decisions.
However I was wondering beyond those two drivers is there anything else that drives how much you can acquire in a given year or if I ask the question differently are there resource constraints that would force a ceiling in terms of how much you could grow your asset base in a given year? Couple of points on that.
Our team is far more capable team than back in the day when we did that investment volume and I think it was 2007.
There is a big difference also in what we are aiming at.
The average ticket size in 2007 aside from one large acquisition that we did with Guggenheim was much smaller than we were doing today.
So I think our average ticket size here has been more in the $100 million kind of the territory.
Our team is very capable.
We can do quite a bit more than that but we are very careful about making sure that we are achieving the economic thresholds that we need.
So there is a lot more potential from that but we are also kind of holding ourselves to some tight standards.
Okay great.
And then I wanted to ask a dividend related question a bit different than how it’s usually asked rather than asking about how the board thinks about any future increases to the dividend could you perhaps walk us through what the thought process was as it relates to the dividend increase that you just announced this morning? And also if you can provide some color on why the board opted for a dividend increase rather increasing the buyback program I think you have $30 million left in that one if I am correct? Yes just to go in reverse order that’s correct we do have $30 million remaining under our existing stock buyback authorization.
And consistent with what we have been telling people for very long time we believe we can grow the sustainable earnings base of this business.
When we look at what we expect to achieve this year what we reasonably think is doable for next year.
We thought this dividend increase was representative of that change in what we think is cash earnings profile of this business.
And also I would point out a 20% increase from $0.66 a share to the $0.80 a share level is an aggregate of $11 million change in the size of the dividend from roughly $53 million to about $64.5 million on an annual basis.
So we think ultimately having a disciplined approach to growing that cash stream sharing that growth on a consistent base with shareholders makes sense in the context of where we are today.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you so much.
That will do.
You too.
We will go next to Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hi everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
So first I have a big picture one just on the opportunity to do business in different jurisdictions.
Recently I noticed that some of your competitors Avalon BOC have done business increased their business to the Middle East and to India so I was wondering if you could comment on how much of your business is tilted to those geographical regions and in the opportunities to pursue those types of opportunities going forward? Thanks for the question it’s a good one.
Let’s talk about the Middle East first.
I am going to divide the Middle East into two very simplistic categories the big gulf categories that are kind of redefining the way long-haul travel works in the world specifically Emirates Etihad and Qatar.
Those are all very capital intensive companies they are very strong.
Their business models look very formidable to me.
And they are largely wide body oriented airlines.
We have pursued business with those guys actively.
We haven’t been successful obviously.
We will keep trying.
The rest of the Middle East to me is a little bit more sketchy.
There is a lot of political unrest there we have seen over last two years and of course its a case by case airline by airline situation but much less of the focus for us to be candid.
Turning to India India is a very volatile market in some respect the economic growth rate is off there which means there is some pressure in terms of all that increased capacity that has been dumped in the market.
The airline relationships they are all revolving.
We are keeping an eye out on how jet carries with Etihad it looks like that getting over the finish line.
Air India to me looks like an airline that still sort of got questionable future.
There are some very interesting ventures with Singapore on the long-haul side and with AirAsia partnering up with Tata and I think one has to be very careful about how you step in the India.
There has been some very bad news with the way some of the jurisdictional issues have been dealt with.
We are not closing the book on India we are going to be extra careful and make sure we get a premium in our business there.
Okay great.
And then Mike I am going to ask you to repeat something I am sorry but when you were talking about the impairment choice I am not sure if you gave color on this at this level of granularity but so you took an impairment charge on six 747 and I believe there are nine left.
Can you comment on why you didn’t take impairment charges on those I mean have they already been written down? What was your thought process around that? Hi it’s Ryan.
I will just kind of take that.
We have a grand total of 10 747 converted freighters roughly.
Okay we have impaired six of those the other four as I mentioned there in my remarks are on long-term leases with strong customers and as I said those leases and the rentals and cash flows that are generated from those cover those carrying values quite well.
Okay great thanks.
Sure.
We will take the next question from Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Hey Justine.
So the first question I have is on the freighter market.
And I was wondering if you could comment as to whether you think this is a secular or a cyclical issue with freight.
I know that freight is a cyclical market and eventually if we get a certain degree of economic growth in theory I guess the freighter market should come back but Ron in your answer to previous question you mentioned that the gulf carriers are really changing what’s going on as far as global wide body travel and we know that there are a lot A-3 these go into that market.
A lot of wide body orders and to me that seems to also increase the passenger cargo capacity globally so do you see significant recovery in the future in freighters and you think we had this secular change or you do just have a lot more belly space in passenger aircraft and where maybe the global economy is not going to get back say within the next 5 to 6 years to a level that leads to another cyc in freighter demand? I will say first of all the demand growth demand has been flat for three years.
First time it’s ever happened in the air freight market.
And that’s an important thing to remember.
On the supply side we have seen growth in two dimensions.
One is in dedicated cargo aircraft.
In the last – since 2010 there have been 85 new technology freighters delivers it’s a lot.
At the same time belly space has increased.
And as you pointed out it’s not just the Gulf carriers but 777s are and A-330s are all over the world.
And they are very capable aircraft in terms of caring cargo.
They are not perfectly suited for a certain freight operations but they have a role.
And in the short-term I think the fundamental problem is the supply problem.
Now if demand picks up that will help demand has fundamentally been driven historically by GDP activity.
And as you know global GDP is growing at a fairly slow rate but I think it’s a little bit more than that.
I think their historic relationship between freight growth and GDP growth is this kind of deteriorated and so it’s more like a one-to-one relationship over time as opposed to multiple.
So it’s few things at once.
I wish I could be more optimistic about it.
I don’t think the air freight market is irrelevant I think it’s one that’s got some structural challenges and it’s going to take a long time to burn off this excess supply.
Okay.
And then you also mentioned on the narrow body side that you have – that you are seeing lease rates improved because the market I guess is digesting the narrow body order book from some other lessors can you give us a little color on that I mean what hwo big were those the order book and you probably won’t name names but I think you will give us some color on that comment that will be great? Well I think there is a couple of things to say.
First looking at the macro statistics when you look at those factors of 80% it means that planes are full and it means – and at the same time when I look at the parked fleet of narrow bodies the parked fleet is not already kind of committed is extremely small for both A-320 family and 737 NGs.
So it’s and across the board phenomenon.
I think with respect to the large lessor positions I am not going to name names.
There are a number of order streams this is what happens when you have a long-term order positions.
You will have some that and variably get placed in good conditions and some they get placed in top conditions.
And I think as some companies work through those they will look to de-risk their portfolio and they just get things done.
And I think we are through most of that.
Okay and with those done in sales lease back form or were they done just straight leases to airlines directly? Look the sale leasebacks when you enter into it as a lessor you know what you are getting into.
You know what’s your rental is going to be and know what your price is going to be.
We you do an order stream you don’t know the lease of all you don’t know the financing and even the price is a bit of a variable because you do know how the aircraft will be configured so it’s the latter.
Okay and then one last question on geography thanks for that information in India and on the Middle East but it seems that on the airline earnings calls you have heard about a lot of demand weakness in Asia primarily China and Japan and it doesn’t seem though in China we are seeing any difficulty in airlines.
I know Japan Jetstar is going to focus recently are you guys is that – is Japan on your radar screen as a potential weakness and similar to the way India was a couple of years ago or are you not too concerned there yet? We don’t have any business in Japan which is actually much to our regret and that’s what one of the things I am hoping we can fix with Marubeni.
Our focus on Japan will be to do sale and leasebacks not to do placements.
And so that’s just helping in airline finance a good supposed to increasing capacity that they wouldn’t if otherwise been there so I don’t think it’s a concern per se.
I do think that in certain parts of Asia there has been a little bit of over ordering it’s been a number of kind of eye-popping deals out in the market and I don’t see all those going to fruition but that’s going to play out over a long period of time.
As far as the Chinese market goes it’s a really important market.
I think the comments that you might be hearing are relating to people who are trying to fly there as opposed to the demand from their customers over there.
Chinese domestic market demand has just been through the roof unfortunately it has been an opportunity set for Western lessors because the local bank owned leasing companies are just gobbling up all that stuff at return levels of them make any sense to us.
Great thanks very much.
Sure.
We will go next to John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
Ron you made the comment that re-leasing the 747s was the best of the alternatives.
Is it fair to assume that therefore you think the returns on re-leasing at that time are going to exceed your threshold or best among a variety of worse options? I just wanted to kind of clarify that? I think I will just answer it in a very general way whether that the freighter or passenger aircraft or a big or a small plane or a newer and old one we always look at the incremental opportunity and size up the best course of action.
That’s why we have sold the number of our older 767 757 737 classics even mid-age current generation narrow-bodies in certain circumstances where we are able to get better value by getting the cash back and reinvesting in something else.
In the case of freights I will be candid with you the market for the aircraft in terms of sale is weak it’s a distressed market.
And I think it’s better for us to redeploy those aircrafts that got great relationships.
We have been able to do that exactly.
And that’s the best course of action going forward.
Got it.
That’s very helpful.
And Ron I mean it’s clear from the results then certainly over the last couple of years that in spite of the cargo exposure you guys have managed the business quite well.
You have raised the dividend I mean there is clearly a lot of good things going on.
I think though I am always surprised sort of when we listen to you speak and you name all of these negatives related to cargo in the same breath but then kind of defend the commitment of the business to continue to dedicate a lot of both capital and kind of managerial resources to cargo.
Can you just sort of given the continued weakness in cargo offer some more thoughts on the strategic focus there? And how bad does it have to get before we just throw in the towel and say that’s just not worth our capital or our time longer term? Well let me make a couple points here.
One is the cargo portfolio so far to-date has actually made money for us right.
And we are portfolio managers and some assets do better than the others but and whatever we own we own.
The cargo portfolio has actually been a decent not as good as we would hope the investment category for us.
And as we look forward at the market just to tie into the first part of my question we do the best we can with what we have.
But why continue to make it a strategic emphasis why not just say look we will de-emphasize this over time as a result of what we just talked about? Well I am not sure I understand the point about strategic emphasis.
It’s a market that we have played in.
We are a portfolio manager we look across the space.
And we look and find the best opportunities incrementally whether it’s cargo or passenger or new or older big or small.
And so at the moment I mean we still look at cargo deals that the cargo market kind of falls into two categories incrementally.
There is the new 777 freighters which I like in terms of the customer demand and its operational characteristics.
We are getting skunked every time we bid on those.
The prices on the new triple 777 freighters are about $5 million to $10 million more than the passenger aircraft and thereabout that much left to build and the lease rate factors are worse than what we see on the new narrow-body.
So that doesn’t make any sense to us.
On the Everything Else category it’s a shrink – it’s opportunity set where we haven’t been able to make sense of the sales prices.
Now I would point out this I did during my remarks that the freighter portfolio has shrunk from 31% at the beginning of 2012 to 20% today.
And so the on the margin it’s actually been a disinvestment process as opposed to reinvestment.
That’s very helpful and that’s clear.
Should we expect it to kind of stay at that new percent level of the total or even fall from here or would we see it go higher just trying to kind of understand the longer term plan? If the investment opportunities continue to present themselves as they do you will see the passenger fleet grow a lot and you won’t see much change – you will see the depreciation of cargo fleet.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks a lot Ron.
Yes.
Next up we have Mark Streeter with JPMorgan.
Good morning gentlemen.
I wonder if you can talk a little bit about it looks like you wrote down 6.7% of the portfolio by 31% if my math is correct here.
Can you talk about what else is on your watch list in terms of when we look at your book value what is potentially subject to impairment going forward? Yes.
And Mark so as I said in my remarks we do have a monitoring list and those are assets that we think the expected cash flow coverage of our carrying value is small enough to keep an eye on a regular basis and that represented 11 aircraft or about $200 million which is about 4% of the fleet at the end of the third quarter.
And as a percent of our fleet that list has been coming down over time but there are always assets that are in that category and we continue to monitor those.
What we have done with the freighter fleet if you look at the charge we took on those six converted freighters of roughly $89 million against a roughly $1.1 billion overall freighter fleet portfolio the impairment is about 8% of what it was before that charge.
And we have looked at that fleet we have looked at that class of assets and we feel good about what this does to put that where it belongs in the context of what we see today and what we think is a pretty conservative view about what lease rates will be in that market going forward.
Yes just to add a little bit of color to that Mark in that list and you will see more detail in the queue when it comes out.
There are number of aircraft that are on what we call last leases meaning if that’s what it sounds like.
We are assuming that the lease that’s currently in place is the last one and that the residual values have been brought down to a projected scrap value.
So included in that list is an MD-11 freighter an A330 and a few classic 737 classics.
So there is not much more we can do with those aircraft in terms of managing our way through.
And I think that as Mike said the list has been paired down and part of it was an active management effort on our part.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then Ron just a question on the A-320 market as we heard lot of different things from appraisers about the firming of that market but I think there is a lot of confusion about which vintages A-320s excuse me where the market has turned.
Are you seeing a difference between the oldest vintages and sort of the mid-life vintages in that market just wondering if you can give us any color on the A-320 specifically? Well there are a couple of things.
One is in general you will see a recovery always kind of affects the newest aircraft the most.
And so you are probably seeing a better improvement in rentals for the newer models versus the older ones both in relative and absolute dollars.
Having said that the lease terms on the newer aircraft still remain relatively short and so when you think about it as an owner as an investor in the long-term outlook of those aircrafts there are still some things on the margin that would preclude us from getting involved.
Now in terms of rents on the mid-age aircraft there is definitely been improvement there too.
They are still at low levels.
And as we discussed a few calls ago we had taken a mid-age A-319 and a mid-age A-320 and made a decision not to reinvest in those and re-lease them but instead to part them out.
There is strength in the part-out market.
We may do more of that.
We may not on its case-by-case.
There is a recovery but it’s still weak.
And I think there is probably a benefit from some of the broader courses I talked about before in terms of increased demand and high load factors but I think it’s a question of how long will this be sustained and this is kind of a longer term medium to longer term outlook question.
Great thanks.
And then just one last one for Mike when you look at sources and uses and the cash you brought in and so forth how should we think about accessing the capital markets when will you next look to do a bond deal what should be our expectations? I don’t know that we have a firm timeline for when we will do our next bond deal.
It’s going to depend in large part upon what we see in the investment horizon.
And in time we will probably look to refinance our ‘06 securitization and ultimately our ‘07 securitization when we feel like the inherent leverage in those is makes sense to take them out with attractively priced debt.
Okay I figured I tried.
Thanks very much.
We will go next to Helane Becker with Cowen &amp; Company.
Excuse me thanks very much operator.
Hi guys.
Almost all my questions have been asked and answered.
I just have a couple of points of clarification.
And I am specifically looking at Slide 9 and it says you have 11 aircraft out to U.S.
Airways.
I am kind of wondering are – and I might have asked you this question once before are there provisions that if the merger with American does go through the aircraft stay with them or do they get what’s the timing on when those aircraft come back to you or whatever? Can you just provide some clarification on that? Sure Helane.
They are all hell and high water leases they don’t bear any connection to the merger.
Four of those aircraft in the bulk of the value or A-330-300 airplanes that are on leases that got out four or five years.
And those were extended a year or two ago.
There are a total of six 757s and all six of those were extended for a three or four year terms in the last year or two.
And the only one that’s sort of in questions is 767-200 ER which is supposed to come off lease next year.
That’s one of the ten that we have targeted for a part out.
And I don’t think that’s revised irrespective of what happens with American.
Got you okay… We have that market down to scrap value.
Okay it’s going to be my next question about that particular aircraft.
And then it also says I just want you to clarify for me that you on the two charts next to each other it says you have two aircrafts out to Emirates as a 3% to 6% customer and then in the pie chart it says 5% of your fleet is the with UAE Airlines right.
So how does that work do you have is Etihad also customer or other customers in the UAE to get to the 5% or is that this two aircraft 5% do you know what I mean? Yes I think it’s those two aircraft just to be clear they are two 747-400 extended range freighters that are on long-term leases with Emirates that’s how we have there at the moment.
Okay alright.
Are those planes part of the freighter planes that you are going to wind up parting out when they come back or are they on longer term leases.
It doesn’t say how long these are? Those are on quite long leases and we are happily collecting nice rents every month.
Okay so it sounds good and thank you so much for all the detail.
It’s very very helpful.
Have a great day.
You too.
We will go next to Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Thanks Ron you talked about new programs basically in all size categories I wonder your thoughts are about playing in those new aircraft technologies.
I know you are not that interested on the narrow-body side but maybe on the wide-body would you be willing to actually go into any kind of order books or are you just waiting for those to come to you over time? We are interested in all of them including the narrow-bodies.
The issue right now is that when you look at the next generation of airplanes you have a really really long way to before you get any product.
And maybe this is a little bit of a different perspective on our part than some of our peers.
But we are a lot more risk-averse about capital commitments going out many years.
And the farther out you go in general the more risk you take in terms of who will your customer be what will the rental profile be how were you paid for the aircraft and finance it.
And so we not close to anything it’s just sort of an economic equation.
And unfortunately for neos and maxes you are looking at the end of the decade unless we do sale or leaseback activity.
And the same thing with the 787s and A-350s we are interested in all those aircraft.
That’s helpful and then on the impairments you had one 737-700 that was impaired for $8.9 million was a mid-age aircraft.
It seemed like a relatively large charge was there something specific to that aircraft because I think you have – I don’t know I think you had about $8 million at the end of the second quarter? Yes Arren that particular aircraft the 700s have gone through a few customer bankruptcies and during one of those transitions we invested a number of years ago a fair bit of money and engine restorations and worked to put it back out on lease.
So we have had the highest carrying value across our portfolio.
And given our sort of diminished view of next lease rates around this small capacity airframe that one fell out for that particular reason and we are not necessarily think it’s indicative of the class or a portfolio in that class per se.
Yes I mean having said that though was as Mike alluded to we are both for 700 and for the 319 a lot more negative about the future outlook.
And you will see that in the monitoring list that comes out there is 700 besides this although the carrying value is quite a lot lower than the one we talk about here.
We have a grand total of eight 700s.
And having said all that we can buy an aircraft at the right price we would we don’t have a strict prohibition on anything with the leased and the customer and all the other parameters work we will look at it but I do think that that’s against the backdrop with lower expectations.
Okay thank you.
We will go next to Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I think before you alluded to some ABS transactions both on the engine side and the aircraft side.
Just wondering if you guys are contemplating I know you have been stressing or focused on really corporate level financing and not encumbering assets.
Just wondering if there is maybe a change in the strategy there looking at the ABS side? No.
Scott I mean I think we just noted it because we have all been sitting around in this industry for three years saying this year there is going to be an ABS deal and finally there actually has been one.
I don’t think it’s particularly well-suited to our portfolio or our strategy at this time but we do find it encouraging that they have developed an investor base for an ABS like product that in the future maybe useful to us.
And it’s something to keep in mind but in the near-term I don’t think it changes our views or our thoughts around funding the business over the next few years.
Okay thanks.
And then Ron you I think made a comment that you are seeing more competition in certain parts of the market.
And I think you are referring to maybe aircraft types just wondering maybe if you could provide more color.
Is it I assume it’s kind of the more midlife aircraft but just wondering maybe where you are seeing that competition come from? I think the competition is across the board.
For some time there has been some very very difficult to understand economics transacting in the newer narrow-body section.
And in fact I think part of it is due just to a confluence of business models among the big leasing companies.
Back when we started the company eight years ago or so we used to compete against a large number of relatively credible midsize companies the larger lessors right now almost without exception focus on new airplanes.
And so that when you have everybody in any business doing the same thing it drives down the return and profit opportunity and as these firms look to grow that’s continuing to be the case.
Now there have been some new entrants in the mid-body space in the mid-age space in the space that we have kind of had to ourselves if you will.
And they are driving prices up a little bit.
There are still very good returns given the interest rate environment.
So we are continuing to pursue those but in some cases we find it better to let other people win deals and in some cases we continue to pursue those.
So what’s changed here is not so much the opportunity set but the nature of the expectations by the buyers.
They used to be that private equity or kind of alternative asset manager expectations were quite high in terms of returns.
There is still very little leverage here but there is such a demand for product on an un-levered basis if the returns are now at a level that in some cases work for these guys.
Okay.
And by the way when we lose a deal we will look around and see if we can sell an aircraft.
Okay thank you.
Yes.
We’ll go next to Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi guys.
Just a follow-up on one of the previous questions any way to size the value at risk on the $200 million of aircraft on the watch list in terms of kind of order of magnitude? I think you commented that this quarter was about an 8% write-down on a carrying value would that be kind of a good gauge I know it’s probably not an easy question to answer but ballpark would that make sense? No I think it’s too hard to do it that way.
I think it’s Mike just to be clear Jason what I said is the 8% is when you look at the converted freighters that we impaired in the context of our total freight portfolio.
That’s what that charge represented.
In the context of those specific six assets that impairment charge was roughly 30% 31% of their prior carrying value.
So if it’s very asset dependent and very specific and it’s too hard for me to just throw out a random value at risk number of the $200 million that’s still on the watch list.
Yes.
I will point out Jason that two of the aircraft that we impaired remain on the list and they still accounted for a large chunk of it.
Okay great.
Thank you for the color.
And we will take a follow-up Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hey hopefully a quick one.
Just on the 1.9 net unrestricted debt to unrestricted equity can you comment on where you feel comfortable with that figure just remind us what you think you can push that figure to? Yes Rich in our credit profile and our expectations for managing the business going forward we think we can comfortably operate up to around 2.5 times leverage in the near-term and depending upon what we see in the marketplace.
We will see if that makes sense.
We have been running below that considerably for some time but we think given our credit profile in our metrics that can be increased somewhat but we are mindful of those metrics in running and managing the business.
Yes I will just add maintaining strong access to the bond market is a strategic priority for us.
And so we are going to balance the needs of all the various constituents and making sure that that we continue to enable our growth on a reasonable basis.
Okay thank you.
At this time there are no further questions in queue.
I’d like to turn the conference back to today’s speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Investor Relations</strong> Hey this is Frank.
Thank you very much for your time today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
This does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Aircastle Limited Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Devona.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited’s fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We will begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and a replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with our earnings press release and PowerPoint presentation.
I’d like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts maybe deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I will direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Hello and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings call.
During this call I’ll discuss the current business environment Aircastle’s performance during the fourth quarter as well as some recent developments and our accomplishments during 2013 along with our plans for the future.
Our CFO Mike Inglese will then address our financial results and then we’ll open up the call to questions.
2013 was a successful year for Aircastle.
We generated strong operating results took important steps to manage our cargo exposure and reposition and enhance the portfolio the capital structure and the company.
We are pleased with the progress we made during the year and in achieving total shareholder returns of nearly 60% for 2013.
We were once again successful in sourcing new investments.
We closed on nearly $1.5 billion of aircraft investments during the year while maintaining our disciplined value oriented investment approach and focusing on situations that play to our strengths.
Regarding 2014 we are off to a very good start with $200 million from the first quarter investments plus a large 777 deal we announced this morning with LATAM which I will discuss shortly.
Our 2013 operating results and portfolio performance were very good as utilization levels and rental yields remain high.
At the same time aircraft sales played a big role in transforming and strengthening the portfolio both with respect to exiting older aircraft and managing portfolio concentrations.
Over the course of the year we further strengthen our capital structure providing the company with increased flexibility to act on our investment strategy.
For example we issued $400 million of unsecured notes in early December and enlarged our unsecured revolving line of credit to $335 million while expanding the bank group.
We are also taking advantage of attractive bank market conditions having completed more than $300 million in attractively priced secured financing during the first quarter.
During 2013 we also enhanced the company’s competitiveness and capitalized on value of our platform.
Marubeni’s $200 million equity investment in our company improved our shareholders base and I believe will make us a better company.
The joint venture we just put into effect with Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan also a major shareholder complements our growth strategy and enables us to pursue larger transactions and match portfolio purchases.
The company continues to generate strong cash flow.
Cash earnings increased 11.3% during the year and we believe our new investments will contribute to the company’s earnings power.
To this end I am pleased to announced our Board declared a $0.20 per share dividend for the quarter our 31st consecutive quarterly dividend.
Our policy continues to be sharing growth and the company’s sustainable earnings for shareholders.
Turning to business environment according to International Monetary Fund global GDP growth was 2.9% in 2013 and is expected to improve to 3.7% this year and then rise to 3.9% in 2015.
This improved forecast growth is largely on account of recovery in advanced economies.
Many emerging markets and developing countries should experience stronger external demand from advanced economies but domestic weakness and currency volatility are a concern.
Demand for air travel remains good.
For the International Air Transport Association revenue passenger kilometers a good measure of air travel demand rose 5.3% in 2013.
The IATA statistics show strength around the world including in developed markets such as Europe and North America which soft pick in demand growth rates later in 2013.
The average load factor for 2013 was more than 79% which is exceptionally high and indicates the aircraft are flying full.
IATA expects these favorable economic conditions to drive airline earnings higher in 2014 although profit margins are still low in absolute terms.
To put this in perspective the airline industry’s profit margin is projected to be less than 3% of revenues this year.
Air cargo market on the other hand remains weak.
We have seen modest improvement in demand during the past year but oversupply remains the biggest issue and we think it will take a while to work through supply of available aircraft.
Turning to demand for leased aircrafts rentals for passenger airplanes were generally a little stronger than they were a year ago.
This trend ranges across current generation aircraft types.
The biggest pick up has probably been in Airbus A-320 family aircraft where the gap with Boeing new generation 737s has been narrowing.
A key development here is that the overhang of available new aircraft delivery positions being offered by lessors appears to have shrunk considerably.
More generally there is a used passenger aircraft availability and this is a very good thing when it comes to commanding better lease terms.
Moving to the OEMs it’s an interesting time.
Given the number of new models coming online or having been recently announced investing is a little bit more complicated now.
For example in our view investor should be pricing in faster economic depreciation for the end of the line current technology aircraft.
In addition as I will discuss later we believe getting a better picture of new aircraft availability can create new deal opportunities.
We are taking a close look at the new models and expect that they will eventually work their way into our fleet.
However there is a long wait ay for new orders and for those few aircrafts that have become available via airline sale and leasebacks there’s been fierce competition among lessors.
So as always we’ll be patient and move for the right opportunities.
Competition for aircraft investments heated up further putting upward pressure on aircraft prices.
Very low interest rates and strong capital markets conditions are carrying over into this market.
We are looking to capitalize on higher aircraft prices by increasing our asset sales efforts and remaining disciplined buyers.
Turning to our performance in the fourth quarter of 2013 we recorded net income of $48 million or $0.60 per share.
Adjusted net income was nearly $55 million or $0.80 per share.
Operating and finance lease rental revenue increased 7% in the fourth quarter and 5% for full year thanks primarily to the new investments we’ve added.
Cash earnings defined as cash flow from operations plus collection on finance leases plus gains from sales less depreciation increased 11.3% during the year and cash ROE during 2013 was 12.1%.
Operationally results were excellent with 99.5% utilization in the fourth quarter almost 99% for the full year.
Rental yields were 13.6% for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Finally our cash receivable balances are in excellent shape as of this morning we have less than $300 000 in amounts due more than 30 days.
That’s an exceptional low amount particularly given that we are in this slow winter season when receivables tend to run a little higher.
Turning to new investments as I mentioned earlier 2013 was a big year for Aircastle.
We purchased 25 aircrafts during the year including eight aircraft during the fourth quarter for $472 million.
We are particularly successful in sourcing modern wide-body aircraft and long term leases with good operators.
We also continue to find higher yielding mid-life investments including 12 current generation narrow bodies.
We are off to a good start in 2014 with $200 million in acquisitions that are completed or expected to close during the first quarter and the big and recent development for us is the large sale with South American’s largest airline LATAM.
This morning we announced a $900 million purchase and lease back deal with LATAM for eight 777 300 ER aircraft.
This is the largest airline sourced deal we have done and it’s one we think is priced attractively.
The LATAM deal has two parts the first entails four 2012 modular aircraft.
We expect these will close early in the second quarter.
Second part involves four 777’s built in 2008.
This part of the deal will close once LATAM sorts through the repayment of its existing financing so the time table for this is difficult to project at this stage.
All aircraft will be coming off lease beginning in late 2017 and through 2019.
The time frame we think will be very attractive for re-leasing given the expected lack of availability of new generation aircraft in that time frame.
This transaction plays to our strengths as an expert asset manager with a strong lease placement team and a flexible capital structure.
Aircraft sales and part out dispositions played an important role in 2013 and help reshape our portfolio.
We sold 22 aircraft for nearly $550 million during 2013.
Three of these were relatively new A330 freighters that we sold to our lessee; two others were new A330’s leased to Garuda a large and important customer for Aircastle.
These two aircrafts are transferred to our partnership with Ontario teachers and we will continue to manage these assets.
The other 17 aircraft we sold were relatively old having weighted average age of 18 years and included many end of life dispositions.
In total aircraft sales generated $37 million of gains during 2013.
This strong result indicates our ability to capture value in the market and in managing the disposition of the older aircraft.
They also demonstrate the important role asset sales have had in terms of portfolio management.
At the end of Q4 freighter aircraft account for 19% of the netbook value of our flight equipment down from 31% at the end of 2011.
Our joint ventures with Ontario Teachers provides flexibility and enables us to continue doing business in situations we’ve already have concentrations.
Having said that we remain focused on originating investments for Aircastle’s accounts.
Turning to lease placements during 2013 we continued to successfully address aircraft coming off lease it was one of our biggest years in that respect.
We renewed delivered on lease or sold 39 aircraft during 2013.
This momentum has carried over into this year; we are having good success in addressing our placement requirements thanks to good market condition and our proactive approach.
Our biggest challenge as we’ve discussed previously is an addressing six older 747 400 converted freighters including four scheduled to come off lease this year and two returned us late in last year.
In that regards I am pleased to say we signed a three aircraft deal with Air Atlanta of Icelandic extending leases of two aircraft and placing one of the aircraft that was returned us in May 2013.
That leaves us with three 747 400 freighters to take care of this year.
I expect we’ll be selling one and possibly two of these aircraft as part of our part out program which we expect to be roughly breakeven overall.
We’ve made a lot of progress with our freighters.
At this point we have 16 remaining 2014 expirations to address representing a little over 5% of total net book value.
10 of these aircraft are likely end of life sales representing about 2% of net book value and we are seeing generally strong demand for these aircraft in the part-out market.
These aircraft include 757s 737 classics and a few late 1990 vintage 737-700s.
We’ve only got six aircraft left to place this year mostly in the second half four of them passengers two of them freighter and this is a very manageable task for us.
Capital markets conditions have been very strong and we took advantage of this throughout the year.
Among our recent successes were $400 million five year unsecured note issuance in early December.
We believe bond holders appreciate the growth in our unencumbered asset-base including unrestricted cash that grew to $3.3 billion at year end.
During 2013 we also enlarged our unsecured revolver to $335 million.
The secured financing markets has also been strong and we completed more than $300 million in attractively price secured financing from the bank market in the first quarter.
Also during the first quarter in February we repaid our first securitization.
Looking ahead we are off to a good start in 2014 as we progress through the year we intend to remain a disciplined investor and continue to target economic returns on equity of at least 15%.
With $200 million in Q1 under way and $500 million slated for Q2 there is definitely upside possible to our $1 billion investment target for the year which I had touched on previously early on the call.
However we are finding that the margins are going to be competitive particularly for new aircraft.
We continue pursuing opportunities in our sweet spot including mid-life current generation aircraft and asset sales should once again play an important role into this year as we are seeking to benefit from stronger investment demand for aircraft.
Off-course as I mentioned previously we are devoting significant attention to affectively managing our exits from our end-of-life aircraft.
Financial market conditions are very strong and we intent to access capital additionally from a wide variety of available sources.
We are looking very closely at ways for reducing our capital cost including refinancing.
As we thank to the opportunities provided in the market we’ll certainly seek to maintain the flexibility provided by our capital structure so this is an important competitive events that we look at buy aircraft.
Complementing our growth strategy we intend to continue to exploring ways to utilize our partnership with Ontario teachers.
In addition one of our priorities for the year is continue to working on developing our strategic partnership with Marubeni.
In this regard we are working on leveraging their airline and financial market relationships and their vast global network.
Finally we remained focused on growing cash returns and adjusted earnings as well as returning capital in form or dividends.
I’ll now hand it over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
We had a very active fourth quarter on the acquisition sales and financing fronts.
We required eight aircraft for $472 million sold seven aircraft for $264 of proceeds and recorded gains on sale of $11.6 million.
We also raised $400 million issuing senior note for the five year tender at 4.625 our lowest coupon yet.
Turning to our results for the fourth quarter of 2013 lease rental and finance lease revenue were a $173.3 million up $11.3 million or 7% year-over-year due primarily to the net impact to our aircraft acquisitions.
Total revenues for the quarter were $192 million an increase of $15.4 million or 9% from prior year reflecting a higher lease revenue of $11.3 million higher maintenance revenue of $9.2 million offset by a decline in other revenue of $4.6 million.
Accounting from much of this decline was that during the fourth quarter 2012 we earned interest income from a secured bank loan which is repaid in early 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $196 million up $24 million or 14% and reflects higher operating finance lease rental revenue along with higher maintenance and other revenues totaling $15.8 million.
An $8.9 million year-over-year increase in gains from the sale of aircraft also contributed to the improvement.
During the quarter we recorded $5 million of transactional impairment charges related to the part-out of two 767 300 ERs both over 22 years old that came off lease during the quarter.
These charges were more than offset by end of lease maintenance revenue related to these two aircraft totaling $7.1 million.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $54.9 million up 51% or $18.5 million year-over-year and reflects higher revenues of $15.4 million higher gains on the sale of aircraft of $8.9 million and lower aircraft impairment charges of $2.7 million.
Higher adjusted interest expense of $5.2 million higher depreciation of $2.6 million and higher other expenses net of $1.2 million partially offset those improvements.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $60.1 million an increase of $4.5 million over the prior year.
This increase included $2.6 million related to higher average debt balance and $3 million increase related to higher funding cost on an overall basis.
Weighted average debt balance for the fourth quarter was $3.4 billion versus $3.2 billion for the previous year.
SG&amp;A for the fourth quarter was $14.1 million approximately $2.4 million higher compared to the prior year primarily due to an increase in number of employees and higher non-cash stock compensation expense versus 2012.
Depreciation expense for the quarter was $72.5 million up 2.6 million from the prior year reflecting growth in our aircraft portfolio.
Our fourth quarter tax provision and effective tax rate was $2.5 million or 4.9% respectively.
For the full year our 2013 effective tax rate was approximately 8.2% when you exclude on a tax adjusted basis the fleet impairment charges associated with our third quarter review.
For the full year 2013 cash earnings were $186 million up 11.3% compared to $167 million in 2012.
We use cash earning as a metric because of the best way to understand our business to follow the cash.
We defined cash earnings as net cash from operations plus collections on finance leases plus or minus gains in sale from flight equipment minus depreciation.
This simple metric starts with cash flow from operations which filters out the non-cash elements of maintenance and lease incentive terminated hedge amortization stock compensation and other non-cash charges.
Our cash ROE the ratio of cash earnings to average shareholders’ equity increased to 12.1% in 2013 up from 11.8% in 2012.
Our aircraft portfolio at year-end consisted of 162 aircraft with an annualized lease rental run-rate including finance leases of approximately $701 million of which $349 million is associated with our 80 unencumbered aircrafts which had a net book value at year-end of $2.7 billion.
During the fourth quarter we completed the sale of seven aircraft and recorded a net gain of $11.6 million.
For the full year we sold about 22 aircraft for roughly $550 million in sales proceeds and a net gain of $37.2 million.
Included in the fourth quarter and full-year 2013 results were two A-330 aircrafts that we sold to our joint venture with Ontario Teachers in late December for approximately $215 million.
Since the Aircastle’s formation we’ve sold the total of 60 aircrafts for gross proceeds approximating $1.5 billion which generated an unlevered IRR of 11.2% excluding taxes financing and hedging costs.
We continue to manage the portfolio with a focus on to cash flow based economics of each investment and reinvestment decision while we expect to grow the portfolio as Ron mentioned our growth will not be linear and we expect to take advantage of profitable asset sales where appropriate.
2013 was another successful year for us in the capital markets as we raised almost $1 billion from diverse capital sources.
In addition to the $400 million of senior notes in the fourth quarter we raised $177 million in bank and ECA debt financing.
We increased our revolving unsecured credit facility to $335 million from $150 million and we raised $209 million of common equity from Marubeni Investment.
Turning to our liquidity and capital structure at year-end we had unrestricted cash of $655 million restricted cash of $123 million and our $335 million revolving facility was undrawn.
Total borrowings at year-end were $3.7 billion and our net debt outstand was approximately $3.1 billion which represents 59% of the net book value of our flight equipment.
In addition our unencumbered aircraft totaled $2.7 billion or 51% of the net book value at our flight equipment up from 15% at the end of 2011.
We continue to transform the capital structure towards the balance mix of unsecured and secured debt and at year-end the ratio of unsecured debt to total debt was 58% up from 15% at the end of 2011.
Our net debt-to-equity ratio was a conservative 1.9 times at year-end.
Before turning to our 2014 guidance let me spend a minute discussing the impact of certain lease and maintenance payments that we expect over the course of this year.
During 2014 we have six mid-aged 737-800 coming back off long-term leases.
Under the terms of the expiring leases Aircastle will make end of lease maintenance payments reflecting the much better maintenance condition of the aircraft on the redelivery date compared to the condition of the aircraft when it was delivered.
In particular all the engines on these aircraft will be fresh for major engine shop visits.
Consistent with our original expectations when we purchased the aircraft and placed them on existing leases we anticipate reimbursing approximately $30 million across these aircrafts during 2014.
These end-of-lease maintenance payments will be accounted for as the opposite of maintenance revenue or contract maintenance revenue at each lease expiry during this calendar year.
Based on the redelivery schedule we expect about two-third of this amount to be reported in the first half of 2014 with the balance occurring during the second half of the year.
This type of transaction and accounting treatment is a bit unusual for us and is based on the particular circumstances related to our original underwriting economics and expected cash flow timing of lease rental and maintenance events i.e.
we paid a very low purchase price upfront and deferred major maintenance outlays for six plus years.
The 737 are high quality in-demand aircraft and the first five have been placed on long-term leases with a good customer in Turkey and the last one is being marketed for lease or sale.
As a contrast during 2013 our end-of-lease maintenance payments aggregated $1.4 million for the full year.
Similarly as we look at our existing lease portfolio expiries over the next few years we do not expect any significant payments like this.
Finally turning to selected first quarter and first half guidance elements to help provide a bit more clarity into the year ahead.
We will provide selected elements for the first half and first quarter as well as our usual guidance.
These elements represent our current estimates of how the first quarter and first half will look based on what we have in the acquisition pipeline.
However because of inter quarter results could differ from a timing perspective we are providing guidance for the first half of the year as well.
So turning to our expectations for the first half of 2014 we expect lease rental revenues to range between $347 million and $352 million.
We expect finance lease revenue to be approximately $8 million we expect maintenance revenue excluding our expectations for this year’s part out activities to approximate $11 million to $14 million.
We expect the contra maintenance revenue associated with these 737 returns to be between negative $18 million to negative $21 million in the first half.
Amortization of net lease discounts and lease incentive of $15 million to $17 million during first half.
SG&amp;A at $27 million to $29 million depreciation $147 million to $151 million and interest net $127 million to $129 million.
And we expect our effective tax rate to range between 9% and 11% for the first half of the year.
In conclusion during 2013 we continue to successfully execute our business strategy and further position the company to generate strong cash flow and operating results in the coming years.
We’ve returned capital to shareholders in the form of higher dividends and we entered 2014 well positioned with significant liquidity and proven access to capital to pursue our value driven investment strategy.
And with that operator we’re happy to open up the call for questions-and-answers.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll go to Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you operator.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey Gary.
Ron with the LATAM deal you will be going through I think about dozen 777s in your portfolio what has your opinion or the investment committee’s opinion of that particular aircraft been a lot more bullish in the last six months or so and if so why is that? We’ve been bullish on the 777 for really long time Gary.
It’s a great aircraft and it’s one that we’ve been pursuing for an awfully long time.
One of the things that changed this past year was that debt financing that was available for banks improved our competitiveness.
This is a unique situation though and as I mentioned during the call the lease terms here are a little bit under shorter side.
The first back to aircraft will be five years in lease term and the other ones will be coming out in ‘17 and ‘18.
Those are aircrafts coming at a very opportune time in our view the 777 ex the replacement from Boeing will not be out until at least the beginning of the next decade.
And there will be very few A350 stretch aircraft.
So I think we’ll have a great time re-marketing them and we’ll be in to them for a good price.
So I think it’s just a success it’s a bit of capital market help on our side too.
So you referenced the financing on the $300 million that you did in the first quarter on the secured side.
Can you talk about the terms of the secured financing how those have improved and with respect to either interest rate or tenure or LTVs? Yeah Gary I mean in terms of access to the secured debt market we did three separate transactions in the first quarter.
Two of them were levering two 777s on lease to Thai.
Those leases have floating rate leases in them and then the debt we’ve put on those are sort of relatively conservative leverage levels also have floating interest payments.
So in today’s environment they are very low interest rates enterprise.
The third is a fixed rate amount associated with another aircraft that we purchased during 2013.
And the return in the bank market has brought in spreads and has opened up what you can do in the construct of not only forward defense right from day one but also the size of the balloon at the end of the lease term and the loan.
Okay.
Thanks Mike.
Just one more there was a $10 million cash outflow for a pre-delivery payment what does that relate to? No those were just purchase deposits Gary on aircraft that we expect to close in the first quarter of this year that are on the balance sheet at year-end.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hey everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions just a couple here.
So first I am sorry if I missed it but can you give us an update on the monitoring list of aircraft’s subject impairment charges? I believe on the last call you said it was roughly 4% of your fleet’s net book value so I wanted to see what that is now? It hasn’t changed Richa.
Okay.
But just qualitatively as you think about the trend that you are seeing now versus a couple of months ago do you feel better worse or the same about impairment risk I guess I am that implies to [same rate]? We feel about same about it.
Okay.
And then just if you could Ron talk a little bit more about cargo trends.
We have mostly been seeing negative trends a sluggish trend I should say in the cargo market but we have seen some bright spots recently for instance Lufthansa’s cargo subsidiary recently disclosed that they are going to [confer] options five additional 777s and increase cargo capacity by 4% to 5% and then Korean Air which is a really largo cargo player recently said they see an uptick in cargo trends as well.
So given your experience in this space do you think you will be willing to get back into investing if you see the right prices or do you think the structural challenges are sort of over shadowing those bright spots? Thanks.
Well let me first address the supply and demand picture.
There has been a pick-up in demand; it was up very very modestly for the full year of 2013.
The problem was supply increased even faster.
So I think there is an overhang there that’s going to persist for a while.
And as far as investments are concerned same as what we discussed in the previous earnings call.
I sort of view the market as having two parts to it.
First is the 777 market and it’s a terrific aircraft type and you can see people like Lufthansa getting into those.
Problem with those from our perspective is that they are very expensive aircraft.
They are probably $10 million to $15 million more expensive than 777-300 ERs although they are probably $10 million to $15 million cheaper to build.
And so that’s a dynamic that will reverse itself overtime and we haven’t been able to make the math work on those.
As far as the other aircraft types because of the glut of supply the way we price things doesn’t lead to many opportunities to actually get deals done.
So bottom line is I don’t see the freighter investments increasing very much.
Okay.
Got it.
And then if I could just squeeze in one more.
Did you repurchase any shares in the December quarter and if you could give us an update on the share repurchase authorization you have left in that program? Thanks.
Yeah we did not repurchase any shares during the fourth quarter and we still have $30 million authorization left in the existing program.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we will go next to Scott Valentin with FBR Capital.
Good morning gentleman.
Thanks for taking my question.
On the LATAM transaction was that a negotiated transaction or was that a bid situation? It’s a little bit of both Scott.
This was the transaction that began as a deal for the older aircraft the 2008 aircraft.
There was a bid that was – tend to a small number of lessors as we understand it.
That transaction evolved overtime given some issues with the existing financing.
And in the end what we were able to do is come up with a complete seat answer for LATAM.
And that was a desirable output for them because there kind of plans for the future and introduce smaller A-350s to replace these as the LAN and TAM companies merge.
So it’s a bit of both.
Okay.
And then I think you made a passing remark about the emerging markets and some volatility there.
Have you guys taken – have you seen any need for any action yet on your part with regard to lessors in those markets or anticipate any type of actions? No.
I mean we are in a very short-term Scott our receivables position is in excellent shape as I mentioned but we are worried about it.
And it affects different airlines in different ways.
And just to touch on that there is obviously different dynamics going on as you look around the world.
Some of these dynamics will affect the domestically oriented or regionally oriented carriers more.
So if you are an airline and you are in say Turkey or Brazil or in Indonesia and your revenue base is in local currency you are going to be feeling the rise of the dollar relatively speaking because so many of the expenses like fuel and aircraft are denominated in dollars.
Other airlines that are particularly ones that are more internationally oriented have dollar-euro revenue don’t feel it quite as badly.
For us we are taking a little bit extra closer look and monitoring those more vulnerable airlines.
The other side of this story though is that it also creates deal opportunities.
Since aircraft trade in dollars an airline that might be owning aircraft in a weak currency environment might find it more desirable to sell aircraft right now.
Okay.
And then one final question actually there was a pretty recently large M&amp;A transaction and there has been talk that might support consolidation among lessors.
Just wondering one if you believe that I think there is an interest now to consolidate the industry.
And two do you think you guys can be participate maybe looking at other lessors portfolios? I think you are obviously referring to the AerCap-ILFC transaction it’s an interesting deal and I think the key there is I think it will create one very large publicly traded company.
And we are hoping that it will attract a lot of investor interest into our space and we will be a beneficiary of that.
Whether there is further consolidation time will tell.
I think there is certainly the pot has been stirred and we hope to be part of that discussion.
As far as lessor portfolios that’s something that we pursue all the time.
And in fact as we said in previous calls the fact that you have a concentrated larger group of lessors that are increasingly subject to financial regulatory pressures it means that there is more pressure on them to sell aircraft to match their portfolio exposures.
That’s been a big source of business for us historically including last year and it’s something that we are hoping to focus on this year as well.
Okay.
I appreciate the comments.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Helane Becker with Cowen.
Thank you very much operator.
Hi guys thanks for the time.
I was looking at page 13 of your slide which is the update of the investments that are changing the portfolio and of your slide deck.
And I see that you snuck in some regional jets I mean you obviously don’t sneak them in but is that a focus or is that an opportunistic buy? Helane they are a part of the portfolio that we feel good about and we began buying the E-Jets at the end of last year.
And in the last season we focused only the mainline aircraft the Boeing and the Airbus airplanes Embraer’s developed a nice little niche there.
There is really no great competitor to them and they have developed an operator base that’s really one it lends itself to both operating and leasing it’s got a global span and we are also interested in seeing what happens next in terms of E2s.
But it’s not a new thing it’s a small part of our portfolio but it’s one where we will be opportunistic.
Okay.
And any interest in C series.
I think they need to develop the customer base first.
Okay.
That’s fair.
Thanks for your time.
Those were all my questions.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Andrew Light with Citi.
Good morning.
Ron do have a view – if you look out to the backlog on the Neo and the Max and the 787 and the A-350 and so forth do have a view as to what proportion is likely to be purchased in a sale or lease back opportunities and when do you think that will start ramping up in terms of airlines going out? We’ve already seeing the beginning of it Andrew.
I think it’s going to be a very popular set of aircraft and we are certainly interested in it too.
We are still a few years off from those in entering operation so that’s sort of a practical consideration but operating lessors including ourselves like having very fungible aircraft and these will certainly fit that category.
The bias that we have is in investors always been towards the early to middle part of production life of an asset and so we are going to be looking at those aircraft as well.
Having said that there is the current time a lot of completion we’ll just have to find our way to the opportunities but I think it will be very popular aircraft and I wouldn’t be surprised to see the market share of those aircraft in terms of lessor ownership to be more than half similar to what they are right now for the 320s and 738 MGs.
I mean do you think most airlines just play the field like six months in advance of delivery would you then now look further out on that? It’s an airline by airline I think it’s near line by airline question Andrew.
I mean some of that is a question for them of balancing the debt opportunities which are attractive today versus leasing.
Lessors will typically commit further out than a lender and so it’s a question of when do they want to de-risk in terms of committing capital getting capital committed rather.
Okay great thanks very much for that.
Sure.
And we’ll go next to Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
I just had a question on the JV could you guys talk about how going forward would you might expect to see you make decisions about assets that will go to aircraft versus JV? I know you mentioned that the 330’s that have gone that are on lease to Garuda and so it seems that there may be concentration as you do something that might have let you to put those particular aircraft in the JV.
But can you talk to us about how we could expect to see that decision making process going forward? It’s a good and very meaningful question.
The JV is a way for us to manage concentration risk the first priority is to invest on our account.
And I think the Garuda transactions have very good illustration that’s say in aircraft type and the customer that we are keen on but also have building exposures.
And so while we want to continue to develop our relationship with Garuda this was a way for us to still have significance skin in the game but to reduce the total exposure and keep managing the aircraft.
So to give you a sense of the math on that Justine the equity split between ourselves and Ontario Teachers is about 30% Aircastle to 70% Ontario Teachers and leverage off-course is a deal specific think.
But if you assume roughly 70% leverage and we take what we’ll say a 100% and reduce that to roughly 10% in terms of our on balance sheet exposure.
We still manage it and it has nice ROE profile.
We still control the customer relationship but it’s also a way of spreading risk.
Okay and so if I guess you could expect that going forward as you guys are evaluating good deals I guess that they would be a first look for Aircastle and then if for whatever reason be a concentration limit there or other Aircastle decided to pass on it and then it would go to the JV it wouldn’t work in the other direction.
That’s one way to look at it and I think the other way to look at it Justine is that we can just bid on bigger deals more comfortably.
Okay and I don’t know this just came to my mind as you are talking I don’t know if you guys have disclosed that but it seems like I mean the LATAM deal if we look at it as a percentage of your pro forma book value is pretty big.
What’s the concentration with Garuda and were there are no concentration issues with LATAM and are you topped out with LATAM now I mean is that kind of the size that we should think about for Aircastle before you might have to start to touch out may be putting one of LATAM aircraft into the JV or something like that? Garuda was approaching 10% and don’t have a magic number of exposure or something that we think of on many dimensions not just a network value but obviously the JV’s acquiring the 2A 330 that released a Garuda created a little bit headroom as we saw it.
With LATAM the transaction has two parts as I mentioned the first part will come very soon within the early part of the second quarter.
The second part’s little bit hard to predict in terms of timing then I think that’s what my [catalyze] is to kind of move on exposure management.
The Ontario teachers’ JV is certainly possibility in this context.
All right excellent thank you very much.
Sure.
And we’ll go next to Arren Cyganovich with Evercore Partners.
Hi thanks and your guidance for the first half of $700 million including the four aircraft from LATAM in the second quarter.
But the full year guidance is only a $1 billion.
Are you being relatively conservative there or what’s the view on the drop off and new investment activity in second half of ‘14? Well there is a couple of things one is the LATAM deal has a part to it that I don’t know when it will come online.
So it could come this year and may slip into next year.
And the second part of it is you have to sort of think about it relative to assets sales.
So I mentioned during our discussions that we are seeing pressure upwards on prices and that’s not certainly a bad thing but we have to sort of balance our acquisitions and sales activity.
So when you think about the billion dollars yes you also have to think about it in terms of the impact of sales.
So the $1 billion is not a net of sales growth that’s growth from investments.
So I think there is upside for that and but I also think you have to consider as you model things out the impact of sales.
Okay fair enough thank you.
Sure.
And it appears no further questions at this time I’d like to turn the conference back over to your host for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay thank you Devona and thanks everyone for dialing today.
If you have any follow up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference we appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Aircastle Limited Q1 2014 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tony.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited’s first quarter 2014 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We’ll begin the presentation shortly but I’d like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from these estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I’ll direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend and will now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Hello and welcome to our earnings call for the first quarter of 2014.
This morning I will discuss the current business environment Aircastle’s performance and accomplishments during the quarter and our plans for the future.
Our CFO Mike Inglese will then address the financial results and then we’ll open the call up for questions.
First quarter was another busy period as we continued executing on our business plan and capitalizing on good market conditions.
We’ve taken advantage of an attractive financing market and a low interest rate environment to drive down interest cost and maintained or increase the average life of our debt.
We already have a high rental revenue yield.
They were up – it was 13.5% during the first quarter and by working to improve our debt profile we're hoping to drive our net margins higher in time.
During the first quarter we raised nearly $1 billion of new debt from a variety of sources both refinance older high cost financings with short remaining terms and to provide funding for new investments.
This had the effect of driving down our weighted average interest rate to 4.6% from almost 5.4% at the end of 2013.
Our average remaining debt term is nearly five years.
The strength of the financing market has also had the effect of driving aircraft prices higher as new investors seeking higher yields have entered our sector.
We're aiming to capitalize on that by increasing our aircraft sales activities.
This includes exiting end of life aircraft which in aggregate we expect to do it better than breakeven.
It also encompasses opportunistic sales.
Aircastle's focus is on allocating capital efficiently and we remain disciplined aircraft buyers.
To defend we’re continuing to emphasize opportunities where we can differentiate ourselves and earn superior risk adjusted returns and we do this by utilizing the Company's distinct capabilities in tapping into our broad deal sourcing network.
During the first quarter we closed $715 million in acquisitions including the first part of our important purchase and leaseback transactions LATAM for 777-300ERs.
Our investing in sales [force] has improved the overall quality of our portfolio both in terms of asset mix and technology as well as credit quality.
We're continuing to do an excellent job of managing our assets and we recorded 99% portfolio utilization for the first quarter.
All-in-all our cash flows have been strong and cash earnings for the quarter increased and our cash ROE over the past 12 months was 11.8%.
In this context we're pleased to announce our Board declared a $0.20 per share dividend for the second quarter.
This is our 32nd consecutive quarter quarterly dividend declaration.
As we've said previously our approach has been to share with investors a portion of the company's sustainable earnings through dividends.
We like where we are positioned strategically.
Aircastle is a nimble and credible value-oriented investor with a skilled team and low cost and flexible capital structure that allows us to act decisively in markets opportunities as they arise.
Now we'll cover the business environment.
Demand for passenger travel remains good.
For the International Air Transport Association revenue passenger kilometers rose 5.6% during the first few months of the year.
The average load factor during this time was 78.5% which is exceptionally high for what is a traditionally thought of as a slow season and it indicates that aircraft are flying full.
We are seeing strength in many areas including the Middle East and developed markets such as Europe.
Asian growth rates are slowing a little but they still remain at good levels.
We're mindful of increased economic volatility in several emerging market economies but haven't yet seen that translate into major changes in air traffic.
When I refer to emerging markets I'm actually addressing a wide range of very different situations so it's hard to generalize.
In any case as always we are keeping a close watch on our customers and on key regions.
In contrast to passenger travel the air cargo market remains weak.
We have seen modest improvements in demand with freight ton kilometers increasing 4.4% year-to-date through March.
However oversupply remains the biggest challenge for this market.
Though we saw demand growth increase -- exceed the increase in capacity by a small margin during the first quarter of the year and that's a encouraging sign.
We believe it will take a while to work through the glut of available aircraft.
Aircraft rental levels are where we consider to be good levels and they’ve -- but they have appeared to flatten out a bit over the past few months.
Over the past two to three years new aircraft model demand has benefited from low interest rates and relatively high fuel prices.
One positive factor is that there is very little availability of used modern passenger aircraft.
Now there are several new aircraft types coming online over the next several years in every size category and over the next few month it should be interesting to see as we get data point regarding how A320 lease placement rates compare to CEO rentals.
We are taking a close look at new models and expect that they will eventually work their way into our fleet.
We plan to touch on this subject during our Annual Investor Day presentation next week in New York City.
Turning to our financial performance during the first quarter we recorded net income of $5.8 million or $0.7 per share.
Adjusted net income was nearly $13.3 million or $0.16 per share.
Both of these figures were reduced by nearly $16.4 million of contra maintenance revenue during the quarter.
As we discussed during our year-end call this contra revenue relates to compensation we paid a lessee to return three aircraft fresh from engine overhauls at lease end.
Operating and finance lease revenues during the quarter were up 11% to $17 million -- $178 million reflecting the portfolio growth and strong utilization levels we achieved.
I would also add our accounts receivable balance is more than 30 days late or less than $200 000 in total.
This is an extraordinarily low level given the size of our revenue base.
As I mentioned our cash ROE during the past 12 months was 11.8%.
This result is also being lowered by contra maintenance revenue in 2014 but it will retreat thereafter.
Mike will discuss Aircastle's financials in greater detail.
Turning to our investment activity Q1 was one of our busiest quarters.
We purchased eight aircraft and this total includes four relatively new 777-300ER which were leasing to LATAM.
We also purchased A330 and 738 aircraft leased respectively to Singapore Airlines and Alaska Airlines.
These are all very credit worthy lessees and consistent with our acquisitions over the past few years elevate the quality of our customer base.
Our biggest customers are now mostly large international flag carriers.
In general our purchases this quarter were of high-quality assets at very good prices.
Our play has been to capitalize on our remarketing skills and the financial – and our financial flexibility by purchasing these – and aircraft on short to medium lease terms.
We have $400 million of additional investment commitments and most of this relates to the second part of the LATAM transaction.
During Q1 we sold six aircraft with an average age of 25 years at a modest profit.
These consisted of four 737 freighters and two 737-400s.
In March our continued successful exit from older aircraft times.
I expect this type of sales activity will continue throughout 2014 and into next year.
During Q1 we also took the decision to sell one of our 747-400 converted freighters and another 737 classic.
We hope to wrap-up these sales over the next few weeks but their financial impact is to a large degree already reflected in the first quarter financials through transactional impairments and offsetting maintenance revenue.
As I mentioned earlier we're seeing very strong demand for aircraft from investors and receiving – seeking to capitalize on this by increasing our aircraft sales activity.
This means exiting more end of life aircraft sooner and matching our portfolio concentrations.
Of course we're also keeping an eye out for opportunistic sales and we believe that the current market is conducive to such transactions.
After sales have helped us reduce our older technology aircraft exposure to less than 5% of our portfolio and we expect this percentage to continue falling rapidly.
Additionally freighter aircraft now account for 16% of our total net book value flight equipment that's nearly half of the level it was at the start of the 2012.
Turning to lease placements we've made very good progress in addressing the aircraft scheduled to come off lease this year.
Asset sales have played a big role.
All in all we expect aircraft dispositions will cover 12 of the aircraft coming off lease this year including two 747 freighters.
Three of the 12 aircraft sales have been completed and we've secured letters of intent for most of the rest.
In aggregate we believe these sales of older aircraft will generate a modest profit.
Taking into account signed lease letters of intents we have only two aircraft left to place for 2014.
One is a nine year old A320 that's coming off lease at the under of the year and the other is a 747-400 converted freighter built in the early nineties.
We're in active conversations for both.
For 2015 our schedule lease expirations cover about 8% of the total net book value of our flight equipment and we're starting to go work on these hoping to lock in terms and what we consider to be a less or friendly market environment.
Debt markets remained strong despite some equity market in geopolitical volatility.
During the first quarter we successfully completed a new unsecured note issuance; several secured bank financings and expanded and extended our unsecured bank revolving line of credit.
We also repaid our first and most expensive unsecured financing and we retired our first securitization.
Repaying our securitization increased our base of unencumbered flight equipment to $3.3 billion at quarter-end.
Our standing in the financial markets remains very good given our conservative credit metrics and our large unencumbered asset base.
Looking ahead we're off to a great start in 2014.
We have taken advantage of attractive financing market conditions to bring down the cost of our debt and we're working to drive our net margins higher.
Q1 was one of our biggest quarters for new investments but we're still disciplined value [oriented] investment buyers and targeting investments we believe we can achieve cash returns on equity of at least 15% while providing an acceptable risk profile.
We're well-positioned to capitalize on buying opportunities across the market using the skills and versatility of our team and the flexibility of our capital structure.
We continue to seek and exploit our sweet spots including mid-life current-generation aircraft.
We will also start taking a closer look at the new generation aircraft as they become more available.
Given the increase in aircraft prices we expect to pursue asset sales more aggressively.
We're pleased with our strategic customer relationships and among our priorities for this year will be to harness the benefits from our relationship with Marubeni and to explore ways to continue to build on our aircraft leasing joint venture with Teachers.
We remain focused on increasing cash returns and adjusted earnings while managing the company for the long-term.
Our business plan is distinct from the other large aircraft leasing companies and is tailored to our strengths.
We're nimble value -- investor we have a skilled team and financial flexibility and we have firepower to act decisively in market opportunity as they arise.
And finally we will continue to focus on efficient capital allocation.
I will now hand the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
As Ron just mentioned our aircraft acquisition momentum from 2013 carried over in the first quarter of this year.
Consequently our operating financial lease revenues for the quarter were $178.3 million up $17.8 million or 11% year-over-year.
We have acquired 25 aircraft in 2013 and the additional eight in the first quarter of this year for approximately $2.2 billion.
Over the same period we sold or disposed 28 aircraft and other equipment for approximately $575 million.
Our cash earnings operating cash flow and cash returns they are increasing in line with the net growth of our portfolio.
Total revenues for the quarter were $176.6 million compared with $176.2 million for the first quarter of 2013.
Higher operating and financial lease revenues of $17.8 million were offset by lower maintenance revenue of $13.8 million and a lower other revenue of $4.1 million.
As explained on our year-end earnings call under the terms of leases expiring involving 737-800 aircraft Aircastle made end-of-lease maintenance payments reflecting the much better maintenance condition of these aircraft on their re-delivery compared to the condition of the aircraft when they were originally acquired and leased.
Accordingly during the first quarter we reimbursed the lessee approximately $16.4 million for the heavy maintenance work.
These end-of-lease maintenance payments were accounted for as contra maintenance revenue at leased expiry during the first quarter.
Total remaining reimbursements for the year which covered three additional aircraft coming off lease from this lessee are expected to be about $16 million.
We expect about $5 million to $6 million of this to be recorded in the second quarter and the balance occurring during the second half of the year.
This kind of accounting treatment is a bit unusual for us and is based on a particular circumstances related to our original underwriting economics and expected cash flow timing of lease rentals and maintenance events.
When we acquired these aircraft we paid a very low purchase price up front and deferred major maintenance outlays for six plus years.
These aircraft are high-quality in demand assets and have been placed on lease or have lease commitment for when they would roll-off.
By way of comparison during 2013 our end of lease maintenance payments aggregated only $1.4 million for the full year and we reiterate what we said on the last call as we look at our existing lease portfolio expirees over the next few years we do not expect any significant additional payments like this.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $170 million versus $168.6 million for the prior year.
Higher operating and financial lease revenues of $17.8 and lower maintenance expenses of $1.5 million were offset by the $16.4 million of contra maintenance revenue I just described as well as other revenue and lower interest earned from debt investments a $2.4 million reduction related to the early lease termination fees versus the prior year.
During the first quarter we recorded $18.3 million of transactional impairment charges associated with two aircraft leases that were amended during the quarter.
These charges were largely offset by end of lease maintenance revenue related to these two aircraft totaling $17.2 million.
These were 747 converted freighter and one 737 classic that we expect to part out during the second quarter.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $13.3 million down 14.2 year-over-year and reflects higher non-cash impairment charges of $12.1 million higher depreciation of $4 million higher adjusted interest expense of $2 million offset by lower taxes and lower maintenance costs.
Interest expense net for the quarter was $64.3 million; an increase of $5.1 million year-over-year cash interest increased approximately $3.1 million due to higher weighted average debt outstanding versus the prior year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $13.9 million basically flat from the prior year and depreciation was up $4 million to approximately $74 million reflecting the growth in the aircraft portfolio.
Our first quarter tax provision and effective tax rate was $0.9 million and 14.2 respectively.
We expect the tax rate to range between 14% to 15% for the second quarter and for the full year.
During the quarter we sold six aircraft with a weighted average age of 25 years along with engine sales and generated net proceeds of $28 million.
These resulted in a net gain of approximately $1.1 million.
Since our fourth [nation] we've sold 66 aircraft for the growth proceeds of $1.6 billion producing an un-levered ROI of approximately 11.1%.
We continue to manage the portfolio with a focus on cash flow based economics of every investment and reinvestment decision.
We used cash earnings as a metric because we think it's the best way to understand the business is to follow the cash flows the simple metric starts with GAAP cash flow from operations and filters out the non-cash elements of maintenance and lease incentives terminated hedge amortization and stock compensation and other non-cash charges.
For the first quarter of 2014 cash earnings were $193.2 million versus $184.2 million an increase of approximately 5% over the first quarter of 2013.
Our ongoing implementation of our value oriented investment approach is driving continued strong cash returns.
As Ron mentioned our cash ROE was 11.8% for the 12 months ended March 31 and I'll reemphasize that this metric will be adversely impacted during 2014 by this contra maintenance revenue impact but we expect this to drive to higher levels as we move forward.
Turning to our capital structure total borrowings pro forma at the quarter end were $3.8 billion up $3.7 billion at year end.
We refinanced our $450 million much 9.75% notes with a $500 million debt issuance at 5.125 with a seven-year maturity in 2021.
The notes were redeemed in April of this year at a premium of $37 million including deferred financing fees write-offs.
This will provide a significant reduction in cash interest expense going forward.
Our pro forma ratio of unsecured debt to total debt was approximately 57% versus 58% at year end and 49% at year end 2012.
We had 104 of our 164 aircraft at quarter end that were unencumbered representing approximately 3.3 billion of our 5.8 billion of flight equipment.
Our pro forma net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.3 times and we're in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities.
On March 31st we also amended and restructured our existing revolving credit facility upsizing it from $335 million to $450 million with a new four-year term.
And finally turning to our second quarter guidance we expect lease rental revenues to range between $178 million to $180 million financial lease revenue to be approximately $4 million maintenance revenue to be approximately $5 million to $6 million contra maintenance revenue associated with 1737 return to be negative $5 million to $6 million in the second quarter amortization of net lease discount in the -- lease incentive amortization to be 5 million to 6 million SG&amp;A at 13 million to 14 million depreciation of 75 million to 77 million interest net of 62 million to 64 million including approximately 7 million of deferred hedge loss amortization related to our ‘06 and ‘08 secured debt repayments.
We're looking at gains on sales of approximately $7 million to $12 million for the quarter and as I mentioned the loss on extinguishment of our 9.75 notes will be approximately $37 million charged in the second quarter.
And we're expecting an effective tax rate of 14% to 15%.
I also note that this guidance does not include the impact of a number of lease end part-out activities which we assume will have a modest pretax contribution over the course of the year.
To conclude we ended the first quarter on a strong note.
Our business is performing well.
We completed a significant amount of financing activities during the quarter.
Our cash earnings is growing in conjunction with our fleet and we continually successfully execute on the value-oriented strategy we employ.
And with that operator we'd like to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
My first question is on this refinancing that you guys did.
I know you said that you expect significant cash interest savings from that but can you quantify the interest expense savings you expect? And then just taking into account orders and then just talk about whether or not you see more refinancing opportunities given the current state of your balance sheet? Yes.
Simplistically Richa if you look at we took out 9.75 notes with 5.125 notes so almost 5% on $0.5 billion in rounds numbers $24 million a year of cash interest savings going forward.
And we also took out our 2006 securitization during the first quarter which in essence had an effective cash interest rate in the high fives and we put new secured debt in place at much lower rate.
So the benefits of those we'll see going forward.
At this point in time I don't see any other obvious refinancing opportunities but we'll continue to monitor the interest rate environment and at some points in the future I would expect as our 2007 securitization continues to pay down that we would look to take that out and free up what will become in time a very large asset pool encumbered by a relatively small amount of debt.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then Ron can you clarify what you said regarding your investment targets.
I know on the last call you said you saw upside risk to the $1 billion target you had for 2014 but I believe you said an updated figure.
I missed that.
Well we close 715 in the first quarter and we have about 400 million left to go.
Most of that is the second part of the LATAM transaction.
So the problem we have is is in forecasting the exact time frame for that because that depends on LATAM and winding the existing financing that we're not party to.
It could happen this year; it could slip into next year so that will have an effect on the 2014 results in a big way.
If it happens this year we're north of 1 billion already and we continue to look for new deals.
All right great.
And then if I could sneak in one more.
Can you give us comments on your thoughts regarding the 787? We don't typically hear you talk about that aircraft type and it's one that I believe you stayed clear of purchasing so I just wanted to get your thoughts again on that assets and why you haven't pursued any acquisitions of it? I will answer that first more broadly to say and fantasize what I had mentioned before that we're taking a really close look at all the new technology aircraft out there.
We're big believers that the first part of the production run generally holds it’s value better than the last part and the 787 is probably a good example of going forward.
We also don't like to be especially for an airplane that has so much new technology involved.
The first bleeding edge kind of investor and obviously there were a lot of teething issues here.
Within the 787 family and even more broadly we tend to be more fans of the up gauge products.
The 900 and the Dash 1000 will be more interesting to us in terms of the breadth of the customer base but there haven't been that many deal opportunities yet and we'll take a look at it when they back available.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Thank you operator.
Good morning gentlemen.
Morning.
Hi Gary.
Ron you mentioned the receivable balance was down to a couple hundred thousand dollars.
What do you attribute this to is it more the improving customer quality is it a new point of emphasis within the organization is it timing or what's behind it? We've always had very low levels Gary and I think one of our sources of pride is our asset management team and despite having a portfolio that's been 10 11 12 years on average we've always had that kind of a level.
Now this is – even with that spectrum on the low side I think the fact that we're heading into the summer and kind of generally heavier cash flow season is a contributing factor.
We have weeded out some portfolio non-performers to be candid.
But I think it's a – I don't think it's a reflection of the portfolio of being under performer in the past.
I would note – we're not saying that among our bigger customers who definitely improved the credit quality and I direct you to the PowerPoint that's posted on our website you will see the top 10 customer base basically now consistent of a bunch of pretty strong flag carriers.
Okay great.
Also your comments sounded like there's better demand for some of your mid-life planes and you would have thought maybe six 12 months ago.
Are you getting sort of inbound calls unsolicited bids for planes that perhaps you weren't planning on selling but now are contemplating doing so? I'll say this.
It's been a lot more active in terms of investor demand and investor inquiries.
A good anecdote for that would be 1 500 1700 people at ISAT at last conference.
There is a lot of new money into the space and a lot of the existing players are just working with bigger budgets now.
So we're trying to harness that and make the best allocation of capital decisions we can.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just a couple of quick cleanups may be for Mike.
The tax rate now looks like it's in the mid-teens.
It had been maybe 8% 10% prior to that.
What's -- is there a mix change in the income or what's going on there? Yes.
At present time it's mostly a change in mix of income so we have some more assets being owned in Ireland and in Singapore that have modest tax rates compared to Bermuda ownership and so depending upon how that mix shifts over time as we see where we are today and look at the rest of the year we're thinking kind of 2014 2015 seems like a reasonable guess at the moment.
Okay.
And for full year is 15 million to 20 million of asset sale gains still really? Yeah I think that's still consistent with our expectations.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next we'll move to Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Just a quick follow-up on that last question I guess on just the individual aircraft types that you're seeing kind of firming on market prices for.
What is I guess most intriguing to you for sale out of your portfolio? Or I guess in other words kind of where are you seeing kind of the opportunities best opportunities to sell in the market right now in? Hi Jason.
I would say that the increase in prices is pretty much across the Board.
Now we've had for some time now a lot of competition on new airplanes what's really surged in the last six months to a year has been mid age aircraft.
And I think what's happened is twofold.
One is there is more debt availability.
It's still not broad but there's a lot more than there used to be.
And the other part of it is that the investors that are entering that space are for the most part not targeting high teens or even higher returns but they're looking for high single-digit to low double-digit returns and those are certainly achievable in those kinds of assets particularly if you can get leverage.
And so it's a combination of factors but again I'd say this is not a limited phenomenon to one assets type or one age group.
Okay.
Thanks for the color there.
And then I guess on the opposite end of the spectrum what type is also kind of most attractive to you at present or is kind of more universally applicable to just some of the other types that you are seeing out there more broadly? I think the best way to answer that is in kind of drawing a contrast to what we've done over the last three or four years where probably two-thirds of our investment has been in wide-bodies that are less than five years old.
We found very good value there.
There was less competition.
The financing that was available for such aircraft was great particularly given that lease terms tend to be long and the customers very strong.
I think that game is to a large extent over given the flow of new money.
I think there is some yield fatigue with the new narrow-bodies that’s migrated over into the – that’s migrated over to the light bodies and I don't see as much of that business heading our way as it did before.
Having said that the part that we've always been competitive on has been the mid-age aircraft and here we don't really pursue auction situations ever.
We try to avoid those as much as possible and focus on the spoke deals.
Those are transactions where we don't end up in just a raw price competition with everybody else and I still think that there's good deal throw there.
We will just have to pick and choose our battles.
Okay.
Super.
Thanks for the color.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
Next we will move to Scott Valentin with FBR and Company.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
Just Ron with regard to the fleet evolution you guys put on a slide that the fleet has become younger less freighter more wide-body.
Just wondering do you see continuing to evolve on that fashion going forward for the next several years or do you see any shifts ahead.
I see a couple things happening actually more than a couple things.
We've over weighted on wide bodies for the reason I mentioned before I think that will gradually reduce as we sell and try to take advantage of market strength and frankly as we become less competitive on the buy-side.
The freighter portfolio I expect will continue to shrink.
I don't have a very positive outlook for that market.
It doesn't mean that we won't bid on things but as a general matter we have been uncompetitive given our view of the world so I think that will continue to shrink and it has a lot.
The classic generation aircraft 737 757 767s I think will be pretty close to gone by the end of this year as it relates to our portfolio.
So that leaves current generation narrow bodies which I think at least hold their place and then new stuff.
And as I said that’s something we're taking a very close look at.
I think it's generally the case that the earlier parts of the production will hold their life -- their value better.
The one thing that we're trying to get our hands around is how much more efficient are these new generation aircraft versus the current models because this is at the end of the day an investment business not just I want to buy something new because it's new.
Can the new prices that the manufacturers or other seller look for these aircraft support the increased efficiency.
And so that's a bit of an open question and as you can imagine there's a lot of price variations in the market in regards to a small number of data points.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then on slide 12 at the bottom of the slide talks about portfolio yield.
And just wondering it's been slowly declining over time still remains higher than peers but just wondering is that a reflection of the reduced age of the fleet or lower rate environment or combination of both and where do you see that trending kind of over time? I think the biggest driver there by far is the investment in new wide bodies and those are on long lease terms.
The lease terms and the pricing reflects the interest rate environment number one.
Number two it's also a credit quality question and also lease accounting is always going to have a lower yield in the beginning of the lease versus the end of the lease.
So I think you have that effect as well.
I think all the other affects are pretty small relatively speaking we had very great very good portfolio utilization.
So it's not that the portfolio isn't humming.
It's basically the incremental investments.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Helane Becker with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.
Hello? Hi Helane.
Hi Helane.
Hi guys.
Thank you.
Sorry about that.
So this is my question.
When you talked about the Ontario Teachers you know in terms of investments that they make alongside you does that -- does that mean they give you additional capital to invest with or do you use existing that they have given you? How should I think about that? There is two questions – there is two parts to what Ontario Teachers does with Aircastle.
First is they're big shareholder and that's -- that's the end of that.
I mean they are about an 8% or 9% shareholder of our company.
The second part of it is a joint venture where we have about a 30% stake in the assets that we buy.
So far the joint venture has purchased two aircraft that we sold to them.
And I think you're right.
The way to think about this is they give us more firepower.
But it's something that we -- we do together.
It's a joint decision.
I think the way you should think about it is that their economic approach is very similar to ours.
And so far our focus has been on using this to manage exposures and to pursue bigger deals.
Okay.
Perfect.
That was my only question.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we'll move to Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
All right.
Great.
Thanks.
I guess most of my questions actually have been asked and answered.
The one that taking from a few of the previous ones that you had discussions about the market for used aircraft is there any kind of influence that we should be taking from that as to when you get to your kind of third quarter impairment review in terms of the amount of aircraft maybe that you have up for renewal and the values that you see in the marketplace? No.
When we did our annual review last year we did a very thorough very diligent process and if anything market conditions have strengthened a bit since then.
I can't give you a categorist answer because there's still some time left to go.
But the weak points in the market are on the older technology and on the freight market.
We took our lumps with the freight market and I think we will be largely gone out of older technology so not a guarantee but I think there's a lower exposure if you will.
Right and you had kind of said that you kind of thought of having only about less than 5% of the portfolio in that older technology.
What would that number have been if you kind of thought about it at this time a year ago? In fact there is a table on page 11 of our presentation that shows you the evolution of portfolio.
A year ago it would have been about 6% in terms of classic generation aircraft and now it's a little bit less than five.
I think the pace of change there's accelerating because of the strength of the market.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Justine.
Hi Justine.
My first question is on who is selling the aircraft that you guys want to buy? Obviously there are buyers for what you want to sell and the sale leaseback market in which a lot of [MDO] seems to be one kind of pipeline for you to acquire the aircraft that you want to buy but if there is a lot of capital misplace is it a company like an Air Lease or someone who is trying to sell assets that are close to the end of their first lease or who are the sellers of the stuff you want to buy? The best way to answer is Justine we've bought aircraft from about 70 different people in our life.
And in the first quarter we did a large sale-leaseback with LATAM.
That was with the airline and the other transaction were with lessors.
In both cases those were lessors that were exiting the industry.
Now we’ve done business over the last year with a number of larger lessors that are facing regulatory constraints and they have bank regulators or other folks looking after concentrations and we've been a very good counter-party with those guys and I see that a continuing source of business.
I think we'll be really uncompetitive as always in large purchase leaseback auctions because frankly there's so many guys out there with very low return expectations and different views about residual values that will lose.
And so we don't really spend that much time on those where we look to focus is where there are opportunities as with LATAM to help somebody manage a fleet or manage a situation that's a little bit less on the run.
Dealing with 777s with five or shorter year lease terms is something that we can do very well.
Of course we want to get the right price for that but we're not looking for the – for the most competitive places just the opposite.
Okay.
And then my second question is on the capital that's in the sector.
Clearly a lot has come in but I was wondering what your opinion is on how long dated it is or whether or not this has legs.
I think when we get the question from investors of how long people can expect this – this 7 strong bid for aviation assets to last? I mean is your sense that that this is kind a couple of years and then maybe if there's not a lot of opportunity the money could go away or is a lot of this kind of locked up for four or five years as a longer term investment in aviation so that we could expect there to be this bids out there for assets for quite a few years? Well I think it's different in the market that we're focusing on versus maybe your customers – your clients Justine.
If somebody is buying an aircraft they better be ready to hold it for a while.
You can't trade-in and out of that like you can debt.
I think the folks that are buying aircraft right now are a wide spectrum and expectations about holding and liquidity are all over the map and I don't think I could generalize that but aircraft are just not the same kind of liquidity even new ones as having a bond.
It's a big process to (indiscernible) lease and transfer – transfer aircraft get financing et cetera.
It's a month’s long process.
I don't think that the phenomenon we have here is – is going to last two years three years.
I think it’s more of a one or two year’s thing.
Simply I don't have any crystal ball here simply because things change and I haven't seen a – a rally that's lasted that long in a long time so that's just my guess.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
And next we'll move to John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
Hey John.
Morning.
Ron I wanted to follow-up first on your commentary about new production and perhaps being interested in new production.
I'm just curious I know that you guys have been very return focused you know in the past and straight away from new production as a result.
What is changing about the nature of the opportunities with manufacturers? Are there slots available from customers that – that might be moving their positions around? I'm just curious what is catalyzing this kind of change in interest here? I want characterize it as a change in interest and I wouldn't characterize new production as equal to a new order.
I think sale-leasebacks and buying from other lessors is probably more likely than a new order.
Got it.
As I said we look at the world from a very different vantage point than most of our peers.
We are foregoing the certainty of and order stream because it also provides a certainty of a financing requirement and it doesn't -- and you have to get in our view a compensation for tying up capital and taking placement risk and having to drag of a pre-delivery payment stream.
And so we're not all made the same among the lessors we don't have a rich parent.
We are and independent company and we don't assume that somebody is going to be here to bail us out in case there is a slowdown in the market.
And so we've always had a more risk aversive approach to aircraft orders.
We've don’t it and we may do it again.
But I think the interest is probably more driven by the fact that there is a lot of new stuff coming online and we tend to be more competitive more positive about situations where the technology is just going to be relevant for a longer period of time.
Fair enough.
Maybe I misinterpreted what you were exactly getting at when you were talking about new production.
I'm just curious; in terms of capital allocation you've always distributed a good amount of cash to shareholders.
You've generally done it more with dividends than buybacks.
And I fully acknowledge that the stock had a great year last year.
For the last couple months and year-to-date it has been a bit of and underperformer.
Why aren't we talking about maybe more aggressively buying back stock here particularly with some of the positive kind of commentary we're' hearing about the market from you.
Look I think John we -- potentially buying back stock is always something we think about.
We don't look at stock reaction in a month and make decisions sort of rashly on that front.
We think about investing to grow the business and its profits we think about stock buybacks and we think about dividends.
And we will continue to do that and to the extent we sell more assets than we think and we don't see good in the future stock buybacks are certainly a possibility just like we have done in the past.
And so it's part of our portfolio of capital allocation tools and we'll continue to look at it to the extent we think it makes sense.
So is it fair to say that the new opportunities that you are looking at are better than the opportunity to buyback stock here? We think that there will still be opportunities to deploy capital in the business and at some point stock buybacks may be part of that again.
Got it.
Okay.
And then I'm just curious about part out activity these days.
Ron in the past you have talked about part outs as being a bottom floor value for some of your older aircraft.
I'm just curious if that's still the case or have prices moved enough that that's not really you know playing the role that it used to? Part outs are very relevant.
One -- first commentary --one first point part out value is not a constant in time okay? And as aircraft technology moves on as customer base drops the value of engines in particular which is the most part out value will drop out as well.
As we look at the -- as we look at the number much parked aircraft there's very few that are out there on the passenger side and so the demand for part out is pretty good.
You've got kind of a full employment scenario right now for the most part.
I don't think that's always going to be the case and so we find our moments to exit and that's been part of our plan this year.
But I think the – the part out value as it relates to things like A320s current generation aircraft are going to be remain strong.
For us it's an economics decision between parting out an aircraft like that and releasing it.
We made a decision based on the riskiness of a release versus the certainty of a part out to part out a number of kind of more marginal types 319s versus 320s older more run down aircraft we've got lots of cash reserves and that's still part of the mix.
What's changed a little bit is that the lease deployment looks a little bit better now than it did a year ago because rents are higher.
But it's something that we look at on a case-by-case basis and parts of our anticipated sale activity to for this year that I would call end-of-life arguably will include 737-700s.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And just last one on cargo.
You guys have done a good job sort of responding to what's been going on in the cargo market.
But I do feel like we've been hearing about oversupply in that market for quite some time.
I'm just curious you know is there anything changing on the horizon where the stars might align and finally this oversupply goes away? I'm not sure how you kind of think about those moving parts? Thanks.
Well supply has to be measured relative to demand.
Demand has picked up a little bit it.
It flat lined for three years and so that's a positive.
I think that there's a number of factors going on.
First the low interest rate environment high fuel prices have driven some shippers to move to different modes to shipping for example.
And as long as interest rates stay really low money is very low as fuel is very expensive air is much more uncompetitive in that respect and so that's going part of the dynamic.
The on-shoring of production is a factor.
Exchange rates are a factor.
But the big issue and it continues to be the main part of the story here is simply production and new capacity through belly space.
Boeing and Airbus have produced about a hundred new large wide bodies in the last three years and it's basically caused a glut and I think it's going to take a long time for that glut to be used up.
There's 40 part 747 freighters in the market right now.
Got it.
Very helpful.
Thanks a lot Ron.
Sure.
Thank you.
Next we'll move to Michael Kass with BlueMountain Capital Management.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was trying to fit together some of the – the commentary around mid-life aircraft and I'm just curious if what you're seeing in terms of market strength is your sense that that's predominantly financial buyers and if so who are they leasing to? I'm curious kind of where you guys see the end market in terms of operators for those aircraft both on the narrow body and the wide-body side? For mid-age aircraft we've seen a really wide range of players both existing players – not the bigger companies but mid-size and smaller companies and a lot of new guys and most of the new guys are financial but they have in almost every case some sort of industry veteran or group of veterans working with them to help guide their investment.
So I think the -- it's not -- it's reasonably in for money.
The way in which they acquire aircraft varies case-by-case.
The aircraft we've sold have been a mix of aircraft with leases attached.
So there's no place to look hard and some of the guys are aligned with folks that have kind of part-out partners.
And so in those cases they're looking actually by design for shorter lease terms.
So it's really hard to generalize it.
So when you book a gain on sale is that to some extent just the monetization of the attached lease or like if you looked at the acquirer side is that gain mainly due to the fact that it's coming with a lease or how should we think about that? Well I'll give you two scenarios.
One is a scenario where there's and aircraft without a lease and there's obviously no lease to monetize.
It's just a question of what they can do with the value.
The guys that buy that kind of stuff are more often not in the business of trading parts and so they probably have a more efficient network of distributing parts and -- than we do that's not our business.
The second part of it is is a question of lease term and a view about -- and different people can have different views about how long the aircraft will last and how many dollars they can connect on the next monthly lease rental etcetera etcetera.
So it's series of a different perspective.
Where you see the monetization of lease value is really on the new airplanes where you have a long remaining lease term.
Got you.
And then shifting to the new airplanes I'm just -- can you give any sense for what your lease factor is on kind of the new aircraft I mean without getting into individual specific deals.
I'm just curious like in Q1 what was it on average? I'm just trying to -- it's obviously impacting just you said by lease accounting but also by the -- I'm just trying to get a sense for where your lease factor is going as you make the aircraft fleet on average younger? It's a bit of a tricky question.
I'm going to give you kind of a really broad range in a framework for thinking about it.
The first is that new air planes typically we finance with debt and so it's sort of a ROE question at the end of the day.
Right? And so what we're leaning for in those context is 15% or better okay? That's the first thing to think about.
Second issue is price.
And the high price can give you high lease rate factor doesn't mean its better.
Sorry – vice versa.
So we typically end up with new aircraft with lease rate factors of 0.9 maybe 1%.
It's really all over the map.
Hopefully that's helpful.
Thanks.
And Mike we're running out of time.
So I will follow-up with you with additional questions to the extent you have some open items.
Operator? Thank you.
And we have one final question that comes from Matthew Dodson calling from JWest LLC.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Can you just talk about what you’re seeing for the lease rates on your A320s and I don’t think you have nay A319s do you? We do have some but they are not coming off lease this year.
We only have one 320 lease this year it’s a nine year old airplane coming out at the end of the year.
I think that market is going to be somewhere in the it’s going to be north of 200 whether it’s 200 230 or somewhere in that ballpark is a question.
Who is the credit quality and – credit quality the current party how long of lease term is going to be longer lease term equal shorter rental from my – in my view and we’re kind of technical because we’re still having a transaction.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I would say that probably about I don’t know 5% and 10% higher than it was a year ago.
This is a reference point.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks for your time today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
We look forward to seeing you next week in New York City.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may disconnect at anytime and have a great day.
Good day and welcome to the Aircastle Limited Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited’s second quarter 2014 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We’ll begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our Web site at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I’d like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited’s expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our Web site.
I’ll direct you to Aircastle Limited’s earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend and will now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Welcome to the call.
During our call I’ll Aircastle’s performance during the second quarter the current business environment and our plans for the future.
Mike will address our financial results and then we’ll open it up to Q&amp;A.
Second quarter was an extremely busy and successful period for Aircastle as we capitalize on very good market conditions and continue to drive strong earnings and returns to capital through four different levers; number one through our investment; number two asset sales; three portfolio management; and four financing.
With regards to investing following up on a very good 2013 when we acquired nearly $1.5 billion in aircraft we’re off to a very good start this year.
During the first half we closed on $916 million in accretive purchases including approximately $200 million during the second quarter.
Additionally we secured nearly $0.5 billion of further acquisition commitments and we’re pursuing additional business aggressively but also at discipline.
These new investments have added a layer of strong earnings growth as evidenced by the strong increased in our lease rental revenues.
Our approaches in investors look broadly across the $0.5 trillion commercial jet market for attractive buying opportunities and situations would sooth our competitive strengths.
And rather than buying same things the same way always we redirect our efforts as market conditions and value propositions change.
To illustrate over the past 10 years we’ve acquired aircraft from almost 70 counterparties while adjusting the mix of assets purchased significantly over time.
While our approach is common in many investment classes we stand out amongst the larger aircraft leasing companies and we’re profiting from this distinct strategy.
With regards to asset sales low interest rates and the search by investors around the world for high yielding assets had driven aircraft prices up.
That’s a great thing for the more than $5.5 billion of aircraft we currently own.
We’re also capitalizing on this by exiting older aircraft that have less favorable future earnings power and by using sales as a key exposure management tool.
In doing so we’ve improved our portfolio quality considerably.
In addition we’re always looking for good investment realization opportunities that allow us to redeploy capital more optimally.
During the second quarter we did all those things very well as we sold our designated for sale nearly 20 aircraft netting a pretax gain of $8 million.
Turning to portfolio management this has been one of Aircastle’s consistent strengths and the second quarter is no exception.
We achieved nearly 100% utilization and cap received low.
We also made excellent progress investing lease placements not only for this year but also for 2015.
This improves the quality of our future revenue base.
In the financing area as Mike will describe we’ve taken advantage of attractive marketing conditions to drive down the cost for our debt and extend our maturity profile.
We continue to have a conservative match funded capital structure and maintain efficient access to a variety of different financing sources.
Indeed one of our most important strategic imperatives is for the company to maintain good access to capital throughout the business cycle.
We’re doing a good job of driving that.
Our successes across these poor levers have resulted in Aircastle maintaining healthy rental yield and net cash interest margin profiles.
To that end despite the slightly lower gross yields to come with an improved portfolio our net cash interest margin increased to 9.7% over the past quarter.
This is one of the highest levels in our industry.
In dollar terms our net cash interest margin grew 23% year-over-year demonstrating the results of our efforts.
Additionally during the second quarter we recorded a cash ROE of 11.3%.
We’re working to drive profitable growth and increase capital efficiency as we continue to execute our business plan.
Aircastle is focused on generating stable cash flow efficiently allocating capital between investments and returning capital to shareholders at appropriate stages of the market cycle.
In this context we’re pleased to announce that our Board has declared a $0.20 per share dividend for the third quarter.
We’ve provided a regular return of capital to shareholders in the form of dividends now for 33 consecutive quarters including significant dividend growth over the past three years.
In fact if we end share repurchases we’ve returned more than $300 million to shareholders since 2011.
As we do each year during the third quarter our Board will be reviewing our dividend level relative to our growing sustainable earnings base.
We like our strategic positioning as a nimble and credible value oriented investor.
We’ve an exceptional team that provides us with the versatility to pursue different investment opportunities across our market.
Our capital structure is flexible low-cost and allows us to act decisively on investment opportunities as they arise.
We have got great long-term minded shareholder partners with Marubeni and Ontario Teachers and we’re privileged to have a terrific Board of Directors that provides great insights.
All in all we are well-positioned and excited about opportunities.
I would now like to make a few comments about the business environment.
Overall it’s quite good.
Demand for passenger air travel continues to grow.
According to International Air Transport Association revenue passenger kilometers which we think of as a good measure of demand grew 6.2% during the first five months of 2014 compared to last year.
The average load factor during this period was 79% which is exceptionally high and it indicates that aircrafts are being very well utilized.
Passenger aircraft rentals are at these and stable levels benefiting from robust traffic growth in limited modern of craft availability.
We are seeking to capture this market strength by locking in new lease placements and extensions as far out as we reasonably can.
In that regard when we consider signed letters of intent we have very few aircraft left to place all the way through the middle of next year.
In contrast to the passenger market air cargo remains weak.
We have seen modest improvements in demand over the past few quarters but oversupply remains a big issue and it will take a long time and a lot of demand growth to take up the slack.
For older units particularly large converted freighters we’re taking actions to reduce our exposure.
During the second quarter we’ve made a decision to exit two 747-400 freighters that we expect to sell by year-end.
In addition in July be sold a third unit at roughly breakeven level.
Beyond the current supply and demand picture the Boeing and Airbus order backlogs continue to grow considerably.
This rise in orders at least in part related to the many new models coming online over the next few years.
However we note that a large portion of the new orders announced earlier this month at the Farnborough Air Show were from leasing companies rather than operators.
At this point for the new generation of aircraft there is a waiting list which goes out to the end of the decade and I see quite a bit beyond that too.
We are attracted to the efficiency gains that these models will provide and I am convinced we'll be large investors in these aircraft.
However we prefer not to tie up capital for long periods of time alongside with many other lessors particularly when we consider the significant ebbs and flows of investment opportunities in our business over time as well as what’s available here now.
Indeed over the past decades we have seen to exceptionally good entry points for aircraft investors firstly during the financial crisis and secondly 9 or 10 years ago when we started Aircastle.
We are certainly growth minded though we intend to remain disciplined investors to take a longer view in how we develop the company.
As we look ahead we are certainly looking to build on our terrific start in 2014.
With regards to new investments we believe the introduction to new aircraft models across every size category should provide us with substantial financing and re-fleeting opportunities.
In fact these should play well to our skills in investing managing and financing both new and used aircrafts.
We also see great deal of opportunities in purchasing aircraft from some of the larger leasing companies as they work to manage their portfolios.
We had great success over the past several years investing in new wide-body aircrafts with long lease terms and strong customers.
In fact more than 70% of our aircraft acquisitions by value have been with new wide-body.
However competition in this space has become quite strong and we now see better value in mid-age current technology aircraft.
We see the market where 5 to 15 year old airplanes is not more than $200 billion investment opportunity set.
Yet the scenario in which the larger players are virtually absent given their focus on fleet age.
In any case we are actively pursuing investment opportunities with a focus on situations that are less competitive and more custom-tailored and value-additive in nature.
We’re disciplined and taking unique approach to continue to focus on opportunities where we can differentiate ourselves utilize the company’s distinct capabilities and make use of our broad deal sourcing network.
Regarding asset sales we will continue improving the portfolio and seizing on good opportunities to generate gains.
Through our efforts to date we have nearly completed our exit from classic technology aircraft and we continue to use a cash flow driven approach to determining whether to reinvest and re-lease aircraft or sell them.
Given our strong growth to date and our positive view of our new investment pipeline I see Aircastle continuing to be a net buyer this year.
While we have also taken advantage of the lower hanging fruit as it relates to refinancing we intend to continue exploring other opportunities to improve our capital structure and making it even more useful competitor tool.
We are managing the company for long-term and remain focused on accretive growth stable cash flow generation and allocating capital wisely over the business cycle.
And I will turn it over to Mike.
Thanks.
As Ron just mentioned our results were broadly in line with the guidance we provided last quarter and with 1.4 billion of close in committed acquisition our strong growth momentum continued in the first half of this year.
Our fleet growth and value oriented investment approach is generating healthy cash returns and high operating cash flow.
Operating lease and finance lease revenues for the quarter was $187.1 million up 15% or $25 million year-over-year due primarily to the net impact of aircraft investments and sales.
We acquired 25 aircrafts in 2013 and an additional 11 in the first half of 2014 to a total cost of about $2.4 billion.
Over the same period we sold or disposed 45 aircraft and other equipment for approximately $800 million.
Our cash earnings operating cash flow and cash returns have remained strong along with the net growth in the portfolio.
Total revenues for the quarter were $226.1 million up 33% compared to a $170.4 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Higher operating lease and finance lease revenues of 25 million and higher maintenance revenues of 23 million were the primary drivers.
Lease expansion drove the higher lease revenues and our sales activity in the quarter was the primary driver for the increased maintenance revenue.
Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2014 was 211.7 million versus 183.4 million last year.
Higher operating lease and financed lease revenues higher maintenance revenues were partially offset by lower gains from asset sales of 20.4 million.
In the second quarter of 2013 I will remind you we realized 23.6 million of gains from sale of three freighters that we sold to Hainan.
As Ron mentioned we’re very active in the quarter with respect to improving the overall quality of the aircraft portfolio the average age of aircraft sold in the quarter was over 18 years and we generated sales proceeds of approximately 218 million.
Across these sales activities we recognized 35.6 million of maintenance and other revenue and modest gain on sale which was partially offset by 28.3 million of impairment charges related to the 747 freighters that we expect to part out in the second half of this year.
All this activity produced the net pre-tax income impact of 8.2 million or about $0.10 a share in the quarter.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was 47.7 million up 1.6 million year-over-year and reflects higher total revenues of 55.8 million lower maintenance expenses of 3.5 million partially offsetting these improvements were 20.4 million of lower gain on sale higher impairment charges higher depreciation of 3.7 million and higher cash provision of 2.8 million.
Interest expense for the quarter was 60.5 million a decrease of 6.2 million over the prior year.
While our outstanding debt increased to 3.8 billion at the end of the second quarter up from 3.4 billion a year earlier.
Our cash interest expense decreased by 2.7 million due to a lower weighted average cost of funding versus the prior year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 14.1 million up about 900 000 in the prior year.
Depreciation was up 3.7 million to approximately 76 million for the quarter reflecting the growth in the aircraft portfolio.
Our second quarter tax provision was 6.6 million and excluding the impact of our debt extinguishment expense in the quarter that was in effective tax rate of around 14%.
At the end of the second quarter we owned 148 aircraft with the net book value of $5.7 billion.
We had 91 unencumbered aircraft with the net book value of approximately 3.2 billion up from 80 aircraft and 2.7 billion at year end 2013.
For the second quarter of ’14 our portfolio lease rental yield was approximately 13.1% and our net cash interest margin was 9.7% again demonstrating the consistency and the strength of the business.
Cash earnings were 181 million and cash ROE for the last 12 months was approximately $11.3 million.
Cash flow from operations for the quarter 214 million.
Turning to our capital structure we’ve made great strides over the past several years to strengthen and increase the flexibility of the capital structure improve our overall funding cost and position ourselves to be able to capture opportunities as they arise.
At the end of Q2 total borrowings were 3.8 billion.
During the quarter we repaid 450 million of our nine and three quarter percent notes due in 2018 and from the issuance from $500 million of 5% and an 8% notes maturing in 2021.
This refinancing will produce approximately $21 million a year in cash interest savings on an annual basis going forward.
The one-time loss on extinguishment of debt charge was 36.6 million in the quarter or approximately $0.45 per share.
Our ratio of unsecured debt to total debt was 59% versus 58% at year end 2013 and up from 49% at the end of 2012.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.2 times and we’re compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities.
We’ve included certain guidance elements for the third quarter in our earnings PowerPoint that was posted to our Web site this morning.
So to wrap up the prepared remarks we ended the second quarter on a strong note.
Our business is performing well operating cash flow is increasing and we continue to successfully execute our value oriented investment strategy and our proactive portfolio of management and sales activities which continue to improve the overall quality of our fleet.
And with that operator we’re happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
It's actually Richa Talwar here.
I had a couple of questions.
So first about sales we appreciate that you've been very forthcoming on the opportunities in the market to offload some of your portfolio.
So I was just wondering if we could get more color on what aircraft in portfolio you're finding to be the most easy to market which aircraft is turning out to be a little bit more difficult? And as another leg to the question if you could give us a reasonable number range of aircraft sales we should expect for the back half of the year.
I would direct you to the PowerPoint presentation on our Web site it’s on page six and what it will show you there is what we’ve sold this year so far.
There have been seven freighters including three 747s there is a lot of classic aircraft.
I would say that those two categories our they kind of part of the portfolio that I would view as a fleet exit.
A lot of airplanes very low dollar value.
And then I would say that the demand for those aircraft and aircraft in general across the board has been much more robust.
And what’s dramatically different now versus even in the beginning of the year is the depth of this interest both for new aircraft and older aircraft and I think going forward there is a reasonable prospect of even selling freighters.
So it’s a broad-based item.
I think the second part of your question in regards to future expectations we have only a handful of aircraft that I would call fleet exits that we have got plan I think it’s three or four aircraft including the two fighters that we have designated has held for sale.
Beyond that it is opportunistic and I don’t think we’re in a position to comment on that yet.
And then just one on the competitive landscape so not too long ago we read about Norwegian working to set up an aircraft leasing arm.
And if they do end up going through with that plan can you talk about whether you see them as a viable threat? Or if you see the potential for maybe more airlines globally to pursue similar business plans and not putting pressure on your business? I don’t think Norwegian is unique in this approach and it is not limited to this particular point in time in the aircraft leasing world.
It’s happened many times that I would say that I think the only example where it had some success was when Singapore Aircraft Leasing now known as Bank of China Aviation was formed.
Although they had some tough moments in the early years I don’t think airlines are set up to be very good aircraft lessors.
And I think the competitive advantages that we have in terms of having a global reach being an unaffiliated party that doesn’t have any sort of competitive threat and probably having a more competitive financing cost structure puts us in a better place.
My first question as I was looking at one of the pages of your slide deck and you've got a couple aircraft in Russia are they subject to sanctions any concerns any issues there? We are monitoring that very closely.
The answer is no in terms of sanctions.
Our exposure in Russia is largely in value terms in two carriers one of which is AirBridge which is actually a very profitable cargo carrier sort of a rare combination of things.
And the other is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aeroflot.
So we're keeping a close tab on it but everybody is performing pretty well so far.
And then my other question is the government of China is starting to encourage their aircraft leasing companies or their banks; however you want to describe it to go market kind of worldwide and not to just focus internally on the airlines in China.
So there are many.
Do you think that helps you? Does it hurt you? What do you think about that? The Chinese leasing companies have been very much focused on just China historically.
And I don’t think you can be a successful lessor in this space unless you have a global footprint because when the aircraft come off lease you should be looking broadly.
So it's inevitable that this was going to happen.
The Chinese leasing companies also had been focusing on new planes and on situations that tend to be we’ll say more auction oriented.
We avoid those.
I don’t view them as a competitor or as a threat.
And their money as an opportunity do you think? Again largely as I said they've been largely focused on new narrow-bodies and we haven’t had the opportunity to sell very much to them.
It hasn’t been much of an event in either way.
Can I just ask just one question about I'm sorry this is probably going to sound dopey but on the maintenance revenue the aircraft associated with the maintenance revenue; are they remarketed? I don't quite get that maybe I missed the comments about why they were $36 million.
As I said in selling aircraft and when you’re selling aircraft particularly at the end of life you innocents are taking in maintenance revenue at the expiration of that lease.
And so when we are doing this exit sales and getting out of this older aircraft that we mentioned that maintenance revenue is part of the overall math of how your account for the sales of those exit activities.
Okay.
So that includes aircraft that have both been remarketed and aircraft that are still waiting to be remarketed? Now it only occurs at lease end.
So it's either a transition from one lessee to another but in the case of this quarter the vast majority of the maintenance revenue was driven by our sales activity.
I think there has been some recent mixed messages just overall in the airline marketplace looking at potential overcapacity in North Atlantic route so a little bit more weakness I guess from your customer base relative to very strong orders coming in at Farnborough et cetera.
So I was just curious as to what your feeling is about the strength of your customer base? And are you seeing any new watch list folks popping up among your customers? Good morning and good question there have been some headlines about too much capacity over the North Atlantic or too much capacity over the Pacific this is inventible thing that happens as airlines grow and readjust based on differential growth patterns.
So I don’t view that as an alarming thing per se.
The credit quality of our portfolio and the receivables for that matter are actually quite good.
In fact I would go and say that because of all the portfolio management steps we’ve taken over the past year or two that the credit quality has never been better.
I think having said that looking around the world there is a few hotspots where we have to keep close steps.
But I don’t think these short term comments about too much capacity in one market to the other are problematic and actually the good thing about this space is that you can move aircraft from one place to the other.
That's helpful thanks.
The A330 NEO obviously you've talked a lot about last-off the line risk on narrow-bodies over the past few years and you've added some newer A330s over the past couple years as well.
Are you concerned at all about kind of a last off the line risk on the A330 NEO coming up? I think the A330 NEO is an interesting development and actually a bit of an inevitability because of the competitive threat that he 787s posed but it’s a fact of our business that new aircraft get introduced and getting in at the right price and in the right situation is key.
I don’t believe there will be much in a way of NEO for quite a number of years.
So I don’t think of it is an immediate awful last off line kind of the thing.
And then lastly Mike maybe if you could go in a little bit more detail about the 8.2 million net contribution what specifically what line items were those impacting to get to that 8.2 million benefit from the aircraft sales? Yes as I said in my remarks Arren basically you had about 35.6 million of maintenance and other revenue you had and the impairment charge of 28.3 and a modest gain on sale and net of those three numbers is about 8.2 million pretax in the quarter.
And we file our Q at the end of the day as we typically do they’ll be more data in there for everybody to digest.
Okay thank you.
I've got Mark Streeter here with me as well.
Obviously a lot of speculation as to EXIM Bank financing and the accompanying ramifications there both for airlines and lessors just curious Ron what your current thoughts are at the moment? A couple of things one is EXIM Bank and for that matter the European ECAs have played a declining role in what’s going on from a financing perspective.
They played a role during the time of the market where the markets were most disturbed in terms of financing capabilities.
But in terms of their profile right now it’s not that huge a number of the customers that are benefiting from that are actually fine on their own in terms of accessing capital through different ways.
Probably the most problematic part of this is in aircraft types that are most difficult to finance on their own.
In the case of Boeing aircraft probably the 747-8s but as a bigger picture thing I don’t think it’s still into the market maybe for some individual source of for Boeing.
But for us it’s a non-event.
Appreciate that.
As a follow up should we be more focused on traffic growth or profit trends? Because obviously and this gets back to questions that have already been asked as analysts and investors particularly those of us that follow the airlines as well the focus tends to be on the latter on profitability.
But from a leasing perspective I'm wondering if the former is actually the more selling metric at least up to a point? We tend to focus on traffic growth.
Unfortunately airlines come and go and the providers of the service change and their cost structures if they’re competitive get competed away by other people that take over the LCC phenomena is a big deal and obviously is tend forth away low cost short haul low cost travel is done.
So we’re not completely in different to whether somebody is around or not but I think it’s the overall demand that makes a difference and I don’t see any reversal of the ticket pricing trends that have been going on for many many years.
And just to squeeze in a third one on the topic of portfolio sales are you looking at the AIRES portfolio? We don’t comment on any particular situation we tried to save as involved in opportunities as we can.
Okay well then it doesn't count as a third question.
That's fine.
I'll move on.
Thanks a lot.
Ron with your comments two questions on kind of maybe the future direction of the fleet.
You mentioned one that it seems like after maybe you're moving to a younger fleet it's declined in age it sounds like your comments now are saying that mid-life is now more attractive.
Should we see the fleet age start to creep back up again?  The short answer is I don’t know.
We don’t manage the fleet age we managed through lease terms.
The fact that the fleet age decreases the function of two things one is we’ve got a lot of very high quality newer wide-bodies on long lease terms with good customers.
Those are all very good.
And then we did that as long as we could in terms of being able to make a reasonable return on capital.
That’s gone very competitive I mean you never know there may be other opportunities that pop-up in that regard but what I was saying is that the media age aircraft are -- mid-age current technology aircraft that’s the important part are attractive.
And because of all the new models coming down the line there should be interesting growth opportunities where we should be able to make some good money.
The other part of it is sales.
And we have been exiting the old technology aircraft very successfully making money on it.
There’ll be some further evolution in our portfolio as we discussed.
I don’t know if the short answer.
I would think that it wouldn’t move that much but it’s not a metric that we managed to.
I also noticed in your comments kind of a shift.
You actually favored wide-body for a while now you're saying probably better opportunity in narrow-body.
What do you think has caused the increased demand for wide-body? Is it just the function of the way traffic is flowing? I think the wide-body space has been underappreciated for awhile and I think investors are waking up to that.
And part of that was also driven by the fact that there was yield fatigue on the narrow-body side.
When you have everybody in the business kind of focusing on the same thing it drives down returns.
Almost all of the big players are focused predominantly on new narrow-body and I think we lose sight of every now and then as an industry it’s that this is an investing business.
It’s not an asset collection business.
And just because it’s new or it’s because it’s all narrow-body or whatever it is you got to make an adequate return on that.
And so I think it’s just the natural evolution of the market where capital is finding its way to the next highest and the most interesting application.
And then one final question obviously you guys are looking for acquisition opportunities and it sounds like more mid-life.
Just trying to get a sense competition you mentioned prices and lease rates these prices for aircraft are going up due to demand.
Are you seeing the same level of competition still on a sale lease-back opportunity or any other type of opportunity acquiring aircraft? Are you seeing increased competition? There is increased competition.
But we’re very careful about which situations we step into so generalizing is only worth so much.
Well we try to focus on these places where we are not in an auction.
We lose every time where it is basically the guy with the lowest cost or capital on the line.
And so situations where there is a value-add element helping somebody transition out of four fleet dealing with aircraft for shorter lease terms as we did with some very attractive and newer Latam 777s or with mid-age aircraft suits us and there’s situations where there is fewer people bumping up against us.
The mid-age market though having said that and as I said in my remarks is the place where we don’t see are big competitors playing by and large and so the folks that we compete against and then there is always competition.
I don’t feel if anybody tells you there is competition.
There are folks that have lesser resources whether it is capital or people.
And so I think we’ve a pretty good we are seeing a pretty good chance of winning these deals.
Ron it's been a little bit over a year since Marubeni became a major shareholder.
And at the time you talked about some of the potential strategic benefits of bringing that kind of partner on.
Can you tell us where that stands and where you expect to take the relationship? The relationship has been a very good one.
And we have had a number of benefits.
I’ll give you an example.
Some of them are more tangible and some of them are less and some of them are on to come.
But I think that in fact we have a nice stable shareholder probably put us in a very different position with rating agencies and as you know that’s an important part of our capital access story.
And I in fact I think Moody's might have taken us off their watch list back last year when Marubeni came on-board.
We have extended our revolving line of credit that includes a bank that is an affiliate of a Japanese bank.
I can tell you that there is a direct line from the Marubeni shareholder to that but it probably didn’t hurt.
We have a number of ongoing opportunities being pursued whether it’s buying from Japanese lessors that are looking to exit or talking to more Japanese banks.
We’re dealing with some of the large Asian airlines through the Marubeni relationships are at play.
Stay tuned.
Also maybe a couple for Mike Mike do you still disclose what your annualized current lease run rate is? You used to give that number quarterly.
You know Gary we haven’t put it out because we have been much more active in selling things in China handicap sales frankly I thought it was too hard and I did want to put out the number that was potentially sort of misleading to people.
Also you mentioned you've already sold one freighter.
You expect to sell two more.
Is there any unusual accounting that goes on with those other two freighters? Will there be an impairment charge or do you see these being sold at basically book value? No I expect to get out of the second half of this year those two freighters that have been written down had around where their new carrying value is.
Okay.
And assuming those are sold by year-end what percentage of your fleet by book value would be freighter? It depends on what we buy Gary and what we sell there is a lot of other stuff going on.
I would say it’s a general trend you’ll see the freighters decreasing as a percent of our portfolio but to put a number on it is a little bit secular.
Great thank you very much.
You've talked about kind of the returns.
Is there any way you could kind of just give us a sense for the levels how you see the IRRs on new deals compared to let's say over the last couple of quarters? I’ve kind of got a follow-up.
We’re still trying to -- we're still targeting from a cash IRR perspective this is not a GAAP measure and it’s not something that we’re talking about burdening with overhead but just share yield math similar levels we’re still at the 15% and north territory.
What’s helpful is when your cost of debt is lower but we’ll remain disciplined in that regard.
But when you look out I guess is it a question of just not seeing as many opportunities at that level or how do you kind of think about what's out there? I think we’ve got out to maybe our best start ever with over $900 million in the first half.
We’re not trying to go after the retail market in terms of transactions so hard to say exactly where we’ll end up the year and what that year after that brings on because market conditions change a lot but I am optimistic about the pipeline and the growth prospects.
And then I'm not sure if this is part of the vagaries of just the math inherent in the calculation but your cash ROE is kind of down roughly 0.5% from where it kind of had run roughly.
And I know it's a volatile measure but is there any kind of reason for that and can you talk about that? I think you see in the current LPM basis we basically lost a big contribution from sales in the second quarter of ’13 and we’re also in the current year as I mentioned in our Investor Day discussion having some downward pressure from contra-maintenance revenue in 2014.
So I expect this year to be in this level and I expect it to expand next year as we watch our way through some of that.
Got it thanks so much.
Just back to the mid-age aircraft that you're finding kind of particularly attractive at present can you talk about the sourcing and value identification process that you and the team go through in ferreting out good deals in this segment of the market kind of in contrast with some of the newer stuff? And I think you mentioned opportunities getting aircraft from both lessors as well as airlines here and maybe kind of talk about the differences.
I think it’s fair to say that for mid-age aircraft we cast an even broader net because there is a broader range of owners.
So it’s both airlines and lessors on the lessors side first a number of lessors do manage to a fleet age and we’re open to different aircraft type as long as it’s good investment proposition so that’s a source of business for us.
There are a number of smaller leasing companies that we bought from that were using our transaction as a way of exiting the market over the last two years.
So it’s not just big guys.
On the air line side it’s all over the world it could be somebody who just needs to refinance a balloon dead balloon coming up or somebody who is trying to hit residual risk to somebody is better able to deal with it like us in anticipation of new technology aircraft coming.
Okay thanks.
And then just another follow up clearly very nice benefits on the debt refinance side and Ron I think you mentioned keeping an eye out for other capital efficiency opportunities.
Anything else specific you guys have in mind more refinancing other types or composition of borrowings as an opportunity for the business perhaps? I think we don’t have any specific ideas to discuss today but I would say in terms of looking at our debt maturity and our unsecured complex and how those maturities roll out and how those bonds have been trading.
We obviously keep our eye on opportunities to refinance some of that and push that maturity wall to the right as we move forward in what continues to be a very strong and saturate environment.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for taking my question.
Ron one of the other lessors that reported today this morning said that they think that we're in the fifth year of a seven year cycle.
Not that anybody really knows.
Not that this is guidance but I'm just curious do you agree with that general view of the cycle or what's your view of the cycle? Well I don’t think we’re that good.
We don’t have a crystal ball that’s got all those sort of lines ingredients on it.
It feels to me a more complicated world than just that.
There is a couple of different things that plays here one is the capital cycle and other if you order cycle then there is the economy.
And there is different upsides and downsides depending on which part that you’re measuring and you sort of have to look at how all these things come together when you look at anyone particular angle on our business.
I think economically there is a lot more upside.
The European economies are still in a very slow growth mode.
If they get it together there is upside there.
China has remained remarkably resilient.
The U.S.
has picked up.
The last GDP number was actually pretty good.
So there's upside there.
The financial market is an interesting place because of the low interest rate environment and the search for yield that I have talked about and that’s obviously crept into our space and a lot of others.
That has cost asset price inflation which always worries us.
We are very-very price focused.
So the question though then is how does that relate to the financing opportunities? The short answer is I am not calling a peak to the cycle I don’t think we can do that.
And it’s a little bit more complicated than that.
And just you mentioned the order cycle as well.
And I think this relates to some of your other commentary.
Just going back to this idea that there are some concerns out there about soft patches I think the concern is also in part that manufacturers are over-delivering and therefore the supply-demand balance will continue to get worse from here.
Of course that's just a concern among investors may or may not be true.
I'm curious what your perspective there is?  In the immediate timeframe whatever aircraft are being served up are being doubled up.
There is really no idle capacity of any magnitude for modern aircraft whether it is small or big.
What would happen in the future is a function of a couple of things.
One is the economic growth rate the growth in demand; and then retirement rates.
I think the Aircastle’s approach has always been a little bit more risk.
At first in regards to putting those commitments weigh the heck out there.
And that is because of the order right now -- and I will come back to that in a second.
But it’s just because when you look back over the last 5 or 10 years there been extremely good and extremely bad opportunities in terms of investing.
And when you look at the order streams as they are right now and how long you have to wait.
There’s a good chance that you’re going to be missing out on something good and so we balance how good of an opportunity is this order.
I just order Boeing you know in Airbus I'm not giving out massive discounts because why you need to.
And how good is that opportunity 5 to 10 years versus the year now or what might come.
In our book it’s better to keep your options open invest now and we’ll let other people do that.
And you made your view on economic growth clear but the view on retirement rates do you agree with the idea that they're going to be higher for longer here?  I think as lessors become an increasing part of the ownership type as they have a different financial discipline I will say a greater financial discipline will enter into the retirement versus continuing to operate decision.
We have been pretty aggressive about exiting out earlier and finding good profitable points.
And I would imagine if that our peers would be similarly inclined from an analytic perspective.
But I think the one big overriding factor here John which factors into the competitiveness of any aircraft is what fuel prices are.
And so if you prices remain where they are it’s one thing but if they drop it changes the equations fundamentally.
And one of the reasons your timing rates have been as high as they’ve been is because fuel has kind of hung around it’s $3 a gallon territory and it is pretty high.
That's super helpful.
And just one last clarification you had mentioned that it's good to expect freighter the right models to expect freighter exposure to fall.
Is that just the simple math around the freighter sales that you've already announced? Or is that a point for after those transactions occur we should expect freighter exposure on balance to fall further? I think is the function of growth firstly.
That will actually have a bigger effect than the sales that we thought about because those are relatively small dollar values.
If we have a nice elegant point to exit freight whether it’s -- for that matter any aircraft where we think the piece of earning power is not as good we’ll do it.
I think this market offers more opportunities to do that.
Could you give us a sense of how important investment grade ratings are to you and what kind of a time frame is that you think you could achieve that? I'll weigh in with the first part and Mike can talk about the second.
Investment grade is an aspiration of ours and I will explain why.
It fits in strategically.
It’s not so easy to say how it all comes about.
But I think the benefit from investments grade is more reliable access to capital throughout the business cycle.
And as I spoke to in my remarks I think the best opportunities are when the market is little bit out of joint and that’s where the investment-grade access is a big deal.
But even today when we did our last Boeing deal there was another lessor with a Boeing deal right around the same time around the same size around the same tender and was 1.5% less.
If you apply that to your capital structure over time it’s very powerful.
But that’s during a good market.
During a bad market it’s a lot more valuable.
So I think it’s a key thing to aspire to.
With S&amp;P I think it is size driven.
Any kind of timing commentary? I think the timing is all function of our growth.
And we’re mindful of the step change benefit.
It’s not a bright line as to when you crossover into this magical world that the rating agencies might say is acceptable.
But we’re mindful of that and it really is a function of the opportunities we see.
Great thank you.
Just had a few housekeeping questions.
I was wondering going to your page on aircraft sales I was just trying to back out what occurred in Q1.
And I was just wondering if you could kind of just get us through what the Q2 activity has been.
And also where the freighter sales tend to be on kind of the age spectrum of your current freighter fleet? I’ll answer the second question first I think the freighters that we sold are early 90s vintage I don’t the exact dates right off the at the top of my head but say 20 plus years in age.
And in regards to the first quarter I know that the four 737 classic freighters were a large part of that mix and I think there are one or two others that factor into as well.
Because I'm showing I think you sold six in the first quarter and it says you sold 17 in the second quarter and I'm just trying to add that up.
Right so let me just help you little bit with the math that some items there that go beyond the second quarter firstly the four aircraft are from the first quarter that’s the first item there.
The three 747 freighters that are also to come and then the last aircraft on the list is a 777 that we’re selling into our joint venture that’s a third quarter deal.
On the 777 on the joint venture with Ontario Teachers' are there any parameters for what aircraft can be acceptable? Do they need to be new? Do they need to be wide-bodies? Do they need to be 777s I mean I’m just… No they look at the world very similar the way we do.
And then lastly I just noticed on your income statement that the amortization of lease premiums or lease incentives switched to a positive in the quarter.
And I was just wondering if you might be able to just fill us in on why that was the case.
Yes in our sales activities one of the assets that we sold resulted in a reversal of lease incentives in the quarter.
And so it’s not reflective of what the overall sort of run rate of that activity will be going forward.
It’s part of the 35.5 million of maintenance and other revenue that I talked about in the context of the asset sales impact on Q2.
And going forward and I don't mean like next quarter I mean just in general should we expect that line item or that contra-revenue to increase over time given the growth in maintenance revenues? Like is there a relationship between the two? Or is most of the maintenance revenue that's now being booked a function of sales and dispositions of aircraft?  There is no clear correlation over time of how those things are going to flow.
I would not say lease incentives are going to grow as a general matter it’s going to depend upon what we buy what we own and what we do at each lease turn with the aircraft.
The contra-maintenance revenue are related to a specific batch of aircraft it was sort of an oddball situation.
And once those play out that’s going to begin the story as far as we can tell.
Got you thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for your time today.
We hope you found it helpful.
If you have any follow up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Thank you again have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Aircastle Limited Q3 2014 earnings call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Aircastle.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Erica.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's third quarter 2014 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle's Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I'd like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I'd like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And will now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and welcome.
During this call I want to share with you an overview of Aircastle's performance during the third quarter our perspectives on the business environment and our plans both for the near-term and long-term future.
Mike will then address Aircastle's financial results and then we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
During the third quarter as we have throughout the year we see some favorable market conditions and focused on three main areas: number one capturing value-enhancing investments to position the company for future growth; number two improving our portfolio and derisking our business; and three continuing to improve our capital structure.
Progress in these areas will lead to improved financial performance.
Our results pair this out as our cash ROE for the quarter was 12.8%.
Our growth portfolio quality improvements and consistently strong credit metrics along with an enhanced capital structure have put us on a path towards investment grade credit ratings.
This is important because at the top of our strategic comparatives for the company is to maintain good and well priced access to capital throughout the business cycle.
During the first three quarters we closed more than $1 billion in investments.
We're also finishing off 2014 quite nicely as we plan to complete another $750 million of acquisitions by the end of the first quarter next year.
In fact we've already closed a-third of this this quarter.
Much of our recent success is in winning businesses driven by our ability to move more quickly and decisively than our competitors.
That's why Aircastle is known as an extremely reliable confident and nimble counterparty to airlines and lessors around the world.
As yearend 2014 approaches we continue to make excellent progress towards improving our business.
Our asset sales activities are a great case in point as we've capitalized on strong market conditions to sell 37 mostly older aircraft during the first three quarters.
In doing so we've derisked our portfolio while also netting more than $13 million.
Thanks to this excellent work by our team on asset sales together with the high quality of our new investments we're further enhancing Aircastle's portfolio quality while cash net interest margins are among the highest in the industry.
During Q3 our cash net interest margin was nearly 10%.
We've capitalized on strong lease demand by addressing a lease roll-off aggressively.
We have no unplaced aircraft for 2014 and our fleet utilization during the third quarter was a 100%.
Also including signed letters of intent we now have only five aircraft left to place next year.
Throughout the year we've continued to work on enhancing our capital structure to lock in today's low interest rate costs and longer terms.
We've also increased the size of our unsecured warehouse and lengthened its term providing us with better financial flexibility.
Last week Aircastle celebrated its 10<sup>th</sup> anniversary.
We started from scratches a new breed of aircraft leasing company that pioneered several important developments in our market.
We're the first to the current generation of listed leasing companies to go public which we did a little over eight years ago.
We introduced the idea of sharing a portion of earnings with investors through dividends and have paid out $540 million in dividends since going public.
We've been a leader in debt capital markets innovations including issuing the first simplified and more straightforward securitization deal and we were an early participant in the unsecured bond market.
As an important point of differentiation we see ourselves first and foremost as investors investors with a unique point of view on and expertise in commercial aviation.
We also remain committed to allocating capital effectively appropriately and efficiently between value enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
In this regard we're pleased to announce a 10% increase in our dividend bringing it to $0.22 per share quarterly.
This move reflects the board's and our management team's confidence about the growth in the company's earning space and its prospects.
It also marks the 34<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter where we've declared a dividend.
The board also authorized a $100 million share repurchase program.
We view this to be an important capital allocation tool that can add value to shareholders.
Over the past several years we bought back nearly $140 million of our shares at prices that were well below book value.
At this point we're well placed to move forward and to build on the achievements of the past decade.
We have a terrific team that provides us unique point of view and skill sets to pursue different investment opportunities across our sector.
Our capital structure is flexible and low cost and it allows us to act decisively in market opportunities as they arise.
In Marubeni and Ontario Teachers we have great globally oriented long-term minded shareholding partners and we're also privileged to have a world-class board of directors that provide great insights and guidance.
We're enthusiastic about what the future holds for Aircastle.
We're planning not only at being a best-in-class company that we are today but also growing into a top-tier player in our industry that remains focused on delivering strong financial returns.
As we look at the business environment we see mostly positives.
However financial market volatility has increased over the past several months and we're keeping a close eye on several geopolitical developments and health issues.
On the plus side passenger traffic has continued to grow at a healthy rate of almost 6% this year despite macro challenges highlighting a robust nature of this expansion.
However sluggish economic activity in Europe unrest in certain parts of the world and fear surrounding the Ebola virus could pose challenges to the global airline industry's ability to continue growing at this rate.
The good news is that the most recent airline result suggest that profitability remained strong and that health concerns aren't keeping people from flying.
From a portfolio risk management perspective we're monitoring hotspots diligently and taking advantage of strong global demand by driving our lease placements toward stronger lease counterparties.
Passenger aircraft rentals remain steady in good levels benefiting from robust traffic growth very high load factors and limited modern aircraft availability.
We're tapping into this strength by securing new lease placements and extensions as far out as we reasonably can.
Another important positive development is that should benefit airline profitability significantly is the decline in fuel cost.
Jet fuel is the single biggest P&amp;L item for airlines.
There are almost 20% drop in kerosene prices since June is noteworthy but remains to be seen whether these low fuel prices are sustainable.
In general lower fuel prices are also very positive for current technology aircraft values.
On that cautionary side that we're seeing a little bit of a pick up in air cargo demand that remains a glut of supply and load factors this year are still only around 45%.
We remain convinced this sector remains widely important but are concerned about new aircraft production levels both main deck cargo aircrafts as well as new wide-body models with large belly capacities and will take a significant and sustained increase in demand to observe the supply growth.
Mike will discuss the actions we've taken regarding our freighter assets.
We've seen tremendous growth in new orders.
This is at least in part related to the many new models coming online over the next few years.
The waiting list for new aircraft goes out to the end of the decade and quite a bit beyond that for some generations of new aircraft.
However a significant portion of the recent orders are from leasing companies and some operators.
We're attracted by the efficiency gains these models provide and I am convinced there will be big investors in these aircraft.
However we're not only price sensitive but also worry about tying capital up for a long time alongside with many other lessors particularly when we consider the broad and varying range of investment opportunities in our business overtime.
As we think about the current business environment it's important to keep in mind the broader historical context where our industry is growing consistently at a multiple of 1.5x to 2x global GDP.
On the other hand we also see ebbs and flows of capital into our sector and from time-to-time market conditions become more volatile.
We are decidedly growth minded but our core operating principles remain disciplined investors who take a longer view of how we develop the company while being fully prepared to exploit prudent opportunities as they present themselves.
Going forward to the next decade and beyond we're undoubtedly looking to build on what's turning out to be a terrific 2014 for the company.
We remain open-minded and flexible about new investment opportunities.
We also remain committed to discovering and acting on situations that are less competitive less compeller to the value additive consistent with our business model.
To the extent investment opportunities arise because of market disturbances or special situations we'll continue to be in an excellent position to capture them as we've done recently.
We projected the introduction of new aircraft models across every size category and will provide us with substantial financing and re-fleeting opportunities.
These play well to our strengths as prudent acquires of both new and used aircraft.
We're disciplined investors and continue to target at least 15% leverage cash returns.
As we've done from the beginning we'll continue to look for good investment realization opportunities to redeploy capital more optimally.
Low interest rates and the search by investors around the world for higher yielding assets have driven aircraft prices up across the board allowing us to capitalize by divesting older aircraft with less favorable future earnings power.
Prudent well-timed aircraft divestiture and acquisition are an integral component of our risk exposure strategy.
In final analysis we remain focused on increasing cash returns and adjusted earnings while managing the company for the long-term.
We're in a solid path towards achieving investment grade credit ratings and our efforts have always been and will continue to be targeted to generating stable cash flow efficiently allocating capital between investments and returning capital to shareholders at appropriate stages and market cycle and creating value profits and dividends to our investors through our differentiated approach in this category.
I'll now hand it over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
As Ron mentioned with over $1 billion of accretive aircraft acquisition closed and about $750 million expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2015 as well as over $560 million of assets sold this year.
We continue to execute on our value-based investment approach leading to healthy and improving profits and operating cash flows.
Turning to our results for the third quarter lease rental and finance lease revenues were up $180.3 million up 9% or $15.1 million year-over-year due primarily to the net impact of aircraft investments and sales.
Total revenues for the quarter were $177.6 million up $7.5 million or 4% from the previous year driven by higher lease rental revenue and finance lease revenues of $15.1 million; lower amortization of net lease discounts and incentives of $8.7 million due primarily to lease incentive reversals of $5.3 million related to maintenance work which will not be performed during the lease.
These improvements were partially offset by lower maintenance revenue of $17.1 million that includes $8.7 million of contra-maintenance associated with engine restoration work performed in connection with scheduled return of two 737-800s during the third quarter and $12.1 million of maintenance revenue in the quarter of 2013 related to an unscheduled leased termination involving a 767-300 aircraft which was subsequently sold.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2014 was $177.4 million versus $169.2 million last year.
Higher lease rental and finance lease revenues of $15.1 million and higher gains in the sale of flight equipment of $8.3 million were partially offset by lower maintenance revenue of $17.1 million.
During the third quarter we completed our annual fleet review and determined the cash flow is expected to be generated by two of our MD-11 freighters as a result of changing the expected lives and the residual values did not support their carrying value and we recorded $20.4 million of pre-cash impairment charges or approximately $0.25 a share.
In addition for our five Boeing 747-400 production freighters all of which passed the recoverability assessment we've shortened the expected useful lives from 35 years to 30 years from the production date.
We are continuing to reduce our freighter exposure.
Today the share of our portfolio is half of what it was two years ago and we expect this to continue to shrink.
Over the past year we've sold or designated for sale seven freighter aircraft and also found new leases for four units.
So this is an actively managed process.
We expect to exit the older MD-11s and 747 converted freighters over the next five years which would leave us with a total freighter fleet of five newer and relatively more efficient main deck units within the context of a large and growing business.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $26.6 million up $95.6 million year-over-year reflects $7.5 million of higher revenues $85.7 million of lower non-cash aircraft impairment charges $8.3 million of higher gains on sale of flight equipment and $3.1 million lower adjusted interest expense.
Partially offsetting these improvements were $5.1 million of higher depreciation expense and higher income taxes of $4.1 million.
Interest expense for the quarter was $56.8 million a decrease of $1 million over the prior year due primarily to lower interest expense on borrowings of approximately $3 million driven by lower weighted interest costs.
This was partially offset by higher amortization on deferred hedge losses reflecting the repayment of securitization number one earlier this year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $13.8 million up approximately $1 million over the prior year reflecting higher professional fees and personnel costs.
Depreciation was up $5.1 million to $75.5 million for the quarter reflecting the growth in the portfolio year-over-year.
Our tax provision for the quarter was $3.5 million reflecting an effective tax rate of approximately 16%.
At the end of the third quarter we owned 140 aircraft with a net book value of $5.3 billion including 85 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of $2.9 billion or approximately 55% of the net book value of flight equipment.
For the third quarter our portfolio lease rental yield was 13.2% and our net cash interest margin was 9.9% demonstrating the consistency and strength of the business.
And our cash ROE was approximately 12.8%.
At the end of the quarter we had $474 million of unrestricted cash and $450 million of unused revolving credit capacity.
Total borrowings at the end of the quarter were $3.7 billion including $2.2 billion of unsecured debt.
Our weighted average coupon on our debt was 4.75% at the end of the quarter versus 5.37% at the end of last year.
Our weighted average debt maturity is approximately 4.5 years as of the end of the quarter.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 1.9x and we're in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facility.
We have included certain guidance element through the fourth quarter in our earnings PowerPoint that was posted to our website earlier this morning.
To summarize we've ended the third quarter on a strong note.
Our business is performing well operating cash flow is increasing and we continue to successfully execute our value-oriented investment strategy while effectively managing the portfolio and improving the overall quality of our fleet.
With that operator we're happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
So my first one was on your comments Ron regarding investment grade credit rating.
It seems that you're a little bit more vocal about being on the path towards achieving that so I was wondering what was driving that.
Did you have more constructive conversations with the rating agencies? If you could just provide more color that be helpful? We've always felt that from a credit metric perspective we're clearly in the zone of company that should be rated that way.
The growth in the company and the momentum we've got on the acquisition side leads me to believe we're inching closer to that level.
I don't know when that will be.
But it's been clear from our conversations with the rating agencies that they view us to be undersized.
So as we maintain our credit profile as we improve our quality of our portfolio and get bigger I would think that that would lead to an investment grade rating overtime.
And then just another follow-up on some commentary.
I believe it was mentioned that over the next five years you plan to exit from the 747 and MD-11 freighters and I was wondering how you would go about doing that.
Would you be selling them or just parting them out? It will be a combination of both.
We have over the last year or two sold a number of aircrafts.
In some cases they were part outs and some cases they were sales.
And we'll continue to look at opportunities.
The answer depends on the context of course.
And then maybe just one last one on the A330 deal.
I know you have a few currently in your fleet and it's recently been reported that Airbus plans to cut the production of that airplane by 10%.
I am just hoping you could talk through how that decision will probably impact your view on the asset regarding residual value risk long-term supply versus demand et cetera.
The introduction of the neoA330 was a little bit of a surprise but the fact that there is a successor to the A330 was not.
It's kind of evolved in a different path than we would have expected say two years ago.
But I don't think it changes the punch line aircraft get replaced inevitably and what we try to do is to be as prudent as we can about expected future values so net-net I don't think there's a huge change.
I am still skeptic about the neo program.
I think from an investors' perspective it's important to get a production run as long enough in order to get a critical mass.
We look at it not from an operator's perspective but from a lessor who is going to need several customers over the life of the aircraft.
So I am not clear on how long that neo model will actually be in production.
I realize we're still early as it relates to any longer term ramifications of cheaper fuel.
The obvious question is whether you're already seeing any changes in what your customers are asking for.
Any firming of pricing on aircraft that maybe as recently as August were viewed as fuel cost prohibitive but today are making more economic sense? I mean if fuel does stay here how does your portfolio composition change over the next I don't know five-years? The market demand for the most marginal aircraft is going to be where you see the biggest change given the drop in fuel prices.
And we've heard anecdotal evidence that 75s and 76s for example are getting a new lease another turn that that we might not have anticipated otherwise.
And that actually also percolates into the engine market as well which is relevant for some of our portfolio actions.
I think the longer-term effect is probably going to be felt more along the current generation of aircrafts whether it's A320s with the current engine option or new-gen current generation 737s I think those will from a pricing perspective look a lot better than say a very expensive new neo or max that relies on big fuel savings to make its economic case.
So it remains to be seen Jamie how long this fuel price drop remains but if it does then there needs to be a repricing of the new aircraft versus existing ones.
Follow-up and we've asked this question in the past but if I handed I don't know pick a number $300 million in cash over to you right now would you immediately put it to use in the aircraft market and if so where? I am very excited about the investment opportunities we've been seeing.
I made some comments during the prepared remarks about bit of a surge in activity for ourselves over the last few weeks.
It's been both with regards to new aircraft as well as mid-age aircraft.
The mid-age aircraft in order to be a player there you need to have access to unsecured debt because in order to seize the opportunities you have to be able to move quickly that's why we want a number of these things.
And what we are seeing our unlevered yields of 9% to 10% with very low risk profile; good credits very high cash flow and in that context you kind of have to be situated well.
The guy on the street can't do this and we've actually beat out a number of the newer players in the sector in that regard.
We found special situations on new aircraft actually.
And there the key to success is also having affordably priced secured debt.
That's probably a more broadly applicable scenario but in order to win those yields as well we bought with cash and intend to back lever in time.
I think there is good values especially when there's special situations that pop up so we are not averse to market volatility as long as our house is in order.
Since you just completed your annual aircraft portfolio valuation review I wonder if you'd be willing to share with us what the appraised value relative to the $5.3 billion of assets you reported at the end of September was? Gary I think the simple answer is I think our appraised value is very consistent with the values that we put on our books.
And we do our own independent value because the appraised values tend to be quite generic.
They don't take into consideration the lease rate for example or the maintenance condition or the quality of the customer.
We think our view of the value of the portfolio is quite nicely matching up with the book value.
Also Ron the last time you bought stock I think it was almost two years ago maybe little less.
The stock was trading at maybe a 60% of book value.
Today you're much closer to parity.
So do you think of the authorization as dry powder if we have something that we had in early October where the stock unexpectedly dips and then there's a buying opportunity or do you see more of a sort of an ongoing buy back program even at current levels? Your first characterization is a reasonable way to think about it at the moment.
Then we just think having an authorization in place and being able to look at allocating capital whether it's buying planes or buying back stock on a continues basis is just the right way to run this business.
And last one Ron is it fair to assume that your joint venture partner has the same view of placing forward orders with the OEMs as you do? Yes.
I think the capability of the joint venture is also probably less just institutionally.
To buy aircraft into the future you got to make deposits you got to make pre-delivery payments and we had more tools in our arsenal because of our unsecured revolver for example and that entity does not.
They are very much focused on to find the opportunities and we work together primarily on exposure management and working on bigger deals together that's been very successful and we're pleased with how this turned out.
In fact during the third quarter we sold to the joint venture a 777 that we have on lease to LATAM which had been our biggest customer prior to the sale.
Your comment Ron on you're comfortable that book value is close to market value.
Do I take it then -- do you believe we've come to the end of the impairments that you've made on a fairly continual basis over the last few years? And is it really just related to the impairments that you're earning now related to freighters? Andrew there is a lot of factors that go into impairments.
I direct you to the PowerPoint presentation that we've posted on our website.
There is a page in there that talks about the fleet review and recoverability analysis and what it shows in the bottom is an evolution of what we call them aircraft monitoring list.
These are the aircraft that we consider to be most vulnerable to impairments.
They're not a perfect guide.
And in either direction actually on the list that we have today we have one aircraft that we expect to sell shortly for a modest profit.
But directionally I think what it shows you is that we've reduced the risky assets in our portfolio dramatically.
Hand-in-hand with that has been the reduction of the freighter fleet and the more conservative residual and depreciation policy we've used.
I can't say it won't happen again but we think we've taken prudent actions.
And on your relationship with Marubeni.
I mean are you getting closer to doing actual real transactions or is that still very much in the future? Until you close you never know but we have a lot of irons in the fire and we're optimistic.
And then final question on I believe Airbus is reviving its A-320 freighter conversion project which in a few years done.
I know you're reducing your exposure in freighters but you are the freighter expert.
Can you give much credence to that program and do you think it could be a meaningful support of residual values on your A-320 321 fleet I don't think it's a big support of residual values.
I think there has been a surge in 737-400 freighter conversion activity.
We've watched that.
We have a few aircraft in our fleet that -- actually the last of our classics is about to be sold.
So we'll be out of those completely.
But we haven't been tempted to jumping in there because of two reasons.
Number one it's a descent size upfront investment relative to the value of the aircraft and that's been particularly the case for the airbus program that's been I think probably the fundamental problem into why it didn't go forward in the first place.
I'm not sure if they fundamentally address that cost issue.
But the second part of it is that for the aircraft that we've seen you've got a balance the reinvestment cost versus the decline in residual value from getting out now.
And we haven't been able to make that math work.
We don't rule that out categorically I just don't see that as a huge driver of value either for our portfolio or more generally.
Just a question.
Ron you mentioned political volatility Europe is slow any change in the watch list or accounts receivable trend you've seen? Accounts receivable actually look really good right now but the time to watch accounts receivable always every year is during the winter when traffic tends to slow down.
We're obliviously concerned about Russia we're concerned about the weaker carriers in economies that are suffering from disturbances or slowing growth rates but at the moment things look pretty good.
And then just on oil prices again if oil prices sit here at these levels is there a risk that maybe mid-life aircraft start getting bid up to maybe uneconomic levels and you have to shift strategy to maybe the newer aircraft or OEM aircraft or maybe didn't obviously perform a value you'd shift to a new aircraft strategy? Our strategy is to be flexible.
More than anybody else in our space we've adapted based on what the market gives and we have the financial flexibility and the capital structure to behave that way.
I'd also add that buying aircraft is a little bit of a different skill set than buying used aircraft and managing them.
And I don't think most of the bigger leasing companies are quite as adept at that as we are.
So we are as I said during the last call we see good value at mid-aged narrow-bodies.
The proposition looks only better now with lower fuel prices but it's a situational question and with all the different opportunities in the market we'll look across the board.
And one follow-up question.
People talked about the all the capital flowing in the space.
You mentioned a couple of special situations that you were able to take advantage of because of the strong balance sheet.
But in more generic situations are you noticing more bidders showing up or more buyers showing up than have been in the past for mid-life aircraft since the decline in oil prices? The oil prices haven't changed anything in that regard.
I don't think the investment market is that agile but what I would say though is that versus a year ago that the demand for mid-age aircraft is certainly higher and most of the players are newer.
And that's one of the reasons we've been so successful with our sales program.
But the increase in the capital is across the board it's for end-of-life aircraft it's for new airplanes and what happens in our space also is that volatility affects different deals in different ways.
So one of the examples that I had alluded to it in terms of deals that we won were for brand new aircraft for Avianca.
That was a deal that involved an Asian lessor which wasn't able to deliver on its commitments and we were able to sweep and be a cash buyer.
And I think it had left our customer very happy.
This is James Ulan on for Moshe.
Boeing recently announced that they are increasing production of the 737 family from 47 to 52.
Can you give some thoughts on what that might mean for lease rates values and residual values? Well this increase doesn't kick in for about another four five years so that incremental increase is hard to quantify but directionally when there is more of anything it drives the price down.
We're concerned about the overall level of production.
This doesn't really change the equation very much in the near term but it also has a bearing on how we think about new orders.
I am that much less inclined to make a new order for an aircraft and have to compete with that much more supply.
Ron just a follow-up to the questions earlier on the rating agencies.
You mentioned that they are focused on size.
Do you think they're focused at all about composition or are you where you need to be on the composition of the portfolio with the sale of some of your sort of tail-end aircraft? I don't think you can discount that but it's important to take into consideration all the positive moves we made to our portfolio over the last couple of years.
The profile is so much better from an asset mix perspective from an age perspective the credit metrics are terrific and I think if anything all that leads to a better case on our part.
And I can play devil's advocate for a minute here in terms of your desire to sell some of your older aircraft and the freighters and so forth.
Just wondering freighters markets coming back older aircraft in theory; I know there's not an immediate reaction to lower oil and so forth and you talked about this but some of these higher yielding older assets I am just sort of wondering where do you think the sweet spot is? I know you think it's in the mid-life aircraft but I am just sort of wondering if the attractiveness is a little bit further out the curve.
Some of the stuff you've been trying to get rid of have you had a discussion with the Board about maybe taking the step back from the process to call the portfolio or you're just not going to be swayed by short term oil in here basically is what I am wondering.
Well let me give you a little color on what we sold this year.
Of the 37 airplane we sold if I take out the new 777 sold through our joint venture the average age was about 17 years.
I don't believe that most of those aircraft are situations where we personally wish to reinvest in those by extending leases if those were the scenarios.
There is a trade-off between the decline in the value of the metal and reinvesting and kind of doing another lease-turn because when you do that lease placement you also have to make a commitment to fund a certain portion of maintenance that was burned off before that lease began.
So it's a pretty careful analysis on our part.
Absolutely fuel on the margin is a positive but I don't think it changes my view about whether I want to continue owning classics for example.
It may change my perspective on how to think about re-leasing or disposing of the current generation A320 or 737 though.
Great.
Well thanks and good luck with the rating agencies.
I think you should already be rated investment grade.
So I'd like to see it in that you're going after it.
And I wish you the best.
Thanks Mark.
The first question I have is on airlines and their decision between new aircraft and older aircraft and it's not with respect to fuel like Jamie asked earlier but on the airline side we've seen United say that it defers on some deliveries of new aircraft and instead say they would look to used market in order to maybe purchase or lease an aircraft because it just views the returns on those are better.
And to me they're looking at a Delta for example who has been able to buy older aircraft and make just as much money selling tickets as United has been able to.
So my question is are you seeing airlines come to you to try and lease older aircraft because of that economic decision irrespective of fuel because Delta made that decision way before fuel went down.
Are you seeing that trend being more broad-based? Yes.
It's different in different parts of the world.
I think U.S.
has been the leader in that respect.
Delta certainly gets credit for that.
We just extended leases on aircraft with United that were sort of mid-age 737 800s and we did likewise with Alaska.
The situation with Southwest is also similar.
I think the Europeans are starting to pick up on this as well.
The part of the world that's probably lagging is Asia in that regard.
They seem to be focused on new airplanes and I think the cost pressure is there we'll probably bring them around to that overtime.
And then the second question that I had was on lease terms.
When people asks us about the cycle we say well our aircraft lessors are clearly able to place planes pretty easily and you guys with only five planes open for '15 who have certainly been able to place your aircraft well ahead of time.
But as a counterargument to that we heard well lessors can place planes but the terms are different and sometimes they are now being loser or worst depending on what the definition is.
And so I guess I wouldn't necessarily ask you do you think that the ones that you've placed in '15 are on kind of lose or worst terms than you had previously? But if you want to answer that question it's fine.
If not are you hearing that around the industry that kind of in order to place the aircraft lessors are having to adjust maintenance conditions return conditions et cetera? No.
The terms are better.
This is a strong demand environment and I think our job is good stewards of these assets.
We should take advantage of these situations and take advantage of better competitive pressures negotiate not just longer-lease terms but better return conditions and better collateral coverage along the way.
And frankly just enter into deals with people who feel a little bit better about in terms of the lease term.
So all across the board I think it's been pretty healthy.
Now during times like this I think it's also a good to in general extend lease terms keep the lock-in for long as possible.
And conversely during a weak market you don't want to lock-in a lousy lease rental for a long period of time try to keep it short.
And we have pushed our average lease terms out in general as much as we can.
Just kind of getting back to the fleet management.
You chose to sell a decent amount of aircraft this year relative to your plans to have growth and you do have a healthy pipeline that you're going to be closing on over the next six months.
But just how do you balance your growth aspirations with the potential to term the portfolio where you see fit? It's a good question we think about it a lot.
What it boils down to is what do we think about any one particular aircraft whether the prospects are good over the medium or longer-term or whether this is a good exit moment.
And I think the history shows us that with all the ebbs and flows in the cyclical nature of our business that when there's an opportunity to dispose of an aircraft you don't have a strong conviction about you should do it.
And likewise there's a number of aircraft that we've sold where if we put ourselves in the buyers position we see the return is being lower than what we could redeploy.
And so if it's a big margin then we'll think about taking some chips off the table too.
It is a bit of a tension point though but I'm very happy and very comfortable with what we sold.
Another quick question on the investment grade rating possibility I guess outside of the obvious benefits of better rate on the term debt side.
Would you anticipate any other changes in funding mix? Like for example I know that there is some benefit utilizing some bank revolving facilities if they have some agency-related pricing attached to them as well.
So just maybe some thoughts on that would be great.
Yes.
I think clearly the cost of funding advantage of being investment grade is there and that's an obvious reason to pursue that.
The other and equally important thing is just the depth of the investment grade investor market substantially bigger than the high-yield market and more reliable and consistent through thick and thin overtime.
So the combination of being able to access capital when things might not look so rosy in the world that attractive rates which is when you find the best returns is one of the main reasons that we think an investment grade rating is important and can enhance the long-term return on equity in this business overtime.
And then I guess just from a flexibility standpoint I mean I know you have to kind of take time to tap into the term debt side but would that then therefore make other kinds of funding perhaps something that's a little bit more attractive than it's now? Yes.
I think you'll see margin improvement across each of the assets in forms of leverage that you look to imply.
To beat the ratings horse to death couple of follow-up questions.
One have you really quantified the benefit of an investment grade rating.
It's clear you get lower coupon et cetera but have you boiled that down to dollars and cents? Second when you talk to the agencies do they factor in at all the stability of your large owners? And three why bother with Moody's at this point they have significantly lower ratings for yourself and your competitors than S&amp;P.
Why not just go with S&amp;P and Fitch? I'll take a crack at the first one and this isn't a perfect estimate but I'll just give you an anecdote.
When we did our last unsecured bond yield I think it was April and it was eight year $0.5 billion deal about a week apart from ours was an air lease that's $0.5 billion deal for eight years also and their coupon was 1.5% less than ours.
I think during a good market 1% to 1.5% difference is probably a fair guess.
And I think it's broader wider during the weak market and maybe binary actually.
So I think it's important to acknowledge that you can't just press the reset button and expect that to happen all at ones but in time it's extremely powerful.
And what Mike said about giving us an ability to act in a weak market in terms of investing is really important.
So that was maybe hopefully a good answer for your first question.
I'll go to the Moody's question which is it's a good question.
I think at this point not a lot of people pay attention to that.
The rating is a function not of anything particular to Aircastle or our competitors but sort of a methodology that relates to monoline financial companies and it's something we think about.
And in regards to the discussions with rating agencies I think they are aware and certainly noticed that we have a change in the shareholder space.
During the last round of discussions say about a year ago Moody's I think took a soft watch when the Marubeni acquisition took place.
So we've had some tangible benefit from that.
Is that enough? I don't think so.
But I think there is some acknowledgement of that.
Just a quick question most of my questions have been answered an unfortunate part about being in this longer queue I guess.
The dividend increased the 10% you went up to $0.22 per share per quarter.
Can you give us a little bit of color around your decision to do that? I heard you loud and clear on the $100 million share repurchase as well and that's more opportunistic when you feel the opportunity is right.
But just a little bit of color on the dividend increase please and can we expect to see any further increases? So as we looked at what we've done so far this year and what we have queued up for the near-term and as we've done sort of at this time each year over the last few years we're looking at what we view as sort of the cash earnings power of this business which is our cash flow from operations less appreciation.
And we sort of sized our dividend and in this case our dividend increase around what we believe we're exhibiting in the growth of the asset base and the cash earnings base of business.
Over the long-term we've been paying out somewhere around 25% to 35% of cash earnings as dividends and we would expect to be able to continue this level of dividend growth to the extent we can continue to grow the business profitably.
Ron in the answer to a prior question I thought you had mentioned that in the last few weeks in particular there has been a surge of activity.
I don't know if I heard that right but I was hoping that you could elaborate on that? You heard that right.
And a good portion of the $750 million that we talked about is targeting for closing by the end of the first quarter of next year is captured by really recent activity.
We've found a number of transactions where either an airline has been waiting on another counterparty to deliver and lost its confidence in their ability to do so or a move by an airline to shore up liquidity by yearend.
And there is a host of individual kind of factors that kind of go with that but basically our ability to move quickly to be a credible counterparty to be seen as a reasonable long-term partner all factored in each of those deals.
I'm trying to understand how much of that is sort of opportunistic and maybe just sort of one-off opportunities that that cane up versus some sort of inflection or perhaps sustainable change in the market that's going on that's changed in literally the last few weeks or month or so? There has been a little bit of volatility in the broader economy and markets over the last few weeks.
I don't know if that's sustainable as that might have been just a short-term blip.
But our business model is all about being nimble and agile and having the tools to do so.
I wouldn't say that this is turning a corner or anything more than just we had a few bumps in the road that we took advantage of.
And Mike you made some comments about how to think about the dividend to the last question.
And I'm just curious how the notion of impairments factored into the sort of cash flow less depreciation framework.
There have been times in prior cycles when impairments rise significantly and perhaps the sustainability of those cash flows are questioned and we have to adjust the dividend to the down side.
How can we have confidence that cash flow less depreciation is really the right framework here? Well we don't really think about impairments in the context of what we call cash earnings.
We believe the impairment risk and what that entails is encompassed in our view of what we see over the near-to-intermediate term as the cash generating capability of these assets.
Taking a particular accounting step to reset an individual asset isn't reflective of what I believe.
And what I think we've demonstrated is the cash generation capability of this business from which we intend to pay dividend.
So we should not look at impairment activity as a read of future cash flow potential? No.
Mike your fourth quarter guidance includes $4 million to $10 million of gains on sale.
How many more planes does that contemplate selling and demographically are they comparable in H2 what you've been selling year-to-date? I don't really want to get into the specifics of the demographics if you will Gary.
It's a combination of some end-of-life stuff as well as some opportunistic selling of some mid-aged aircraft.
And the range frankly is just around the timing variability we see of course in transactions that we expect to close within the fourth quarter or perhaps could slip into the first quarter.
Also just one more did you say what the third quarter asset purchase dollar total was? I think we didn't talked about it in the remarks but it's in the materials for sure.
I think it was in the order of about $200 million.
Thank you very much for your time today.
If you have any other follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Aircastle Limited Q4 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Aircastle.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle's Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our Web site at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I'd like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our Web site.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And will now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Welcome to everyone joining us today.
During this call we’ll discuss Aircastle's performance during the fourth quarter and the full year of 2014 our perspectives on the business environment and our implications for our company and our plans for 2015 and beyond.
After that Mike will summarize Aircastle's financial results and then we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
We closed a successful 2014 with a surge of very positive activity during the fourth quarter.
Throughout the year we seized on favorable market conditions as we focused on three areas.
Number one growing and upgrading our portfolio through acquisitions and sales; two executing on our best-in-class assets and risk management strategy and three enhancing our financial flexibility and credit profile.
Our financial results improved in 2014 as we executed on our strategic plan.
We continue to improve and evolve Aircastle’s position as the leading value investor in the aircraft leasing space.
Being a value investor means we look across a broad range of available opportunities and carefully glean the best investments using our expertise.
We see a great deal of available opportunities from our differentiated strategy.
We’re committed to the proposition that being a value investor offers better returns as it entails higher barriers to entry than the approach taken by many of the other large aircraft leasing companies.
It capitalizes on our strengths and is a key thing that sets us apart from our competitors.
We’re well positioned to build on the achievements in the past year.
We have an exceptional team whose expertise provides us with unique points of view and a skill set to pursue investments across our sector.
Our flexible capital structure allows us to act decisively on market opportunities as they present themselves.
We have great long-term minded shareholding partners in Marubeni and Ontario Teachers.
I’m pleased to announce that we amended our shareholders agreement with Marubeni which allowed them to increase their investment in Aircastle for the maximum agreed 27.5% a little earlier than an exchange for a longer standstill period.
We view this as a vote of confidence in our company’s direction and we’re also very excited about the progress we’re making with Teachers on our aircraft leasing joint venture.
Our results in 2014 were strong.
Total revenues increased 16% to more than $818 million.
GAAP net income grew to $101 million or $1.25 per share.
Adjusted net income was nearly $160 million or more than $2 per share and cash ROE was 11.7%.
We plan to build on these good results and improve on them in 2015.
We also remain dedicated to allocating capital to achieve the best balance between value-enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
Our shareholders have benefited in the growth of the company’s sustainable earnings through progressively higher dividends.
To this end our Board declared a $0.22 per share dividend payable during the first quarter of 2015.
This marks our 35th consecutive quarterly dividend declaration.
During the third quarter of last year our Board also authorized a $100 million share repurchase program.
We’ll use this authorization opportunistically.
During 2014 we acquired 35 aircraft for $1.8 billion including 21 aircraft for approximately $750 million during the fourth quarter as we grew and we upgraded our portfolio.
Nearly three-quarters of our investments were in aircraft that are less than five years old.
We also found good value into each aircraft including an important 12 aircraft purchase and leaseback deal with Spanish flag-carrier Iberia.
We demonstrated our ability to capitalize on large opportunistic investment opportunities with our strong capital position and our staff’s expertise.
Examples include our $0.5 billion transaction with LATAM for 777s a large recent deal with Avianca for several new A320s and an A330 and the Iberia purchase and leasebacks.
During 2014 we also sold 49 aircraft for net proceeds of more than $800 million.
These sales provided a positive $40 million pre-tax impact.
We sold three of these aircraft to our joint venture with Ontario Teachers bringing total assets there to $545 million at year end.
We used this JV to pursue larger transactions and for exposure management and we’re very pleased with the success we’ve had working together.
The other 46 aircraft we sold had an average age of 19 years.
We’ve upgraded our portfolio quality significantly through these sales efforts.
More specifically we reduced the size of our freighter exposure by more than half over the past three years and nearly completed our exit from classic generation aircraft.
We’re executing on our best-in-class asset and risk management program.
In 2014 we had 99.6% utilization for the full year while maintaining strong revenue yields.
We reduced our Russia passenger airline exposure to three passenger from 10 at the beginning of 2014’s Q4 by early terminating seven aircraft leases during the fourth quarter.
We sold or replaced two of these aircraft and are actively remarketing the other five.
We expect to have all these aircraft back out on lease by the end of the second quarter.
We also made significant progress taking care of our lease roll-off for 2015 as well as 2016.
Including the Russian aircraft we currently only have six aircraft remaining to place in 2015.
They’re all 737-800s that’s after taking into account five older aircraft which we expect to sell at lease end.
Our 2015 roll-off represents just 2.1% of our total fleet NBV.
I’m also pleased to tell you that we currently have no accounts receivable that are more than 30 days past due.
One of the areas in which we’ve made great strides to the past years has been in improving our financial flexibility and credit profile.
We’ve lowered our interest expense extended debt maturities and increased liquidity with a larger unsecured revolving credit facility.
Since the beginning of 2014 we’ve raised approximately $1.6 billion of capital including $1 billion of unsecured notes.
Also now we own more than $3.3 billion in unencumbered aircraft or approximately 59% of our fleet by value.
We reduced our weighted average interest costs from 5.37% to 4.69% during the year.
Our growth portfolio quality improvements and consistently strong credit metrics along with an enhanced capital structure puts us on a path towards investment grade credit ratings.
Getting these investment grades should also allow us to reduce our borrowing costs while maintaining good and well-priced access to capital throughout the business cycle.
As we look at the business environment we have a generally positive outlook.
At the same time the financial and commodity markets have seen some important shifts and we’re keeping a close eye on several hot spots around the world.
On the plus side passenger air traffic grew 5.9% in 2014.
Looking forward sluggish economic activity in Europe and unrest in certain parts of the world could pose a challenge to the airline industry’s ability to continue growing at this rate.
To minimize our exposure to such potential slowdowns we’re taking advantage of strong global demand by driving lease placements towards better customers and safer jurisdictions.
Passenger aircraft rentals have been at good levels benefiting from traffic growth very high load factors and limited aircraft availability.
We’ve tapped into this strength by securing new lease placements and extensions as far out as we reasonably can.
Recently we’ve seen a little softness in certain models but we believe this is temporary partly due to several restructuring situations around the world including several airlines in Russia SpiceJet in India and Skymark in Japan.
However it’s important to note by historical standards we’ve seen very few airline restructuring situations over the past few years.
Another critical positive development that should benefit airline profitability significantly is the decline in fuel costs.
The roughly 40% drop in jet fuel prices since June is noteworthy and is positive for airlines and the International Air Transport Association expects global airline profitability to hit a record $25 billion in 2015.
Lower fuel prices should increase the relative value of mid-age aircraft and lengthen their useful economic lives affirming a key proposition of our value investor strategy.
To this end late last year we signed five-year lease extensions on several 15-year-old A320s with Iberia.
We also placed five mid-age 737-700s on long-term leases with Southwest Airlines both very strong customers.
On the cautionary side we note the U.S.
dollar has strengthened significantly.
Since aircraft trading and leasing takes place in dollars the stronger dollar means rents may look more expensive to an airline generating revenues in a currency that’s weakened.
For some airlines this will offset the benefits of cheaper fuel.
On the other hand the stronger dollar makes purchase and leaseback deals more attractive to airlines with weaker local currencies and we intend to pursue such opportunities.
We saw an uptick in air cargo demand in 2014 but there remains a supply glut.
Both factors remain low and there’s still a lot of underutilized in parked aircraft available compounded by growth in passenger aircraft belly space.
This sector continues to be essential.
We’re not optimistic about a near-term recovery in the dry leasing market.
As a consequence our strategy is to continue peering [ph] down our exposure to this sector as we’ve done successfully over the past years.
As we think about the current business environment it’s important to bear in mind the broader historical context that has seen our industry grow consistently in the multiple of 1.5x to 2x global GDP.
We’ll continue to see ebbs and flows of capital into our sector and from time to time market conditions will become more volatile.
We are decisively growth minded built to grow and to sustain growth but our core operating principal is to remain consistently disciplined investors we take a longer view about being fully prepared to exploit prudent opportunities if they present themselves.
We celebrated our 10th anniversary last year and have already started to build on a terrific 2014.
Over the past 10 years Aircastle has developed a reputation for being an extremely reliable and nimble counterparty to airlines and financial counterparties around the world.
We’re the leading value investor in our space and have differentiated ourselves by adapting and evolving our investment efforts as market conditions and value propositions have changed.
We also remain committed to discovering and acting on situations that are less competitive custom-tailored and value-added consistent with our business model.
We project that the introduction of new aircraft models across every size category over the next several years will provide us with sustainable financing and re-fleeting opportunities.
These play well to our strengths as prudent acquirers of both new and used aircraft.
We’re disciplined investors and we’ll continue to target levered cash returns of at least 15%.
As we look at the market today we feel comfortable projecting at least $1 billion in new investments this year and we’re well on our way there.
We have more than $400 million in closed or committed investments that we expect to close by the first half’s end.
With a long-dated debt maturity structure and no new order commitments we have the dry powder to pursue additional opportunities.
We’ll also continue to look for good investment realization opportunities.
We continue to see new capital coming into this sector and is attracted by the still good yields and strong historical performance.
This interest has driven aircraft prices up allowing us to capitalize by divesting older aircraft with less favorable future earnings power.
Prudent well-timed aircraft divestiture and acquisition are an integral component of our risk exposure management strategy.
We remain focused on increasing cash returns and earnings while capitalizing on our position as the industry’s leading value investor.
We’re on a solid path towards achieving investment grade credit ratings.
We’ll continue to target generating stable cash flow allocating capital efficiently between investments and returning capital to shareholders.
I’ll now hand it over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
We had a very successful and active 2014.
In addition to discussing the financial results I’d like to put them in context of our strategy and what we’re seeking to accomplish going forward.
We’re very pleased with the growth and upgraded portfolio quality which we’re able to achieve this past year.
Our ability to source 1.8 billion in accretive new business on high quality assets in many cases reflects our competitive strengths and our flexible value-oriented approach.
In addition to our acquisition activity we took advantage of strong market conditions to improve the company’s long-term earnings profile by recording our biggest sales year ever with more than 830 million in asset dispositions sold down quite a few older aircraft profitability locking in long-term lease extensions and securing attractively priced longer dated debt.
In this regard our fourth quarter was particularly active.
Turning to our results for the quarter lease rental and finance lease revenues were 179.8 million up 4% or 6.4 million year-over-year due to the net impact of aircraft investments in sales.
Total revenues for the quarter were 238.3 million up 46.3 million or 24% from the prior year driven by higher lease rental and finance revenue of 6.4 million and higher maintenance revenue of 27.6 million.
The increase in maintenance revenue was driven primarily by the early termination of narrow-body leases with airlines in Russia and the restructuring of a couple leases with the UK-based airline.
We also had lower amortization of net lease discounts and incentives due primarily to lease incentive reversals associated which added 7.9 million to revenue.
Lastly early lease termination fees of 4 million were primarily associated with three airlines two of which from the Russian lease terminations I discussed.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was 233.2 million versus 196 million prior year.
Higher maintenance revenues of 27.6 million and lease rental and finance increases of 6.4 million and the higher termination fees of 4 million were the primary drivers.
During the fourth quarter we recorded non-cash impairment charges of 27 million associated with five older aircraft.
More than offsetting these non-cash charges was the maintenance and other revenues of $27.9 million.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was 80.1 million up 25.2 million year-over-year and reflects higher total revenues of 46.3 million lower adjusted interest expense of 4.7 million and higher JV earnings contribution of a little over 1 million.
Partially offsetting these improvements were higher non-cash transactional impairment charges of 22 million lower gains from sale of aircraft of 1.9 million and higher depreciation expense of 1.7.
Interest expense for the quarter was 56.8 million a decrease of 3.3 million over the prior year due primarily to lower weighted average interest cost of 4.69% at year end compared to 5.37% a year ago partially driven by the refinancing of our highest cost debt last spring.
This was partially offset by approximately 300 million of higher weighted average debt outstanding year-over-year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 14 million flat versus the prior year.
Depreciation was 1.7 million increase to 70.1 million for the quarter reflecting the growth in the net book value of the aircraft portfolio on a year-over-year basis.
Our fourth quarter tax revision of 2.9 million reflects an effective tax rate for the full year of 12.4%.
At the end of the year we owned 148 aircraft with a net book value of 5.6 billion including 95 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of 3.3 billion.
The net book value of our flight equipment has grown at approximately 9% CAGR since 2010 while the unencumbered fleet has grown by nearly 6x over that time period.
For the fourth quarter our portfolio of lease rental yield was 13.3% and our net cash interest margin was around 10% demonstrating the consistent strength to the business and as Ron mentioned our 2014 cash ROE came in at approximately 11.7%.
At the end of the year we had 170 million of unrestricted cash and we currently have $600 million unsecured revolving credit capability.
We increased our revolver by $150 million in late January.
Also during January we issued 500 million of 5.5% senior notes maturing in 2022.
Our total borrowings at year end were 3.8 billion including 2.4 billion of unsecured debt.
Weighted average coupon on our debt was 4.69 down from 5.37 at the end of 2013.
And the weighted average debt maturity at year end was approximately 4.2 years.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.1x and we’re in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities.
We remain committed to allocating capital efficiently between value-enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
On February 17 our Board approved $0.22 per share common dividend payable in mid-March this March of 10% increase over the level of one year ago and is our 35th consecutive dividend.
We’ve now paid out more than $535 million in dividends since going public in 2006.
In addition over the past several years we’ve repurchased approximately $140 million of our share at an average cost of 11.87 and we still have $100 million existing share repurchase authorization in place.
Turning to the Q1 guidance elements we’ve included certain elements for the first quarter of 2015 in our earnings release and fourth quarter earnings presentation that was posted to the Web site earlier this morning.
This guidance reflect important actions we’ve referenced in Q4 with respect to extending leases and strengthening and derisking the portfolio.
We proactively managed our exposure to Russia taking out seven passenger aircraft during the quarter and we expect all these aircraft to be back on lease by the end of the second quarter of this year.
We also executed a number of lease extensions and transitions in late Q4 and early Q1 '15 for several mid-age passenger aircraft and one of our freighters.
In short we were able to obtain significant lease extensions on a number of aircraft that had relatively short remaining lease terms as well as the transition of one of our 747 freighters.
In aggregate these aircraft represented about 10% of the net book value of our fleet.
For the balance of 2015 we have only a handful of aircraft which account for around 2% of net book value left to deal with.
To summarize we ended the fourth quarter on a strong note with solid momentum entering 2015.
The business is performing well.
We will continue to focus on increasing earnings and operating cash flow as we successfully execute our value-oriented investment strategy while managing the portfolio and improving the quality of our fleet.
With that operator we’re happy to open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We’ll take our first question from Gary Liebowitz from Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you operator and good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Good morning Gary.
Ron can you tell us when you took back those planes from Russia when you started remarketing them and how you characterize the demand for those aircraft? Well we took back seven aircraft in total.
One of them was the 757 that we sold during the fourth quarter another was a 737 that we placed on long-term lease with Southwest.
The others are all 737-800s.
We took them over just as the year ended.
And I would say demand for mid-age 737-800s is really good.
Okay.
And they’ll be back in revenue generating service by the third quarter? We said by the end of the second quarter.
Okay.
Also I know Ron you don’t have any direct exposure to SpiceJet but as you look at what’s happening in the Indian market does it change your thinking on whether you want to do business there in the future? We’ve been wary of the Indian market for a number of years and it’s not just the latest issues with SpiceJet which are a very big concern to the whole industry at least it should be.
The episode with Kingfisher was problematic to put it nicely and we’ve always had a very careful approach to that market.
The sad part about it is there’s great economic potential there it’s just that the legal and regulatory framework has to get in line.
Okay.
And just last one.
Can you give us a little bit more detail on the Iberian portfolio you bought? Were they all A320s and how old are these planes? They were all A320 family aircraft and they were roughly 10 years old.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hello.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Richa.
Hi.
So first I just had a question on the December quarter a quick one.
I noticed that your lease rental revenue came in ahead of your guidance.
I believe it was $3 million higher than the top end of the range.
What drove that? Fundamentally it was driven by timing of asset sales during the quarter versus our original expectations for when things would move.
I would say that was the primary driver for that effect.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on the Moody's upgrade of your senior unsecured rating and their upgraded outlook on Aircastle looks positive.
I’m wondering based on your discussions with them what they may need to see now to take your rating up further? And then if you’re having conversations with other rating agencies if you could just update us on their feedback? Well let me comment about the rating agencies generally because they each kind of look at the world in a different way.
I think the most important things that we can do and we can control that will get us on the path to investment grade will be one is to get a little bit bigger and we’ve done that.
And I think the outlook in that respect has been very positive.
And the other is to improve our credit quality and portfolio quality and we’ve made great strides in both of those measures as well.
I don’t think there is a clear bright line.
Unfortunately it’s not so prescriptive but we run the business for ourselves and hopefully they’ll come around to our way of thinking that we’re an investment grade company.
All right thanks.
And then if I could just squeeze in one more.
On the competitive environment we’ve been hearing for some time now that competition in the leasing space is heating up in Asia.
So can you remind us on what differentiates Aircastle versus some of the players forming out East? And on a somewhat related note I recall reading something about attractive tax packages and free zones being offered to leasing companies in China.
Can you tell us what you know about that and if you can participate would that incentivize you to think of putting up a base out there? I don’t think I’d say that the competition out of Asia is a new phenomenon.
I think it’s been extremely competitive for the last two or three years now and it’s been driven in large measure by the rise of the Chinese bank leasing companies.
They’re not the only players but they’ve been probably the most impactful ones.
Those players tend to have played in two ways.
One is by absolutely dominating their home market opportunities.
So I don’t think a Western leasing company has won Chinese sale-leaseback business in quite a while.
And the other part of it is in buying portfolios generally new narrow-body portfolios from other leasing companies.
And so that’s actually reduced our opportunity set over the last several years in terms of buying from the larger players.
That’s been part of our business but we’ve more than made up for it with airline sale-leasebacks.
What remains to be seen here is the success in which these companies have in terms of penetrating airline direct deals and how much appetite they have in fact going forward for continuing to buy from other people’s portfolios.
I actually think there’s some upside for our business in that respect as there’s a potential for them to slow down.
I think the bigger increase Richa in terms of competition has been in the mid-age market where there’s been a lot of new capital.
They’re all attracted by high yields and by I think a broadening understanding of the potential in that space.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Arren Cyganovich with Evercore ISI.
Thank you.
The returned aircraft that you hadn’t incur the early returns is there any way that you break out the specifics around what the impacts on the income statement were relative to those returns? And are there any other kind of – I know this is normal course of business but one-time items it sounds like you had a lot of activity at the end of the quarter the beginning of the quarter that you said there was amending existing leases and adjusting your portfolio.
Just trying to get at your core run rate which looked pretty steady but it’s a little bit confusing with all the moving parts? Sure.
So Arren I think simplistically if you look at the stuff that came out of Russia we generated around $30 million of maintenance revenue and lease incentive reversals as an effect of those transitions out of that marketplace.
In the context of the overall portfolio lease extensions and management as I said in effect we repriced 10% of our net book value late in the fourth quarter and early in the first quarter.
And that effect will roll forward.
It’s a natural effect of the business.
Some of the leases – most of the leases in fact that we were repricing were put in place in 2007 timeframe.
And so over the course of seven or eight years you would expect those to be priced down and in fact I’d say we did better in those extensions from a pricing perspective than we would normally expect as we talked about in the past of roughly 5% a year sort of reduction in lease rates as you march in time across the aircraft leasing.
Let me just add a couple of things to that.
One is we’re very pleased about the extensions and in fact the quirk here is that when you have a lease extension you have to average down to rentals.
And the good part of it is that you don’t have the redeployment cost and the downtime.
And I think we are pretty happy about the overall terms that we were able to achieve on these extensions.
Many of them were with customers that I think are probably a better quality than we would have expected otherwise.
So I would view this Arren as a bit of an accounting quirk that has a shorter term impact.
In the long term it’s a very positive thing.
And I think it also reflects well in terms of the impact of lower fuel prices on airline appetite for mid-age aircraft.
Is that the impetus for reaching out to these customers and seeking extensions now essentially just because oil cost are so low and it helps the value of these aircraft today? Yes I would say it’s a mutual discussion here.
It wasn’t just us pushing.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then also the remaining exposure you have in Russia is now 6.2% you said three passengers and three cargo.
Can you just give a little bit more color around the strength of those exposures do you have there right now? Yes so in percentage terms that 6% breaks out to be 5% cargo and 1% passenger.
The leases are all performing.
I think the only amount that’s due is less than $100 000 in maintenance reimbursements that are due.
So these leases are performing well but I would say fundamentally I have a negative view about the passenger market there.
The sharp decline in the ruble the always difficult seasonality there and just the decline in the business environment there makes it very tough for passenger airlines to succeed.
In sharp contrast to that though the freighter market it’s a different story.
In the freight market revenues are generated in dollars.
In fact our one customer over there collects about 85% of their revenues in dollars and about half of their cost are in dollars.
So the decline in the ruble is actually a positive thing for them and it’s a very very different story there.
So feeling reasonably good about that situation not so good about the prospects for the passenger market and that’s why we acted.
Okay.
And then just lastly you altered your Marubeni shareholder agreement to allow them to increase their ownership but what was the driving factor behind that? I think it was a desire on their part to put more money to work sooner with us simple as that.
I think they’re pleased with the partnership as we are with theirs.
And like I said during the prepared remarks we’ve used a vote of confidence in the company.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Great.
Most of my questions actually have been asked and answered but just expand on the Marubeni partnership is that a new threshold is that like some form of a legal limit or is it something that you could adjust if they were interested as well? No I think and just to be clear the change that was made was the original agreement provided for them to be able to own up to 21% for the first three years and the total standstill had a duration of 10 years.
We are allowing them to go above 21% up towards 27.5% roughly a year earlier and in exchange we’re adding a year and a half to the backend of the standstill.
Legally speaking and I’m not a lawyer the 27.5% is a place where we feel comfortable that they could make a significant contribution in the business but will preserve overall value creation over time for all the shareholders.
Okay.
And maybe if there’s – any kind of clarity you can give in terms of the impairments and how you’re thinking about the trending for that in the next couple of quarters? Well we’re not given to making forecast on such things Moshe but I would say a couple of things.
One is the biggest vulnerability not just for us but in general are for I’d say the freighter market and for the older classic technology aircraft.
And in that regard our exposure is sharply lower.
Classic generation aircraft are now less than 2% of our portfolio and the freight portfolio is down to 14% which is less than half of what it was three years ago.
And our plan as we talked about during the third quarter is to pair that by another half of what it is today roughly over the next few years as leases expire.
So the older converted freighters that are in our portfolio will probably go to the desert and we’ll call it a day there.
The other part of our portfolio which is five newer aircraft and the purpose-built freighters which are more efficient will remain on lease and we’ll probably be holding them for a longer period of time.
The other thing I’d point to you is that we have a monitoring list which is our best guess – it’s an imperfect one with our best guess on what’s vulnerable and that’s been steadily decreasing.
We’ve been systematically working those aircraft out of our portfolio as part of our sales strategy and we feel pretty good about where we stand.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Scott Valentin with FBR &amp; Co.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
Just with regard to the portfolio growth I think you mentioned the outlook right now is 1 billion.
Is that a net number or is that what you hope to acquire? And then there will be some sales that will bring that number down all else being equal? It’s a good question.
Look this is one of the hardest things in our business particularly given our strategy to predict.
I would say that’s a gross number at this point but let me point you back to this past year where we had a similar target and we had $1.8 billion and what ended up happening was we also found great opportunities to exit certain aircraft and net-net improve our portfolio quite a bit.
I would say the opportunities for selling are still there but there’s less of the older more marginal stuff to sell in the first place.
We’ve hit the ground running this year in terms of portfolio and I’m very happy in terms of the pipeline and new acquisition opportunities.
Having said that one of the mainstays of our strategy is to stay flexible and to be able to react to market opportunities.
So I wouldn’t want to make any more of a prediction in February about the year than what we have today but I feel comfortable in doing $1 billion and having the potential to far exceed that.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the aircraft maybe in the age spectrum you mentioned more capital coming to the mid-age cycle there’s a lot more interest in mid-age aircraft given where oil prices are.
Does that change your outlook in terms of what aircraft you’re targeting? Yes and no.
The fact that there’s more people in the mid-age space means the prices are going up and that will change how we think about it.
The analysis that we go through in really simple terms is when we figure out what is the opportunity cost for that capital.
Is it better to keep it or is it better – the aircraft that is or get the cash and redeploy it? And that really generally guides our principals.
Okay.
And then on the flipside in terms of sale of aircraft does that – I know you mentioned the kind of typical target aircraft you’re looking to sell is a small part of the portfolio but would you get more aggressive on sales if the prices continue to be a bit up or stay where they are? Absolutely.
Okay.
And then final question just on Russia.
It seemed like you had no problem getting the aircraft out.
Is that generally the expectation for Russia that they seem to be here into Cape Town and no problems getting aircraft back? When you get into an argument about Cape Town and the legal framework whether you’re in Russia India the U.S.
or anywhere else you hit a different level.
What we tried to do is be proactive work with our customers and had an out of port discussion with them a mutually agreed discussion.
And that’s exactly what we did with our customers in Russia and it’s what we’ve done across the world in many different instances.
Of course you have to be mindful about what happens if you don’t agree but I think it’s always good to stay in touch and be proactive with our customers.
We have good relationships.
I have a lot of respect for what our Russian customers built over the last decade but it also is pretty clear to us and clear to them ultimately that there’s too much capacity in that market.
And our view is basically better to be out first and what we were able to achieve here is to get those aircraft back in primary markets and for spring time peak demand.
Okay all right.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Stephen Carlson with Waddell.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just a bit of a follow up on the previous question.
Your dispositions vary a lot over time but is there like a normalized number that we should think of in a typical year how much dispositions would be? Boy I think that’s probably the most variable part of our business.
Typically we have placeholder to say quarter-billion dollars but that really is nothing more than the placeholder.
We had the best year ever in terms of sales for us last year and we sold nearly 50 airplanes.
I would have not imagined that a year ago.
I wouldn’t project that level this year or even close to that.
There’s less to do but having said that as I’ve answered before if the opportunities present themselves we’ll keep an open mind to it.
Okay.
And then just a housekeeping item.
Do you have the cash interest and cash tax number? It wasn’t in the release.
I don’t have that in front of me Steve.
It will be in the 10-K that we file later today.
Okay all right.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Andrew Light with Citigroup.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good afternoon.
No I’m on your side of the pond actually -- You are okay.
Hope it’s some place warm.
Yes it is very little bit.
On the impairment charges the 27 million was that all to do with the seven returned aircraft from Russia or is there more to it than that? It was Russia and lease restructuring we did with the UK customer as well.
Okay great.
I think just to clarify on that Andrew the 737-800s that we had coming back to us were not impaired there were other aircraft including some -- Right okay.
And in your guidance you didn’t guide on maintenance costs but is there any risks or is there any expectation that could be additional kind of maintenance and other costs associated with the placement of the five aircraft that remain in terms of --? Yes I think that the way we’re thinking about the placement of those 573s which generated as I said about 30 million of maintenance revenue is over the course of the next five years of leasing those planes I’m going to be reinvesting that amount in those aircraft.
And in round numbers I would guess that about half of that will be in flight equipment improvements mostly engine work over the course of the first half and leading into the third quarter of this year and the balance would be paid out over the duration of what we expect to be five-plus-year leases with the new customers.
But in terms of maintenance expenses or expense to current period things that are not capitalizable I would say it’s very very small.
We’ve got letter of intent for three to five aircraft and they involve a minimal reconfiguration costs.
Right okay.
And then on Russia do you see any temporary damage to lease rates aircraft values and do you see any opportunities with airlines like Transaero and ETF [ph] for example talking about not even taking delivery of aircraft they’ve ordered just your feel on that? It’s a question I kind of try to address a little bit in my remarks Andrew.
I don’t know that we can stratify the effect of any one particular situation in the market.
There’s a few restructurings underway.
There’s SpiceJet there’s Skymark and then you have the seasonal slowing of the market and it happens every year.
Russia undoubtedly has some impact.
I think the bigger question isn’t what happened so far but what could come later.
So far I think whatever has happened has been fairly modest and digestible and not an issue in my view.
Right okay.
But do you see any option [indiscernible] because presumably if some of these airlines are not even going to pay delivery of ordered aircraft over the next couple of years are you seeing Airbus and Boeing in a contact [indiscernible] with opportunity there? It’s happened.
It’s happening – an ongoing matter.
It’s not just the less sure [ph] phenomenon to be fair.
Boeing and Airbus both have the good situation of having very long waiting list for their aircraft.
And so to the extent that Russian airline isn’t capable of taking delivery of an airplane somebody else probably will raise their hand and that could include a leasing company.
And we’re not adverse to those kind of situations ourselves.
I think the decline in the ruble also offers an opportunity for airlines that want to sell their craft to do so.
I think the desire to sell and leaseback is probably not very high but I think there is an opportunity there.
Right.
Okay great.
Thanks very much Ron.
Sure.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Most of my questions regarding fuel costs and middle-age aircraft have been addressed but I do have a follow up on the five planes that came out of Russia.
You suggested they’d be back during the second quarter.
Does that imply that you’re absolutely not considering selling any of those? And also if you could just remind us when the aircraft where initially placed? Obviously I’m just trying to gauge how the market compares today.
I would think it would be stronger but obviously I’m not quite sure.
We’re always open to a sales proposal but we’re not counting on it in this context.
So from a modeling perspective that’s where you’re going what I would assume they’re released and I would assume – I don’t recall the particulars of which days any of those leases started but I don’t think there’s going to be a huge amount of rental degradation of one lease to the next.
Okay that’s perfect.
I appreciate it Ron.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Nathan Hong from Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Ron I thought I heard you mention that there were softness in aircraft models in your prepared remarks.
I’m just wondering if you could clarify how these rates are trending across the major aircraft types? I think in general the softness has been a little bit more on one hand the commodity aircraft that usually don’t expect them to – 320s and 738s and it’s been very modest I’d say like 5%.
And I don’t know if that’s a seasonal effect or something that relates to these restructurings like I said before hard to delineate.
I don’t think that this is a permanent phenomenon though based on the current assessment we have in the world.
There has been a little bit of softness on newer wide bodies because both Boeing and Airbus are looking to fill out the ends of their lines for 330s and for 777s.
But I think in general it’s relatively good.
Great thanks.
And just one more question just going back to the $1 billion of acquisitions for 2015.
I’m wondering where you’re seeing the most opportunities? Is this from sale-leasebacks or just acquisitions in the secondary markets? That’s a very good question and it’s a question that we wring our hands on every year.
If we were to dial back a year and ask ourselves where do we see opportunities I would have said 2014 was going to be the year of the less sure portfolio purchase and I was dead wrong.
Instead it was the year of the purchase of leaseback.
And so with the imperfect lens that I just kind of alluded to I’m more optimistic about the airline purchase and leaseback deal.
I think we’ve got a little more momentum for some of the large deals that we’ve done over the last half year and I think our credibility with airlines is very very high right now.
I also think there are some interesting less sure opportunities so maybe it will be a little bit more balanced than 2014 ended up being but I’d say probably skewed towards the airline side.
Great thanks again.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Mark Streeter with JPMorgan.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just wondering Ron just on the last question not to beat the horse dead here or the dead horse whatever in trying to quantify the seasonal weakness are we talking about the difference between the monthly lease going from 250 000 to 240 000 or what sort of magnitude is this seasonal factor and what sort of magnitude is the incremental weakness that we’re seeing from the Skymark restructuring on certain narrow-body types for example? I don’t know that I’m smart enough to delineate that Mark but I think the order of magnitude that you talked about isn’t far off as an aggregate matter.
Okay good.
Well I appreciate the incremental color on that.
And then within the pipeline the $1 billion that you’re looking at you talked a little bit about where you’re sourcing that from sale-leasebacks and the like.
Can you talk a little bit about just the competition of the pipeline? You’re obviously not going to tell us exactly what types you’re buying but can you give us a flavor for is it very consistent with what you’ve purchased over the last year? Are you leaning a little bit more towards some 777s or A330s or just what sort of color on aircraft pipes in terms of where you think the best bank for your buck is going to be for 2015? I would say that the $400 million that we have committed so far is entirely narrow bodies.
That’s a little bit of a change in direction from what we did last year.
And I think it’s important to note that the hallmark of our strategy is to be flexible.
That’s what being a value investor is.
So we found that the new wide bodies have gotten to be more competitive and we’ve done less of those.
It’s all about maintaining discipline.
We found very good value with the Iberia situation in mid-age narrow bodies and we’ve found interesting sale-leaseback terms in terms of the duration lease the entry point and as I alluded to during the remarks the price opportunities can be very good particularly if you’re finding customers that maybe in a local currency that’s weakened against the dollar.
I think what’s also worth noting besides the kind of shift towards the narrow-body market is that some of the narrow bodies we bought are new.
And that’s a departure for us as well.
We’ve always looked at them.
We’ve also struggled to be competitive against people who intended to have a more optimistic view about depreciation but in the fuel environment today it was the entry points that we’re able to find and with the lease terms we found we’ve been able to make sense of those things.
I wouldn’t say that that’s the majority that will do but it is an important ingredient.
Great thanks.
One last question from me on your joint venture.
It seems like all the aircraft – your public peers at least are pursuing little twists in terms of their own unique style in how they’re pursuing the joint venture and so forth.
I’m just wondering if you have any observations on what the industry has been doing in terms of how these joint ventures are being set up or some are calling them sidecars to sell portfolios and to manage risk and so forth.
Is there an evolution forthcoming with the Aircastle in terms of how you set up joint ventures or is the status quo working for you just wondering if there’s any thoughts there? Let me delineate – let’s focus on what we do.
The purpose of the joint venture with Ontario Teachers is twofold.
One is to build a very strong relationship with a very important investor.
And that means that we’re not looking to take cash up front we’re looking to share in what we think of as an attractive investment opportunity.
And part two that goes with that is that this lets us do bigger deals that we feel comfortable doing ourselves.
We certainly make a market-based servicing fee on that business and we make what we think of is a very attractive return on our 30% of the joint venture equity.
But the goal here is actually not just to make some money on this joint venture but also to have a very good long-term relationship with what I consider a strategic partner.
Right.
Thanks for the call Ron.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
We’ll go to Michael Kass from Blue Mountain Capital.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Was just wondering if you could comment a little bit on what you see or what you’re experiencing as kind of the lease factors on your new purchases versus the sales? You guys are really good about providing kind of disclosure on what the year-over-year impact of purchase on sales is on your lease rentals and I just want to make sure that I’m not kind of overly handicapping what should be the natural degradation in lease factor just the math regarding kind of net book value degradation? It’s a tricky question.
Let me talk about the buy side first because that’s a little bit more straightforward.
And I would say in general for the newer aircraft we see what I’ll think of as a lease rate factor of 0.9 or so per month or call it 10% 11% 12% annual number.
For older aircraft we see higher.
The sell side I would divide into two pieces.
One is the joint venture.
We sold three aircraft into the joint venture for roughly $300 million or so last year and that was lower yielding new stuff with very long lease terms with very good customers and very unlike the other 46 aircraft that we sold.
As I said we’re 19 years old.
Most of those aircraft were either at lease expiration or had very short remaining lease terms.
So on one hand I could talk to you about a lease rate factor but I’m not sure how meaningful that would be from any kind of modeling perspective because that number was due to change in a very negative way.
Okay.
I’m just trying to reconcile the first part with $38.7 million of additional lease revenue on 1.8 billion of purchases and I know that that spread across the year and it’s not necessary – it might be backend loaded but even if I assume a half year convention on that that’s much lower than the kind of 10% 11% 12%.
Am I not looking at this the right way? Yes I think you have a little bit more [indiscernible] than what’s really happening Michael and it’s going to be hard to address it on this call.
I think if once you read our 10-K that gets filed later today we’ll be happy to have a follow-up conversation with you.
But we don’t -- Okay.
So those two things aren’t comparable the 38.7 million of additional lease revenue is not the 1.8 billion of purchases.
I’m not trying to – I don’t have any view I’m just trying to make the math work.
Correct.
Okay.
There are no further questions at this time I’ll turn the call back over to Frank Constantinople for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for your time today.
We hope you found it helpful.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at (203) 504-1063.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Aircastle Limited First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Catherine.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's first quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Chief Executive Officer and Mike Inglese Chief Financial Officer.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our Web site at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings Press Release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our Web site.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Welcome to everyone dialing in.
During this call we’ll discuss Aircastle's performance during the first quarter our perspective on the business environment and its impact on our Company and our plans for 2015 and beyond.
After that Mike will address Aircastle's financial results then we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
We entered this year with strong momentum building on a very successful 2014.
During the first quarter we continue to make progress across three basic objectives; number one demonstrating that our strategy of approaching opportunities differently build strong financial results.
To that end we maintained a solid record of returning capital to shareholders by declaring our 36th consecutive quarterly dividend payment.
Number two taking advantage of the depth and breadth of Aircastle’s team to illustrate we achieved nearly 99% of fleet utilization including placing all the aircraft removed from Russia-based operators.
Number three continuing our progress on the road to investment grade.
In that respect we closed or committed to acquire $770 million in aircraft and expanded our purchasing power through $1.1 billion in new and enhanced debt capital.
I’ll touch more on each of these accomplishments but first the bottom-line.
Our financial results improved in Q1 as we continue to execute against our plan.
Net income grew to more than $43 million for the quarter and our cash ROE was 13.5%.
We’re seizing on the opportunities in today’s fast-changing market using our unique nimble and prudent business approach and our Company’s formidable capabilities.
Being different by design definitely has value.
We currently have line of sight to at least $1 billion in new investments for 2015.
That includes 770 million that’s already closed or committed.
It's a competitive market and we’ve managed to capture many attractive investment opportunities by developing value-added propositions for our customers while moving decisively in capitalizing on our ability to consider both new and used assets.
The strong U.S.
dollar has been a positive catalyst for most of these new deals.
While the number of aircraft sales we completed during the first quarter was relatively modest by Aircastle’s recent standards there are a lot more to come.
We’re taking advantage of strong investor interest in our sector combined with the favorable impact of low jet fuel prices on used aircraft values.
We expect 2015 to be another strong year for asset sales as we continue to profitably upgrade our portfolio.
We expect to make progress selling what’s left of our out-of-production aircraft further reducing our freighter exposure and increasing the share of current-generation narrow-body aircraft in our fleet.
In our view there is a healthy level of lease demand today and we’ve been able to take advantage of that by redeploying all of the aircraft we removed from Russia late last year.
We've also have been positioning our portfolio for the long-term by extending leases and closing new long-term placements while doing this tends to marginally reduce the rental yield in the short-term that makes our portfolio with an improved long-term earnings profile.
Together with our new acquisitions these actions have increased the average remaining lease term to 5.6 years creating steady income stream nearly a full year longer than we had a year ago.
That allows us to focus more intently on growing revenues rather than replacing it.
We took quite a few steps to enhance the quality of our asset base and its earnings power as we continue our march towards investment grade credit ratings.
We also raised $0.5 billion of unsecured long-term financing in January.
This continues the long and successful run for Aircastle in the bond market.
I'm very pleased by the strong investor base we've developed there over the past several years.
In addition we increased the size of our unsecured revolver to $600 million providing us with more buying power and increased financial flexibility.
Recognizing the Company's strong performance during the first quarter I'm pleased to tell you our Board of Directors declared a $0.22 per share dividend payable during second quarter.
Our long track-record of paying dividend highlights our commitment to sharing our financial success directly with shareholders.
Our business strategy defines this as distinct among the large aircraft lessors.
I believe we offer investors an attractive proposition for identifying and acting on opportunities which our competitors are less able to discern and make profitable.
As we articulated during our Investor Day presentation last month we believe Aircastle’s approach to the aircraft leasing business actually affords investors a possibility of a lower risk while delivering higher yields.
That can only be done with a fundamentally different model of utility stability discipline and prudence.
We have an exceptional team whose expertise and diverse perspectives provide us unique point of view and a skill set to pursue a wide range of investments across our sector.
Our capital structure is flexible and low cost and it allows us to act decisively on market opportunities.
Moreover we have a competitive advantage with two supportive and long-term minds as strategic shareholders Marubeni and Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan.
Now a few words on the global business environment.
In general it looks pretty good to us and we’re keeping a close eye on several hotspots around the world.
So far this year passenger aircraft increased at a very robust rate of around 6% per annum which is roughly twice the level of global GDP growth.
Supply is increasing at a pace almost matching demand keeping load factors high.
This is all positive for aircraft leasing.
I’d add that much of the traffic growth is taking place in the Asia Pacific region where we are successfully placing an increasing portion of our fleet.
The International Air Transport Association or IATA forecasts the worldwide growth rate will continue for the balance of the year as airlines enjoy the benefits of low fuel costs.
Indeed IATA also forecasts the world airlines industry will earn record profit this year.
While the strong U.S.
dollar is stimulating aircraft sales activity it also constitutes a financial headwind for airlines who’ve seen their local currency drop in value.
Most airlines earn a majority of the revenues in their local currency while at the same time having significant dollar denominated costs for aircraft and fuel.
As a result airlines doing business in weak currency environments are less likely to enjoy the full benefit of cheaper fuel.
Of course this effect varies significantly around the world.
As we think about new lease placements and investments we’re factoring in these effects and focusing our attention on customers who have stronger credit profile.
Passenger aircraft rentals are benefitting from stronger traffic growth high load factors and limited aircraft availability.
Indeed pricing appears to have firmed up recently after some concerns about Russian capacity entering the market in addition to potential supply from a few restructuring situations.
For now it appears the Russian market has stabilized as the weather warms up and the airline industry there heads into their busy season.
However we do remain concerned about how this satiation will play out later in the year and beyond and we’ll be keeping a close watch.
In the matter of aircraft prices these are experiencing upward pressure as more investors seek out opportunities in our space while benefiting from relatively low interest rates and very favorable financing conditions.
This is both good and bad news for our Company and for our peers.
For Aircastle it underscores the importance of focusing on buying situations that involve higher barriers to entry rather than trying to content with elevated levels of conventional competition.
Looking ahead we’re well on our way to $1 billion in acquisitions for the year and certainly have the resources to invest much more should we find the right situations.
We’re disciplined investors who choose where and when to play and we’re continuing to target at least 15% leveraged cash returns.
We’ve differentiated ourselves by adapting and evolving our investment efforts as market conditions and value propositions change.
We remain committed to discovering and acting on situations that are less competitive more custom tailored and value additive all consistent with our fundamentally differentiated business model.
We’ll also continue to look for good investment realization opportunities.
Prudent well-timed aircraft sales are another integral component of our asset management strategy.
In this regard we feel very comfortable by achieving our initial 2015 asset sales target of $250 million.
As long as strong market interest drives up and keeps the aircraft prices high we’ll seek to capitalize by selling aircraft we consider to have less favorable earnings power.
We like where we’ve positioned the Company and our portfolio.
We’re one the solid path towards achieving investment grade credit ratings.
We remain focused on increasing cash returns and earnings accretion while capitalizing on our position as the industry’s leading value investor.
Finally we’ll continue to focus on generating stable cash flows and allocating capital efficiently including paying dividends to shareholders.
I’ll now hand the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
Our results during the first quarter of 2015 were strong and relatively straight forward.
Total revenues increased 10% to 194.3 million.
Through proactive asset management we were able to achieve much higher profitability with just the net income per share of $0.62 and cash ROE of 13.5%.
Thanks to significant placement and lease extension activity over the past several months we’re basically done with our lease placement needs for this year with only five older aircraft left most of which we expect to sell at the end of their current lease expirations.
We’ve also made great progress in addressing the aircraft that come off lease in 2016.
Moreover our portfolio is performing very well with nearly 99% utilization and very low customer receivables.
During the first quarter we acquired or committed to acquire 25 aircraft of which 24 are current technology narrow-body with a balanced mix of new and used aircraft.
We’re finding success in executing large purchase and leaseback deals with airlines around the world particularly in jurisdictions where the local currency is weakening versus the dollar.
These include customers based in Europe Southeast Asia and South America.
We’re pleased with the capital and market success we’ve had during the first quarter and we’ll continue to monitor the market for new opportunities to improve our capital structure and diversify our funding base.
Over the past year we’ve continued to rebalance our fleet mix and upgrade our overall portfolio quality from an asset and credit perspective while lease rental revenue and finance lease revenue for the quarter of 178.8 million were essentially flat versus prior year.
We’re now generating similar fleet yields for higher grade portfolio.
Total revenues for the quarter of 194.3 were up 17.7 million or 10% from the previous year driven by higher maintenance revenues of $15 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2015 was 190.2 million versus 170 million for the prior year higher maintenance revenue of 15 million and higher gains from sales of flight equipment of around 5 million were the primary divers behind the improvement.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was 50.5 million up 37.2 million year-over-year and primarily reflects the higher total revenues of 17.7 million and lower aircraft impairment charges of 18.3 million compared to the prior year.
Interest expense for the quarter was 62.1 million a decrease of 2.1 million over the prior year due primarily to an overall lower weighted average cost of interest for the quarter partially offset by higher weighted average debt balance of approximately 200 million versus the prior year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 13.9 million flat versus the prior year as we continue to manage operating expenses carefully.
Depreciation was up about $1 million to 74.8 million for the quarter due to the net impact of acquisitions and dispositions.
The net book value of our aircraft portfolio rose to 5.8 billion at the end of Q1 versus 5.7 billion a year ago.
Current environment continues to present opportunities to reshape our fleet and accordingly in the first quarter we completed the sale of two narrow-body aircraft on lease to an airline in India as well as other assets for $50 million in sales proceeds and recorded a gain on sale of approximately $6 million during the quarter.
Our first quarter tax provision was 4.9 million reflecting an effective tax rate of about 10.5%.
Currently we expect our full year effective tax rate to be in the 11% or 12% range.
At the end of the first quarter we owned 152 aircraft the net book value of 5.8 billion including 99 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of $3.5 billion.
I’d also note we co-own and manage approximately $0.5 billion worth of aircraft through our joint ventures with the Ontario Teacher’s Pension Plan.
The net book value of our flight equipment has grown at approximately 9% CAGR since 2010 while our unencumbered fleet has increased at a compound rate of about 52% over the same time demonstrating the strength in new credit profile of the company.
Our cash ROE on an LTM basis was very strong for the quarter and came in at 13.5%.
For the first quarter our portfolio lease rental yield was 12.6% annualized commensurate with the overall improvement in portfolio quality as expected we’ve seen a modest decline in revenue yield versus historical averages which reflects the reduction in the weighted average age of our fleet to 8.3 years and an increase in our weighted average remaining lease term to 5.6 years.
Our net cash interest margin came in at around 9% generally consistent with our historical averages and we expect this level to continue to be the case over the next several years.
At the end of Q1 we had 330 million of unrestricted cash 87 million of restricted cash and 600 million of unused revolver capacity.
We increased our revolver capacity by $150 million earlier in the first quarter as we discussed on our year-end call we also issued $500 million of 5.5% notes maturing in 2022.
Our total borrowings at quarter-end were 4 billion including 2.7 billion of unsecured debt weighted average coupon on our debt was 4.94% at the end of the first quarter versus 5.17% at the end of the first quarter of 2014 and the weighted average debt maturity was approximately 4.4 years as of the end of the quarter.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.1 times and we’re in compliance of all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities.
We remain committed to allocating capital efficiently between value enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
Towards that end our Board approved a $0.22 per share common dividend payable on June 15th.
We’ve now paid out $553 million in dividends since going public in August of 2006 and have increased our dividend on five separate occasions since 2011.
As you usual it includes certain guidance elements for the second quarter of 2015 in our earnings release and our PowerPoint that was posted to our Web site this morning.
So to summarize we've ended the first quarter with strong momentum following our solid performance last year.
Business continues to perform well and we remain steadfast in our long-term focus on increasing earnings per share ROE and operating cash flow and to successfully execute on the disciplined growth strategy proactively manage the portfolio and we expect to continue to deliver strong total shareholder returns.
And with that operator we are happy to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll go first to Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Ron I noticed that nearly all of your planned CapEx for this year is in the narrow-body market is this the result of a perhaps a change in the risk assessment of the various aircraft types or is this just getting back to sort of a normal balance between wide and narrow-bodies? I think the most important driver of this deal mix is when we saw a good risk return opportunities as I mentioned in previous calls we've seen competition go up over the past three-four quarters for wide-bodies and we found a few very attractive situations in the narrow-body side and we've been a little more disciplined on the wide-body side and having kind of tried to reach too far out.
I think the fact that fuel prices are where they are has led to a lot of people reconsidering how long they want to keep their current technology aircraft maybe leaning towards keeping them a little bit longer and that's a factor the other factor that's driving a lot of our business as I mentioned is the impact of a strong dollar and it just so happens that the opportunities we found involve narrow-bodies we are mindful of the portfolio mix but I think it's just basically where the risk adjusted return was showing up.
And maybe for Mike Mike the revenue number in the quarter came in right at the low-end of the guidance usually it is up towards the high-end are there timing issues in that or maybe just with some of [indiscernible] were? Yes it's really just the timing of getting acquisitions on board in the quarter nothing other than that underlying the actual performance.
And then maybe Ron just one last one you sold only two planes during the quarter and in the prior quarters there has been a lot more is that just also a function of timing or are you running out of things you want to sell? No we have got a lot of stuff in the oven so you should expect a higher level of sales in this quarter and beyond.
Thank you.
And we’ll continue on to Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
So first on the 770 million of secured aircraft acquisitions are those part of the $1 billion you have planned for 2015 and if so can you give us a sense of the cadence of those investments throughout the year? They are and we expect the 770 million to close by the third quarter.
The incremental part will probably spread out of over the course of the year.
And then one of your customers United Airlines has been quite vocal about accessing the used aircraft market particularly calling out 10 to 20 narrow-bodies they are looking to lease in the near-term I was just curious if you see opportunity there? We've been discussing things with them we haven't struck on any deals with them but we certainly like to if we found the right terms.
I would note that they are not unique in that respect and that Southwest has been doing this for some time and in fact with Southwest we have a program of five 737 700 lease placements that are underway and those will be 10 year placements so basically aircraft that are starting out at around 15 years when we move from over to Southwest and basically they will be at the end of their economic lives and over the U.S.
majors I think have been on the Vanguard of looking at the economics of used versus new.
I think they are less unique there are more people looking at that now but kudos to them.
And then if I could just squeeze in one more.
The status of your airline watch list I know you made the comment that you are pretty pleased with your utilization rate but has there been any airlines added in the last few months to the watch list and are there any that are particularly on lease payments? Our receivable levels are really-really low and the biggest watch list area for us has been Russia as we've kind of talked about and we took action to chip that away in a very good way.
Russian airlines remain on our watch list but at the moment they are performing and there is three passenger airlines and that is it one airplane with each so actually I feel really good about where we sit today versus quarter ago or year ago.
Thank you.
And we’ll continue on to Helane Becker with Cowen and Company.
So I just wanted to double check one thing and that was the $770 million that ends in -- does that go through year-end or does that go through your September quarter? We expect to close those by the end of the September quarter.
So does that leave room to do additional transactions in the fourth quarter? There is room to do stuff even before that.
So it’s just being opportunistic in what’s available is that the way we should interpret that right? Always yes.
And then just your fleet age continues to come down I am kind of just -- and your lease terms match fairly closely maybe a year or two different but is there opportunity to bring that down further do you have like a goal in mind or are you okay with that kind of level where it is right now? Well let me separate those two Helane because I think of them as very different things.
We do manage the average lease term and I think the market of successful asset management in our business is one that keeps lease terms short during tough times we’re not locking in less favorable deals and when the market is good like we think it is today then to extend out those lease terms as much as possible.
So the fact that our lease term is almost a year versus a year ago is a conscious effort on our part.
The age of the fleet on the other hand is a different story and we do not manage and age we manage to returns risk adjusted returns and I think the fact that we have the decreasing fleet age it is an outcome as opposed to a target of our investment approach.
We happen to found good value in some of newer aircraft recently one of the things that’s been driving that has been the fact that financing costs are very attractive but you should not assume or define Aircastle as a new or used or a big or small aircraft buyer we’re completely flexible and are just basically looking at risk adjusted returns.
And steering along that line is there a region of the world that you are more focused on than another region or is there just kind of opportunistic there as well? For new business the big success factor that we’ve seen is just the relative strength of the local currency.
The aircrafts or assets are traded in dollars and if the local currency has lost a lot of its value in aircraft and airline carrying its aircraft in the local currency we’ll be able to sell much more effectively than otherwise.
And so that’s been a stimulus for a lot of deal flow for us.
The flip side as I mentioned during the prepared remarks was that rentals will look more expensive.
So you need to find a counterparty to believe we’ll be able to sustain a lease factor.
We’re also looking by the way not just at sale on lease back but just at outright purchases and redeployment elsewhere.
And that’s a little bit harder work but it also suits our Company quite well.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kristine Liwag with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Ron you mentioned how your watch list looks pretty good in 2015 versus 2014 so is the way to think about that is this a direct correlation to the likelihood of impairment charges for the year? And then also how should we think about the book value of the five older aircrafts that you -- that are scheduled to expire this year that you plan to sell and where are the market values of those airplanes tracking? The five aircrafts that we intend to sell are less than 2% of the total net book value of our fleet so it’s not very much.
And we expect to be profitable in our asset sales activity this year.
Of course the results vary by aircraft but that is how I’d answer that part of the question.
With respect to the impairment question there is a connection between credit quality and impairment it is an imperfect one one of that catalysts for causing a revaluation of the cash flows is when there is a change in outlook and at least it’s broken it’s certainly the case.
So from that perspective I feel better about it but I would note that the watch list that we have this is the portion of our fleet that’s got the lowest cushion in terms of cash flow coverage has decreased to an all time low level right now and that’s the result both of better conditions and frankly our sales efforts.
I also think that the fact that fuel prices are as low as they are has been beneficial for some of the older aircraft where there is a little more brittleness in regards to impairments and so that helps as well.
And then I’d like to do a sum of three follow-up questions on a few items you touched upon in your prepared remarks so sorry.
Okay.
First what is the average age of the aircraft that you have the scheduled lease expirations in ’15 and ’16? And then second part of that is how should we expect the lease strengths from these new leased aircraft compare to the previous lease terms? And then also the third piece is the duration that you discussed how does that compare with the previous duration for the previous terms? Well I’ll do my best to answer this I don’t think I have statistics off the top of my head but I’ll tell you that the aircraft that we’re selling expect to sell this year that have lease expirations this year are probably around 15 years old that’s a rough estimate.
They are definitely on the older side and the decision to sell them reflects a decision not to reinvest in the leases.
In terms of leases there is a variety of different circumstances here and I don’t know that I want to generalize too much what I would say is that the first thing you should expect is that every time you have a re-lease you're going to have a lower rent.
So as aircrafts get older there is in effect a degradation in rental overtime and the lease rates that we’re seeing on the aircraft coming off lease this year and next year are actually kind of consistent what we’ve been seeing for the last six months or so they are pretty steady they are pretty good and what makes me even happier about is not just the rental but the terms around the deal.
The credit quality of the customer the length of the lease and also the return condition maintenance profile of the transaction so there is a lot of things beyond the lease factor that actually weigh into how we look at those things.
I don’t know if that addresses your question adequately.
And then I wish I could squeeze just one more when we think about lease terms right are usually price in U.S.
dollars and the majority of your customers are not in the U.S.
but their income stream is from non-U.S.
denominated currencies.
How should we think about the strengthening dollar and the effect of that on your customers’ ability to pay their lease rentals? And then also oil has been helping them because oil has come down is there some sort of pricing balance that you see for those to offset them and at what point would you start being worried? Well there is to some degree we’ve talked a little bit about this in our remarks but I would say that fuel is a dollar denominated cost and it's been lower for just about everybody in the world not there are some countries that have price control regimes and taxes and stuff that don’t quite transmit everything directly.
But in general it's a very strong positive.
The currency effects vary wildly around the world and they don’t remain constant and one of the things you should expect about interest rates I mean our exchange rates is that eventually they may switch directions and so the horizon matters.
But for the short-term anybody with a weak local currency and a reliance on that local currency for revenues like an LCC for example those guys tend to just like short haul and generate revenues locally they will be more exposed.
And our sale-leaseback activity and for that matter our placement activity has all been with a view towards keeping the credit quality strong or for that matter increasing it and so the new deals have been very much considering the local currency effects and delineating between what we think of is good and bad credits.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to Andrew Light with Citi.
Do you think there are a couple of cycles I mean how does the current environments kind of feel to you relative to say 2006-2007 I don’t know in terms of volumes and transactions the kind of speed of aircraft value increases and so forth? There are a number of differences I mean there is both similarities and differences I don’t think it's as crazy as it was in ’07 and ’08 but certainly the financial market is open for business and more flexible than it was a year ago and much more flexible than say three years ago.
All this has led to greater transaction volume particularly in the used aircraft side.
What I think is different about it is is that the distribution of the travel and demand for aircraft is much more spread out than it was back in ’07 and ’08.
The chilled effect of growth in emerging economies is balancing that in a more healthy way I also think that as we look at Aircastle specifically we are in a very different place as a Company we’re more mature we’re more diversified as our financing sources and I think the other big difference has been in the catalyst to some of the growth in the transaction volume.
We’re seeing -- we saw a drop in fuel prices but only after the financial prices began.
What we’re seeing right now is different and it's happening in a more favorable backdrop.
So I think that helps our business in a way that it wasn’t available back in ’07.
In fact we had quite the opposite going on with fuel at that time.
So at one hand I do talk about the cycle but I don’t think everything is a complete repetition of the past.
So we try to draw lessons on that and act accordingly.
And then just a follow-up question you say you are making progress on the road to investment grade I mean is the road any kind of clearer and more specific in terms of process and timing? It is not a [Multiple Speakers] and maybe I should let Mike answer that question.
There is no more clarity Andrew it's that we believe it's a function of size of our business the history of our business and continuing to operate with strong credit metrics and with appropriate risk management dimensions to our business that as we scale up the businesses overtime.
And as we talked about during the Investor Day so we’re growing in a methodical and disciplined way but along the way in just about every dimension our business has become better from a risk profile whether it is the credit quality of our customers whether it's the average lease term whether it's the debt and diversity of our funding sources I think the Company is much better situated along all those dimensions in addition to being a little bit bigger.
Can I ask just final question.
I know you in the deal you produced exposure to freighters but it seems that air freighter market is picking up a little anyway in terms of demand and are you seeing any kind of impact on market values on those freights? I agree that there has been a pickup in demand it has not changed our fundamental assessment of the sector which is still negative and fundamentally because of the long-term supply growth.
That's not just due to dedicated freighters but also because of the increase of belly space I think the view that we have of the space is still leading us to kind of want to reduce the exposure and I think there is a good opportunity to do that today in fact and so as we mentioned previously the plan is over the next five years to sell our older conversion freighters which are I think the majority of the number of units those will all be kind of in the 20 plus year age category and as we look at the low fuel price environment most of the value of those aircraft is in engines and those engines actually probably benefit a little bit more than we would have expected say six months ago because there is more demand for those engines and the spare part coming from those engines.
So I think it's just an opportunity for us to kind of continue along that path and perhaps accelerate a little bit.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nathan Hong with Morgan Stanley.
Ron I think you can kind of characterized the demand environment as somewhat strong and if anything that's kind of confirmed by the fact that one of your peers recently added no additional sale lease back commitments for 2016 and 2017 and I know how disciplined you are in planning deals and that you are still working on 2015 but I was wondering how visibility do you typically have into your pipeline for the out years is there any color that you could offer today about 2016 and beyond? I can offer to you that we have no commitments in 2016.
Our philosophy has been that we would like to get a premium return by making commitments into the out years versus doing something here now where you know how are you going to pay for it and that situation could happen but we want a premium as opposed to just taking on that same thing and at the same proposition and not getting paid for the opportunity cost.
And we are at probably a little bit more risk averse I mean it's one of the factors that I indicated when we talked about how our overall risk profile is actually quite a bit lower than people might really appreciate because we do keep things close in.
[Multiple Speakers] And just a follow-up on that I know you don't have any commitments but are you seeing maybe interest from global airlines a little bit more forceful in that nature or -- and I'm just wondering how the interest is kind of tracking? The way I would characterize it is that is has remained strong the level of new aircraft production is increasing both because there is more from each particular line and also because some new models like 787s and A350 are coming online and so that by itself will give rise to more demand.
I think these pricing tends to do a little bit better when interest rates rise versus now so maybe there is a little bit of upside if interest rates rise but I would say that in general the demand is strong and has been strong for some time.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
I know opportunistically you've spent more value in the narrow-body side of the equation but I was just curious if there are any particular aircraft types right now that are of interest to you or maybe conversely not interesting to you? It is really a financial question at the end of the day I mean what you probably will not see us doing is buying into situations we’re trying to reduce like freighters and a lot of production aircraft but we see a lot of value in the current generation narrow-bodies particularly in the mid-aged space right now and I think what’s driving it is number one airlines doing a little bit of planning in terms of how long they want to keep and residual value transfer.
Number two I think there is a recognition that these aircraft might be economically viable for a little bit longer given where the fuel price environment is and I think number three in the case of some of the airlines are growing a little bit more rapidly in time this is the way for them to manage their fleet size in orderly fashion and we have found good value in what I will call commodity aircrafts and that’s kind of always the easiest thing for us to manage.
In fact [indiscernible] but we do better than airlines.
Well I was just going to ask about is if you could comment on the moving parts contributing to the 2Q guidance there as well anything noteworthy? No just as we usually do factor in what we expect to close of our acquisitions in the quarter and what we have since sales prospects floating around out there some of which we expect to close in Q2 some of which will probably fall into the third quarter and it reflects pretty limited lease transition so we’re not expecting a big maintenance revenue number per se in the context of what we see in the current quarter.
Yes and I think what it also reflects this is a small factor so I’ll just comment on it any way is that gradually over the course of Q2 you will see the entering into service of all the aircraft that we took out of Russia.
So you should expect the utilization level to increase a little bit from where it was in Q1.
Thank you.
And we’ll now go to Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
I guess you’ve kind of talked about this in a number of ways so far but the dollars of least revenue the lease rental revenue have kind of been flattish since the middle of last year right and can you just maybe drill down a little bit as to what was causing that was it specific sales and because you’ve got it your expectation is that that actually does step up in Q2 but we’re going to kind of talk through that just that progression and how you see it kind of moving after the second quarter if possible? I think fundamentally if you look at the end of the first quarter of 2007 I have 5.7 billion of aircraft and at the end of first quarter I have 5.8 so a year later my net asset base is the same.
So that’s the simple answer we had a tremendous amount of sales activity last year which was partly responsible for that.
We’re expecting less overall sales activity this year but strong net growth in the context of the business.
The other thing is as we mentioned briefly is that the average lease term that we have today versus a year ago is longer and through a lot of lease extensions placements et cetera we’re seeing an effect and I think what you should think about also is that the asset base is around the same size the revenue base is around the same size but the quality is way better.
Thank you.
We’ll go to Scott Valentin with FBR &amp; Company.
Ron just a follow-up I guess on the -- just a question that Moshe just asked you made a comment about I guess the margins coming down because of the quality of the portfolio I guess like our orders it was getting better.
How do you balance that improving quality of the portfolio versus the quality of the fleet versus maximizing revenue margin? GAAP is a funny thing because it measures a period of point in time return and when we do our -- we make our economic decisions we’re mindful of GAAP that really focus on cash flow overtime.
So what lease maps looks like.
If you have the same rent during the course of the lease which is typically the case the lease yield is going to be lowest in the first year and highest at the end and that effect is going to be amplified with a longer lease term.
So we’re not managing our business to GAAP that’s the first thing I would say.
That’s a sure way to get into trouble.
Another thing that I would say is that in addition to the average life of the leases being a little bit longer.
The jurisdictional and credit mix are better and the assets themselves are assets that we think have more fruitful future than the stuff we’ve been selling.
And then just in terms of India you recognized a gain on the sell to aircraft was that risk management or was that just financially you saw an opportunity to -- I guess from a risk reward perspective you saw a attractive opportunity there? Little bit of both.
We think India offers a lot of long-term potential and in fact it is one of the fastest growing parts of the world right now but you’ve all seen the movie in India I’d say very complicated and difficult market.
There is a too big of a he government role the rights have less source and not as clear as they should be and we’re very cautious about doing business there.
If we do business there incrementally we want to be protected and compensated for that.
But this happened to be a right place at the right time kind of situation and we took advantage of it.
And then one follow-up question a common theme on a lot of the calls this quarter has been just the amount of capital flowing into the space and increased sale-leaseback activity I am just wondering you made a point at your Investor Day about how you guys really approach to RFPs in most part you guys kind of kind of see special situations where you can use your expertise and knowledge to kind of add value for the airline.
Just wondering of the 770 million that you guys have booked how much of that involves kind of bringing an expertise to knowledge where maybe you are helping an airline with fleet strategy as opposed to just putting in the lowest bid and getting the aircraft to one degree or another all of it? It's a business where I think particularly in a time like now where there is a lot of money I agree totally with that comment.
The key to success is to do something different and helpful to your customer.
That’s the only way you're going to be compensated and that’s the only way you're going to find a good chance of winning an opportunity.
And we’ve got a great team and we have a few really I think cool tools in our arsenal we don’t feel constrained by an aircraft type or an age we have the ability to be a cash buyer we have expertise in managing transitions from one opportunity to another.
I mean these are a lot of little examples and sometimes we weave them altogether sometime we include some other dynamics.
But the only way we’ll win right now is if we find a value additive way and that’s what we really like to do? Thank you.
Our next question will come from Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Ron I was wondering if you could give us your view on the A330 market I have heard some conflicting views about relative bullishness on it and then obviously people are concerned about some of the placements that are out there that need to find homes and then concerned about the future of the Neo as 787 deliveries improve.
So given that you guys are in this asset class and you had been big buyers of these planes in previous years what’s your view on that asset? I’ll give you short-term and long-term let's start with short-term.
If you have lease placements in the near-term it is bullish and the reason it’s soft is because Airbus is doing what Boeing’s doing for the 777 is just trying to fill in the back-end of their production run I don’t think that’s a long lasting effect it may last for a year or two but it's putting more supply out there.
Long-term still think it's a great asset and I think the fact that fuel prices are lower meaning the A330 is particularly competitive against the more modern 787 because the fuel price benefit is less.
So under the right circumstances we buy more A330s.
But I do think that there is some short-term placement pressure.
Now with regards to values -- look I think the asset sales that we’ve done last year and some of the things we have in progress this year do involve A330s and they are at good values.
So people are willing to pay for these aircraft and I think they share our perspective about them having a good long-term profile.
With respect to the A330 Neo from an Aircastle perspective we’d like to see that customer base develop a little bit further before we get into it a little bit more seriously.
It's not a big enough customer basis just yet Airbus is very good at remarketing and they are capable of that and there is a value story to be told there at the right price levels versus the 787 but we just haven’t seen that manifest itself in operator orders kind of just yet.
And then Mike I just wanted to ask for some color on the statement that I think you made that the Company is generating similar lease yields off of a higher grade portfolio and I think that that’s a big churners to what we -- to what some of us as observers might think just because we I guess we would tend to expect that and your aircraft has a lower yield.
So can you talk to us how are you doing that how is that because it is just that you guys have been able to find great deals and those are just the deals that you do because I think that people had viewed the oncoming or the integration of newer aircraft into the fleet is potentially having lower yield.
So adding size but maybe bringing the yield down.
So how are you guys countering that exactly? So I think it's a combination of things and I think it was Moshe who asked the question earlier.
So our lease rental revenue was similar dollar size in the first quarter of 2015 as it was in 2014 off of roughly the same size fleet.
Now when I look at my first quarter results and I look at my rental yield as a percentage of its net book value it's around 12.6% and historically when I had an 11 year old fleet I was running north of 13%.
So as a percentage yes it's smaller which is what you expect when you buy a newer aircraft and have much longer lease terms.
So we’re generating still very strong 12.5 plus percent rental yields very strong net interest margins and then the other thing that you have to keep in mind when you're thinking about new aircraft is they have longer lives and as a percentage of their asset base they have smaller depreciation than when you by a ’15 plus year old airplane.
So all of those things are consistent in what we’re trying to drive which is driving bottom-line EPS growth in this business overtime.
And Justine just to add a little bit to that I would emphasize the business we won has been because it's been value-added and we’ve been paid for it.
And also in regards to the mix of new business for the past we’ll say three quarters or so I’d say the rents yield has been somewhere in the 11% to 12% territory on a annualized basis.
That's the strength over net book value.
So to the extent that we have a large influx of that and our investment activity has been quite robust and as we sell older aircraft that maybe has higher yields but maybe not such a long and fruitful future that will have an impact as well.
So I think it's a combination of buying selling and the lease extensions as we discussed before and it's not a surprise.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vincent Caintic with Macquarie.
Just wanted to ask a question of or a follow-up questions on the competition and available capital in the market I guess first off what do you see as say the potential opportunity in terms of actually cost of funds improvement as your buying new airplanes and selling older aircraft and then more philosophically has the availability of liquid affected the calculus in terms of what you view as in terms of value investing and in terms of the aircraft that's interesting to you and in a specific types like different synergies and different types of aircraft? Mike maybe I'll take the second part of the question first and let you talk about the financing part but I think that the first thing I would observe is that as we look at the competitive landscape and compare with a year ago the biggest change has been in more competition more capital available for older aircraft may those new players I would characterize as being yield-driven folks that have might have been buying subordinated debt but can make the returns that they like and the fact that fuel has dropped so much has attracted them to incremental it's not an unreasonable proposition but this is the kind of stuff that requires a partner and most of them do as somebody who knows the asset quite well and requires an awful lot of work it's very maintenance intensive it's very labor intensive and I think that that's a big change versus last year I also think the big change that happened in the financing market versus last year is that there is more capital market set available for mid-aged aircraft and securitizations have been completed there and they look like reasonable deals they just weren’t available previously and that has affected the prices of mid-aged aircraft as well.
So probably the biggest changes in the market have been in pricing for the older and mid-aged aircraft because of those two factors.
In terms of how the effect… And in the context of the overall capital markets the high yield market in the U.S.
continues to be very strong and our particular spreads have tightened compared to some of our investment grade peers in that context over recent past and to the extent as we look at new investment opportunities that's part of the calculus of do we believe we are generating the right shareholder return by the blowing incremental capital and accessing that market and the traditional bank market is very strong all these usual players have been back more players are in that market as well and you are seeing spreads compressed in that context too.
So just to put a finer point on it is there any sort of trend that certain aircraft would look more appealing in the changed environment or just kind of any color there would be helpful? I don't think so again I think we've utilized the unsecured debt to be cash buyers of both new and mid-aged aircraft I think our competitive advantage in general is better on the mid-aged aircraft there because it's harder to find lenders there but sometimes speed matters too and even for newer aircraft it takes a while for a bank to do its thing on a secured loan so I don’t think so and I think it’s probably not as distractive of a difference as it might have been year ago.
Thank you.
We’ll go to William Matthews with Post Advisory.
Could you just give us a little more color on maintenance revenues it seems like in the second quarter where that's been a little above where I thought it was going to be in kind of what -- how we can look at that going forward how you look at it and how predictable it is? I will give you an answer on the second part it's not that predictable I mean what gives rise to the maintenance revenue is lease expirations and to some degree it's predictable in regards to when aircraft are coming off lease sometimes they run a little late because every lease has the return condition that the plus he has to meet and they don’t always get it done in time and usually when there is a delay we get compensated with higher than usual rents so the part that is hard to predict is exactly how much that amount will be because it depends on the condition of the aircraft and sort of a fluid number that gets adjusted overtime and then off course you have the unpredictable events where you choose or are forced to terminate a lease.
Is there a context I'm sorry in the context of our second quarter guidance we have few transitions and so we’re expecting a much smaller level of maintenance revenue recognition during Q2.
And then… I don’t think you should view as a bad thing.
And then if we think about your net debt to equity figures declined as before I think as you talked about getting to the investment grade if we think about opportunistic aircraft purchases dividend to shareholders other cash uses and keeping that net debt to equity number low or declining how do you prioritize those things? It’s hard to answer that in a vacuum.
We do see a few interesting and chunky opportunities of the buy side and if they are accretive.
And so within a broader envelope of debt to equity we are going to pursue them but there is no pre-set formula here.
And the broader envelope would be do you have a range for that? In terms of net debt to equity? Yes.
Yes and loom I think overtime we could run this business with net debt to equity of between 2.3 and 3 times and if we scale up in a context and credit profile commensurate with that I still think we can be an investment grade company.
Thank you.
We’ll now hear from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
It is actually Jamie and Mark Streeter but it’s okay I’ll go first and Mark can do the follow-up.
Ron earlier in the call I think it was in response to Helane’s question you talked about increased lease duration being deliberate on your part on Aircastle’s part.
I’m wondering what level of push back you are actually getting from the airlines on that particularly with fuel having collapsed and given we maybe on the precipice of higher interest rates.
Could you add a little bit more color on that sort of push pull between you and airlines and I’m basically just trying to assess how much the average lease duration might be able to increase even further more than it already has? Well you make a point I think there is less resistance now to extending terms because of fuel and because of the concerns about interest rates in the future and I think the other part you have to consider is that when you look at the aircraft any given aircraft’s deployment you have to consider the maintenance cycle into effect as well.
We try to get aircraft back-off lease at points that are easier to re-market meaning fresh from a shop visit for example.
And in some cases we are able to get longer terms but meaning that was a less marketable aircraft because it needs more work sooner.
So it’s a balancing act.
But I think the takeaway here is it is a good market.
Okay.
I appreciate that color.
Let me turn it over to Mark.
Ron and Mike hi it is Mark just want to follow-up on the question that I asked you at the Analyst Day it’s really a follow-up of the same question which is this whole concept that you need to be bigger in order to improve your franchise risk in the minds of the rating agencies and so forth.
In this quarter you are about a $6 billion company I went back and checked as I mentioned I didn’t know the exact number.
There is 21 real estate companies for example with a market cap of $6 billion or less that are already rated BBB or higher and are accessing the capital market.
So I was just wondering if you had any further comments about what are you going to get when your $2 billion is bigger than where you are right now or $3 billion is bigger what is that going to do for you as a business and are you pushing back with the rating agencies to be investment grade rated now because your balance sheet is where it needs to be? Well I agree with you that our balance sheet is where it needs to be and the next time I go see them I’ll take you along with me right.
But I think more seriously that we do not manage our business for the sake of the rating agencies and our desire to be bigger is born out of the fact that we can be more efficient and deliver better value for our shareholders.
We had some economies of scale.
We do think there is some economies that can be borne out into the debt in the equity financing markets from being bigger.
But there is an attraction to being investment grade but it’s not at any cost and so we are mindful of that it’s a journey with the rating agencies and I think we’re making progress but time will tell.
Thank you.
We’ll now hear from Robert Smalley with UBS.
Hi.
It’s Robert Smalley in Fixed Income at UBS.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A lot have been answered on the margin side just to referring to Slide 10 in the second bullet point you have talked about the interest expense drag from the 500 million in debt how long does it take you to deploy that and get over that drag and is that something that would preclude you from looking in the market later in the year.
No that money will be invested in short order and some of it’s already being put to work in the first half of the year and to the extent we find additional opportunities to make sense of generating higher earnings for this business we could very likely be back in the market in the second half of the year.
It’s all going to be driven by what we see in our investment pipeline and how our other sources of capital including asset sale is lining up to putting that capital to work.
And on the third bullet on that page proactive liability management can you give us some examples of that and when I look at outstanding bonds you have got a 6.75 maturity in 2017 although it's trading well above pars that is something that you would look at addressing to lower your further interest expense cost with any kind of new issuance in the second half of the year? Yes but looking at our future maturity tower in the context of what we can do in the markets today is always a part of that mix.
So what make sense what are you going to do with that money and how does it fit into your ultimate refinancing and liability management structure going forward.
And I’ll also just say that the biggest event what I can think of is what we did last year which is to refinance our 9.75 bonds that was -- that involved an upfront cost as refinancing does but that’s a cost that we will recoup many times over.
So it's case-by-case but we look at it pretty thoroughly.
So when 9.75 is quite a hefty coupon was 6.75 or seven and eighths fall into that same category? Well I think our new deal today would definitely be sub-five it depends on how long the maturities would be and so on but then there is a math that goes into the prepayment and we just need to do that.
And then just my last question on that do you feel that that prepayment even though that’s an upfront cost that the equity market and equity analyst community would look through that pretty readily or is it something that might somehow even in the short-term impact the sock price? I think the simple thing is we do the math for ourselves as the long-term -- from a long-term lens and we made a decision in the positive way last year and everything else is case-by-case and we do this fundamentally as major shareholders ourselves.
Thank you.
And Nick Bell with Jefferies please go ahead.
It is Nick Bell with Jefferies also in Fixed Income I just had one brief follow-up for you just thinking about your comments in response to Justine on the A330 aircraft what would a wide-body redeployment look like today and I am just trying to think through those hypothetical book and how that might compare to your experience historically? There is a lot of missing pieces to that equation right now we are in the process of remarketing the three A330s we have coming off lease next year there are mid-aged aircrafts and we’re finding a decent amount of interest I’d say the rental levels there are probably $50 000 to $100 000 less than they would have been year ago.
But I think it is still doable and economical and I think the harder part of the market frankly is going to be on the new side where you are directly competing to a greater extent with the OEM.
Thank you.
And with no additional questions I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Yes thank you for your time today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Thanks for joining us.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
And again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all again for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Aircastle Q2 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'll now turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Debbie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle's Chief Executive Officer and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and thanks to all of you for joining the call.
Today we'll discuss Aircastle's performance during the second quarter of 2015 our perspective on the business environment and its impact for our company and our longer plans going forward.
After that Mike will address Aircastle's financial results and then we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
The key themes I'll address with respect to Aircastle all pressing the strength value of our distinct franchise and aircraft leasing and investing.
They highlight our ability to grow and to generate strong financial results through three pillars.
Number one as an expert value investor one with a strong global origination network and unique value proposition for sellers and lessees.
Two as a skilled proactive and efficient asset manager one adapt with both new and used aircraft and is navigating through rapidly changing world circumstances and three as a successful seller of aircraft with deep technical expertise and market savvy.
These capabilities are real they add value and they are difficult to replicate.
In fact they define Aircastle.
Together with our efficient access to financing and strong strategic shareholders and Marubeni and Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan they allowed Aircastle to deliver strong financial results.
Our business strategy is to share these results direct through dividend.
In that regard I am pleased to report that our Board of Directors declared our 37th consecutive quarterly dividend.
We'll be paying shareholders $0.22 per share during the third quarter.
Turning to our financial performance we delivered solid results during Q2.
Net income was $41.8 million or $0.51 per diluted common share up significantly versus last year.
Cash return on equity is 14.6% and our net cash interest margin was 9.1% which continues to be at the high end of the aircraft leasing industry.
During Q2 Aircastle maintained excellent operational performance.
We achieved 99% fleet utilization consistent with a standard we delivered upon over many years and throughout the business cycle.
One of the ways we did this was by redeploying all of the aircraft removed from Russia based lessees ahead of schedule.
The seven aircrafts we removed from Russia since last year were replaced with five lessees around the world and one was sold profitably.
This was an example of the decisive proactive and results driven vein which we measure assets.
We also increase the remaining average lease term of our fleet to 5.8 years improving our contractual revenue base and locking in the good turns we see in today's market.
We're a growth minded company and have been very successful in originating effective deals reflecting our flexibility our agility and our capacity to deliver tailored solutions.
During the second quarter we acquired 19 aircrafts for $553 million.
Year-to-date we closed or have commitments to close 31 aircrafts for $1 billion during 2015.
Although one of our investments this year are narrowed by the aircraft our strategy is to methodically explore opportunities across the market and deploy our capital where we best see fit as with a good valued investor.
To that end the part of the market where we're seeing the greatest amount of investor value at this time is in new and middle aged print technology in narrow-bodies.
However given the competition to deploy capital in today's market we believe the key to success is to offer a value added proposition to customers rather than just participate in large bidding situations.
To that end we're continuing to demonstrate our ability to source structure and close deal successfully.
In June we placed an order for 25 of Embraer new technology to each aircraft with the first delivery scheduled for 2018.
As you all know we set a very high bar for large future capital commitments and we're excited about this aircraft and its investment potential.
Embraer is a supplier of for more than 70 regional airline operators around the world and when you add in the significant enhancements that these two bring.
We think this is the clear category of leading aircraft for the 70 to 130 seat market.
We're also thrilled about this important new collaboration for with Embraer.
Embraer's go to market strategy with respect to ours is different.
In contrast to the other OEMs Embraer is focusing on two or three big leasing companies to help establish our new generation aircraft.
This is a partnership where I believe Aircastle's strengths can shine.
Investor interest in aircraft is very strong and we're taking advantage of this.
During Q2 we sold 10 aircraft for around $180 million and we designated for sale two freighter aircrafts.
These sales contributed meaningfully to our strong bottom line results during the quarter.
And as you'll hear from Mike Inglese shortly we expect strong sales results in Q3 as well.
What makes these sales noteworthy is that we're making money while operating our portfolio and in many cases we're squeezing very good value out of aircraft at the end of their economic life.
This is a characteristic that distinguishes Aircastle.
I would now like to cover our view of the business environment.
Traffic continues to grow at around 6% this year.
This is more than twice the rate of the world's GDP growth.
There are not that many global businesses that can post this kind of strength.
All the while load factors are around 80%.
These are exceptionally strong levels and it's a sign of healthy demand.
Though fuel prices looks like they will drive the global airline industry to record profits this year of course this profitability is extremely uneven across the world.
These difference in business conditions but it is nonetheless a good thing.
Higher profitability also typically leads airlines to be more confident about their futures and to make longer term fleet commitments.
In general ramp levels and lease terms are quite favorable for lessors and we're focused on locking in what we reasonably can today with a bias towards better quality of our fees.
We see strong demand in lease terms for narrow-bodies particularly for current generation models.
For wide-bodies growth remains soft as manufacturers work through end of line issues for A330s for 777.
While both Boeing and Airbus have made progress in this respect recently we believe this will persist for several quarters.
The financing market is very buoyant and the investor search for yield has driven many of these aircraft.
This is on the big differences between today's market and last years.
And aircraft pricing is benefitting from all this with the biggest improvements not surprisingly coming in the older end of the market.
This is being driven by not only by better financing market access by also from hirer anticipated utilization for older aircraft.
As we look ahead we continue thinking about Aircastle as a growing company situated in a market with terrific prospects.
However we recognize that investment opportunities don't present themselves evenly over time.
As such we believe success derives from investment discipline.
We also very much like the flexibility of not being tied down with huge order stream commitments.
As we think about deploying capital for new investments we're still aiming for 15% economic ROEs.
We believe we can still achieve this in market but only for the less competitive value added deals that are stocking trade.
Our primary concerns as we look ahead is the global economic growth in general and particularly in some regions is falling short of expectations.
In some cases due to geopolitical issues.
However we believe that some of these challenges create opportunities.
For example large shifts in foreign exchange rates along with our other important changes in the business environment can facilitate new investment transactions.
We’ve been taking advantage of this for the past year.
Our financial structure expertise and agility are built to capture such movements and we like having dry powder.
It’s a fluid environment but in addition to the $1 billion in closed or committed deals we discussed earlier we feel confident in our ability to deploy $200 million to $400 million more this year and it’s also good prospect for more if we find the right circumstances.
Over the past three years our aircraft investments have grown by $1.4 billion to $6.1 billion at the end of Q2.
Adding in more than $0.5 million in aircraft we originated and managed for a joint venture of Ontario Teachers.
We've quietly growth our fleet by nearly a third and that's even more impressive when considering this net growth has taken place against the backdrop of having sold more than 80 aircrafts during the same period.
All this bodes well for our earnings power our dividend paying prospectus and for investor.
We're confident in the future of Aircastle our new business generating capabilities and investment discipline are serving as well.
Our portfolio management skills are topnotch and our ability to realize on our investments has really come through over the past few years.
Also we believe we're on a clear path to achieving investment grade credit ratings which can provide earnings upside and all in all we believe the value and distinctiveness of our franchise will become even more valuable as our business environment continues to grow and evolve.
Mike? Thanks Ron.
Our results during the second quarter were very strong.
Net income was $41.8 million versus $3.1 million for the prior year.
Adjusted net income was $47.2 million or $0.58 per share.
Our profitability and return on capital continues to improve as we reposition and expand the fleet.
As explained on our first quarter call we're done with our lease placement needs for 2015.
We’ve also continued to make great progress in addressing the aircraft that come off lease in 2016 and have five aircraft left to place representing about 2% of the net book value of our fleet.
Our portfolio continues to perform very well with 99.1% utilization levels and very low customer receivables.
During the first half of 2015 we closed 25 aircraft investments of which 24 were current technology narrow-bodies for approximately $800 million.
We also have commitments to acquire six other aircrafts for about $200 million during the balance of the year.
We're finding particular success with large custom tailored purchased and leaseback deals with airlines around the world.
About half of our first half acquisitions and commitments with Asian carriers with the balance split between Europe and Latin America.
Of our total fleet of 161 aircrafts we currently own 110 unencumbered assets with net book value of approximately $3.7 billion or roughly 61% of our fleet net book value.
In addition we call on and manage another five aircraft with a net book value of approximately $0.5 billion through our joint venture with Ontario Teachers.
Turning to our results lease rental and finance lease revenues for the quarter were $186.7 million essentially flat versus prior year but an increase of $7.7 million on a sequential basis.
Over the past year we continue to rebalance our fleet and upgrade our overall portfolio quality from an asset credit and geographic perspective.
We've been focused on generating high quality longer term contracted lease yields of higher grade portfolio.
Our Q2 acquisitions had a weighted average lease term of approximately nine years and a weighted average age of slightly less than four years.
Total revenues for the quarter were $204.6 million down $21.6 million from the prior year primarily driven by lower maintenance revenue of $14.8 million.
The decrease was due to higher maintenance revenue recognized in the second quarter of '14 associated with the sale of four aircrafts.
Total revenues were strong and increased $10.3 million on a sequential basis or a little over 5%.
Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $214.6 million versus $211.7 for the prior year.
Higher gains from the sale of flight equipment of $20.2 million were partially offset by lower maintenance revenues.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $47.2 million or $0.58 per share essentially flat year-over-year and merrily reflects the gain on sales of flight equipment of $20.2 million higher joint venture earnings offset by lower total revenues of $21.6 million.
Net income was $41.8 million versus $3.1 million for Q2 '14.
Note the previous year included a $36.6 million bond redemption expense associated with the refinancing of our nine and three quarter senior notes scheduled to mature in 2018 which we replaced with five and eight debt maturing in 2021.
Interest expense for the quarter was $61.6 million an increase of $1.1 million over the prior year due primarily to a higher weighted average debt balance of approximately $200 million year-over-year.
The higher debt balance is partially offset by lower amortization and deferred losses of $2.7 million.
Depreciation was up $1.6 million or $77.4 million for the quarter due to the increase in fleet size.
The net book value of the aircraft portfolio rose to $6.1 billion at the end of Q2 '15 versus $5.7 billion at year end 2014.
Consistent with our ongoing effects to reduce our freighter exposure during the quarter we elected to part out at least rather than reinvest in two in MD11 freighters.
We also made a similar decision with respect to an older 737-800.
In connection with these part-out actions we recorded impairment charges in the quarter of $24 million which were largely offset by $18 million in maintenance revenues.
During the quarter we sold 12 aircraft for proceeds of approximately $230 million -- I am sorry that's year-to-date 12 aircrafts for $230 million including 10 aircrafts for $180 million during the second quarter.
The average age of assets sold was 15 years and the assets include two older A330s and a 767 as we rebalance the portfolio and continue to profitably exit from out of production aircraft types.
Gain from the sale of aircraft totaled $21.1 million during the quarter and $27.4 million year to date.
Low oil prices and low interest rates continue to drive a strong bid for current technology aircraft was attractive lease rental yields even for aircraft with short remaining lease terms.
To that end the average remains lease term for the aircraft we sold in the quarter was just around three years.
Our second quarter tax provision was $4.5 million at an effective tax rate of about 10.2% year-to-date.
We expect our full year ETR to be around 10% to 11%.
At the end of the quarter we owned 161 aircraft with a net book value of $6.1 billion including a 110 on unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of $3.7 billion.
The NBV of our flight equipment has grown by $2.4 billion since the second quarter of 2010 while the unencumbered fleet has grown to $3.7 billion over that time period.
The increase in our unencumbered fleet enhances the company’s liquidity position and strengthens our overall credit profile.
As Ron mentioned our cash return on equity on an LTM basis was very strong at approximately 14.6%.
For the second quarter of 2015 our portfolio lease rental yield was 12.6%.
We've seen a modest decline in lease rental yields versus historical average which reflects a reduction in the weighted average age of our fleet to eight years down from 11.3 years at the second quarter of 2010 and an increase in our weighted average remaining lease terms of 5.8 years.
Our net cash interest margin which continues to be among the industry strongest came in at about 9.1%.
At the end of the quarter we had $243 million of unrestricted cash $162 million of restricted cash and $450 million of unused revolver capacity.
During the quarter we extend the maturity of our revolver to April of 2019.
You'll recall that we increased our revolver capacity by $150 million in late January of this year.
Total borrowings at quarter end were $4.3 billion including $2.9 billion of unsecured debt.
Weighted average coupon of our debt was 4.78% at the end of the second quarter versus 4.69% at the end of 2014 and the weighted average debt maturity is approximately 4.3 years at the end of the second quarter.
During the quarter we closed new secured loans totaling $150 million with Bank of Tokyo MUFJ and Development Bank of Japan leveraging their strong and longstanding relationships with our largest shareholder Marubeni.
Further these transactions help extend our strong global base with banking partners.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.25 times at the end of the quarter.
We remain committed to allocating capital efficiently between value enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders and towards that end our Board approved the $0.22 per share common dividend payable on September 15.
We've now paid out over $570 million in dividends since going public in the third quarter of 2006.
As usual we've included certain guidance elements for the third quarter in our earnings release and PowerPoint that was posted to our website this morning.
Of particular note you'll see that we expect continuation of robust sales activity which is reflected there and our gain on sale guidance of $12 million to $15 million for the third quarter.
To summarize we’ve ended the quarter with a strong trading momentum and our outlook for the balance of 2015 is very positive.
Our business is performing well we remain focused on increasing EPS ROE and operating cash flow.
We continue to make progress towards our aim of achieving investment grade rating and finally we’ll continue to successfully execute our disciplined growth strategy and proactively managing the aircraft portfolio to deliver strong shareholder returns and enhance shareholder value going forward.
With that operator we’re happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].We’ll go first today to Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo.
Thanks operator.
Good morning guys.
Mike on those robust Q3 asset sales can you tell us how many aircraft are assumed to be sold in that 12 to 15 estimate and also do you have a target average age for fleet as I assume you continue to sell planes that are above average age now.
Hey Gary it's Ron.
I'll take that.
The number of aircrafts is still work in progress but I would say it's a comparable number to the ones we sold in the second quarter.
The types of assets that we’re focusing on in terms of sales fall into few buckets.
In general we’re looking to improve the long-term earnings profile of what we hold and so the average remaining lease term tends to be short.
We’re focusing on reducing our exposure to freighters and to add a production aircraft.
We’re also looking to rebalance towards narrow bodies versus light bodies but I would say that the earnings profile is probably the biggest characteristic and what we’re selling is not something that has as bright of a long term future from our perspective.
I see also I might have missed it but did you go over the lease expiration profile rest of this year and for 2016 and what your placement requirements look like.
Yeah we've basically completed all 2015's lease placements and as we look into next year we've gotten a very strong start on that and today we have five aircrafts left representing about 2% of the net book value for releasing scheduled in 2016.
Okay great and one last one from me can you tell us how Q3 utilization is shaping up? Do you have any grounded aircraft now because I think in the last year Q3 I think you had 100% utilization is that a possible target this year? I think it will be pretty.
Whether we hit the 100% we'll see but it will be very good.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
We will take our next question from Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
So first just piggybacking off of Gary’s question on those remarketing requirements for next year two questions on that one can you tell us how the lease terms i.e.
price duration of those new contracts compared to prior remarketing efforts… Operator are we there? One moment.
[Operator Instructions] Hi we lost you for a minute.
No worries so I'll just start over.
On the remarketing requirements for next year two questions.
The first one is if you could tell us how lease terms like price and duration of those new contracts compared to prior remarketing efforts with similar vintage aircrafts.
I am just trying to get a sense of how trends have shifted if at all.
And two can you tell us more specifically what those five aircrafts are that you have in 2016? We have one A330 and some narrow-bodies and I believe we also have one freighter that we expect to -- 747 we expect more likely and that will be a part out at the end of its lease which is in late '16.
There is not a lot of big sample size here but I will tell you that the market for narrow bodies as I said during my prepared remarks has been quite strong and where we have a good fit from a maintenance interval perspective we try to stretch things out.
Also importantly we're really focusing on the better credit quality opportunities where we have choice and for the narrow-bodies we certainly do.
For the wide-body the 330 is an older aircraft or limited choices but still some decent competition.
The main focus there is going to be on a good long lease term provide we have an adequate credit quality customer I think we may.
So I would say the board commentary reaches that rental levels are about level with last year but I think the intangible factors is that there is more choices and better non-economic lease terms.
Okay very good and then secondly Ron can you talk a little bit more about the air cargo market.
Obviously it's an area where you're reducing exposure reaffirmed today by designating those two freighter for sale but I’m just curious if you see any shift in trends either down or up in that market.
And then on a related note on the two freighter aircraft you have for sale are those actually going to be sold do you have tutors for those cargo aircraft or are those ultimately going to be parted out.
The cargo market has improved modestly this last year or so.
Demand has picked up.
The problem with the cargo market is basically less supply and I think it's going to take a long time for that to get worked through and so our strategy has been consistent and we're executing on it.
There are some bright spots in a way in a sense that most of the end of life value for an aircraft derives from its engines and engines aren’t specific to cargo aircrafts.
So we’re doing pretty well in terms of the part-out realization and to put it in perspective we think of our fleet our freighter fleet as having two parts.
There is the older converted freighter fleet which is end 11 fit into it and our basic strategy with those aircraft is to run them out and then sell them for parts.
And those two on the 11s and Mike alluded to it and I mentioned are going to be sold on that basis.
I expect that within the next two or three years that fleet will completely go away and all we will be left with will be five newer factory built freighters that are on lease with better customers for generally long terms.
So I don’t expect there is going to be much of an improvement particularly for these older aircrafts and you will see us kind of work our way out of those things as leases end and if there is an early opportunity there to terminate them and make sense of it we will do.
I agree and then if I could squeeze one more in regarding order yesterday for 15 787 eight to nine delivering between 2017 and 2020 they indicated that they will be looking to lease half of those.
Do you have interest in pursuing that business at all? We're open to new business in general.
I'll also find an airline and the question will be what will they ask for specifically on the order aircraft? Are there opportunities for us to play in that and if there are little we'll certainly take a look at it.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Nathan Hong with Morgan Stanley.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Just wanted to follow up on the sales activity and it seems like it's been higher than expected and you did know that the secondary market remains quite strong.
So I am just wondering is there actually scope to see maybe Aircastle sell a larger portion of its portfolio in a single transaction so much as something that we're seeing from one of your competitors recently.
Yes I don’t want to ever take anything off the table but our basic strategy on sales has been much more incremental and I think we have a great team that's able to squeeze the best value out of individual aircraft or smaller packages.
That's an easier thing to digest from an execution perspective as well and it de-risks the whole process also.
So we're kind of more inclined in that direction Nathan.
So the answer is probably not and more likely we'll continue our approach as we have so far.
Got it.
And just a quick follow-up on the lease terms that you're getting on your remarketing activity for the 2016 aircraft you did mention that it was pretty good but curious to hear if there is any consideration for the possibility of rising interest rates as you guys actually work through the lease terms.
Is that something that you guys do discuss and again just kind of curious to hear your thoughts there? Well a couple comments about interest rates in general -- to the extent that interest rates rise my view on how that percolates through the market is that think of it as a hierarchy.
New aircrafts are as largely -- have rents that are largely set with respect to interest rates to prevail delivery.
And then that in turn sets the lease rental possibilities for older aircraft.
If interest rates rise rents on new aircraft will rise and that will trickle on that.
Having said that that process can take some time and we're very focused on finding good opportunities locking in and moving on and this sets a small number of aircraft left for 2016 that we’re not letting that distract us too much.
Okay.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
We’ll take our next question from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Good morning guys.
This is James Amine on for Moshe.
Thanks for taking my question.
In light of the recent M&amp;A bids for one of your competitors can you guys characterize your view of interest from Asian -- Asian financial institutions to potentially acquire global aircraft lessors and then can you also just talk about what kind of offer you guys would need to see for you to consider a bid? Well I'll say I cover the first thing that’s more straightforward and it’s an entirely new thing as you know there has been a number of leasing companies that have been purchased over the years by these institutions and there is a broader shift here in term of the center gravity of the business towards Asia in keeping with where traffic is happening that’s natural.
I think for a couple of distinct things happening that I would say center in China number one there have been some very rapidly growing Chinese leasing companies that for the most part have thought to built platforms organically and to be candid I think they're locking in platforms.
And so that might give rise to an M&amp;A scenario.
I think there is a desire by several different jurisdictions Chinese Japanese etcetera to perhaps diversify the currencies in which their investments are denominated and aircrafts have performed well and that could be a factor here too.
I think there is a growing acceptance that critical mass is important in our space as well.
All these things bode well for real platforms and as I said during my remarks it wasn’t an accident.
We're very proud of the platform we have.
We think it has real value.
We don’t have any plans to do anything with the company but we're always open for phone calls and that's kind of where I'll leave it.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Scott Valentin with FBR &amp; Company.
Good morning thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Scott.
Just with regard to the service backed market just wondering in terms of contested RFP situations versus uncontested you mentioned I guess there is some potential for additional acquisitions in the back half of the year.
I am just wondering maybe if you had a rough breakout of what percentage of your acquisitions are done through RFPs and what percentage is done just uncontested? I think there is no clear answer for that Scott because the situation is tend to evolve and sometimes it's -- I'll tell you one thing.
One thing that we tend not to spend very much time on there is the big processes where you have three four five dozen people show up and you do have those that's a very bad use of time.
What we tend to focus on is things where there is a handful of people and where the situation plays to our strength.
And to say that there is never competition is kind of being a little bit disingenuous.
I think for a quote unquote "no bid situation" those are almost always from experienced counterparties who have a very good sense for the market.
So in the world today you have to -- you are kept honest and where we make money and where we win is by offering something that we're capable of doing better than other people either moving quickly being flexible about aircraft types being a little bit more customer tailored in our approach.
Everyone of our deals this year with the exception of one aircraft has been airline deals that have had some combinations of those elements and that's a very sharp contrast to what we used to do historically which is a lot of lessor business.
Right now the lessor business is hard to win particularly compared to airline deals and I expect that that will continue.
Doesn’t mean we're not going to try but I think there is continued score particularly in contacts where an airline is trying to manage capacity that could be the case in South America or other slower growth economies.
It could be in situations where somebody is trying to take advantage of the strong dollar relative to the local currency.
There is lots of different scenarios but I would say that the focus we have in terms of winning is probably airline oriented and always going to be on things that are not so bit out of.
Okay thanks for the help.
And then on the investment grade rating I know it's been focus and kind of a goal for you guys to try and achieve that.
Just wondering in the past I think you said it's kind of has been a size threshold we believe I think $8 billion is the number that's been kind of thrown around.
That the portfolio that the fleet has to be set size before investment grade rating is possible I am just wondering how is that goal of the investment grade rating how does affect your buy and sell decisions in terms of managing the portfolio? Does it have any impact whatsoever? I would say that we try to run the business as we best see fit period.
And the experience we had in the past from securitizations from other situations we need to believe that we should manage the company not with a view towards what a rating agency wants to accomplish but what we want to do? We have to live with whatever we do and we have to be happy with it and I would not encourage the company with a bad deal simply to meet a size threshold because that’s not going to do anybody any good from a shareholder perspective.
Okay fair enough and then one final question you mentioned some weakness in the wide-body side A330 and 777.
I was just wondering you guys are opportunistic do you see opportunity here maybe to shift back to wide-body and acquire some of those aircrafts in the weak period given it sounds like that the manufactures are addressing the issue through production? We always keep an open mind about that it's not the -- it's about price and if we find a wide-body situation where the price is good and if it makes sense relative to the broader context of the transaction we have to do that.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Scott.
We’ll go next to Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi guys good morning I know you commented on narrow-bodies of course being most attractive right now but just curious if any specific types are preference right here and then maybe you could also expand on your thoughts on the e-jets and kind of where they fit into the airline niche in terms of demand as well? The question on the narrow-bodies is they are all interesting.
We focus on the more commonly used aircrafts as opposed to niche ones.
And we like Boeing we like Airbus.
It's a question of pricing and deal terms and we are very open minded.
And I think one of the places where we see particular value is not necessarily in the brand new air planes.
We tend to be a little less competitive there because we're much more focused on line effects than maybe some of our peers but we see great value particularly in the fuel environment that we have today in aircraft that are five 10 years old and very very competitive in terms of lease demand.
I think the e-jets are very much in keeping with our strategy.
I'll will just kind of cover a couple of basic principles as we approach this opportunity.
Number one we look for situations that are less competitive and where we can add value and various approach in terms of partnering with a couple of three lessor partners fits into that very directly.
Number two on many occasions we've spoken about our reluctance to make big capital commitments into the future without getting compensated for increased risk on placement and increased risk on funding and also the drag affects of production payments to the manufacturers as the aircraft gets old.
As we look at this proposition we felt that we were going to be compensated and we used a 15% ROE threshold and it's a higher threshold in our view in this context than there is for a narrow deal.
And I would also add just one last thing which is as we thought about this obviously fuel is an important factor in the economic proposition and we underwrote the deal based on fuel price environment here now.
I think it's really cool aircraft.
I think it's got an incredibly powerful market position and we have delivery positions at the very front end of this production line that are going to be very valuable.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thanks and then one other quick follow-up I was just curious if there is any way to split the maintenance revenue recognized this quarter into perhaps more regularly recurring and then that associated with the sales.
I’m not sure that there is simple answer for that but one thing I would guide you to in the materials we put out both in the power point in the press release we had a table that shows a breakout of the different P&amp;L geography elements on our sales and so you will see our maintenance revenue for the different sold aircraft and obviously the total versus the different can may be illuminate you on that aspect.
But I will emphasize that maintenance revenue by its nature is a periodic and hard to predict and I wouldn’t use Q2 in anyway a guide for what Q3 will be I focus on the guidance in that respect.
Yeah thanks.
I know its little bit difficult to predict there but thank you for the color.
I appreciate it.
Sure Thanks Jason.
We’ll go next to Kristine Liwag with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Kristine.
Earlier you guys mentioned how your marketing leases are flat -- that you were seeing flat rental revenues versus last year but you’re seeing some changes in non-economic lease terms can you discuss what these non-economic terms are? Return conditions the -- when we have leases we have maintenance reserves.
Typically we have I think better terms there better coverage versus our expected cost.
It could be tighter terms in terms of maintenance standards.
It could be tighter provisions in terms of the leases here in terms and lease.
I don't know if that helps but I think it sounds like soft stuff but it's actually the stuff that matters when you hit the bump in the road.
And just to clarify are these changes to your benefit? Absolutely.
Or to your customer's benefit yeah.
Our benefit it’s a lessors market right now.
Great and for the lease for the $1 billion aircraft assets do you expect the close for the full year what are the lease rate factors for those? And then also you mentioned that you try to go for the less competitive areas.
So for the deals that you have bid what was your win rate? Well a couple of things.
One is I think the win rate for our transactions depends on what you count as your base of things that you pursue because we don’t typically go after the big formal RFP type of process situation.
We might begin a process and then drop out and come back in.
I would say if we hit 20% we're doing pretty well.
But by design we avoid a lot of the more heavily trodden situations.
I think the lease rate factors vary a lot depending on the lease term.
What many of our competitors have focused on new aircraft exclusively it's a little bit easier to use that as a benchmark but we also look at used aircrafts with shorter terms and those tend to have higher lease rates.
We tend to also favor by the way situations where the price is very low and maybe the lease rate isn’t very high but there is less risk.
So I think there is harder generalization from that kind of statistic but I would say that we are doing quite well in terms of lease factors considering the pedigree of what we're buying.
Okay.
And broadly speaking when you look at an aircraft how should we think about the economic effect of impairment charges versus maintenance revenues? Is it depending on how the price you paid for the aircraft if you have better return conditions or supplemental maintenance pieces are those the pieces that would offset the impairment charges and are your deals generally structured that way? If we're doing our job right we're buying aircraft to last more than one lease.
So it's really hard to track one thing one lease and next one after that so on and so forth.
The general principle you should think about are as follows.
Number one is we are very focused on making sure we have maintenance reserves or lease and compensation that covers the time burned off.
And number two we're very focused on making sure that the maintenance intervals meaning the time where you to spend a lot of money and lease ends are coincidental so we have an option about whether we want to reinvest or not.
Beyond that there is a such a ton of noise that I don't know that I can generalize and give you any great answers.
Great and last question for me the upgrade to an investment grade rating work came up a couple of times from your prepared remarks and also in the Q&amp;A do you think this is a late 2015 event or 2016? Do you have any sort of feel for possible timing? Yes frankly speaking there is no specific timing that we can point to.
We will need to continue to grow the business achieve scale and deliver strong credit metrics to get there but that could happen in a short period.
It could happen over a longer period.
It depends what we do in the context of growing the business and we intend to do that as Ron said not just to get through an investment grade rating but to make more money for our shareholders.
That was the primary constituent who we're trying to serve here.
We're conscious of all the other capital providers for the business but we're going to do it and we're going to continue that march in a disciplined fashion and we think will get us there.
Great.
Thank you.
[Operator instructions] We'll go next to [Bill Mastoras] [ph] with Baird and Company.
Thank you for taking my question and most of my questions have been answered but I would like to circle back to the E2 order Ron I am wondering how many of those aircrafts do you now have placed if any at all? This is a departure after all from certainly past strategies.
None yet.
We discussed -- I think give us a year or two and you'll see a lot of progress there.
There are a lot of discussions underway.
Remember this is an aircraft that we'll not roll off the line for the first time until 2018.
So this is a bit on the early side.
Okay.
And how should we be thinking about CapEx in each one of the years beginning in 2017 going forward just in terms of what you might incur? Well I direct you to the table in the 10-Q.
The company doesn’t have a lot of other future capital commitments beside this program.
So this should give you a pretty good indication on that.
It's pretty well spread out and we have 25 aircrafts in total seven of these for the first three years and then for the end.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we'll take our next question from Darryl Genovesi from UBS.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Sure.
Hey Ron you had commented about the prospects of rising interest rates and the likelihood that yields would likely move higher as well in that scenario I was just wondering if you can provide a little historical context because when I kind of look at what's happened here over the course of the last 10 years call it it looks like at least on new aircrafts lease yields have actually been remarkably stable within kind of 100 or so basis point range.
While if you look at corporate line yields the trigger yields or anything else you've had a pretty steady decline of kind of 400 basis points or so until a little -- the situation seems like it's perhaps a little bit different on the older aircraft side with bigger swings although still not what I would necessarily characterize as high degree of correlation with overall market interest rates kind of over that time period.
So if you could just provide a little bit more context as to how you're thinking about that past 10-year period or any historical period relative to your expectations for the forward outlook if interest rates should rise? I would say a couple of things it's very tricky to try to compare a bond time series to lease rental time series.
Lease rental time series are pretty noise and they're very situational and this thing called maintenance actually really kind of blows a lot of economics terms out of the water.
You definitely do have a heightened sense of cyclicality when you get away from the older aircraft in terms of placements and so that might obscure any kind of statistical relationship you square is not going to be anywhere near what you might expect if you look at a starting a newer aircraft series.
But I can tell you just anecdotally and this is -- I always like to fall back on common sense.
If you have a brand new A320 and interest rates are as they are today you're looking in at a rest of 350 if interest rates rise 100 basis points you're looking at something probably $3 000 higher.
So I think that will be pretty easy to transmit things.
Now if you look at what does a 10-year older aircraft lease for? Today I think you're looking at something in the low 200s.
If fuel prices don't change and that's another variable that kind of affects everything here then I think you're going to see that the effect that we just talked about is largely going to transmit over into the older aircraft.
And the opposite of that caps in as well.
There is an even further drop in interest rate is hard to think back that you're going to get better rent on an old aircraft if the new ones is cheaper but also you should drive some comfort from this as the supply demand situation is pretty tough right now.
So there is not going to be the kind of compression issues that might have happened in the softer market.
There are this many more moving pieces there and I would hate to say it's going to be like the same kind of outer break equation as maybe something else.
Yes I just wonder if there is something in particular that happened over the course of last cycle or two that caused kind of a departure just directionally in lease factors relative to kind of what you would expect to be kind of the intuitive relationship with interest rate and perhaps that's something you do -- I am sorry you feel you said.
Yes.
Okay.
I was going to suggest perhaps the exit of some of the European banks from the aircraft financing business in front of the 2008 2009 timeframe as perhaps as drivers… We don't charge the lease factors are a derivative.
We charge rent.
We charge rents and in fact again may that has a subsidiary impact but happy to talk about this offline a little bit more if you want to talk in greater detail in fact further.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn it back to Aircastle Management for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks for your time today.
We hope you found the call helpful.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to today's Aircastle Limited Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Aircastle.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Melody.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's third quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer and Mike Inglese CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Welcome to the call.
Before speaking to our overall results I’d like to cover two important matters for addressing head on.
Together they gave rise to impairments for the total net after-tax impact of $66 million during the quarter and somewhat diminished but was otherwise a very strong performance during Q3.
The first of these relates to Malaysian Airline System or MAS which is restructuring to address typical financial issues.
MAS survived tough times before but this is the first instance their controlling shareholder the Malaysian Government didn't support the airline and its stakeholders in the balanced way that it had repeatedly in the past.
In fact earlier this year the Malaysian Government passed a new bankruptcy loss specifically for the MAS restructuring.
Upon its passage MAS promptly declared bankruptcy and began the process of widening down the airline while simultaneously forming a new carrier unburdened by past obligations.
As part this restructuring they rejected the lease of our 777-200ER as they did with aircraft done by several other lessors.
And in fact they told us to pick up the aircraft as is and not to expect any further payments.
We're experiencing the dealing with restructurings and took immediate steps to protect our asset and our position.
The aircraft is now in our possession.
Our losses at MAS consist of future rentals as well as compensation for maintenance value consumed during the term of the contract which was to be due at lease expiry.
We will be pursuing remedies for this and would say that the approach taken here is disappointing.
If creditors are ultimately treated unfairly we expect MAS as well as other Malaysian state control enterprises will be able to benefit from the same kind of implicit trust the finance community has placed in them for decades past.
I’m glad to report we have no other aircrafts with MAS.
The 777 we repossessed is the only one of its kind in our fleet and is 17 years old.
While we're still evaluating deployment alternatives we elected to write this aircraft down to our best estimate for scrap value.
We typically wouldn’t do so for an aircraft this age as we’d expect to secure one or two further leases.
However our current weak market demand for wide-bodies a large number of competing aircraft and the growing number of countries and posing aircraft stage limits makes it more difficult to recovery the big investment needed for releasing.
Nonetheless we are pursuing both leasing and sales opportunities actively.
The second matter relates to the air cargo sector from which we're strategically accelerating our exit.
This sector continues to suffer from a lot of capacity.
While there is a modest pickup in demand earlier this year most of these gains were erased by the impact of additional supply entering the market.
Our basic view on air cargo hasn’t changed where we developed opportunities to act upon.
Since the start of the third quarter we sold three freighters and signed an agreement to sell fourth in January.
Most of the financial impact of these sales was already incorporated in our second quarter results.
As part of our annual fleet review we completed during the third quarter we're now planning to scrap the six older 747 converted freighters remaining in our fleet as our leases expire over the next 30 months.
For these specific aircraft we also reduced our cash flow estimates to reflect lower usage and determine we make no further investments to enable future leases.
This will leave us with the freighter fleet consisting of just five factory build freighters lease to good customers and with an average age around eight years.
I expect these remaining aircrafts will count for well below 10% of our overall fleet value and play much less important part of our business as we continue to rebalance and reshape our portfolio.
I’d now like to discuss Aircastle's performance during the third quarter of 2015 our perspective on the business environment what it means to our company and finally our longer term outlook.
Mike will then cover Aircastle's financial results and then we’ll open it up to Q&amp;A.
The impairments I just discussed notwithstanding our financial results were quite good.
During Q3 we earned $52 million or $0.64 per share if we exclude the MAS repossession and the fleet review charges.
Our cash ROE has remained high and came in at 14.5% on a 12-month trailing basis.
These financial results were driven by strong operating cash flows and performance including 99.9% fleet utilization.
We have been derisking our business through lease management as well as to combine the effects of our investments and sales.
To that end we pushed out the average remaining lease term of our fleet to nearly six years further contributing the stability of our revenues.
Despite very competitive conditions we've been able to source attractive new investments and through Q3 we closed on $1 billion in new acquisitions.
We expect to close another $200 million in purchases before the year is over.
Nearly all of our investments this year have been for narrow bodies and the average of the acquisitions we've made has been four years.
In contrast our sales are centered on older aircraft where investor demand has been particularly strong.
The average age of the aircraft we sold during the first three quarters has been 15 years and the net pretax impact from these sales has been more than $38 million with strong contributions for both narrow and wide body aircraft.
We continue to be active sellers.
Our strong operating cash flow performance the meaningful improvement in the quality of our assets and the distinct and valuable strategic position of our franchise let our Board to increase our quarterly dividend $0.24 per share.
This is our 38th consecutive dividend and it demonstrates our commitment to deploying our capital and the balance in shareholder friendly way.
Now a few words about the business environment.
Despite growing geopolitical headwinds global air traffic continues to increase steadily at roughly twice straight of global GDP growth.
However as we head into the slower winter season we're mindful of market soft spots and have taken a more cautious approach to imaging the company.
Lease demand for narrow body aircraft remains healthy and rents for current generation models are stable.
However we see rents on new generation aircraft at lower than previously anticipated levels which we believe is largely attributable to expectations that fuel prices will remain low for some time.
We’ve been focusing unlocking in new leases earlier on to take advantage of the good terms currently available.
Demand for wide body aircraft is certainly weaker.
This is not a new phenomenon and we’ve been discussing it for several quarters.
However it appears to be worsening a bit as more aircrafts are coming into the market while demand much of which has been centered in Asia is waning.
Nonetheless we continue to be successful in placing wide body aircraft on new leases on terms we considered to be reasonable albeit at the lower end of our original expectations.
In fact we’ve only one remaining wide body coming off lease next year and I think we’re pretty close to securing lease commitment for it.
In regional aircraft space U.S.
majors are expressing interest in upgrading and we believe this could serve as a catalyst for the 100 plus seat market.
In that regard we’re pleased with the interest we're seeing in our E2s which look increasingly like the category leading aircraft.
I believe we’re close to our first placement which would be with an existing e-jet operator.
Turning to financing capital markets conditions got a little choppier during August and September as concerns about a slowing Chinese economy and declining energy and commodity prices weighed on debt markets.
Since then debt markets have -- debt market conditions have stabilized.
However this temporary volatility proved to be quite beneficial for us.
We saw an uptake in our acquisition activity with lessors as more than saw the value in the execution certainty we can provide.
Aircraft prices continue to rise for most types as investor demand continues to surge.
We’re seeing many yield driven players who are not traditional aircraft investors entering our market.
Moreover many of the more established leasing companies continue to seek our growth opportunities very aggressively.
In short it’s a very competitive market.
Aircastle is a unique player with a well proving disciplined and differentiated approach.
We’re the only large value investors in the space and the only major permanently capitalized company that retains a flexible and countercyclical approach to investing.
We continue to be a best-in-class asset manager built to handle both the opportunities and adversities that inevitably arise from time to time.
As other large leasing companies begin to look and act more alike our strategic position is improving as I believe we occupy an essential growing and profitable role in the market.
As we take a step back and take at our industry there appears to be increasing momentum for change and for consolidation.
Some of this maybe driven by the desire by some for sheer size while others look for exits and strategic repositioning.
Others still might be motivated by needs to enhance their capabilities.
In any cases we look at the large leasing companies there is lot of change and we intend to pursue opportunity to enhance shareholder's value.
We remain intent on maintaining the long term growth trajectory but continue to be selective investors focused on less competitive value add situations to play to our strength while tapping into our large base of industry relationships around the world.
In today’s market that means being particularly discerning given the intense competition.
We also intend to continue ceasing on attractive opportunities to enhance our portfolio and profitability through asset sales.
We’re pleased with the way our bonds traded during the last episode of market volatility and remain focused on making progress towards achieving investment grade credit ratings.
We grow prudently manage our future capital commitments carefully and made great strides in enhancing our portfolio of quality.
It’s difficult to put a timeline on this but I believe we’re on the right path.
Finally as we just demonstrated through our most recent dividend increase Aircastle remains firmly committed to assured and balanced allocation of capital.
I'll now turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron our core results during the third quarter 2015 were quite strong.
Our net loss of $14 million or $0.17 per share included a $66 million earnings impact from the MAS bankruptcy and the converted freighter exits.
Without these our net income was $52 million or $0.64 per share.
Our profitability and return on capital continue to improve as we de-risk the portfolio.
As Ron mentioned our LTM cash ROE was 14.5%.
With the exception of the MAS aircraft we've completed our lease placements for 2015.
For 2016 we’ve just four aircraft remaining to place representing about 1.8% of the total fleet net book value.
Two of these are current generation narrow bodies.
One is an older freight that we expect to scrap at lease end and one is a mid aged A330 where we believe we’re pretty close to securing the next lease commitment.
This progress reflects our focus on locking in strongly lease rental levels currently available.
The portfolio continues to perform very well with 99.9% utilization levels and very low customer receivables.
During the first nine months of 2015 we closed 32 aircraft investments of which 31 were current technology narrow body for approximately $1 billion.
During the fourth quarter of 2015 we expect to acquire five more narrow body aircrafts bringing the total for the year to 37 aircraft for about $1.2 billion.
We continue to be disciplined buyers focusing on situations where we are value added entail less competition and play to our company’s strength.
Turning to our results lease rental and finance lease revenues for the quarter were $189.9 million up 5.3% over prior year.
The increase is driven by higher revenues from acquired aircraft partially offset by aircraft sold and lease terminations.
Over the past year we’ve continued to rebalance the fleet mix and upgrade the portfolio’s assets and credit quality.
We've been focused on generating high quality longer term contracted revenues off a lower risk portfolio.
Total revenues for the quarter were $212.1 million up $34.5 million or 19.4% from the prior year primarily driven by higher maintenance revenue of $19.9 million higher lease and finance lease revenues of $9.6 million.
Other revenues also increased $6 million to $8.6 million primarily due to termination fees associated with the disposition of our last three MD11 freighters.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $216.3 million versus $177.4 million for the prior year.
Total revenues increased $34.5 million and gains from the sale of flight equipment were up $4.3 million.
In connection with our annual fleet revenue and as part of our strategy to accelerate our exit from older freighters we decided to scrap our last six remaining 747 converted freighters when their current leases expire.
This resulted in a $34.6 million impairment charge and additional depreciation of about $2 million during the third quarter.
These expenses were partly offset by $6 million of maintenance and other revenue associated with the impaired aircraft.
As Ron mentioned during the quarter we also impaired our only 777-200ER in our fleet which is previously on lease with MAS.
This impairment totaled $37.8 million and was partly offset by $1.2 million in security deposits.
At MAS on the terms of their lease with us we would have collected an additional $18 million in rent over the remaining lease term and another $25 million in estimated lease end return compensation.
Our net loss for Q3 was $14 million versus net income of $19.2 million in the third quarter of ’14.
Higher total revenues were mostly offset by higher non-cash impairment charges of $58 million and higher depreciation charges of $9.8 million.
Interest expense for the quarter was $60.4 million an increase of $3.6 million over the prior year due primarily to higher weighted average debt balance of approximately $400 million versus the prior year period.
Depreciation was up $9.8 million to $85.3 million for the quarter due to accelerated depreciation on our MD11 freighter exist additional depreciation from the fleet review and a net increase in fleet size.
The net book value of the aircraft portfolio rose to $6 billion at the end of quarter up from $5.3 billion at the end of September 2014.
I should point out here that the accelerated depreciation associated with the six remaining converted freighters that we wrote down will result in about $11 million of additional depreciation in 2016.
We're having another strong year in aircraft sales.
To the first three quarters we sold 20 aircraft for proceeds of approximately $343 million including eight aircraft during the third quarter.
Pretax profits from aircraft sales totaled $15.7 million for the quarter and $43 million year-to-date and we've been capitalizing on strong investor interest in older aircrafts stimulated in part by low oil prices.
To that end the weighted average age at the aircraft we sold during the quarter was approximately 15 years and since the end of third quarter we sold several additional aircrafts including an older A330 our last 767 and a 747 converted freighter.
Our third quarter tax provision was $2.7 million with an effective tax rate of 15.3% on year-to-date basis we expect the full year effective rate to be in the 13% to 14% range.
At the end of the third quarter we owned a 160 aircraft leased to 51 customers located in 32 countries.
Of these 109 aircrafts were unencumbered and had a net book value of approximately $3.7 billion or about 62% of our total fleet.
Net book value of our flight equipment has grown at a compound rate of roughly 9% per annum since the end of 2010 while our unencumbered fleet has increased at a rate of 47% over that same period.
The increase in unencumbered asset enhances our liquidity position and strengthens our overall credit profile.
Cash ROE on an LTM basis was very strong at 14.5%.
Cash flow from operations over the past 12 months a little over $500 and 6% higher than the prior 12 month period.
This increase in sustainable cash flow enhances our ability to return capital to our shareholders through dividends.
For the third quarter our portfolio of lease rental yield was 12.7% up modestly sequentially from 12.6% from Q2.
We've seen a modest decline in lease rental yields versus our historical averages.
This reflects one a dropping our fleet's weighted average age to 7.7 years from 8.6 years only a year ago and an increase in the weighted average remaining lease term to 5.9 years up from five years a year earlier.
The net cash interest module was 9.2% slightly up sequentially from the second quarter's 9.1%.
At the end of the third quarter we had $149 million of unrestricted cash and $550 million of undrawn liquidity on our unsecured revolver providing us with ample liquidity act on new investment opportunities.
Total borrowings at quarter end were $4 billion including $2.7 billion of unsecured debt.
The weighted average coupon on our debt was 4.93% tat the end of the quarter versus 4.69% at the end of 2014 the increase driven by higher percentage of unsecured debt.
The weighted average remaining life of over debt at September 32 2015 was approximately 4.2 years.
The proceeds from our asset sales together with our strong operating cash flows have reduced our financing needs for new acquisitions in this current environment.
At the end of our quarter the net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.2 times.
We remain committed to allocating capital efficiently between value enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
Towards that end our Board approved the $0.24 per share common dividend for the fourth quarter payable on December 15 which represents a 9% increase over the previous level.
By way of comparison our fleet increased approximately 13% from the prior period 2014.
Now paid out a total of $589 million in dividends since going public demonstrating the important role dividends have played as part of our capital allocation strategy.
Finally turning to Q4 guidance as usual we've included certain elements in the fourth quarter of 2015 in our earnings release and PowerPoint that was posted earlier this morning.
Our lease rental revenue guidance reflects asset sales completed during the third quarter as well as additional dispositions we expect to complete by yearend and is also impacted to the tune of about $2 million per quarter related to the MAS lease termination.
So to summarize we ended the third quarter with a solid core performance.
We have strong momentum heading towards the end of the year.
We remain focused on increasing earnings producing strong cash ROE and delivering sustainable operating cash flows.
We continue to successfully execute our disciplined growth strategy proactively manage the portfolio of aircraft and deliver strong total returns for shareholders for the long term.
And with that operator we’re happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go first today to Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you operator and good morning gentleman.
Hi Gary.
Ron in the last 10-Q you identified there were four aircrafts that you considered at higher risk for failing the recoverability test and today you're taking an impairment on six aircrafts.
I want to know what’s changed and also if you can give a little more color on your comments about the age limits that you're seeing and why we should be concerned that there could be more impairments on the wide body side on the freighter side as a result of that? Okay.
The answer to the first part the monitoring list that we has last quarter consisted entirely of freighters including some that we sold.
And the list is now mostly of freighters.
All the freighters on the list are the ones we've written down and expected to scrap at the end of their current leases.
There are a couple of narrow bodies and they're including 1757 and older 737-800 I feel pretty good about those.
Comments about the age limits age limits are not a new phenomenon but there’re a couple of newly introduced age limits that kind of caught our attention and they came into play as we think about 777-200ER.
One of them for example is in Saudi Arabia.
Saudi Arabia is now putting in place a 20 year age limit on passenger aircraft and 25 for freight and for older white bodies a great place to buy aircrafts would be in a charter market particularly for the Hajj and the Umrah.
So that is a factor.
It’s not the only thing in the world that that’s important but it is an illustration.
As we look at our particular 777 it’s 17 years old and it’s not an age like I said during the remarks where you expect to put it down but for an aircraft of this type and I would note also that 777 200ER has very little liquidity very few transactions on this aircraft type over time.
It's kind of stayed with the existing operators for -- since inception for the most part.
We're having to gauge in a market that has very few data points whether we want to put a lot of money into these aircrafts to put them back on lease and if we're looking at only a three-year redeployment period it’s a harder case to make.
So I am not giving up on placing the aircraft but we decided to take a more prudent approach in terms of our accounting right down.
Okay thanks Ron.
And Mike on the Q4 guidance your midpoint for the lease revenue of $180 million that’s down $8 million from Q3 and it looks like on a net basis the portfolio is still growing a little bit.
What is that headwind into Q4? As I said Gary it reflect assets sales from the third quarter a fair of bit which occurred late in the third quarter.
So you had third quarter lease revenue and then you had asset sales and we do expect a fair bit of selling also here in the fourth quarter.
Right but you're also expecting to add assets in the fourth quarter correct? That’s correct.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank has our next question.
Hi everyone.
So first ask I wanted to get a quick housekeeping question out of the way.
The 777 200ER previously with Malaysia that you took the $37.8 million right off charge for.
Can you tell us what the new book value for the aircraft is? Just trying to get sense of what you're ascribing as a fair market value for 17 year old 777 200ER.
Richa we don’t get into specific book values for aircraft.
Well say for the right down is that we're assuming a scrap and when you look at appraised values most appraised values look at a continued redeployment of an aircraft and those values are naturally higher.
And as I said before we haven't made a decision to not release the aircraft but we don’t have enough data points or confidence with this aircraft type to make that determination.
Okay fair enough and then sticking to that asset for a minute the $43 million you were scheduled to receive from the bankrupt airline.
What are the chances you're made hold on that.
I know you commented on this Ron but I am hoping you could elaborated what the Malaysian Airline tongue you or the government tongue what are the odds that you actually get that money.
I prefer not to comment on an ongoing situation like that Richa.
In general bankruptcies have a very mixed record in terms of collectability bur our job is to do our best to recovery our losses and to maintain our position.
Okay and then finally just wanted to ask you about the wide body market broadly.
There were some pretty controversial comment made about the wide-body market in the past two week and on your last earnings call Ron you talk about softness in the states and as you said you talked about it for a few quarter.
But it would be helpful to hear your thought specifically in response to some of those values that was drawn out there by Delta and on a related note I thought you could offer an especially helpful perspective considering that I believe you have one 777 lease expiring in 2017 and two each of the following areas 2018 and 2019.
So if you could tell us A what airlines those aircrafts are with and B if you started marketing them already what the market perception has been on the other planes that would be really helpful.
Well some of the market commentary is involved.
Numbers that don’t comport with close to comporting with our view of reality and as I mentioned during our remarks and you'll see in our filings we've been successful in selling older wide-bodies.
We've been successful leasing older wide bodies and I think there has been an exaggerated sense of history over that in the market.
It is weak but markets tends to ebb and flow and I think the fact that we've been able to continually trade in aircraft is demonstration of that.
We have a 777 300ER that's coming off lease in '17.
We are remarketing it.
We feel good about it.
It’s a distinctly different market than the 777 200ER.
It does very different things.
There is a good opportunity set for us and I feel very comfortable with that aircraft as well as the two that are coming in each of the following years.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Nathan Hong with Morgan Stanley.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
It seems like the cargo environment is still tough and obviously the impairments taken this quarter were related to converter freighters but are you seeing some of this weakness kind of translate into other freighter assets? I am wondering if you could give us some color here maybe what you're seeing in the market place but obviously just based on what you guys plan to hold maybe the newer factory built 400s are doing relatively better but maybe if you could give us some color mainly the 777 or even the 800s that would be helpful.
I think the comments about the freight market cut across the market tweak and the most marginal capacity is the older aircraft the converted aircraft that were not build to suit and therefore less efficient.
Naturally those are the ones that are most at risk and there has been a large wave of retirements for these aircraft and as those things happen its healthy for everything that's left over.
It remains to be seen how the freight market demand picture evolves over time.
There have been some structural shifts there which have been helpful but it's also important to remember that the aggregate level of demand hasn’t dropped.
It has been about steady just hasn’t grown.
The basic problem in this sector is one of supply and the supply comes from the production of new freighters and from the belly space in the wide-bodies are being produced.
The wide body production is going up.
That’s a headwind that will persist and as far as the new freighters go I think the 777 is a wonderful aircraft that's sold for $30 million to $40 million more than a comparable passenger aircraft and when that first lease is over it will be worth a lot less than a comparable passenger aircraft and so we're not finding value there.
And the 747-8 might be an interesting niche aircraft but not one that suits well for a lessor that’s looking for a border operator base.
Bottom line is I don’t think the freight market is dead.
I think the freight market is over supplied with the right asset and with the right position we should be fine.
That’s helpful.
I am wondering if you could give us an update here on you capital allocation policy.
I did see the raise in the dividends but I don’t recall any meaningful share repurchase and maybe the last couple of years but we did see the stock dip a bit here.
So I am just wondering if you could give an updated thoughts on buybacks.
Look buybacks are part of our tactical allocation of capital.
We've done it over time.
We haven’t done it recently.
It’s something we look at on a regular basis and to the extent we think we can growth the business and the enterprise value with investing incremental assets we will continue to do that.
When we don’t feel like that’s out there we will look at stock buybacks more seriously.
Great.
That’s helpful.
Thank you for the time.
We will go next to Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning guys.
This is Nish Mani on for Jamie.
I’m wondering if I can get some comments on the narrow body market.
You've obviously talked about how you're seeing pockets of weakness amongst the wide body market particularly on 777 200ER but you guys continue to reinvest in the narrow body segment so any kind of incremental commentary you could provide on lease rates and market preference for assets it would be very helpful there.
I think the simple way to put it is I said during my prepared remarks is that that part of the market remains healthy.
We have seen pockets of weakness around the world that also covered narrow bodies.
Let's talk about Russia for example.
Trans Air the second biggest airline there is going through a wind down and there are larger number of narrow bodies that are being put in play from that and from other Russian Airlines and they're being absorbed recently well by the market.
So I am relatively optimistic about the conditions.
Having said that our view has been and we have been acting on it to seize the moment and lock in the good rental rates.
And if there is any discussion among the OEM to take production rates up in the narrow body segment particularly the 320 and 737 do you think that would have an adverse impact on second hand asset values and is there kind of backup plan for you guys in terms of preserving asset value at the company.
I think it will have an even bigger adverse impact on newer craft values.
We are concerned about the production levels going up that much.
We have been concerned for some time.
It’s not a new comment on our part.
I think the reluctance on our part to have an order stream is reflection of that.
But when you look at the current market and you look at fuel prices where they are and see how rents and price performances have been trending the current generation aircraft are doing just fine and I expect that we will be in a good position with us.
Okay.
Great that’s very helpful guys.
Thank you so much for the time.
Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs has our next question.
Good morning.
How are you doing? Hi Justine.
The first question I had is going back to the wide-body market and I was just wondering if you guys could comment on any differences you're seeing between the 777 and 330s.
I think most of the recent commentary has focused on the 777 market in particular given the 777X and then Boeing hasn’t cut production yet.
So are you seeing a divergence based on -- a divergence between 777 and 330 given the different dynamics there.
There has always been a big difference between these aircraft Justin and it's just because it’s a 777 doesn’t mean it is the same.
So let's start with -- I would ask members to mute.
The A330s have a customer base that's twice as big as the 777s to begin with and they've demonstrated liquidity.
We've traded and leased A330s repeatedly over the years and feel very comfortable with those aircraft types.
I’d also add that there is a world of difference between the 777 200ER and a 777 300ER.
The average age of 777 300ER is only around five years.
And so it’s too early to kind of see much movement in those aircraft.
I believe that that market the base 777 300ER is far more robust and interesting than that for the 200ER.
The 200ER been sub-planted by a number of other technologies and aircraft models and I don’t think that future is quite as bright.
Do you expect -- if we do see weakness in the 777 based on some of the specific related to production etcetera do you expect to spill over or is the market that bifurcated that lower leases to 777 don’t put some pressure on A330s.
If we expect a certain percent decline from 777 should we expect a decline less over 330s or are they really just that separate.
They're very different aircrafts in different markets there is some overlap between these models to be sure Justine but I think it’s a gross exaggeration say the 777 200ER market is weak.
So therefore everything else must be weak.
They all have their own characteristics and like I said the 200ER is probably the weak point in the market as far as that generation and I feel far more optimistic about the rest of the group.
Okay great.
And then just a question on acquisition I feel like this question gets asked to every lessor on every conference call but given that there have been fleets more recently they have been put up for sale and given the transformative nature of what ILFC was for Aircap -- some people and sometimes Aircastle's was not focused on having an order stream and focused on as you guys said being value added and being able to buy on one off basis with your available cash.
But acquiring a large portfolio would clearly be transformative.
May be that’s helps with I&amp;G rating.
Is that something you guys are will be willing to do.
At the right price we would.
If it's not right price we won’t.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
We'll go next to [Aaron] [ph] with DA Davidson.
Thanks.
At the risk of beating the horse can you maybe talk a little bit about the differences between the A330 200 and the A330 300 because you have quite of few on those aircrafts between the two of them is the demand for either of those variance weaker or stronger.
And you have talked about being able to trade in and out of those fairly successful years.
Can you talk about the risk related to A330s you have in the portfolio.
I don’t know how much ground I am going to break here the A330 200 is a smaller and longer range variant of the 330 300.
They're both fabulous aircraft.
The 330 200 is probably not as much in demand today as it was say three or four years relatively to 300 but market shifts can evolve.
At the moment we have only one 330 200 as I mentioned that's coming off lease in the next year or so and as I think we've mentioned we're pretty close to getting that placed.
I think these aircrafts are still incredibly cost competitive and incredibly relevant and I think the low fuel price environment makes them even more so than they had been maybe a year and a half ago.
So we're still optimistic about these holding their value in the long run and we're long term investors.
We intend to hold aircraft at least that's how we underwrite things and when markets ebb and flow we remain patient and calm and do our best job in terms of managing them.
Thanks and then just I guess on the -- I think you mentioned your five narrow bodies you're purchasing in the fourth quarter it seems like those would be pretty newer aged aircrafts.
Do you have any average age of those aircrafts? I think it's consistent with what we've been buying this year and that’s as much as I'll say.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Christopher Nolan with FBR and Company.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Do you guys have any 777-200s in the fleet? No.
Great.
And then back to excuse me I thought I heard in your prepared comments Ron that you were indicating that lease rates for new generation aircraft now I presume narrow body were weaker than expected.
Is that a correct read on or did I mishear it? I was referring to A320 Neo's and 777 Max is primarily the former because those are actually entering the market very shortly and this reflects current market placement economics and it’s a very simple explanation when these aircrafts were first introduced a few years ago still it was twice the price it is today.
And they are certainly more expensive aircraft and that price difference made a lot more sense if you could get a lot more in the way of a rental premium versus current technology.
Our observation is based purely on basic operating cost differences when you monetize them.
So shouldn’t come as any surprise.
Okay.
So when you say it’s weaker can you quantify is it 5% lower than you think 10% anything along those lines.
Here is like a way to think about an A320 the dimension in dollar terms.
Two years ago when fuel was around $3 a gallon the operating cost savings that the Neo offered over a CEO was probably in the $700 000 to $800 000 a year range.
All right now let's cut the rent the fuel price assumption in half and so therefore the operating cost benefit also drops to half of that.
If you make that into a monthly number that’s what you should expect the premium should be at best versus the current technology aircraft.
It’s not unique to the Neo.
It flows through the narrow body.
It flows through the wide bodies and it’s a reflection of an environment where more and more airlines are expecting fuel to persist at the levels they are today.
Final question in your comments talking about industry consolidation does that reflect your view that we’re going to see a wave of consolidation within the industry in general particularly among the smaller players? This is a hard part to predict because we’ve been talking about this for years and in the last year or so there has been two big deals maybe we're on the cusp of a third.
But what I had observed is when you look at the top 10 leasing companies right now there is a lot of change going on and all these things could give rise to something.
For example Avalon Avalon is in the process of being acquired by a Chinese company.
CIT just announced that aircraft leasing business is exploring strategic alternatives for that.
We’re seeing Awas for sale.
GECAS just replaced its leader and Bank of China announced that it's going to take it’s aviation group and put it on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
These are all pretty big deals.
It's all happened in a fairly short timeframe.
I can’t tell you whether anything specific will happen but it definitely worth paying attention to.
Great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Sure.
We’ll go next to Kristine Liwag with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey guys good morning Good morning In 2012 you guys have taken a $96 million aircraft impairment charge and then if you look at 2013 its $117 million and 2014 its $94 million and this quarter it’s $72 million.
So generally speaking do you think there should be a change in your assumed depreciation schedule for you would prevent a lot of these aircraft imperilment charges? We've also taken close to $200 million in gains and most of the imperilments that we've taken are related to freighters.
Freighter market has been going through a shift and in structure and in circumstance and we believe our accounting policy is appropriate if not conservative.
And so then can you quantify the remaining freighter in your fleet.
How much more is there a risk to write-down or is this all that you've taken and there is nothing left to take? We still have a book value of our fighter fleet and you can assume the extreme and say that all this true for at risk but I think we’ve done what we believe is prudent and appropriate.
Okay great.
And Ron during a bankruptcy restructuring how does an airline decide which leases to keep or reject? Is there a seniority of some sort among the less stores of which lease contracts have seniority.
And then going forward do you have a provision or anything like that to account for something like a lease rejection occurring.
Well there is not a cook book to this.
Each airline has its own particular business plan and approach and strategies for managing lessors very widely.
I don’t think there is much more to say about that.
It starts with is the aircraft core to its fleet? We went through lots of restructurings in U.S.
where some aircraft were absolutely devastating and some people some aircraft were untouched.
Each one of these things has to be looked at in isolation and for that reason it’s hard to just say I’m going to take a provision of that.
Sure.
And final question from me can you talk about the financial health of your airline customers and how many airlines do you have currently in your watch list and how many airplanes could be at risk within that watch list.
The financial health of our airlines is actually been about as good as it can be and our watch list is quite small.
That’s not to say that things don’t go unchanged.
A year or two years ago it was not on our watch list and they experienced two tragedies in short order.
The situations with MAS was not one which I think anybody could have foreseen and that’s the nature of investing in transactions involving airlines.
Great thank you.
We’ll go next to Michael Kass with BlueMountain Capital.
Hi and thanks for taking my question.
Actually I was just curious regarding -- I know you're not giving formal guidance for 2016 but just curious if you could provide some color on what your kind of thoughts are with respect to capital spending.
Just given I know you guys have been focused on growing the asset base and the credit and positive implications of that versus it does seem as though the market is becoming more competitive and where you guys want to play is becoming narrow or so I was just curious on your overall outlook -- we expect CapEx to be upper down next year.
Really hard to say.
When we started out the year this year just to put in perspective we kind of assumed about a $1 billion as a target for acquisitions and we far exceeded that.
The part that we exceeded by an even bigger margin is the asset sales part.
We assumed roughly $250 million and we’re well through that already through the third quarter and as Mike alluded to we have got a lot going on in Q4.
As we look at 2016 it’s an incredibly fluid market I don’t think it’s an unreasonable place to expect us to be a $1 billion but that's just a placeholder and we use a number of economic streams to raising our capital.
We've consistently used a 15% economic ROE to judge whether or not we want to buy something and I think that generally still holds and so if the market offers good opportunities as we saw from time to time during the course of this year we will continue to do that.
I’ve been impressed by the strengths of the sales market and if there is one thing that I learned in the 25 years in the businesses is when the opportunities present themselves you should seize them.
We run the business with a long-term growth trajectory in mind but the mark-to-market moves up and down all the time and that's actually the hallmark of being a valued investor and I think it’s one of the things that sets us apart.
Got you.
And then I was wondering is it possible to get an update on you guys have I guess previously provided the kind of percent by book value of your aircraft that are coming off lease going forward given the sale activity and the acquisition activity it's very hard to kind of track that over the course of the year.
I was wondering if you might just be able to say I think you mentioned four aircrafts next year but I was just wondering kind of if you had -- if you could just provide some color on what the cadence of that is over the next few years? Look that data will be in the 10-Q that we expect to file later today.
We talked on the call today about next year we have less than 2% of net book value to place and in to rollout over the next three or four years will be in our Q in the MD&amp;A section as it always is.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our next question from [Renovia] [ph] with CPT Global.
[Shipra Global] [ph].
Thank you very much operator.
Good morning everyone.
I apologize I was cut off for two or three minutes.
So.
hopefully somebody has announced a same question but if I understand you number correctly in this quarter you took a $6.1 million aircraft impairment charge which was not related to the 747 and to Malaysian Airline.
What does $6.1 million reflect? I was at least restructuring with another aircraft and we had roughly $7 million of offsetting maintenance revenue in connection with that aircraft.
Can you tell the nature or which aircraft it was? No its no I’m not get into those specifics here.
Fair enough.
Ron a couple of questions.
One a look at as I was listening to the conference call and updating my models so I looked at geographical composition it changed quite dramatically over the last two or three years and in particularly when I look at the top four countries there's a lot of rumors or there's a lot of news coming out of Brazil seems like it's like a fairly challenged situation there.
So you guys made a fairly large investment recently.
Would you care to comment a little bit what you see there and what do you take of that situation.
Sure Reno Brazil is certainly going through economic difficulties and I have been covering Brazil through a couple different roles over the years and what I would say about the Brazilian market today is vastly different than it was say ten years ago.
The airlines are generally well run they’re publically listed.
So you have some financial transparency and our big customers are I think are in actually reasonably good shape considering the circumstances.
Our single biggest customer in the company is a LATAM.
LATAM is a solid well run financial responsible airline.
They’ve got a great market franchise and what I think you should take away is that the big players in Brazil are acting as you would expect into a market contractions or reducing capacity and taking prudent steps.
So it’s a big change versus times past.
Of course we're cautious and of course we are careful about the way in which we deploy our capacity in Brazil or anywhere else to that matter but what signifies this industry is that things have been flow constantly over time.
And as I said we try to take a sober look at what’s going on.
If we don’t think the situation is going to work out as we took a view on in Russia we act on it and if we think it’s a matter of just working through then we stay around we work with our customers.
Thank you Ron.
And my last question.
When I look at page 9 if I understand and you guys are very opportunistically on the market both with respect to acquisition and divestiture.
If you look at the numbers the trends are very clear right.
Your fleet age is going down from 11.3 to 7.7 and annual average lease terms has taken the opposite pat going up for 4.6 to 5.9 years.
I'm just wondering is there a target in mind there is there an ideal mix ideal number are you looking at something like that or it just coincidence of the market opportunity that presented to you over the last three or four years.
I don’t think there is an ideal let me comment first on the average remaining lease term.
Our job is a manager a steward of the through is to understand that there is cyclical element to our business and when times are good it’s good to walk-in strong conditions strong market terms and were times are bad you don’t want to lock in and you can't turn to keep the incremental lease term short.
I think this is a good time and we’ve been behaving accordingly.
As far as age we don’t manage through an age.
This is one of the things that distinguishes us.
I don’t think age is an investment criteria and per se.
It doesn’t tell you anything about how much money you can make on the aircraft and in fact we for a long time as spouse of you that last off the line aircraft even if they may be new will be economically depreciating faster than aircraft made and an earlier part of the production life.
So for us it's all question of finding value and in this environment we see there being good value in the newer narrow body aircraft and then several years ago when the 777 sorry the 787 was delayed and when there were issues with the 350 we found it to be good value to that particular movement for wide bodies and we will adjust our fleet mix and our investment targeting based on where we see value and do so consistently.
Thank you very much Ron.
Sure.
We'll go next to Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Yes thanks.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
One is you reported 99.9% utilization but you weren’t getting paid on a wide body for three months.
How do you compute 99.9%? It was part of a month and that was the only aircraft.
So does only one partial month where you weren’t getting paid? We get paid rents in advance.
Okay.
That's fine.
Also Ron just to clarify your comments about the lease rate premiums not being there for the Neo because of downturn in fuel prices why weren’t that extend to the E2? The E2s are an entirely different market.
First of all the underwriting assumption that we made for the E2 was that fuel prices that we see today would persist.
Okay.
So the expectation we had in the first place was of something that was underwritten on the current fuel environment as we see it.
With the E2s you have a very different aircraft type particularly E2 195 that seats about 15 more people and can file up farther and it doesn’t do the same things that the current E1 does.
So there is a product differentiation story there.
Okay.
And just on the E2 is there a geographic region that's showing greater interest than we might expect? No it's pretty wide spread and as we expected the best demand is from the installed E1 base which is about 70 airlines.
So we have a lot of places to being with.
The transition from an E1 to E2 operationally isn’t that hard and it's a pretty broad spread wide spread base of interest let's say.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Christopher Nolan with FBR and Company.
Well in your comments in terms of the late production of the current generation having a lower value and given that you guys are opportunistic acquirers is there any value you see in the strategy of possibly capitalizing if Boeing has a production gap for the 737 current generation and before the Max basically capitalizing on that? We had discussions with Boeing and for that matter with Airbus all the time and we've discussed with them opportunities in a rising market whether it's related to Russia or otherwise and we'll continue to do so.
So far we haven't hit on any but we're open minded but we reflect all of our biases in the price expectations and I think that speaks for itself.
And just quick follow-up for Avalon do you think -- how much of the premium you think Avalon got was because of its order book which was fairly large and what do you think that is a strategy with the market is more willing to pay up right now for the order book as opposed to the operations as a leasing.
What's your view on that? I think you should ask H&amp;A Group or Bohai Leasing how they developed their price expectation.
I can't say and I think as far as the market goes there are certainly buyer preferences for certain configurations of aircraft and so be it.
We manage the company the best way we see fit and that all I can say.
Okay.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Sure.
With no additional questions in the queue at this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Constantinople for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you for your time.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Aircastle Limited Q4 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kim.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I’d like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and welcome to the call.
We closed a very successful 2015 with a surge of activity in mission involving market.
During this call I’ll cover; number one Aircastle’s achievements during the year; two our views on the business environment and its impact on our company; and three our plans going forward.
Mike will address Aircastle’s financial results.
And then we’ll open it up to Q&amp;A.
Over the past year we’d experienced major shifts in the business climate.
These changes which include dramatically lower fuel prices and slowing economic growth in many parts of the worlds are real and we’re taking seriously.
Moreover recently there’s been a sharp increase in financial markets volatility.
With this is a backdrop I’d like to start by articulating three basic investment propositions which comprised the core of point of view in our approach.
First air travel demand is slightly to remain strong over the long term.
Secondly therefore it’s well for a healthy demand for modern aircraft and for leasing.
And thirdly because economic conditions vary with time and region prime investment opportunities tend to rise during times of doubter volatility.
These propositions underlie the unique nature of Aircastle’s business strategy.
Our approach defers from the other large leasing companies in our space.
We disciplined construing investors that create value out of complexity particular when market conditions are not entirely conventional straightforward.
We don’t always buy the same thing the same ways everybody else no matter what else is going on around us.
We enjoy limited long term capital commitments by design.
We maintain a conservative capital structure that afford significant investment flexibility.
We can also relay on two long term minded strategic shareholders with whom we are working together closely to make Aircastle a better company.
We methodically upgraded our portfolio and raised our business.
Specifically we’ve address nearly all of our aircraft placement needs over the next year and push the average remaining lease term out to nearly six years in this strategy designed to provide us with a good steady flow of revenue and operational stability.
We proactively prudent out suboptimal exposures and assets throughout the year.
We’ve been incredibly busy as an asset manager and an asset optimizer.
Over the past three years we sold more than 100 aircraft and leased out a similar number.
To put those numbers in context one needs to consider these activity levels in light of our total fleet of around 160 aircraft.
I believe these results be wise about our capabilities to general value in both the disposition and placement of aircraft.
Furthermore I believe these actions solidify our foundation and position us well with regards to our goal of achieving investment grade credit rating overtime.
Our liquidity position cash flows are strong.
In fact operation cash flow during 2015 was a record coming in at $526 million.
Our liquidity was burned by more than $560 million in asset sales last year plus another $300 million which we expect to close during the first quarter of this year.
We improved our liquidity profile by enhancing our unsecured revolver which we increased to $600 million and whose churn we extended to spring of 2019.
Also our unencumbered asset base was around $4 billion providing us with financial flexibility.
We’ve remained committed to deploying capital efficiently and intelligently and doing right by our shareholder in up and in down markets.
This includes drawing our business consistent with our philosophy in our strategic plan and it also includes sharing a portion of our sustainable earnings with the shareholders as we have for 39 straight quarters.
On those occasions when we believe the market has an appropriately target our equity we’ve demonstrated our commitment to do that equity as we recently did to the acquisition 2.6 million shares.
In light with the current market circumstances we see our shares trading at a big discount to book value our board reauthorized a $100 million share repurchase program.
We stake that a strategically unique and vital position in the market.
Aircastle is the only large primarily capitalized value investor in the aircraft leasing space.
We believe this is a necessary profitable and pivotal role in our category right dealing position to take advantage of this unique position and to define the inherent opportunities on our terms.
Turning to our results for 2015 Aircastle had a highly productive Q4 to cap solid full year results.
We improved our profitability despite taking right down to dress up optimal assets and redeploying equipment out of more difficult jurisdictions like Russia.
Our results reflect our consistently excellent operational performance and we’re reported more than 99% fleet utilization throughout the year and nearly 100% in Q4.
Our portfolio is performing well and we have a minimal level of overdue receivables.
Our results in portfolio are both surge by our success of selling assets.
We seized on strong investor demand and affected a record $58 million in gains on asset sales encompassing 31 aircraft with an average age of more than 15 years.
These sales not only helped improved our portfolio but they drove our cash ROE at 15.6% its highest level ever.
Our investment activity during 2015 was very good particularly when considering the strong competition we faced.
We completed $1.4 billion in aircraft acquisitions.
While this is lower than 2014’s exceptional $1.8 billion result it shows to retrain our discipline.
Of the 46 aircraft we acquired 42 were narrow-bodies.
This change in our assets is part of a broader fleet transformation as we’ve nearly doubled the number of current generation narrow-body aircraft in our portfolio since 2010.
We finished the year well closing more than $380 million in acquisitions during the fourth quarter due to surge in activity with leasing companies as they placed increased value in the certain execution certainly we provide.
During the year we also agreed to buy 25 new EJet E2 aircraft from Embraer.
These aircraft deliver in 2018 to 2021 and represent a promising partnership with Embraer as it looks to build on its existing customer base of more than 70 operators around the world.
Unlike its competitors Embraer continuing to having new sales and we believe the E2s are very competitively positioned.
The net book value of our aircraft increased around $400 million during 2015.
This is probably a little less than we anticipated at the start of the year but it reflects a much better than anticipated climate for sales activity.
As a consequence our financing requirements were also lower that we did raise $800 million of new debt capital during the year not only that we return to the unsecured bond market we also expanded our base of banking relationships further into Japan by leveraging our strong relationship with Marubeni.
I’d like to now comment on our business environment.
It’s actually still pretty good.
2015 was an excellent year for air travel.
Passenger traffic was up 6.5% which is well above the long term average and nearly twice the rate of global GDP growth.
Load factors were also record highs.
Airline industry earnings were expected to reach highs of nearly $30 billion across the world.
These are all very health statistics and early projections for 2016 point to another strong year.
Fuel prices continue to have an important and multi fascinate impact on our business.
Jet fuel prices were again sharply lower this past year and they stand around one third the prices they were 30 months ago.
Cheap fuels are major key to the airlines industries profitability and in many cases it effectively counteracts the impact of local currency weakness against the U.S.
dollar.
The International Air Transport Associating IATA excited lower ticket prices is being responsible for half the traffic growth during 2015.
These statistics indicate a 5% drop in the average air fares during the year which is undoubtedly inevitable by low fuel prices.
However that still lies at the big profit for the year.
Of course low fuel prices also have very different effect on the economies around the world.
Fuel importing countries like India have benefited greatly and their GDP growth rate is now over taking China’s.
Big exporting countries like Russia and Brazil on the other hand they’re seeing economies weaken significantly.
We’re careful not to paint all of the immerging market countries with the same brush.
Finally the drop in fuel prices favors current generation aircraft versus more expensive but more efficient new technology models.
Our conversations with airlines and our conversations with airlines are hearing more management teams take the view the fuel prices will remain lower for longer term.
Overall demand is general still strong and rents for current generation aircraft are stable.
While their distinct pockets of weakness such as Russia and Brazil although not China we believe overall demand is healthy.
To illustrate last week we purchased the first of three brand new Boeing 737-800 the originally meant to enter [indiscernible] in Brazil.
These aircraft were access to the airlines' needs so we agreed to purchase them off lease and remarket them.
We completed the first purchase just two weeks after being awarded so we didn’t have a lot time to remarket the aircraft.
However we are extremely pleased with the strong and deep customer demand coming from North America the Middle East Europe China and other parts of Asia.
The economic terms were seeing our at or in excess of our expectations and the quality in depth for the potential customer bases is proven to be very good.
We expect to have these aircraft places by early March.
In general the wide body market remains soft so there are significant differences as across aircraft type refining adequate customer and investor demand to address our needs.
During 2015 we sold six wide bodies profitably including two during the fourth quarter.
We also expect to complete more wide body sales this year.
We are also able to place wide body aircraft coming off leased in 2016 specifically A330s where there is a large operator base.
We have several wide body aircraft coming off lease in 2017 that which time most will be eight to ten years old which is relative new.
We are engaging in constructed commercial discussions with several airlines and I am quite optimistic we’ll find good homes for all these aircraft in the normal course.
Despite the recent financial markets turmoil we believe the debt market remains open Aircastle.
The bank market remains strong and we benefit here from a number of long standing relationships with top global banks and aviation finance market leaders.
The bond market is naturally more immediately affected by the broader market turbulence.
However over the years we’ve developed a strong quarter of institutional investor who appreciate our strong credit metrics and our business approach.
We continue to expect having access to unsecured financing market might be slightly higher cost.
With respect to the competitive environment for new investments we believe that at least for the moment aircraft pricing remain strong to continues to be strong interest in U.S.
assets with good yield.
However transaction execution risk is rising and we see seller increasingly valuing the liability when it’s using counterparties.
We expected benefit from this.
We began to see where the health backlog for sales transactions which we are targeting closely this quarter.
This includes the sale to our joint venture with Ontario Teacher’s Pension Plan although portfolio six aircraft leased to major customers who we have larger exposures.
Once completed the transactional will grow our joint venture to around $700 million in assets.
We use JV to be a great success and an excellent example of how we’ve been able to work together with the strategic shareholder who clearly understands and appreciates our unique approach to this category.
Regarding acquisitions so far this year we bought or made commitments to purchase ten new narrow-body aircraft for around $380 million.
Impart because of the increased in the marketplace volatility we believe there will be a better buying environment this year this still remains to be seen.
We intend to be patient and maintain our discipline.
And this regard as before we are aiming from economic returns on equity to lease 15%.
That means that if our debt costs are higher we’ll be looking for even higher asset returns.
As I mentioned we believe the debt markets will continue to be open for Aircastle and there are several such avenues available to us.
We’ll be nimble in developing and capturing these opportunities.
No doubt there are many find this to be disclaiming time.
For our part we view time such as these to be engines of opportunity for Aircastle.
The goal transaction I mentioned earlier is a good example.
If it turns out that the aircraft investing opportunities are not sufficiently attractively we simply won’t pursue them.
I should add we view our stock repurchase program to be another example of where we believe we can deploy our capital accretively.
Our recent share purchases are the latest in the series of such moves we’ve made over the years.
I’d like to leave you a two key points about our past year and about Aircastle going forward.
Number one we are not burdened by large and flexible long term capital commitments so we are strategically and tactically in a position to seize on prime opportunities as they present themselves.
Number two we improved our portfolio and de-risked our business so as that have a strong foundation and an expanded capability to act on the opportunities at hand.
Our company is always been responsive to the ebbs and flows of the business environment.
Increases in volatility are bound to happen every few years.
We expect this will always be the case.
That is precisely why providing for such changing circumstances it’s such a fundamental part of our business model.
Such event notwithstanding we believe there is likely to be a strong steady and continuing trend in the growth for air travel and in turning the demand for aircraft and for aircraft leasing.
This is a trend that provides the underlying support for our sector.
Our differentiated strategic approach is actually quite basic and prudent.
It’s to put our capital to work in moments where we can hear in strong returns.
It’s not tying up our capital or a team.
While maybe harder for analysts to model this dynamic approach we believe it is intrinsically more conducive to lower risk and higher returns which after all is ultimately whatever investor is seeking.
We really like repositioning Aircastle.
I’ll now turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
Aircastle had a strong solid fourth quarter the cap and active in successful year.
Our net income from the year rose 21% to 121.7 million as gained some aircraft and equipment sales reached a record $58 million.
Our operating cash flows have reached a record 526 million for the year up almost 15% thanks to excellent utilization statistics.
And our cash ROE was 15.6% another record for the company.
In addition to improving our financial results we continue to de-risk our business and improve the quality of the fleet during 2015.
We acquired over 1.4 billion of newer aircraft and sold more than $560 million of older assets during the year.
To our acquisition sales and asset management efforts we’ve start grow the earnings base of the business while sharply inducing our exposure to freighters and add of production aircraft while it is inevitably addressing our exposures in more difficult markets.
Turing to our results for the four quarter lease rental and finance lease revenues were 185.7 million up 3% year-over-year due primarily to the net impact of aircraft investments and sales.
Total revenues for the quarter were 208.3 million down 30 million year-over-year primarily driven by lower maintenance revenue up 37.1 million.
The decrease maintenance revenue was driven by early terminations of narrow-body leases with airlines in Russia and the Ukraine and lease restructuring with the U.K.
based airline that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of ‘15 was 211 million versus 233.2 million for the prior year.
Lower maintenance revenue up 37.1 million was partially offset by higher lease and finance revenues of 6 million and higher gains from the sale of flight equipment of a little over 5 million.
During the four quarter of 2015 we’ve reprocessed the 19 year old A330 aircraft from a small charter operator in Russia that have been focused on doing business in Turkey.
As a result we took into income 15.4 million of maintenance and other revenues offset by a non-cash impairment charge of 16.9 million.
This asset is now held for sale and we expect to dispose with later in Q1.
Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter of ‘15 was 54.3 million down 25.9 million year-over-year and reflex total loader revenues of 30 million a $7.1 million increase in depreciation partially offset by lower impairment charges of 9.5 million and higher gains on sales of 5.2 million.
Interest expense for the quarter was 59.5 million an increase of 2.7 million over the prior year due primarily to higher weighted average debt outstanding of 4 billion versus 3.6 billion for the prior period.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was down slightly from the prior year reflecting lower personal costs.
Depreciation for the quarter was up 7.1 million to 81.2 million and including an additional 3.1 million of accelerated depreciation related to our last MD11 freighter which we sold in December.
Our fourth quarter tax revision was a true up to bring our full year provision to 10% and was a $0.7 million provision.
At the end of the year we owned 162 aircraft with a net book value of 6.1 billion including a 118 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of almost $4 billion.
We manage another five aircraft today through our joint venture Ontario Teachers that is a net book value of 500 million at year end.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 our portfolio lease rental yield was 12.6% and our net cash interest margin was 9.1% again demonstrating the consistency and strength of the fundamental business.
Cash ROE was at a record of 15.6%.
Turning to our capital structure at year end we had a 156 million of unrestricted cash and 375 million of unused revolver capacity.
Total borrowings were approximately 4 billion including 2.9 billion of unsecured debt.
The weighted average coupon on our debt at year end was 4.95% and the weighted average maturity of our debt portfolio was approximately four years.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.2 times.
With respect to capital allocation we’ve remained committed to allocating capital efficiently between value enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
On February 9<sup>th</sup> our Board approved the $0.24 common dividend paying on March 15<sup>th</sup>.
We now paid out more than $608 million in dividends since going public in 2006 and we’ve increased the dividend six times since 2011.
Since November of 2015 we’ve repurchased 2.6 million shares at an average price of little over $19.
Since 2011 we’ve repurchased a $190 million worth of our shares at an average cost of 13.21.
As Ron mentioned the Board reinstated a $100 million share repurchase authorization which we expect to use opportunistically.
As usually in our guidance elements for the first quarter of 2016 has been included in the earnings press release and PowerPoint both of which were posted to the website today.
Let me provide a bit of commentary on the guidance to help a better facilitate a better understanding of the current quarter.
First I’d like to point out that our maintenance revenue is expected to be down materially in the first quarter of 2016 due to lower scheduled lease transitions.
This is a reflection of our success in addressing our fleet placement needs for 2016 earlier on.
As a reminder maintenance revenue flows through our income statement as leases expire and when the number of expires found maintenance revenue will naturally be down.
By way of comparison in the first quarter of 2015 we had maintenance revenue related to lease transitions of $18.1 million.
Our maintenance revenue guidance for the first quarter of 2016 is 0 to $2 million.
We are also guiding to combine lease rental and finance lease revenue between $180 million to $185 million.
This is down slightly on a sequential basis versus the fourth quarter due to plan sales of aircraft that will generate gross proceeds of around $300 million during Q1.
These aircraft will be sold to our joint venture with Teachers and to third parties.
So to summarize 2015 was a great year.
We de-risk the portfolio we further strengthen the franchise and we opportunistically acquired attractive assets and profitably sold older equipment.
Our success during the year enabled us to achieve record cash ROE and cash flow from operations and we ended the year with significantly improved fleet profile in a longer portfolio lease terms.
We also return significant capital to shareholders increasing our dividend by 9% during the year and repurchasing approximately 2.6 million shares.
Our cash flows remained strong and our future capital commitments are modest.
Our lower leverage capital structure is flexible and conservative and I believe we’ll continue to maintain good access to additional financing.
All of this positions us well to seize on market opportunities in a disciplined fashion as a leading value investor in the commercial aircraft leasing market.
And with that operator we are happy to open up the call to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Gary Liebowitz from Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you operator.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Ron you mentioned a high utilization in the quarter and that you are almost fully placed for 2016 I was wondering if you can give us more comments on your internal watch list you’ve got a number of customers in countries where the currency is weakening I noticed your accounts receivable balanced to small number but it’s still nearly triple from September.
And just give some qualitative comments about the outlook for your customer’s ability to pay? So a couple of comments to start about with one is our customer base is excellent shape and at this moment our accounts receivable in more than 30 days is zero.
I think the actions that we’ve taken consistently over the past year and then some we did out some of the bigger problems most notably in Russia.
You know in terms of Brazil that comes up a lot of times from investors.
I’ll say few things.
One is the economy there is definitely take it on the chin and we don’t expect to get any better in time soon.
Number two we have two larger customers there LATAM and Avianca Brazil.
I’ll comment a little bit about each of those they are both doing very well.
As a general matter the Brazilian market is behaving rationally capacity is being reduced and the prices were actually - ticket prices were actually increasing.
LATAM is the airline in Latin America they doing all the right things they are professionally run and they have the network to actually move things around and redeploy capacity in efficient manner.
With respect to Avianca Brazil they are very efficient targeted airline which focuses on trunk roots.
And the airline actually even out a profit in the fourth quarter which is remarkable considering the circumstances.
So we’re in close touch with our customers and we feel pretty good about where we stand.
Okay great.
And then my other question will be on the impairment charge it doesn’t look like that was related to the airplanes that you sold maybe some color on that? And also Mike if you have the numbers at year end for the number of aircraft that you do more susceptible to failing the recoverability test and what the book value of those aircraft might be.
I’ll comment first on the aircraft that was impaired during the fourth quarter.
It was just Mike mentioned in his prepared remarks nearly 20 year old A330 been on lease to a small Russian charter carrier focusing on doing business with Turkey.
As you can follow the relationship between Russia and Turkey soured and so did the travel market we reprocessed the aircraft in the fourth quarter and our plan is to dispose that airplane I feel probably be a part out type of a sale and that’s - we expect that to done by the end of the first quarter.
So we took our lumps on that one was in a very big charge net you can do the math afterwards.
In regards to the monitoring list monitoring list is primarily comprised of the six older converted freighters that we had written down during the third quarter.
Those are aircraft that will be coming off lease over the next two years or so and our plan is to scrap those.
Other than that there are two or three different aircraft we had three to begin with one is removed because we plan to sell it.
I’ll note that that is the 777 that we had taken back from Malaysia.
Our plan is to sell the airframe there and to lease or sell the engines and we expect to breakeven on that.
Thanks very much.
I’ll get back in the queue.
Sure.
Moving on we’ll take a question from Helane Becker from Cowen and Company.
Good morning thank you very much operator.
Hi guys thank you for the time.
So Ron in your prepared remarks you said that you are seeing strong demand from you know places around the world you said a bunch of countries not Russia or anything like that.
But you said you are seeing lease rates at or better than your expectations had you reset your expectations lever or can you just talk about the trends you are seeing in lease rates compared to where we were say a year ago or two years ago and where we are today? I think the lease rates are stable and my expectations were not reset going into that exercise with the former goal aircraft.
Okay.
And then just with respect to demand for new aircraft are you seeing your customers come to you with you know financial request to help finance their aircraft deliveries? The financing market has been - the request for sale lease back financing has been a steadily increasing force for many years now and I think it will only continue if not accelerate nothing new there.
Okay great just taking your temperature.
Thank you.
Sure.
Next question is from Richa Talwar from Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
So first I know it’s early but you did touch on this in your prepared remarks Ron and I was hoping you could elaborate.
In your September quarter 10-Q you reported that Aircastle has 20 leases scheduled for X version in 2017 I believe those represent 12% of its net book value can you tell us if those are still the most current figures if you’ve already started remarketing those aircraft and what type of aircraft in that pool and that would be helpful.
You’ll see the 10-K come out with the specific statistics later today I believe and the number is similar.
We are remarketing all of these aircraft.
I will say that the vast majority of the book value is comprised of five of the six light-bodies.
These are three - sorry - four relatively new A330 is currently on lease to Singapore Airlines and one 777 lease to Cathay Pacific.
Those are excellent carriers with excellent providence and I don’t expect we’ll have difficult time finding new customers for those airplanes.
The rest of the aircrafts are actually quite low value and I would say probably four to eight of those aircraft are likely to be sold for scrap.
Okay thanks.
And then a balance sheet question; you currently have some relatively high coupon unsecured debt and you also have a grown unencumbered asset based.
Are you considering taking out some of your unsecured debt and refinancing with lower cost secured financing that would obviously generate some interest expense savings but I wanted to hear you discussed potential drawback for moves like that? When we look at the capital structure and what we need to do we don’t - our first maturity in terms of high yield debt is in April 2017 it’s relatively high coupon so we’ll continue to look at that as we move through the year and the best way to refinance that.
In the context of raising capital for new investments we will look at that and marry that up with a type of assets we are buying whether it’s secured or unsecured in the context of what we think the returns are from those asset.
But fundamentally our unsecured bond structure a bullet maturity they have make all provisions and so you have to look at where treasuries are trading where you can do those kinds of trades and do them where they can make sense.
Okay thanks Mike.
And then just one more can you update us on your thoughts around consolidation and you talked a lot about the value the market seems to be adding on execution and given Aircastle saw a track record in that regard do you think that’s improving your opportunities that as it relates to pursuing acquisitions of some other larger aircraft portfolios that maybe in the market? Look I think the reality is that when the stock market drops are taking in consideration I think it cools off the consolidation.
The market opportunity doesn’t mean that that’s how it’s going to remain forever but we have to be realistic about it.
When we had this discussion following our Q3 results it was on the heels of the Avalon deal getting done and I think the feeling at that time is something was my view with that might have precipitated more activity.
I think that’s probably cooled off for the moment.
Alright thanks for that color.
Sure.
And we’ll go next to Jamie Baker from JPMorgan.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
Ron you guys have obviously done an enroll job at de-risking the portfolio over the last couple of years.
I am just wondering whether in light of you know what you’ve identified low fuel of lower China everything else going on in the world you know is the plan to sit on the current book and ride out the storm or you’re thinking further modifications to the construct of the portfolio.
I mean I know you spoke about being opportunistic I get that.
I am just trying to assess where you think those incremental opportunities might be or is it just more of the same but coming at better pricing? My short answer to that Jamie is that it really depends on how the price environment plays out.
We have been very successful in finding value in narrow-body current generation narrow-body aircraft.
And I that regard I would add I don’t see good value in the new technology aircraft today.
When you have fuel prices that are one third the level that they were 30 months ago the value proposition for an operator - for an investor is different.
I believe those aircrafts lease based on the pricing indications we’ve heard before don’t make sense if you were to place those aircraft today in the market.
So for the moment that the focus is on the current generation and more on the narrow-body side this can change.
And the great thing about our model is that we have capital is not locked up and we’re very open minded about what the opportunities look like.
Excellent.
Second question just year-on-year any change in terms of airline customers that are on your I don’t know what you would call it internally but you know any sort of watch list for lack of better term? No I think I kind of addressed that before in the sense that I’d addressed - we took here the Russian exposure our Russian customers are - the exposure there is down significantly in fact for Russian passenger airlines we are down at two aircrafts for the book value of less than $30 million.
So it’s actually quite small.
We are keeping a close eye and the economies that are filing the pressure but at the moment I feel very good about the exposure there.
Okay Mike and I appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you gentlemen.
And Justine Fisher from Goldman Sachs has our next question.
Good morning.
Hey.
So you guys were talking to Richa about the coupon then you are done I guess when we talk relatively high coupons the 2017 by its relatively high versus where your pressure most recent deal but it’s actually right on top of where your 22s are currently trading and so given the aircrafts trading in the high 6% 7% range when you guys look at refinancing that 17 bond Mike do you guys - would you accept financing unsecured at a higher rate or do you go back to the banks for the refinancing? I am not talking about taking out your other bonds early but as we manage the capital structure going forward would you go the banks just for the lower coupon or just you say you know look we’ve got to take a higher coupon on new refinancing deal but we rather stand unsecured? Look it’s a mix we’re going to look at both and we’re going to make choices when we need to make those choices.
So I am - frankly I am hopeful I’ll better than what I am looking at today and then not do just in future but I could be wrong.
So we’re going to evaluated that in the context of what are we doing with our capital and we’ve got 14 months out from that day and we look at the best time that we think is to take that out.
Okay.
And then just another question on cash so I know an argument that you guys have made in the past that I think makes a lot of sense is that your operating cash flows on annual basis are pretty much able to cover your unsecured bond maturities so no worse worse case situation where the markets completely closed and let’s say you can’t even do secure which I don’t think will the case so let’s just say you couldn’t then you could still use your operating cash flow to take care of your unsecured bond maturities.
Does the company look at difficulties in the bond market and say okay yeah our stock is really attracted by that because it’s trading of books but we need to retain more cash to make sure that we can deal with those maturities in the worst case scenarios is that on the radar at all? Sure.
You know we have to be mindful of what we do with our cash.
In addition to our strong operating cash flow is a business we have a very large unsecured revolving credit facility some of which was utilized at year end but we have lots of asset sales on tap here in the first quarter.
So we view that as an additional source of liquidity in those kind of thinking about if things go really bad how do I deal with those windows where there are high yield market might not be open.
So that’s - of course that on our radar screen and it’s part of the capital allocation discipline what we employ here.
Okay.
And then just on the IG rating because that to us is a biggest risk that we’ve heard from investor that no one things that the business model is in real trouble but people are saying well maybe less - said Aircastle may not go IG.
And so my question in your discussions with the rating agencies and based on what you are seeing in the business is there anything besides sentiment that would be well Aircastle moving towards an IG rating? No in fact I would say that the actions that we’ve taken over the last year are totally consistent with investment grade to de-risking the portfolio the improvement of the profile of customers and lease maturities and the revolver those revolver really really important kind of bed rock things that really stand it’s in great shape whenever you have a little bit more of a bottle environment.
I also think that the fact that we have such a low level of capital commitments is probably one of those misunderstood and not sufficiently valued things.
I think the company should be an investment grade right this very moment but I don’t control that decision.
And we will grow the company that’s the one variable that seems to be falling short from rating agency standpoint but we’re going to grow the company as we see from a long term perspective and we are managing the company for shareholders.
Okay thanks.
And then just one last question as far as what we should be assuming ballpark for acquisitions and sales this year.
I mean is the billion to billion range of acquisitions I know that you can have the pipeline yeah but I mean is that around about accurate number that we should assume? I think particularly in this environment all bets are off.
We had talked about a billion dollar number in the third quarter earnings call and we’ve got call it little shy of $400 million to date.
But we’re going to be very selective about what we do.
And the great thing is we have the luxury of picking their spots.
We made to a whole lot more than that or made to whole lot less and really just depends on whether we see the right risk opportunities in the market that’s what makes it different.
Alright thanks very much.
Thanks Ron.
Sure.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll move on to Jason Arnold from Royal Bank of Canada Capital Markets.
Hi guys.
Just a follow-up on the last one on the 2016 acquisition so far can you talk a little bit more in detail about the types at aircraft acquired? Ten airplanes all new narrow-bodies.
And split between Airbus and Boeing? Yeah I mean I think the way we see the market for those airplanes is pretty bounced.
Okay.
And then I just one other follow-up here on the MAS recovery on the 777 any progress to report there on getting some of your funds back or any updates? As I mentioned before our plan there is to sell that the airframe for that airplane very shortly.
And the market for the airframe is actually quite strong.
The market for the engines is not.
But we’re going to basically chop our basis in half and by the way we are not selling it to delta.
And we are expecting to breakeven in that proposition at the end of the day.
Okay and then you know I guess I was just curious specifically on you know I know there was some obligation that MAS had to you there above and beyond kind of whole value recovery is there any sense of legal ramifications of why not they could somehow call back some of that loss value? We’re going to pursue all our options and as with any of these types of processes they are never fast and the outcome is never certain.
Yeah okay thanks for the color.
Sure.
And next we’ll hear from Arren Cyganovich from D.A.
Davidson.
Thanks.
Ron you mentioned some softness in the wide body but you also mentioned that you had some gains relative to a couple that you sold in the fourth quarter.
Can you talk about you now the magnitude of the softness you are seeing in the wide body market by model type or age? It’s all over the place and it’s kind of hard to generalize because there are big differences for example the 777-200 ER market that’s the airplane the one airplane we had in Malaysian.
There are more than three dozen airplanes parked right now and that going to grow.
And that market is in really bad share.
The market for new A330 is reasonable and that barriers as you go down spectrum on the engine type size and what the pedigree of the aircraft is.
I think the fact that the manufacturers have elected to cutback the production is a plus.
And so that’s something that boards well in the coming placement efforts.
Thanks.
And then from a clarification purposes you announced the reauthorization of the share buyback is that a new 100 million that’s been reauthorized? The 100 million is what’s available from this point forward that’s correct.
Great thank you.
Moving on we’ll hear from Vincent Caintic from Macquarie.
Hi good morning guys.
I think the stocks I think well this morning under the back of your buyback announcement and the aircraft sales so my two questions will touch on those points.
First in terms of your view on the aircraft trading market in 2016 how do you see your sales going I think for 2015 you’ve had about a 10% on sales margin do you expect kind of similar lines for your first quarter plan sales going forward? No it’s a little bit complicated and I’ll just elaborate it a little bit.
A chunk of the asset sales are going into the joint venture with Teachers and we generally move those assets of book value okay.
So that’s a different proposition in our efforts into the third party sales market.
The assets that we’re selling apart from that are probably at or better than that lever.
But what we are looking at in terms of asset sales going forward had several different motivations it’s not just games on sales portfolio improvements on some cases we will be very happy to breakeven just to remove the exposure and redeploy the capital in more efficient way.
So I think going forward beyond the first quarter I think it’s going to harder to generalize.
Got it that makes sense.
And then the second point on the buybacks first if you could remind us what your disability of your free cash flow I think sometimes people forget that.
And then secondly I think you touched on a little bit but when you see your stock trading at the level it’s trading at now when you see your bonds with coupons of 6% to 7% versus buying aircraft how does that squeeze overtime and could we expect more buybacks opt in the future? Yeah when we see your stock trading at 70% on book we think it’s pretty attractive investment so we bought stock 50 million worth in the fourth and so far to the first quarter if things stay where they are and we don’t see better investment opportunities in the aircraft market it’s reasonable to think we’ll use some of that stock authorization and so more buybacks.
Got it thanks so much.
Sure.
Christopher Nolan from FBR and Company has our next question.
Hi.
You mentioned 15% target ROE is that a cash ROE or GAAP ROE and if it’s a GAAP ROE how do intend to achieve that? It’s not a GAAP ROE.
We don’t buy aircraft based on GAAP earnings they based on economics.
So this is cash over the expected horizon holding the aircraft.
Okay so it’s basically flat with your current cash ROE right? That’s one we look at it.
Okay.
And then am I correct that in terms of the investment grade rating for the issue is industry sales is that still an issue? Yeah I don’t agree with it it’s just these - the framework it’s a rating agencies have established and we got to work with it.
I think the rational varies a little bit from one rating agencies to the next but I think they generally view sizes of proxy for franchise value.
And the part that I have the difficulty with is that we have incredibly good access to airlines and financing and you name it.
That the part or maybe that fall short and it happens start other people from doing it to play for large orders with the OEM and that’s not our business model.
So I find it sort of a hard thing to just to post together but that’s what it is.
Okay thanks for taking my question.
And moving on we’ll hear from Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Good morning guys.
This is actually Jim Wicklund [ph] for Moshe.
Thanks for taking the question.
You talked about the remarketing efforts in your light body book and the 777 in general.
Can you go into greater detail and your outlook for young and midlife A330s over the next 12 to 18 months specifically with respect to any influence of 777 could have on the A330 market? I think they are totally markets.
I am not sure what more I can add to what we’ve already spoken about.
I think the aircraft that we have specifically on the A330 side of mass set of airplanes coming out of Singapore which is as good as again.
There are Rolls powered which is the most popular asset - sorry engine type in that class.
And I don’t expect to have that difficultly from getting those places in a good location.
And then maybe some thoughts on just the greater A330 market amongst aircraft less orders in general beyond just Aircastle? I am not sure I understand where you are going with.
What would you like me to address specifically? Just characterize which you expect at A330 with regards to lease rates market values and remarking in general? I think the A330 market is still sort.
I think it softer for older aircraft.
I think it softer for A330-200s which are just smaller but longer range variant.
And on the 300 side which is bigger you should remember that there is a newer and higher longer range version and then very old one which is not so capable.
And most of the part aircraft they fall in that later category and they are totally different aircrafts then what we have to remarket.
I think it’s a market that benefits from the fact of fuel prices are sold aren’t cheap and that’s one of the misunderstood things about the aircraft it’s lined beyond proportion the 330-300 for most mission is actually is a very economical and efficient airplane versus the newer technology 787.
Thank you.
And we’ll hear next from Michael Kass from BlueMountain Capital.
Hi guys.
Congratulations on the results.
I was just curious if you had any color on - it looks your tax rates kind of dropped over the course of the year and I guess the - I think it’s the 11% effective rate and so lower than it was before.
What taxing there if anything or is that am I just mistaken in what it was? No it is modestly lower than it was the prior year it’s really just a mix shift of where profits are being generated in the context of the airline Singapore and other countries where we have lease entities going through.
Is the 11 - should we kind of turn on the 11% going forward is there particular kind of timing so that I am just versus kind of your more typical effective tax rate should we expect that for the foreseeable future or is there certain timing issue with that? You know like everything in the worlds it depends but I think in our guidance today we are basically saying we expect this year’s full year effective tax rate to be around 10% or 11%.
Thanks.
And it looks like we have a follow-up question from Gary Liebowitz from Wells Fargo Securities.
Yes thanks operator couple of cleanup questions.
Mike the maintenance revenue guidance for first quarter is very low last two year you’ve averaged about 75 million annually should we expect that number to be way down next year? I know you don’t like to full year guidance but it is - has a pretty big impact on the estimates? Yeah look given our level of lease expires this year we expected to be lower than it has been in the last few years.
But is 0 to 2 that’s not the right quarterly run rate it’s - you can give us any help on that what the full year looks like? No I really not going to do full year outreach Gary on a particular item I am just trying to convey that we have very few schedule lease expires and that would translate into lower maintenance revenue now we’ve seen in U.S.
where we’ve had a larger number of lease expires.
Okay.
And Ron can you just give us an update on the discussions you are having with potential customers for the E2? There is a bunch of discussions underway we had one which we alluded to during the third quarter call that’s going well still there is a little bit of a yearend distraction but that’s the long pace.
And as I said during the prepared remarks I’d like the E2’s competitive positioning.
They are continued to generate sales.
The customer’s base there is a terrific example of incumbency.
And what I would add just to highlight a couple of things about Embraer is they don’t have the same production increase issues that we see with the Boeing and Airbus narrow-bodies.
Number two we don’t have a huge number of aircraft leasing companies that falling all over themselves.
The guys involved in this aircraft are disciplined and it’s a small number.
And number three one of the big changes we’ve seen over the last few months is the proliferation of opportunities for 100 seat aircraft in the U.S.
market which is upside from my perspective.
Thank you very much.
Welcome.
And we have another follow-up question from Richa Talwar from Deutsche Bank.
Hey actually it’s Mike Limburg [ph] here.
Hey Ron and team look you guys have a bunch of cycles here and you probably have a pretty rich history with you know how things play out and I know you talked about the Idaho forecast for this year and how well traffic was for ‘15.
But you know look a forecast is a forecast and I am just curious beyond you know like looking at accounts receivable or monitoring some of the weaker credit carries what are some of the macro or micro inputs that you look at you know leading indicators you know is it storage rates things that you know you see that tick up that tell you wait a minute you know we need to be prepared because it’s going to get worse very quickly? Well if you are asking me to tell you it’s going to worse very quickly you can have a long way because I don’t believe that.
Is it worse in some places? Distinctly yes it’s be awful in Russia it’s bad in Brazil it’s great in India it’s fine in the U.S.
It’s the big world it’s never the same.
And when you look at parked aircraft there are some very very different stories there when you look at models.
I don’t agree with the proposition that the worlds is going to end and I do believe that it may be a little bit softer next year but that’s relative to - it’s absolutely terrific year.
There is a not of lot of businesses that saw gross demand increase 6.5%.
So I am not going to go tell you that the world is coming to an end it’s actually a healthy industry.
Fair enough thanks.
And that’s all the time we have for Q&amp;A today.
Mr.
Constantinople I’ll turn the conference back to you for additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Kim.
And thank you for your time for dialing into the call today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude our conference today.
Thank you all for your participation.