Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you operator.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
Indra will lead off today's call with a review of our overall performance and outlook and then Hugh will cover the financials and operating results and the financial guidance in more detail.
We'll then move on to Q&amp;A where we'll be joined by the CEOs of each of our businesses: John Compton from PepsiCo Americas Foods; Massimo d'Amore from PepsiCo Beverages Americas; Eric Foss from Pepsi Beverages Company; Zein Abdalla from PepsiCo Europe; and Saad Abdul-Latif from PepsiCo Asia Middle East and Africa.
During today's call unless otherwise noted all references to net revenue growth are on a constant currency basis and all references to division operating profit growth and EPS growth are on a core constant currency basis.
I refer you to today's earnings release for more details.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statements.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements based on currently available information operating plans and projections about future events and trends.
Our actual results could differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements but we undertake no obligation to update any such statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and 8-K.
And finally you should refer to the Investors section of PepsiCo's website under the Investor Presentations tab to find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures that may be used by management when discussing PepsiCo's financial results.
And now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
We are quite pleased with our Q1 results.
Top line growth was balanced and strong and profitability was right on plan.
We delivered organic volume growth of 3.5% in beverages.
And excluding the foods volume we delivered 4% in core salty-snacks.
We're especially encouraged by our growth in North America where core salty-snack volume growth at Frito-Lay was up 2.5% and organic beverage volume growth was 2%.
Internationally we delivered volume and revenue growth in each of the geographies.
International organic volume growth was 7% in core salty-snack and 5% in beverages.
Global foods volume which is included in our set of snacks volume report for external reporting declined 4% driven primarily by Quaker Foods North America while internationally our foods volume grew 2%.
Despite inflationary pressures we continue to invest in brand building in emerging markets and we're beginning to see evidence that our recent investments are paying off.
Last year at about this time we set out five key growth imperatives for PepsiCo that formed the backbone of our strategy and I'd like to discuss this quarter's results in the context of these imperatives.
Our first imperative is to build and extend our macro snacks portfolio.
Our reported worldwide snacks volume growth was 3% and this included our foods volume also.
Our underlying core salty-snacks volume grew more than 4% on an organic basis.
Growth was well balanced with strength in both developed and emerging markets.
And we grew salty-snacks volume in each of our top 10 global markets.
Innovation was strong across the board which resulted in incrementality even in our more developed markets like North America and the United Kingdom.
In emerging markets we're building per capita consumption and driving frequency and that's  led to strong organic growth in these markets.
For example we grow snacks volume 18% in India 13% in China 26% in Russia and 32% in Turkey.
Operating margins in global snacks improved about 100 basis points with gains in almost every division.
In some countries we saw value and niche players pulse in and out of the market and take some share.
We are careful not to overreact choosing to judiciously trade off some share to protect profit in the short term.
Our goal is to balance volume and profit growth.
And across the world our businesses are doing a pretty good job in this regard.
Our second imperative is to sustainably and profitably grow our beverage business worldwide.
Our global organic beverage volume growth was 3.5%.
CSDs grew 2% and non-carbonated beverages grew 8%.
Every division grew organic volume with emerging and developing markets continuing to show terrific results.
India was up 20% Russia was up 13% Turkey was up 21% and China was up 4% lapping 19% from 2010.
Developed markets also generated good growth with North America organic volumes up 2% and the U.K.
up 7%.
We hit the first anniversary of the bottler acquisitions in the first quarter and the synergies are ahead of original estimates.
We have made the operational organization changes necessary to realize the cost synergies and we're beginning to realize the revenue synergies now.
For example we moved small format Gatorade onto DSD at the beginning of this year and we're beginning to make progress in growing our business at food service accounts.
We also focused on improving profitability in beverages but have to carefully address 2 issues: first commodities are clearly a headwind; and second we intend to continue to invest in brands and in building out our emerging markets infrastructure.
Inflation has disproportionately impacted our beverage businesses and thus pressured our beverage margins somewhat especially in EMEA and North America.
Partially offsetting this in North America we achieved almost 2 points of price mix and intend to pursue higher price utilization for the remainder of the year to more fully offset the commodity cost pressures.
In EMEA we'll also begin to see the impact of pricing actions that they're are taking as we move into the balance of the year.
I'm confident that we're making the right investments which is being born out of the growth we're seeing and we've got solid pricing plans in place for the year to balance volume and profit growth to deliver on our financial and operating commitments.
The third imperative we articulated is to unleash the power of Power of One.
We're making good progress here.
In North America we've ramped up our Power of One activity.
For example in the first quarter we executed cross division basketball teams merchandising in March we accelerated local UDS account promotional activity and we are continuing our pilots where we have Power of One merchandisers in selected large-format stores and early results are quite promising.
And this summer we're introducing the first ever PepsiCo coupon inserts to cross for 20 of our brands across snacks and beverages.
And we continue to advance Power of One as a strategic volume and productivity driver in our international market where Power of One is already highly developed.
In this area I believe overall we're making progress.
We believe there's a lot more potential to be realized.
Our fourth imperative is to build and expand our nutrition business and here we are pleased with our progress so far.
We are focusing our efforts in 2 areas innovation and branding.
And we're doing this to accelerate the growth of the nutrition segment of our snack and beverage portfolio.
And to remind you it's Quaker in grains Tropicana/Naked and the many regional brands we own in fruits and vegetables Wimm-Bill-Dann in value-added dairy and Gatorade in sports nutrition.
To do this we took a group of about 100 R&amp;D and marketing people and about a $50 million budget and focused them against these segments and brands.
This core group is responsible for building an innovation pipeline looking 12 to 24 months out and for maintaining the global brand architecture for our nutrition-oriented brands.
Output from this Global Nutrition Group will start to appear in store shelves sometime in 2012.
However in the first quarter of 2011 the revenue growth in the nutrition segments of our snacks and beverage portfolios outpaced the growth of our core Fun-For-You and Better-For-You businesses giving us confidence that our focus on this opportunity is well played.
The fifth imperative is to ensure prudent responsible financial management.
In the first quarter our financial results came in as we expected.
Core division operating profit grew 5% driven by solid volume and net revenue performance and synergies and despite inflationary pressures and continued investment spending.
We had negative leverage below the operating profit line from higher year-over-year interest expense and a higher tax rate resulting in the quarter EPS decline again as we expected and communicated on our Q4 call.
Looking forward commodity cost inflation will be a major factor for all companies in our sector in 2011.
Through our hedging programs we have good visibility into our cost outlook for the balance of the year.
Our plans and targets have taken commodity inflation appropriately into account and I'm confident we have the right pricing and productivity plans in place to deliver on our commitments and Hugh will give you more detail on this.
Next we are confident we are focused on the right five imperatives and we're making good progress against them.
But before I turn the call over to Hugh I want to touch on 3 topics that seem to be of interest to many of you.
First how will we sustain performance at Frito-Lay in North America? Two what actions are we taking to accelerate growth in North America beverages? And three how are we thinking about capital allocation? Let me turn to Frito-Lay North America first.
As all of you know this is a very powerful franchise with tremendous scale advantage.
We saw a volume growth in the first quarter and that translated to solid operating profit growth with healthy gross margin expansion.
As we look to the balance of the year we expect top line growth to be driven by innovation.
We've talked a bit about the initiative around all natural and it's off to a great start.
Just as importantly we have a strong lineup of core Fun-For-You innovation with products like Ruffles' bold flavors Taco and Pizza doritos and a line of Tapatio flavors and we expect these products to do very well especially in single-serve in the UDS channel.
We'd also drive growth and adjacencies under the Stacy's and Sabra brands where we're expanding the lineup to new product introductions.
So we expect Sabra and Stacy's to continue to drive highly incremental growth.
We'll begin to see input cost inflation in Frito as we move through the year and we have solid pricing plans in place to cover it supplemented by solid productivity programs.
So our expectations for Frito-Lay North America: to continue to be a steady profit growth driver.
Let me turn now to North American beverages where our focus is on judiciously balancing volume and profit growth.
We believe we are making the right kinds and appropriate level of investments to accelerate our long-term beverage growth in North America and this includes a sizable increase in our advertising and marketing expense in Q1.
Gatorade is a great example of how we've created innovative platforms and established brand marketing programs that drive brand equity.
We have the same focused on our other key beverage brands like Pepsi Dew and Tropicana.
We have seen brands score strengthened across the board.
And volume trends improved which gives us confidence that we're making the right investments.
Regarding profit growth in Pepsi Americas Beverages.
Clearly commodities are a headwind and our intention is to offset these costs with productivity and pricing.
We achieved some positive price mix in the first quarter out ahead of the category and intend to continue to employ pricing as well as mix to drive solid net price realization and profit growth.
We intend to price to cover input costs and to maintain brand support so that we can compete in the business of innovation and brand equity.
The final topic I want to address before I hand off to Hugh is capital allocation.
Clearly the bottler acquisition and the Wimm-Bill-Dann acquisition are major commitments of capital.
These transactions were carefully analyzed and considered before we committed to them.
I'm confident that they are justified in their financial and strategic merits and we are absolutely committed to delivering on these important investments.
We are now well positioned to generate strong organic growth and going forward anticipate relatively low levels of capital investments deployed against occasional tuck-in acquisitions alliances and joint ventures.
Our businesses will continue to generate attractive cash flow and we'll reinvest capital in the business only when there's a clear compelling case for value creation.
We have a strong record of an ongoing commitment to returning cash to shareholders through both dividends and share purchases.
With that let me turn the call over to Hugh and I look forward to taking your questions.
Hugh? Great.
Thanks Indra and good morning everyone.
I'll spend just a few minutes reviewing the financial performance before we open it up for Q&amp;A.
I know today is a busy one for many of you with so many companies reporting so I'll keep my comments relatively brief.
For the sake of clarity before we get to the financials I want to call your attention to a couple of key items that affect the comparability of our results for last year.
Our financials for the quarter impacted by the bottler acquisition into a much lesser extent by our acquisition of a controlling stake in Wimm-Bill-Dann.
With respect to the bottlers we closed on the bottler acquisitions on February 26 last year.
So in this year's first quarter we have a full quarter of bottler results and net interest expense related to the transaction comparing to a short stub period of ownership in Q1 2010.
The bottler's operating profit in the first quarter is seasonally low and as I mentioned on last quarter's call the European operations of the bottlers historically operated at a loss in Q1.
So we have 2 periods of low seasonal results in Q1 and we have 2 incremental periods of full interest expense associated with the bottler acquisitions which created a net negative impact for the quarter.
Regarding Wimm-Bill-Dann given the timing of the closing on our 77% stake toward the end of the quarter the impact of this transaction on our overall first quarter results is relatively small.
Information in the release this morning is meant to provide visibility into the fundamental performance of the business.
Couple of points here.
One we've presented organic volume growth for PAB in Europe the 2 divisions impacted by the bottler and Wimm-Bill-Dann acquisitions which strips out the impact of the acquisitions for those divisions from our volume growth.
Second we've also provided the pro forma impact on net revenue as if the bottlers had been acquired on the first day of Q1 2010.
And finally we provided disclosures on the impact of Wimm-Bill-Dann on net revenue and operating profit growth rates.
For the first quarter our core EPS was $0.74 which was in line with our expectations.
Core EPS was driven by a 5% increase in pro forma net revenue excluding the impact of Wimm-Bill-Dann and a 5% increase in our core division operating profit.
The core division operating profit reflects solid volume gains some net pricing synergies from the bottler acquisitions and productivity partially offset by higher commodity costs continued investments in brand building and in emerging markets and the seasonal losses associated with the operations of the acquired bottlers.
Let me highlight on a few items impacting profit performance in the quarter by each of our sectors.
PAF core operating profit results were up a strong 8% with good operating margin expansion led by gross margin expansion at FLNA.
PAB core operating profit was up 9% with positive bottler operating profit overlap volume pricing and synergies offset somewhat by inflation and continued brand investment.
Europe was impacted by the inclusion of 2 months of bottler results which historically operated at a loss as I noted earlier.
Using last year's operating losses of proxy this accounts for approximately 33 points of profit decline in Europe's Q1 results.
And finally in EMEA core operating profit declined 6%.
This is a relatively small profit quarter for EMEA and the difference between down 6% and up double digits is about $25 million.
There were a number of factors that contributed to the decline including investment spending price lagging somewhat behind inflation and some temporary business interruption in the Middle East.
Commodity cost inflation is a major theme we are managing across the entirety of our business.
In the first quarter inflation impacted our beverage operations more dramatically than our snacks.
We covered some but not all of the beverage commodity cost inflation with pricing.
On the snack side commodity inflation was less pronounced and we generally were able to cover inflation there.
Looking out over the balance of the year commodities will continue to be a headwind.
We expect inflation of approximately $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion on a base of $18 billion of commodity based inputs.
As we explained on last quarter's call our intention is to offset a portion of this inflation with pricing and productivity.
In a year as volatile as 2011 we're closely managing the pricing volume productivity equation to ensure we deliver on our financial commitments for the year.
This was true in all of our divisions but especially so in PAB.
As we've said before we intend to be a disciplined well-run bottler.
As a part of this we seek to cover our commodity cost with pricing.
Given the soft consumer environment and as the industry goes through transition pricing in the first half has not been what we would have liked or expected.
But because of the ongoing commodity inflation pressures as we exit the first half we anticipate taking additional pricing in the form of rate increases on key packages.
This will be necessary to drive acceptable operating profit growth provide the room to continue to invest in innovation and marketing and to operate consistent with the principles of being a well-run bottler.
Turning to cash flow.
In the quarter we generated $78 million of management operating cash flow excluding the impacts of merger and integration payments and integration-related CapEx.
Our key working capital metrics of DII DSO and DPO are all within target but year-on-year cash flow comparisons are impacted by the seasonality of the bottler cash flows.
Finally let me update you on our earnings outlook for the year which is consistent with what we've shared on the first quarter call.
We expect core constant currency EPS growth of 7% to 8% and estimate ForEx could be a 1 to 2 point translation benefit to our full year core EPS growth all on a 52-week basis.
Below the operating profit line we anticipate negative leverage for the full year for the reasons we shared on the last call namely: higher interest expense $50 million of spending at the corporate level on our nutrition initiative higher pension costs related to the amortization of PAS losses and the non-controlling interest elimination related to the income of Wimm-Bill-Dann.
In addition we expect our core tax rate to be approximately 27% for the full year essentially even with 2010.
On cash flow we expect CapEx to be approximately $3.5 billion for the year excluding bottler integration CapEx of about $150 million.
We remain committed to returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and expect share repurchases of approximately $2.5 billion in 2011.
In the first quarter we repurchased $361 million of shares.
We expect the rate of repurchase to accelerate in the second half following repayment of acquisition-related debt to achieve the full year target.
As you model out the balance of the year please note 2 items: first operating profit growth in the second quarter will be lower than in the second half driven by the timing of anticipated pricing actions; and second we estimate our Q2 core tax rate will be 90 to 100 basis points above our full year estimated tax rate.
So to summarize the overall financial picture: first of our Q1 results came in line with our expectations; second commodity inflation will be challenge for us and everyone else in our industry for the foreseeable future but we'll continue to prudently manage the business balancing volume pricing and productivity; and finally we remain committed to our full year financial outlook With that Indra and I will be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Christine Farkas of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple of questions if I could.
Hugh just to clarify the commodity exposure the $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion is still in line with what you've indicated in the prior quarter yet we've seen some inflation since then.
So I'm just wondering if your earlier guidance had incorporated some expected PET increased.
Or why that level is still there? And then I had a question for John on Frito.
I know that we have some easier comps.
But I'm curious in the second quarter how trends may have changed given higher gas prices? Christine great.
Let me just talk a little bit about the commodity piece.
Obviously our commodity's purchase is relatively large in complexity $10 billion with no commodity accounting for even 10% of the total.
We buy an awful lot of things.
Many of them have moved up.
Some have moved around and down.
And as I've shared in the past we also have a very active hedging program.
The net of it is there really is no change to the overall guidance of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion.
That number will likely continue to move around inside the range a bit because we do only cover about 80% of our commodities purchases.
That's the extent to which we can hedge.
But we're very comfortable with the number that we have previously communicated of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion.
So that's where we are on that.
Then I'll  kick it over to John for the second question.
This is John.
No we haven't seen any material changes on higher fuel prices.
As we've said in the quarter we had 2.5% volume growth at Frito-Lay and that sequentially improved during the quarter.
As Indra mentioned we just completed the final conversion of the all natural launch and that is just now being activated in the marketplace and we've just recently rolled a whole line of Hispanic products underneath the Tapatio subbrand into the marketplace.
So our expectation is that our volume growth will continue.
We may see some channel shifting due to the higher prices of gas prices but we don't expect our volume growth to slow down.
Your next question comes from Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Hugh can you quantify how much leftover commodity costs pressure you're expecting in 2012 if commodities stay where they are today given you're somewhat hedged this year? So what's leftover piece that's not fully captured in 2011 given the hedging? Yes.
Dara all I'd say at this point is in total we had about 20% at any time in the subsequent 12 months open.
In terms of the balance of this year there are certain items that we can hedge.
We won't get into the details of our quantities program.
So I really just leave you with the guidance of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion in total and I think we're very comfortable managing within that range.
Okay.
And then can you also give us some sense for the level of investment in AMP in the quarter versus the prior year? You beat gross profit versus my modeling consensus but SG&amp;A was higher than we expected.
So I'm just wondering if you can give us some granularity on the level of investment behind the business versus last year.
Yes Dara from our perspective probably the biggest investment that we talked about is the one that we've made in Global Nutrition Group and we talked about that being $50 million for the year.
In terms of the other pieces of investment for competitive reasons we really don't want to get into the details of what countries we're putting it in or where it's going into.
We did share that we had our PAD advertising and marketing expense up meaningfully from last year and that should give you some sense for it.
The net of it is in terms of the investments that we're making what you should know is we're managing that inside the 7% to 8% overall guidance that we've given and we're comfortable managing our investments within that overall guidance.
Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello of Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> The question on North America snack and beverage pricing you talked a lot about balancing price mix and productivity.
How are you thinking about on the Frito side weighed out versus rate watching the $0.99 price point in the C&amp;G channel? And on the beverage side are you indicating you'll take pricing before Labor Day? And you mentioned taking more mix benefit there as well? Eric? So Bill it's John.
Let me take the Frito-Lay portion first.
I think going forward you'll see us use more visual pricing and more trade promotion price point than weighed out that we've typically used in the past and we will start to employ those in the second half of the year as we exit Q2.
And Bill it's Eric.
On the beverage side again as Hugh mentioned what we're looking to do is to optimize really the trade-off between consumer value volume and margins.
And I think if you look at the point he made earlier around what do great bottlers do I'd point you to a couple of success metrics that matter most.
One is we are looking for price appreciation which we demonstrated in Q3 of last year Q4 last year full year 2010 and again in Q1 of this year.
Second you'd look for balance top line which we feel very good about the 2% volume and the 2 points of pricing we got this year about a point of that was rate and a point of that was mix.
And then finally balancing what happens share wise in the market which again we feel good about where we are year-to-date and where we finished 2010.
As we look at the go forward it will be a combination of great mix management but we do plan to initiate more rate and that rate will probably hit the marketplace sometime after the 4th of July.
LLC</strong> And then both divisions delivered around that 2% or so volume growth as you're taking that rate balance a year.
Is that a level of volume growth that you hope to maintain -- obviously you're talking about balancing the price mix productivity but that kind of low single digit would be a picture of success for you? Bill I think what we plan to do is take the pricing and manage volume and share within a corridor because we just have to make sure that we judiciously balance the two.
So we've drawn up some corridors and we plan to manage our business within those corridors.
Your next question comes from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
I'm going to continue to follow up on this pricing environment which is over the last couple of days it seems as though you guys are a little more I don't know blase about the pricing environment than I think we've heard from some of your competitors.
So I guess I'm just wondering what you're seeing that they aren't seeing.
And then good to hear that the pricing will go up after the 4th of July.
That's kind of what everyone has been saying.
But will prices go up even if they do not take pricing up? Is this something where you lead or you're going to have to see kind of what everyone does at this point? John let me start on this first and if I missed anything John and Eric can feel free to jump in on it.
I'm not sure I characterize this as blase on pricing.
Obviously in the environment we're in right now we have to look at these things very carefully.
That said as we look at the way we manage the business we do think the appropriate way to manage the business is as we see commodity inflation we need to take pricing in order to cover that.
And we're going to do that within corridors of volume and share that we find acceptable.
And if anything in terms of leading pricing I'd actually argue we have been leading pricing all along.
That said we really don't pay that much attention to competition on this stuff.
As Eric has articulated in the past and certainly John's articulated we manage the business the way we think it needs to be managed the right way in terms of the pricing/volume dynamic.
And what we're really saying is we intend to take rate increases in the back half of the year.
Yes.
Hugh if I can jump in I guess obviously blase was the wrong term but sort of unenthusiastic.
We've heard people talk about the pricing environment being very rational and very positive but it doesn't seem like you guys are quite that positive about it.
Is that a fair statement? Particularly in beverages here.
Yes.
Here's what I'd say on that John.
We've talked about the fact that given the challenging consumer environment we weren't going to take pricing to cover all of our inflation for the year.
And in a normal year we would expect to do that.
What we're saying now is while we're still not going to take sufficient pricing to cover all of the inflation for the year.
We are going to take more pricing in the balance of the year.
And we think that's the right thing to do for the way that we manage the business balancing the marketplace result with the financial result.
I would just add John this is Eric that we are far from blase that we are very passionate and focused on making sure we get the right rate actions in the marketplace.
And again we took pricing post-Labor Day.
We took pricing post-Super Bowl.
And again it's showing up in the numbers as you can see as indicated by first quarter.
And again we intend to do that as I've mentioned earlier post-July 4.
So we'll balance that against what's happening in terms of consumer value as I said earlier the competition in commodities but I would tell you we are very focused and passionate about the price and specifically rate in addition to great mix management as we always have been.
And John? At Frito-Lay as you know as inflation comes to the business we will price it through.
And to Bill's former question there's multiple levers at Frito-Lay to pull.
One of which is mix because as you know the margin differentials between potato chips and tortilla chips are very different.
And so we'll use the mix we'll use visual pricing and we'll use some trade promotion pricing but our intent is to pass it through.
And John just to kind of close this topic off I mean I mentioned in my opening comments that we're not satisfied with the pricing that we're getting.
Given what we look at in terms of commodities we think it's right to take more pricing and that's what we're going to do.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Indra I just wanted to maybe take a step back and sort of from a big picture perspective get your perspective on some of the puts and takes both at the macrolevel and then at the company level today versus maybe six months ago.
More specifically we entered the year with a pretty tough consumer environment.
Commodity obviously a pretty challenging situation.
So from your perspective at the microlevel what's gotten better? What's gotten worse? And then at the company level you had a lot of initiatives to invest more into marketing and branding.
Are there any categories or brands or countries that you're more pleased with and maybe some of the payoffs that you're getting from the reinvestments? Judy that's a broad question.
Let me try to hit the highlights.
Clearly we've come into this year with GDP in the developed markets improving some unemployment rates coming down a bit but then offset by the very high inflation we're seeing on commodities.
So every one of these situations has a positive and a negative.
The good news is that we are in the food and beverage space and people have to eat and people have to drink.
And therefore we've become more of a staple than anything and so we get the first dibs on the consumer dollars that are going out.
So that's the good news.
In terms of the microenvironment as we've said before emerging markets continue to be very very strong but inflation is also very very high in emerging markets.
So we're trying to thread the needle and really figure out how much pricing we can take and still get the consumer to increase per capita consumption and frequency.
And that's why even countries like EMEA we have to think very hard about what amount of pricing we can pass through to the consumer and the teams are working through those details.
In the case of the developed markets our categories are quite well developed in these markets.
And here again we are looking carefully by product by package to see how we can get that additional price some through visible pricing mix some through price mix some through some channel offerings.
And so we're playing this game in a much more nuanced micro way to be able to get that consumer dollar in order to drive our top line and our margin performance.
Do you want to add something there? Yes.
Just one other piece to talk a little bit about this question of commodities and pricing as well because obviously we're getting a few questions on it.
I think there maybe some questions around the aggregate level of commodity inflation relative to most CPGs we had came out earlier and I think with the higher level of commodity inflation than the vast majority of others.
To that extend obviously we anticipated a lot of what's gone on in the markets over the last couple of months in terms of commodity inflation.
As we talk about pricing in response to that we're really talking about that both in the context of 2011 and starting to think ahead to 2012 as well.
So as you hear us talking about our strategies for the back half of the year we're not thinking in just calendars but we're thinking sort of on a multi-quarter basis as to where we think we need to manage the business.
That said as Indra mentioned we do really have to be quite nuanced about how we do pricing so that we can do so effectively.
But given the aggregate level of inflation in the economy we do think it's important for us to take pricing.
Yes.
And so Judy coming back to -- and I'm picking up where Hugh left off this is a year where if you look across PepsiCo we have a large portfolio.
We have a natural hedge between beverages and snacks emerging markets developing markets developed markets different day parts different cohort groups.
So with this natural hedge in the portfolio we can decide what levels to tweak in order to deliver on the financial commitments.
But this is where -- this is the time you need great execution ability and excellent management to be able to navigate through the many headwinds and tailwinds that we are facing.
And I think we are blessed with an extraordinary management team.
Let me talk about the investment levels.
The other big lesson we've all learned is that through short-term volatility you cannot back off investments you should be making to ensure the long-term health of the business.
Branding investments absolutely we have to make them but we wanted to make sure we make the investments when we have the right programs the right people the right proposition.
Just as we did for Gatorade how we turned that business around and now it's smoking.
And so we are making the stepped-up investments especially North American beverages and beverages globally.
Our investments in the nutrition group.
The nutrition categories are growing 2 3x that of the other core Fun-for-You Better-for-You categories.
It's a gigantic opportunity and we'd be remiss if we didn't make these investments and we shouldn't be pulsing these investments.
You've got to make sure it's steady.
And so that's why we've put the investments behind on nutrition group and made it to sealed [ph] lab so that they can come up with innovation and we can start bringing them to market because we expect all of these will also turn around the commodity costs and the economic world that developed markets are going through will turn around.
And so we intend to keep the investments going to ensure the long-term success of our company.
Your next question comes from Carlos LaBoy of Crédit Suisse.
Indra you've spoken of stepped-up brand marketing and marketing investment for North America and globally.
Can you speak to the scope of the step-up how it flows through the year? And can you comment on some of your thinking on the need and opportunity that encourages you to step up your brand marketing investment? Is it mostly nutrition related as you just mentioned? Is it all nutrition related or mostly nutrition related? Carlos the biggest step-up in brand investments are behind our core beverages brand.
And because Frito-Lay North America and all of our snacks business are getting quite a bit of brand investments already they do increase their advertising spending.
But the biggest step-up that we've planned for this year and going forward is in our core North American beverage businesses.
So Massimo do you want to talk a little bit about the nature and step out -- and we don't talk about the exact level Carlos that's competitively disadvantaging us but go ahead and talk about where you're investing Massimo.
As Indra said the stepped-up investment in North American beverage first and foremost is on Pepsi.
And as we have said we have locked in the exclusive partnership with the X Factor property and all of that investment is incremental versus last year.
From a quarter standpoint also we were back from on Super Bowl as you know with Pepsi Max which we did not do last year.
So that's what makes a big difference for the first quarter.
In terms of the other beverage brands we are supporting Sierra Mist at a higher level than we did last year.
And finally the support of Gatorade is growing proportionately with the growth of the business.
And we continue to aggressively partner with the right sports properties for the long-term partnerships especially for Gatorade and Pepsi.
Your next question comes from Kaumil Gajrawala of UBS.
So it looks like there's very solid volume growth at Frito maybe not as much pricing as you had wanted but obviously some solid margin expansion as well.
Could you talk a bit about the drivers of the margin expansion including if any of that was volume leverage? John? Of course.
Kaumil some of it is volume leverage but we did have 2.5% volume growth that obviously helps to leverage the fixed costs.
And as we've said back at the Investors Conference in March we're ramping up our productivity levels at Frito-Lay and that's starting to come through.
We talked about automation projects that are taking place.
We've talked about GES controlling now.
We've talked about Lean Six Sigma all through in the organization not just the manufacturing but all the way through the sales organization.
So volume leverage yes and then solid productivity programs contributed to the margin expansion.
And if I could follow up on GES it's been about a year since the Investor Day.
I believe at that time you had one plant.
Is there any update that you could give us on that? We've rolled 2 additional markets.
We continue to see positive results from the initial markets that we've rolled.
We talked at the Investor Day about how 2012 would be a year to get the IT systems in place to further the national rollout and that's what we're doing.
We'll put in an SAP and financially upgrade our Oracle systems and then we'll get back in 2013 to rolling GES.
Got it.
And then if I can ask about Gatorade I believe one of the issues in the middle part of the last decade was that it was perhaps growing too faster maybe not growing with the right consumer.
So once again growing but it's growing quite quickly at about 20%.
Is there any concerns that it's maybe growing too fast or that it's not growing with the consumer you had intended? Listen first of all we are really totally focused on the right target and the right location.
The growth you're seeing in the first quarter is really driven by 2 factors.
First we launched the G Series in April 2010 so we are lapping a quarter where we had no G series last year.
And second a big change has been in the transfer of the go to market for small formats for convenience and drugs from warehouse to DSD which has allowed us to really accelerate the growth in that channel.
But if you look at the pricing data you will see that we are really not chasing volume.
We're actually very focused on the right target consumer and the right location.
So we feel very confident that we are not going back to some of the issues we have had in the past.
And Kaumil having said that it's important to note that long term we're not looking for a 20% sustained growth at Gatorade.
That would be crazy.
So we're looking at growth in the G franchise in the sports nutrition arena and that's why you're seeing expansion into bites.
You're going to see a lot more innovation around the needs of the sports athletes from a food and beverage perspective before they get into a game location during the game and after.
And you'll see a lot of niche innovations a lot of innovation that's going to get us more price realization.
Will there be some social beverage occasion that come into G? Yes but it's not going to be meaningful and we're not going to chase it with trade promotions or dropping off pricing.
That's the key difference today: innovation price utilization and a lot of focus on the sports athlete.
That's the way we're going with Gatorade.
Your next question comes from Caroline Levy of CLSA.
I'd like to just talk a little bit about Quaker and Frito it looks like you reclassified.
And I'm just trying to get a sense of what volume growth would have been on the old measure because it looks like the Quaker business had very weak volume but also your margins were up a lot in Quaker despite some top line pressures.
So if you could talk a little bit about that.
Are you going to reclassify last year so that we can figure out what's the next 3 quarters look like for volumes? Caroline it's Jamie.
We put out an 8-K about a month ago on that and we restated last year -- obviously the restatement of last year makes everything apples-to-apples with this year.
It's not a big piece of the business.
It was some of these snack-oriented Quaker products that go through warehouse and it really doesn't affect the growth that you saw reported in this morning's financials.
But I can take you through that if you like off-line.
And the margin increase how did you drive that under the current conditions at Quaker? And is it sustainable really is the question? Carol it's John.
We had a one-time accounting benefit in Quaker in the quarter.
If you were to strip that accounting benefit out we still would have grown profits around 1% to 2% even on  declining volumes.
So we're trying to get the price realization back into the business.
We are very focused on innovation long term to turn the business around.
And the business that we've been primarily focused against the core oatmeal business did grow in the quarter.
So that gave us some optimism going forward that that part of the portfolio is turning.
As you know we owned Aunt Jemima Rice-A-Roni and other businesses that we're not as -- haven't been as focused again.
So would you consider those core businesses? Or could we think about some divestitures over time in that area? Caroline this is Hugh.
From our perspective they're all core businesses and we think they're important to the aggregate of the franchise so we don't anticipate any of that.
And last question could I just get a confirmation on price mix at Frito? With the moving parts I'm having a hard time coming up with exactly what that was for the quarter price mix North America? Essentially it was slightly negative because again we didn't take pricing in the quarter.
So revenue growth could have grown with pound growth.
It didn't in part because of the mix.
Going forward as inflation comes to the business obviously as we've said we intend to fully price that through.
Your next question comes from Ali Dibadj of Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
One is just a follow-up on price mix in particular.
Historically in the past couple of quarters it feels like it was in general more half-and-half price mix.
With the greater focus going forward on increased kind of rate pricing or list pricing kind of sure pricing as I call it do you expect that I guess the mix between price and mix to be more focused on price and mix going forward? Ali this is Hugh.
Obviously business by business dealing with price mix at a PepsiCo level is a bit of a challenge because of the complexity of it.
But in general as you think through the lines of business I would be thinking a little bit more rate than just a straight balance between rate and mix going forward.
And that's what we were indicating this morning.
Inc.</strong> And then within mix how much do you see it -- and again obviously it's different by segment by business but how much do you see it between kind of between channel mix versus within channel mix? So C&amp;G obviously on the one hand but then within C&amp;G from a price pack architecture perspective.
I mean in general it's going to be I think more between channels than it is within channels by package.
But that's a very general statement and obviously with a big complicated portfolio.
But generally speaking it's going to be more between channels.
Inc.</strong> And the last question is just if you could address kind of the concern I have been hearing for a while from investors which is execution on a very enticing strategy right a strategy that I think makes sense to people.
How do you philosophically incentivize folks all the way down the line about some of the more complex messages? And as you mentioned a couple of times so far in answering prior question a complex company.
So for example Power of One what does that actually mean to the Frito driver? What does that actually mean? How do they think about it and how do you in fact incentivize that? As you're focused more and more on that are you thinking about or have you incentivized folks differently at that level?  So execution of the broad umbrella but incentivization all the way down the line is a philosophical question.
Ali I'm going to let John and Eric tell you exactly how they do it but let me put it in a fairly simple way.
To the driver he's also a consumer he needs a bag of Lays he's thirsty he needs to have a beverage.
And so that's the simplest expression of Power of One because they live it every day.
But beyond that let me pass it to John and Eric to talk about how they actually incentivize their route salesmen.
This is Eric.
I think a couple of things on Power of One.
Again if you really think about what we're trying to do from the most senior levels down to the frontline is we think Power of One can do 3 things for us.
It can accelerate growth; it can eliminate or enhance our selling and service advantage particularly at the frontline which you're referencing; and it can help us reduce costs and become a more efficient operator.
I think we've made a couple of moves: One we do have an incentive structure at the senior level where both the Frito and the beverage system is incented on a North America wide number.
So that's a big change from where we've been historically.
Second we've harmonized our field structure so that the Frito-Lay structure and the beverage structure geographically are aligned.
That has not been the case historically.
And so I think those 2 things plus a great example is Sunday for the first time ever as Indra mentioned in her comments we will have a moments to say "coupon drop." It is a very leverageable entity for our frontline to go build joint displays and to actually build that team selling effort at the frontline I think are great examples of how we're trying to implement Power of One from the most senior levels down through the frontline selling organization.
But Eric is it fair to say that snacks and beverages are a logical bundle therefore it's intuitively obvious that it should be pulled together.
There's not 2 more compatible products if you look at it at the point of consumption for the consumer so obviously that makes it a very sellable proposition for our trade customers.
And the only thing I would add to this is Eric and his team there had been a year now into integrating the businesses.
First he had to integrate PBG and PAF PBG and PAS into NAB.
And now as a frontline Frito-Lay in the PBC teams coming together store-by-store activating because we're now giving them real programs to go activate.
We are just beginning I think to realize that benefit.
Your next question comes from Mark Swartzberg of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I guess 2 questions.
First Indra on the AMP you talked in the past about Coke went through this reset period seven years ago.
Is it fair to think that your reset period sort of began middle of last year and this year or do you think it's a more extended period? Hugh you want to? Yes sure.
Mark it's Hugh.
I think we've really been investing in that in beverages over the last couple of years.
If you think back it was really in 2008 when we started to redo the packaging.
In 2009 we obviously carried that forward in a significant way and then obviously brought the bottling organization and PepsiCo together.
And then in addition to that we've obviously been sort of working our way through the brands with Gatorade and now we've been doing things with Tropicana and Pepsi.
So I think it's fair to say we've been doing this over the course of the last couple of years as opposed to just a year or so.
And from what we see it really is yielding results both in terms of the performance of the business from a volume standpoint as well as from the brand equity scores which we have seen strengthened across the vast majority of the portfolio.
So I think we're a couple of years into it at this point.
Yes.
But Hugh I think it's also safe to say that we are making these additional investments while delivering great earnings performance.
That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I mean obviously you're going to be growing it past '11.
But in terms of the notion of step functioning it do you believe that you've step functioned it you're done step-functioning at the end of this year? Yes.
I think generally speaking Mark we're comfortable with the amount of money we have in the business and we're comfortable that we can manage it within our guidance and within the portfolio.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then shifting over to the nutrition business which is multi-geography multi-division.
Can you give us an update on how you're managing the communication the planning on the tracking of performance for that business which includes multiple managers in multiple regions? Mark to tell you the primacy of the P&amp;L at Pepsico is the regions.
So PAS PAB Europe and EMEA is the primacy of the P&amp;L and that's where all the execution metrics exist and that's where they really worry about how you bring products to life in each of the channels with each of the customers.
So that's the primacy of the P&amp;L.
If you look at any large multinational company there's always a matrix.
There's a regional organization and global segments and primacy is usually with one or the other.
In PepsiCo it's for the region.
But in the past we've never had global segments that harmonized platform harmonized brand architecture and really looked at how to leverage the power of the company.
And in PepsiCo in particular we've remained regionally focused.
We came to the realization that the Global Nutrition Group needed to be managed globally purely from an innovation brand architecture platform development perspective not from managing the day-to-day P&amp;L.
So the GNG group is responsible for helping generate top line growth and ensuring that it's top line growth with good gross margin.
And then what they have is the regional representatives into GNG where each region or big country cluster gives input to GNG on what they need for their regions so that the GNG platform development can be consistent with what the regions need.
And again this is not in 200 countries.
We're focused on 15 countries and that's what we are using as the first push to drive the GNG growth.
And this sort of wiring started the day we formed GNG.
And the Global Nutrition Group works with each of the sector heads in each of the regions to make sure that there's a constant dialogue between the 2 to make sure the innovation actually yields top line and bottom line results.
And our final question will be from Damian Witkowski of Gabelli.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to dive into North America a little bit more U.S.
in particular and get your thoughts on strength across different channels not just in the first quarter but what you're seeing through today.
And as the construction worker back is it getting better in the C&amp;G channel and such? And then even if you look at the U.S.
across West Coast East Coast in the Middle and sort of are you seeing a different pattern of recovery across those regions? John? Our C-store business has been improving but remembering it's coming off of sort of a declining channel a couple of years ago and it's rolling again.
We really haven't -- the first question I think we had this morning was around the gas prices we haven't seen any massive channel shifts so far.
We really haven't seen major regional shifts.
Although within markets there are ups and downs.
But in total I don't see any major shifts taking place.
Eric have you seen any? No.
I think if you look at our business I mean and particularly in small formats C&amp;G FoodService dollar drug all of those channels were strong in the quarter and those are the channels that we tend to see impacted by the construction worker et cetera.
So I think our business in the small format channel in particular is very strong.
Inc.</strong> So you're actually seeing traffic being positive in those -- in the C&amp;G channel? Yes we have seen traffic being positive.
The net numbers we should look at is overall food and beverage in North America was up 2% 2.5%.
And within that there's a lot of channel shifting going.
Convenience stores are back in focus because people are using that to do fill-up shopping right now rather than going to a large retailer because they don't have the money to go to large retailer and make whole purchases they're using convenience stores to top up.
So let me just summarize our call today.
Overall we are pleased with our Q1 results because they came in line with our expectations our top line was strong.
Commodities inflation will continue to be a challenge for us and everyone in the industry for the foreseeable future but we'll continue to prudently manage the business balancing volume pricing and productivity and we remain committed to our full year financial outlook.
So with that thank you for joining us.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes PepsiCo's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We appreciate your time.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thanks operator.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
Indra will lead off today's call with a review of our overall performance and outlook and then he will cover the financial guidance in more detail.
We'll then move on to Q&amp;A where we'll be joined by John Compton CEO of PepsiCo Americas Foods; and Eric Foss CEO of Pepsi Beverages Company who's joining us by phone this morning.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2011 guidance based on currently available information and our actual results could differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in the most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results please refer to the investors section of PepsiCo's website under the Investor Presentations tab.
Now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thanks Jamie and good morning everyone.
I'd like to give you my perspective on the quarter share with you how we see the macro and consumer picture and then comment on our priorities and outlook for the balance of the year including guidance.
We delivered good results in the quarter because reported EPS was up 20% and core EPS was up 10%.
Our worldwide servings increased 6% with global growth across our broad range of convenient food and beverage platform.
We had solid global volume growth in both snacks and beverages.
Snacks volume grew 10% and beverages grew 5%.
And within that the global nutrition portfolio grew revenue 10% on an organic basis.
Net revenue was up 14% overall and 8% on an organic basis.
I'm pleased that our global snacks performance was particularly strong.
We had balanced top line and bottom line growth in our snacks business with volume growth momentum accelerating from the first quarter.
Frito-Lay North America our largest snacks business had another very good quarter with 2% volume growth 3% net revenue growth and 6% operating profit growth.
In fact we saw positive performance in snacks in just about every one of our most important markets around the world.
We grew volume revenue and profits in every one of our top 5 snacks markets.
We're driving growth in developed markets by providing a wide array of innovative products backed by strong commercial programs.
And in emerging markets we continue to grow per capita consumption frequency with locally-relevant products and then by expanding our distribution reach.
This is leading to double-digit volume growth across a number of markets.
In the quarter India grew 22%; China grew 25%; Turkey grew 24%; Saudi Arabia and Egypt each grew above 20%; South Africa grew in the high-teens; and Brazil grew in double digits.
Now to beverages.
The international market performance was very good.
We saw volume outside of North America grow 4.5% in the quarter and 5% in the first half on an organic basis again with gains across many markets and double-digit growth in key emerging and developing markets.
China beverage volume grew 13% in the quarter; India grew 17%; Turkey was up 15%; Saudi Arabia was up 17%; Vietnam was up 11%; France is up 12%; Germany 15%.
And at the same time we are seeing carbonated soft drink volume and value share gains across a number of these important markets.
This growth is being driven by innovation and by the traction we are getting from our brand-building initiatives.
The growth in key emerging markets like China and Russia is coming directly from the actions we've taken to build out our go-to-market reach and capacity.
We are off to a good start with the Wimm-Bill-Dann acquisition in Europe.
I am pleased with the progress and I am monitoring it very closely.
The Wimm-Bill-Dann management team and associates who are now part of PepsiCo are top-notch.
The integration is right on track.
And we are confident we'll achieve the synergies as originally planned and the fundamental operating performance of Wimm-Bill-Dann has been rock solid.
Further majority of the portfolio is performing very well.
Now let me turn to PepsiAmericas Beverages and the North American beverage category in particular.
In a difficult category environment we are encouraged by a number of positives in the business.
We are maintaining our focus on Pepsi Max and Sierra Mist with good results.
Both Max and Mist grew in the quarter with Max volume more than doubling compared to the prior year.
And we have terrific programming against brand Pepsi for the remainder of the year including the current Summertime is Pepsi Time campaign.
And later this quarter our sponsorship of the X-Factor kicks into high gear.
Gatorade had another strong quarter of strong growth.
And the results from the C&amp;G channel where we're benefiting from our move to direct store delivery earlier this year were especially strong.
And Trop50 continues to perform very well with volume up 40% supported by the new Trop packaging and expanding the line with new flavors.
Taken together the positive signs we're seeing in the brands we have innovated and executed strong marketing programs give us confidence that our brand-building initiatives are beginning to pay off.
However the operating and financial performance in North America beverages was below our expectations for the quarter and let me take you to the drivers and address what's going on here.
As we knew we would we had exceptionally high levels of commodity inflation.
That said it's the consumer and competitive picture that's become more difficult than we expected.
Consumer category demand was lower than we anticipated because overall retail foot traffic and basket sizes have declined and the category pricing environment was tough.
These factors led to lower-than-expected price realization and a delay in some of our planned pricing actions.
As a consequence our North America operating profit performance for the quarter was impacted.
However our analysis shows that our North American profit growth for the first half compared favorably with that of our primary beverage competitor on a pro forma basis.
Of the 3 factors impacting North America beverages: inflation consumer demand and pricing the consumer demand picture is the most concerning to us at this point.
In fact the modest pickup in total consumer spending almost all U.S.
businesses saw earlier in the year has reversed in the past several months.
And the general consumer weakness is driving reduced traffic in key retail channels.
These factors are going to impact the discretionary categories like beverages where we all know consumers have non-packaged alternatives.
And because beverages are also an impulse-driven category the reduced traffic is also having an effect.
Given the reduced retail traffic the fact that Frito-Lay North America continues to perform well in this environment speaks to the relatively high resilience of salty snacks and the strength of the Frito franchise.
In developing and emerging markets the growth picture is brighter.
In most of the emerging and developing markets we are still seeing healthy GDP growth.
But global commodity inflation is pushing our food inflation in these markets and wages in the short term are not keeping pace.
The disposable income and consumer discretionary spending is under some pressure.
So as we operate in this environment we are focused on a few very important guiding principles.
First we'll continue to support our brand-building and other consumer-facing initiatives.
Given the stress that many consumers are under and the fact that we're putting more pricing in the market it's more important than ever to communicate the value of our brands to our consumers to keep them engaged in our brands and our categories.
You will continue to see us on air and using digital media to stay top of mind with our consumers and keep them engaged.
Second we are staying committed to our emerging market initiatives to expand our go-to-market reach because emerging markets growth appears to be holding up and we want to maintain the momentum we have by strengthening our franchises in these important growth markets.
Third in principle we will try to cover as much of the commodity inflation as we can.
As a disciplined operating company it's critical that over time we've tried to cover our costs.
This applies in both developed and emerging markets.
So we are taking more pricing across all of our businesses.
In the case of North American beverages our pricing actions have been communicated to our customers and pricing actions went into the market beginning July 11.
Fourth as we deal with many consumers' sensitivity to affordability given their limited disposable incomes we are using every tool we have at our disposal including price/pack architecture and efficient targeted promotions to continue to provide value to the consumer.
We've done a rigorous review of our portfolio to make sure we have established price points that appeal to the more value-sensitive consumer.
For example in the U.S.
this includes the 1.5-liter take-home pack and the 16-ounce PET bottle in the cold channel in beverages.
On the snacks side we have expanded our $2 monthly-served value line with encouraging results.
And we're going to continue to put the power of our portfolio to work by executing cross-brand promotions to increase value to the consumer to motivate higher verticals in total.
Fifth we are focusing on premium innovation to help mitigate the cost and pricing challenges.
Higher-income consumers are in better shape financially and are less price-sensitive.
So it's important we maintain a focus on them.
We are driving growth in our premium products like our Tostitos Artisan where unique flavor texture and taste command higher revenue per pound or products like the G series which captures new high revenue and marginal cases for Gatorade.
And finally we're accelerating and intensifying all our productivity initiatives that can have a positive outcome on both this year and upcoming year's financial performance with focus across the entire compressible cost structure.
But as you all well know we're going to have to deal with the uncertainty in the months to come and this applies to all CPG companies I believe so we are not alone in this.
Many companies have recently announced pricing actions and this will further complicate the consumer outlook and the competitive environment.
Understanding how all these impacts demand elasticity both within categories and across categories would require careful monitoring and adjustment.
Taking these 3 issues into consideration the uncertain macros and inflation the immediate actions we are taking to mitigate them and our commitment to continue to support our strategic initiatives we've updated our financial outlook for the year.
We announced our updated outlook in this morning's release and Hugh will discuss the guidance in more detail in just a minute.
But before I hand it off to Hugh I want to be clear about my enthusiasm for the performance and potential of our portfolio.
There are so many good signs that our plans are aimed correctly.
I believe our global volume and revenue growth in the quarter is a good reflection of our portfolio's strength.
We remain absolutely committed to leading this great company on a path that effectively addresses the current uncertainty and at the same time strengthens the long-term health of our business and company.
Thanks and I look forward to our discussion in the Q&amp;A after Hugh's remarks.
Hugh? Thanks Indra.
I'll start with guidance.
We communicated updated guidance for 2011 in our release this morning.
Our updated guidance targets high-single digit EPS growth on a core 52-week basis.
Let me highlight the key underlying changes.
First the new guidance of high-single digits is on a U.S.
dollar basis.
Our previous guidance of 7% to 8% was on a constant currency basis.
Second while the currency neutral growth under our previous guidance was 7% to 8% our new guidance would imply 5% to 7% currency neutral growth as we expect 2 percentage points of ForEx benefit for the year.
So let me address why we made the change.
First our primary beverage competitor is benefiting from significant ForEx tailwinds.
This gives them a lot of competitive flexibility and it isn't logical for us to hold ourselves to a constant currency standard that our primary competitor isn't using.
Second the commodities environment has been quite challenging this year and our commodities forecast is a headwind that has moved to the high end of our range.
These commodities have appreciated in part due to the depreciation of the U.S.
dollar.
Our international earnings on the other hand benefit from U.S.
dollar depreciation when they are converted but we don't get that benefit when we measure our performance on a constant currency basis.
The combination of these 2 items actually causes ForEx to be a performance drag on PepsiCo results under our old constant currency measurement.
Finally as Indra mentioned we along with a number of other CPGs have announced price increases for the back half of the year and are doing so in a relatively weak U.S.
consumer environment.
While we're implementing this pricing which we began to do on July 11 we'll also need to gauge the consumer reaction in this uncertain environment and make adjustments accordingly.
As such predicting the ultimate pricing realization for the back half of 2011 is more challenging than it would be in a more stable consumer environment.
I expect that we might have some questions on guidance later but thought it would be useful to provide this context before we engage in a discussion.
Because Indra has covered many of the operating trends in our business I'll comment briefly on the below-the-line items for the quarter.
Our tax rate for the quarter came in better than expected driven largely by recognition of tax benefits in our international business.
These were anticipated in our full year guidance but were realized earlier in the year than we had previously anticipated.
Consequently our Q2 tax rate was lower than we had expected but our full year outlook remains unchanged at approximately 27%.
On share repurchases year-to-date we repurchased approximately $750 million of shares against our full year target of $2.5 billion.
So our pace of share repurchase is expected to accelerate in the second half.
The timing of share repurchases is completely consistent with what we communicated at the beginning of the year.
As you model out the balance of the year I want to call your attention to a few items.
First incremental pricing actions will be realized during Q3 and into Q4 so they'll have a more meaningful impact on the fourth quarter because of that timing.
Second timing of concentrate shipments will likely be a net negative in the third quarter as we expect bottler inventories to be a net drop.
Third as we intend to implement a number of accelerated productivity actions that we plan for the balance of the year and they will also have a bigger impact on the fourth quarter than the third quarter because of the timing of execution.
The net of all that is we anticipate a much stronger operating profit EPS growth rate in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter.
With that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christine Farkas of Bank of America.
A couple of questions.
First thing on C-stores.
I just wanted to clarify the strength in Frito-Lay because we didn't see that in the scanner data but certainly the dollar channels seem strong.
I wonder if you can take us through a little bit why the snacks are holding up so much better in the immediate consumption.
And then my second question was on organic growth in Russia.
It wasn't listed in the countries with double-digit growth on your beverage review but wondering if you're seeing difficult consumer trends that seems to be hitting juice for some of your competitors.
Christine this is John Compton.
On the single-serve business at Frito-Lay we're benefiting from a new line of flavor that we've launched behind Ruffles and the Hispanic line of flavors that we've launched across the entire portfolio of brands Doritos Cheetos Lay's and Ruffles.
And that's the Tapatio products that we've launched in about half the country.
That combined with -- we have 2 different price points as you know that we use in the marketplace a $0.99 line and a $1.29 line and the combination of those 2 with the flavors helped us to offset traffic declines.
And our single-serve business grew mid-single digit for Frito-Lay overall.
So I'm very pleased with the performance of the single-serve business and the up-and-down-the-street business.
Regarding Russia Christine.
The overall beverage category in Russia was soft in the second quarter and I think we had 2 kinds of behavior.
One the noncarbonated beverage business and juices in particular is a gigantic market in Russia bigger than the carbonated soft drink business.
And within that the lower-priced juices -- our juices in Russia run the whole gamut of pricing from value brands to premium brands.
The value brands are better than the premium brands although growth across the portfolio was okay.
It wasn't at levels that we would like to see but the growth wasn't bad on an organic basis.
On the CSD side there was some interesting behavior in the marketplace because some people decided to buy some volume in the marketplace so you saw some very heavy price discounting in the marketplace and we chose not to play that game because we decided that we're going to focus on juices and maintain our pricing in the marketplace.
So overall I'd say our organic growth in Russia was in the very low-single digit but that's a number that we deliberately decided to focus on because we did not want to use significant pricing drops to buy volumes.
Okay slower but positive it sounds like.
And if I just could follow-up with Hugh on the guidance.
You didn't -- correct me if I'm wrong you didn't change your outlook for the commodity hit in 2011 on just the ongoing inflation.
Or was there an uptick in your view for that pressure this year? No Christine we had previously communicated as I'm sure you remember $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion.
And we're still in that range.
Now within that range we've moved to the higher end but no change in the $1.4 billion or the $1.6 billion range.
Your next question comes from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Taking a look at your decision -- and I want to focus on sort of your decision in terms of the FX piece understanding the context that it's coming through.
I guess the question becomes do you believe that this is a move to dollar-based earnings guidance for the foreseeable future? Is this a move to dollar-based earnings guidance for this year? And I guess the question becomes if the dollar turns the other way how should we look at how this plays out on the other side? So again understanding the context of what you're doing it for but think that I guess I'm trying to figure out how you plan to manage this going forward? Yes so John this is Hugh.
Let me talk about that in 3 pieces.
Number one certainly in terms of the short-term dynamic you're aware that our primary competitor has substantial ForEx which seems to be playing its way back into the business particularly in North America.
And we think that to not be competitive with that is not a good long-term solution for the PepsiCo shareholders.
Number two as we think about the long-term earnings of PepsiCo I expect that we will be looking at that on a USD basis.
And then number three for 2012 -- too early to talk about anything as it relates to 2012 at this point.
Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello of Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Recognize your comment that it's hard to know exactly what the price realization is going to be.
Recently you had announced the 3% to 5% incremental pricing in CSDs.
How much is that are you planning in the guidance to realize in the P&amp;L given the competitive environment that you cited? And on the snack side what is the magnitude that you're expecting to realize and given the weak consumer environment how are you modeling that volume impact in the back half? You're asking for a level of details that we're not comfortable sharing but let me give you some broad observations based on everything we've seen in the marketplace.
As it gets closer to essentials things like what we sell in our global nutrition portfolio Tropicana Quaker foods products even Gatorade in this scorching hot weather people are willing to pay up for those.
Snacks there isn't much of an alternative for snacks.
It's just a great crisp and people are willing to pay for that.
In the case of beverages we have to be a lot more careful because there are alternatives.
Where you can stop trading down pricing you can go from packaged beverages to first of all bottled water then to tap water.
So when you look at the repertoire of beverages when you take 7 or 8 packaged beverages drinking occasions people might cut that back to 4 or 5 depending on how they want to allocate their dollars through the day.
So I'd say that it's the beverage category we have to watch very carefully along with the fact that sometimes in these environment some people might choose to buy volume and we saw that in the month of June or July.
So I think what we have to be very very careful about is not to give you any specific indication of exactly what price utilization we're going to get by category.
But all that we can tell you is generally this is what we are seeing.
And we're going to watch these over the next few weeks and months to see what kind of price utilization we get.
Early indications in Frito-Lay are positive.
I mean John do you want to talk about that? Yes.
Bill as you know we've said all along that we're going to price to cover commodity and I think if you look in the second quarter our gross margin in Frito-Lay was up 10 basis points.
So we essentially did that and going forward that's our intent.
As you know we have multiple levers that we pull different pack sizes laid out price et cetera.
But we're not pricing to grow profits we're pricing to cover our commodity costs.
And so far as understood we put pricing into the market -- incremental pricing into the market on July 10 and 2 weeks does not a year make and but I'm encouraged at what I'm seeing.
Your next question is comes from Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One is -- so I think it's fair and you made a point that when you compare your results to your peers between North America it's basically in line if you try to strip things out.
And of course you're facing a lot of these externalities.
You mentioned obviously macro consumer commodities competition et cetera but these are just externalities.
I'm just trying to get a better sense of -- do you see things specifically internally that you're not doing well whether it be Power of One not happening enough whether the integration -- maybe you can push that further? You mentioned some productivity improvements.
Obviously there are a lot of changes in the marketing function in beverages.
Are there things internally that you -- all of you look at and say "Gosh we could do things better here." Of course there are many but really that has been driving or that could drive some improvement here.
I think that's a great question.
So let me address some of these and Hugh if you want to chip in go ahead.
You're absolutely right in saying a lot of the externalities.
I wish we could control but we can't.
I wish we could manage the economies but we can't.
So we have to live with them.
We have to live with the uncertainty.
I think what bothers us most is the uncertainty not the economy itself.
But we have to live with it.
Let's talk about the internal structure.
I'd say by and large we're doing a very good job managing our internal P&amp;L and our execution.
Although I'd say we are never happy with what we do.
I mean we are one company that's constantly in a state of discontent because we think we can do better.
So let me give you some areas where we are working hard.
Clearly in our North American beverage marketing organization there's been changes.
And as we've said before we had to make those changes and the changes we made not because we had bad people or people who are not qualified it's just the business changed around us and we wanted to make sure we had people who are ready to sign up to the new agenda and had the skills required to perform in this new world.
And I think all the people we're getting in the company -- first of all we have no trouble recruiting people and the people who come in are top quality.
I hope you guys get a chance to meet the Brad Jakeman who is running the global CSD franchise now and Lorraine Hansen who's running Global Hydration.
I think you'll be extremely impressed by the caliber of these people.
So we have absolutely no issues attracting the best and the brightest.
So we have to go to those changes in the North American marketing organization and we make them gradually to upgrade the talent and make sure we have the right people for the new environment.
And you would start seeing the results of their work as we going to the balance of the year and next year.
In terms of productivity as Hugh said we are working hard to look at our compressible cost to see if we can get even more efficient.
And this is not squeezing the cost because that's the worst thing you can do to squeeze the cost get rid of people and make whoever's left work harder because that's a burnout strategy.
We're actually looking across the company to say: Can we do things differently? Can we approach the market differently? Can we distribute differently? Can we even change the form function of our products? Could we invest in productivity tools that in fact saves us a lot of money and allows us to do more with the people we have? So that as we grow we can just deploy the existing labor force to do a better job.
Pricing across the company we have teams looking at this right now and some of the early indications are there is some additional opportunities to improve the productivity of the company.
So here is a company that's always restless is always beating itself up rather than patting itself on the back and we are turning over every stone in the company to see if we can be even more efficient than we are.
Hugh did you want to add anything? Yes.
I think in many ways I'd echo Indra's point that I think we have a healthy level of dissatisfaction in PepsiCo for the way we currently do things.
And the good news is I think we see opportunities consistently to do them better.
I'll talk about the productivity side in particular.
We're always looking at benchmarks in terms of how we do things across our processes whether it be manufacturing or procurement or distribution.
And as we benchmark we're always looking at the top quartile and saying "Why can't everything be like that?" And sometimes there are structural reasons but sometimes we just need to learn from ourselves internally and to get better at it.
To Indra's point I do think sometimes we're very hard on ourselves and maybe at times we talk about that a little bit too much externally when in fact I do feel like competitively we use our resources pretty efficiently compared to most companies that you would contrast us to.
But I think that healthy level of dissatisfaction is also one of the things that's enabled PepsiCo to be as successful as it's been and I'd expect we'll continue to have that healthy level of dissatisfaction.
And Ali one other point.
You talked about Power of One.
We have lot of Power of One ideas at the shelf the consumer shelf.
What we are trying to be very careful about is to execute the Power of One program which is profit dilutive it's not a very good idea.
We want to make sure it's top line accretive and it leads neutral on the profit side at a minimum.
There's lot of ideas or profit-dilutive ideas.
So we want to make sure that we execute Power of One in the back office to the extent that it makes sense.
But when it comes to consumer-facing activities it doesn't dilute our profit margins and that is what we're looking to very carefully.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And maybe to segue way to perhaps a scenario of discontent or expected improvements but it's great to have John and Eric both on the call.
And if you focus in on North America it still remains kind of almost a tale of two cities right with FLNA doing a lot of the heavy lifting in North America and in fact the I think for the whole company.
Right? At least the majority of the operating profit growth for the company.
And as we look at that how do you think about the balance between those 2? At what point do you think PAB starts to I guess pick up the slack so to speak? And/or should we continue to expect FLNA to really continue to deliver higher and higher margins from the place that we are now? How should we think about that balance going forward in North America of course as it relates to the whole company? I'll make some opening comments and I'm going to have Eric talk to them and John talk about Frito-Lay.
I think Frito-Lay is our star in the portfolio.
Just a fantastic business great market position tremendous numbers of layers of advantage and a very well-managed business.
I'd say it if it were a stand-alone company Frito-Lay North America might well be the best consumer products company.
So I think FLNA is just a wonderful organization with a great franchise and great attention to detail.
I'd say our North American beverage business -- and I'd say it's not just PepsiCo I'd say the overall North American beverage environment has been an interesting one and I've made all kinds of comments in what I see as behavior in the North American beverage business.
But this is not a business that as a category has been sensible for years.
There has been trading of a sensible point of share at the margin at huge cost for many many years and we've all been through an environment where for almost 20 years there was no commodity inflation of any significant proportion.
And in the last couple of years we are beginning to see huge commodity inflation and a depressed economy.
So the North American beverage business in total not just PepsiCo requires a very different mindset and approach to it which I've not yet seen in the industry as a whole.
Having said that let me turn to Eric Foss to give you his comments on what we are trying to do to approach this category and then we have to watch and see how the overall marketplace evolves.
So Eric take it away.
Ali just a couple of comments.
First let just me talk a little bit about our progress post the merger.
I mean if you think about our North America beverage business really post the merger in 2010 and then through the first quarter of this year we had really 4 straight quarters of volume top line and profit improvement.
So if you look at second quarter I think we were dealing with and the business was impacted by 3 extraordinary issues.
One unprecedented commodity inflation that Indra mentioned.
Second I think it's important to recognize that there was a prior-year value investment at the retail level that we were lapping that largely impacted second quarter and is now behind us.
And then third the competitive environment.
So let me tell you what we feel good about let me tell you what kind of core issues we need to address and kind of how we're trying to play the game going forward.
I think first of all we feel good about the kind of our balanced approach to top line growth which on a year-to-date basis is up a couple of points certainly in line with the category and our competitors.
We continue to improve our share position.
We continue to improve the health of our brands which we stated was a must-do coming out of the merger.
We continue to feel great about the synergy capture and our cost and productivity efforts and we continue to sell service and execute very well at the point of sale.
The issues we need to address are actually isolated pretty simple to say but tougher to do and that is we have to price to cover COGS to make sure we have the right margin structure going forward and we have to do that right now and balance that with a pretty difficult consumer and economic environment that you've heard Indra and Hugh refer to.
So the game we're playing is as we go forward the second half price to cover COGS.
It's the prudent and right thing to do for the long-term health of the category in this business.
Second we're going to continue to make the incremental investments particularly around strengthening our brand and building our core brands.
And third continue to maximize the potential of the merger and the synergy unlocks including not just capturing cost synergies but revenue synergies like G2 DSD Power of One food service et cetera.
That's kind of what we feel good about what we have to address and kind of the game we're playing going forward.
On Frito-Lay there's nothing in the first half of this year that would cause us to change our optimism about this business going forward.
We continue to believe that there's volume growth in the core business.
I believe the demographic changes that are taking place are actually in our favor.
We've learned on how to build adjacent businesses through Stacy's and Sabra particularly.
We're successful in that venture now.
Historically we've had a terrific productivity mindset at Frito-Lay.
We ramped that up incrementally with the GES initiative that we're beginning to implement and roll now.
And so no I don't want anyone -- I appreciate your comments about Frito-Lay but I don't want anyone to take away that we're milking that business because of the temporary softness in one business right now.
That's not the case at all.
It's a great business for running the business for the long term.
We're making the necessary investments.
We took our media investment up this year because we knew that we were going to take pricing and that we thought we needed that to sort of cover any sort of consumer softness that we potentially would see.
And Latin America across the board as you now the snacks businesses have performed well.
We had 5% volume growth and double-digit profit growth.
And we are nicely focused on top line growth at Frito-Lay and across the company.
Your next question comes from Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
John can you discuss your top line expectations around Frito-Lay North America in the back half of the year with the higher pricing? Are you expecting to see a significant volume slowdown in the business? And also in terms of looking at your pricing how much of it will be rate versus weight out and how that compares versus history and how that would play into your volume expectations? Yes certainly.
As incremental pricing comes in our net revenue performance should improve and most likely our volume performance might slow somewhat.
Versus the pricing actions when we saw this high-commodity inflation environment from 2008 less of our pricing actions are going to be laid out and more of our pricing actions this year are a combination of trade promotion practices and some visual pricing.
So back half of the year I think the net revenue line will grow faster than it has in the first half of the year and volume will slow somewhat.
But I'll know more about that in the next 6 to 8 weeks.
Okay.
And can you just talk a little bit about your views around the potential demand elasticity given there's more visual pricing this time around and compare it versus demand elasticity you've seen in the past? As I said I'll know more as the pricing gets fully into the marketplace.
But the biggest brands I'll take Lay's and Doritos as an example are also quite frequently sold on deals.
So we have a way of managing our net pricing through the marketplace.
If we see the visual pricing starting to slow a little bit we can adjust our promotion practices.
The other thing Dara is the amazing thing is around the world -- in pretty much every country of the world the snacks businesses is very resilient and is doing well.
And so we take great comfort in the fact that it's a faulty category and the strength of our franchises across the world that seems to be holding up very well in an economy where pricing is going up for all consumer products and economies have mixed performance across the world.
And to add Indra's point the other thing that gives me confidence so we can get this pricing through is the innovation on the core business that we have coming.
And so all the flavor work that we've done in Doritos and Ruffles particularly is and will continue to work well.
And it flows through our big bag business straight to our single-serve business into our variety pack business and that gives me confidence that we can get the pricing through.
Your next question comes from Carlos LaBoy of Credit Suisse.
I was hoping that Hugh could give us some insight on the financial value of the PBG and Gatorade assets you sold in Mexico and the expected size of the checks that are likely to come your way as the deal closes.
I think this asset sales should be worth several hundred million dollars.
Are you going to deploy that money when it comes in toward funding higher rate of investments? Or do the asset sales offer you unexpected money to accelerate investments even more? Yes Carlos this is Hugh.
Carlos as we mentioned in some of our earlier communications the terms of the deal and the specifics around the financials of it are confidential and we're not going to be sharing that at this time.
When the deal closes obviously to the degree that cash comes in that represents a substantial change to PepsiCo's overall cash picture.
Obviously we'll be talking to that piece of it at that point.
But right now the terms of the deal are confidential and that's an agreement between the parties.
And maybe Eric can expand on the 1.5 liter take-home pack that Indra mentioned.
It's being priced at parity it looks like with Coke's 1.25.
Can you speak to the fact that you're having to give an extra quarter liter for free on a very similar package.
And I guess where I'm going with the question is do you worry that this opens up a slippery slope of holding price parity with your competitor on similar packs as they start plowing forward on package innovation and on new packs? Sure Carlos.
It's Eric.
Let me make a couple of points on pricing.
First of all I think you've heard us talk before that as we approach anything certainly 1.5-liter our pricing approach starts and ends with the consumer.
And I think if you think about our success on 1.5-liter what we're really trying to do is to make sure there's an entry point for the consumer to enter the category at a great value.
And we punched this 1.5-liter in June.
We've had very strong execution.
It's tied to meal deals and the reality is if you look at any success metric distribution volume share on 1.5 liter or share on a combined multi-serve basis 1.5-liter and 2-liter we are extremely happy with our success relative to the competitive entry on this package.
So we feel very good about it and it's something that again as we look at taking pricing I think you'll see the whole industry look to reconceptualize and re-architect the whole price/pack architecture.
So I think you'll see more to come on that front.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Just going back to North America beverages.
If I just look at the profit decline on a year-over-year basis can you just walk through the components of the profit decline.
How much was the pricing lagging inflation? How much did spending go up? What was the cost synergy capture? And then as we think about going forward just from an inflation perspective does it get worse and then it gets better? Or have we kind of hit the peak in terms of inflation just on a quarterly basis? You're talking about North American beverages Judy? Yes.
Yes.
Let me start on it a little bit and then Eric to the degree you want to add please feel free.
Judy relative to our expectations the costs are largely in line with what we had expected.
Inflation in beverages is a bit higher than what was in our plans but not significantly so for the first half.
It really is -- pricing and volume is really where the gap is and we've talked about some of the reasons why from a competitive perspective.
On a year-over-year basis obviously commodities are up substantially.
And we expected to get more pricing in the marketplace but it's proven to be a pretty competitive market and as a result of that that's really what's driving the year-over-year.
But everything else the synergies are largely in line and the commodities piece while up year-over-year are only a little bit higher than what our expectations were.
So in Q2 what was the cost synergy capture? Yes.
We hadn't disclosed the synergies specifically on a quarterly basis.
But just assume that the commodities are well above any synergies.
Correct.
And then just in terms of pricing versus the commodities out -- within Americas Beverages can you just talk about where's the pressure's coming from just in terms of CSD versus noncarbs versus juice? And where are you seeing sort of the most pronounced gap? And where do you have the most confidence that that gap will close as the year progresses? Why don't I talk to that briefly and then Eric if you want to add in that's fine.
I think Judy the biggest gap is in carbonated soft drinks and primarily in the big volume packages.
That's where we haven't seen pricing at the levels that we expected it to.
Single-serves up-and-down-the-street seems to be okay.
Seems to be fine.
Take-home large pack.
Eric you might want to talk to the extent you can provide some detail.
Sure.
Let me give you some color commentary on the pricing topic.
Again Judy the way we think about this is there is a balance here so we are trying to get price appreciation.
If you look at it if you really look at our business you can look at it in 2010 we had 2 points of pricing Q1 another 2 points Q2 another 2 points first half 2 points.
You've seen us really try to take a disciplined and balanced approach to the top line.
You've seen our retails both on cans and 2 liter go up despite the fact that our competitors are down year-over-year.
And again right now we feel good that we've descended and are growing our share position and we have good mix management as well.
So I think the core issue is largely on CSDs cans and multi-serve pack.
Okay.
And Hugh just a quick follow-up on your guidance.
You continue to talk about guidance on a 52-week basis.
At this point can you tell us what's the 53rd week will provide you just in terms of whether you'll invest that back into the marketplace or would we see higher earnings as a result of the 53rd week? And then just on the tax rate because the Q2 tax rate actually came in a little bit lower.
So for the full year does the back half tax rate go up? Yes.
So the tax rate Judy will actually be pretty well in line with what we said previously which was 27%.
This was really a timing switch.
So to the degree that our first half tax rate is under that then obviously the back half will be a little bit higher than that.
In terms of the 53rd week we had previously talked about that as non-core in line with past practice.
So in terms of plans on that we hadn't said anything publicly at this point.
Would you care to say anything at this point or no? Not yet.
No no.
Your next question comes from Caroline Levy of CLSA.
I have just a couple.
Could you talk to Wimm-Bill-Dann's performance just the business itself versus your expectation rather than all of Russia? What's better what's worse is there any you could add? The second is on media spend.
I was hoping to hear some specifics on whether that's actually been ramped up year-over-year and what the plans are for the back half particularly on the beverage side in North America.
And then just finally has Tropicana turned at all? Great 3 questions.
So Wimm-Bill-Dann.
Wimm-Bill-Dann is performing exceedingly well.
In fact the more we get to know the Wimm-Bill-Dann business the people the strength of the franchise the technologies they have they are really really really impressing us.
So the business is a top-notch business.
I'd say it's performing exceedingly well.
It's had its share of commodity cost inflation because grain prices go up the cows have to eat grain in order to produce the milk in order for us to produce the dairy product.
So there is some of that.
But you want to add something on Wimm-Bill-Dann before I ...
Yes I was actually just over there with Zein a couple of weeks ago.
Clearly you have things going on in terms of value versus premium products like you do with the rest of Russia.
But as Indra said the business is performing very well.
We went through a full integration review.
And the integration the synergies are on track.
The marketplace performance is good.
And Zein and I actually went out to visit the cows and they seem to be doing fine as well.
And you know there's still opportunity because in Almarai which is our joint venture with the Saudi dairy company they have the highest yield per cow and we haven't yet transferred those yield technologies from Almarai to Wimm-Bill-Dann.
So we see a lot of upside going forward and the management team at Wimm-Bill-Dann is top-notch.
We retained pretty much all of them I think say except one.
But we retained everyone of them and they're doing a great job.
They've integrated wonderfully with PepsiCo.
The last time they were all here for an all-day dairy review.
I must tell you you couldn't tell the difference who is Wimm-Bill-Dann and who is PepsiCo.
Our European team has done a terrific job Zein and Ramon working with the Wimm-Bill-Dann people integrating them into PepsiCo.
So those are all the good news.
And again Power of One-wise exploiting the coolers exploiting our existing infrastructure in snacks and beverages along with Wimm-Bill-Dann that work is just beginning.
And at this point Caroline we are only seeing upside from the Wimm-Bill-Dann transaction.
Let me get to the media question.
Across PepsiCo in 2011 in spite of the economic issues we are increasing our overall A&amp;M spend and we are increasing our media spend.
In fact second half is a pretty significant step-up even in North America and we've decided not to back off that increase because as I said in my opening comments it's even more important that when you take up pricing you keep getting the message out on your brand so people stay engaged to the brand.
So North American beverages for example the summertime advertising will continue.
The expected advertising will be pretty big step up and in Frito-Lay North America second half of the year we'll continue to invest.
Europe we'll still continue to invest.
EMEA is investing.
Quaker Foods is investing.
So across the board we're going to continue to keep investing in A&amp;M and media.
And on Tropicana 2 things let me separate Trop50 and cold Tropicana.
Tropicana50 as I said is growing 40%.
It's doing very well across the country so we feel very very excited about the prospects for Trop50 as the product is today and all of the spinoffs of Trop50 that could come in as innovation next year.
On cold Tropicana itself we resisted going to the plastic carafe because we thought environmentally staying with the gable-top was a better idea.
And the consumer wants the plastic carafe so we launched a beautiful plastic carafe in the West and where we've launched the plastic carafe we are gaining share handsomely.
We feel very very good and this is now beginning to roll to the whole country.
And in some parts of the country as expected we believe the gable-top also for those consumers who are very environmentally-conscious as they should be.
But I think that early signs 2 or 3 months of the Tropicana carafe in the West Coast we feel very good.
And overall because of the G&amp;G and all the innovation platforms we've come up with on fruits and vegetables the pipeline for Tropicana going into next year and beyond is looking very good.
So this is a great franchise a very strong still has great revenues for the consumer.
And we feel good about the prospects.
If I can add one comment around the media question Caroline as well.
I would not assume that the level of A&amp;M increase is the same as the media percentage spending increase.
In fact media spending increase has been much higher.
One of the things that we've done I think very effectively inside the company is add a significant productivity program to shift dollars from what we refer to as nonworking to working.
And as a result of that as we found that productivity we have put it right back into media.
So while you'll see A&amp;M up the media spending levels will be up meaningfully more than the A&amp;M spending level overall.
Our final question is comes from Kaumil Gajrawala of UBS.
First question on Hugh on your -- are there forecasts on your commodity cost outlook such that if there's -- if commodity cost would have come down there could be some benefit or based on the hedges that you have or the numbers that you provide essentially how the year will play out? Very little at this point.
We're largely hedged at this point through the end of the year.
At this point to the end of the year.
Okay got it.
And then John I think you mentioned single-serve was up low-single digits.
Could you talk a little bit about what's driving that given the current environment? And then Eric if you wouldn't mind commenting on the single-serve business in beverages? Kaumil the single-serve business for us is being driven by the fact of the new flavors that we put into the marketplace.
Largely behind Ruffles because as I said also the Tapatio line of products that we launched behind Doritos Lay's Cheetos and Ruffles in about half the country.
So just core flavors are driving our single-serve business.
We haven't taken pricing yet on that business.
So it's really unit growth is driving the growth.
Eric? Beverages Kaumil.
our cold drink business was really driven and was slightly positive in the quarter really driven by 16 ounce CSDs as well as Gatorade.
So I think we've had 5 straight quarters of growth.
We grew our cold drink share and although we did see and are starting to see fuel prices impact the consumer from a traffic standpoint and indications in C&amp;G.
Okay got it.
And then just final question.
As it relates to the incremental productivity is any of it structural meaning joint ventures changes in distribution structure or is it simply more G&amp;A types of things? Right now we are working on compressible costs within the company beyond G&amp;A it's all of the compressible costs in the company.
And despite the single-structure changes as they happen we'd be out there to talking to you guys.
At this point we are not looking at that.
Let me just close by saying that as a company we're all operating in a highly uncertain environment especially in the developed markets.
In this difficult macro and consumer environment I believe our portfolio is being managed sensibly to deliver good short-term results while continuing to invest in our future.
And all 300 000 associates in PepsiCo remain extremely committed to the company and are excited about the prospects of the company in the short term and the long term.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes PepsiCo's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We appreciate your time.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you operator.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO; John Compton PepsiCo Americas Foods CEO; and Zein Abdalla CEO of PepsiCo Europe.
Indra will lead off today's call with a review of our overall performance.
Hugh will cover the financials and our balance of year outlook and then we'll move on to Q&amp;A.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2011 guidance based on currently available information and our actual results could differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with the cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results please refer to the Investors section of PepsiCo's website under the Investor Presentations tab.
Now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
This morning I'd like to give you my perspective on our third quarter performance and share with you my thoughts on our progress against our key priorities.
So let me start with our performance in the quarter.
We grew global volume in both snacks and beverages which combined with strong pricing drove net revenue growth of 9% excluding Wimm-Bill-Dann.
Our global nutrition portfolio which is a subset of our snacks and beverage business grew revenues 8% excluding acquisitions.
Core division profit was up 6% and core EPS was up 7%.
We are encouraged by these volume and revenue gains.
We implemented incremental pricing actions in the quarter as planned and the net pricing and volumes were in line with our expectations.
As a company we remain committed to our 5 strategic imperatives.
So let me review our performance against each of them starting with snacks.
Global snacks volume rose 8% and excluding Wimm-Bill-Dann revenue increased 12% with steady growth coming from our larger more developed markets and even faster growth in emerging markets.
In our largest snack business Frito-Lay North America we delivered 4% revenue growth and 6% operating profit growth on a 1% volume gain.
We achieved positive price realization largely as a result of the pricing actions we implemented and we are pleased with the consumer response.
It's a testament to the strength of Frito-Lay's brands and product portfolio and to the organization's ability to execute.
In fact we delivered top line growth in most of our largest snack brands.
Lay's Doritos Cheetos and Ruffles each posted solid revenue growth driven by strong core innovation.
And our growth in our potato chips business in particular is worth a comment.
This segment grew net revenue mid-single digits on the strength of our Ruffles Bold flavors sub-line and Lay's Kettle innovation.
Lay's Kettle revenue was up over 20% in the quarter and year-to-date we outperformed all other kettle competitors in both volume and value share growth.
Our performance across channels is well balanced with growth both in retail and food service channels.
Within retail small format performance was especially good with mid-single digit volume and revenue growth in our single-serve packages.
Our growth in C&amp;G has been driven by innovation where we have 6 of the top 7 new food items in the channel.
I'm proud to note Frito-Lay's 50th anniversary in business.
The company was founded in 1961 through the merger of the Frito Company and the H.W.
Lay Company (sic) [H.W.
Lay &amp; Company].
At the time we had 4 brands with combined sales of just over $100 million.
Today we've grown to be a $30 billion global leader in snacks with 7 billion-dollar snack brands and the #1 global food brand Lay's.
So we're very proud of this business.
Turning to international snacks.
We increased snacks volume in 8 of our top 10 international snack markets and delivered double-digit revenue growth in 19 of our top 20 snack markets with especially strong performance in emerging markets.
Specifically in the quarter China snacks volume grew 31%.
India grew 26%.
Saudi Arabia grew 24%.
Egypt was up 15% and Turkey grew 22%.
And in Russia excluding the Wimm-Bill-Dann impact snacks revenue has grown more than 70% over the past 2 years.
It's clear that innovation is fueling our international snack growth.
For example in the United Kingdom we've had the biggest category launch in 10 years behind Walkers Crinkles a savory rich potato chip which has already achieved 25% household penetration.
In Turkey our new products include Lay's olive oil and Ruffles Burger King flavor which is part of a broad innovation effort to drive incremental sales through broader variety.
And in China we've expanded our Lay's brand portfolio by launching a new multigrain snack line in popular local flavors like chili pecan and spring onion.
So I think we've delivered good results against our goal to build and expand our macro snacks portfolio.
Let me turn now to global beverages.
We delivered 4% volume growth and excluding Wimm-Bill-Dann 6% revenue growth.
We achieved strong net price realization largely through pricing actions to partially offset commodity inflation.
Top line growth was well balanced across markets.
We achieved volume and revenue growth in both our developed markets and emerging markets.
Emerging markets growth continues to be generally strong as we drive both penetration frequency through investments in our go-to-market systems and a focus on providing affordable options for consumers.
Across many of our emerging markets we saw double-digit beverage volume gains.
Just to mention a few India grew volume 19% Turkey grew 16% Saudi Arabia grew 12%.
And in China we delivered double-digit revenue growth and very strong unit growth behind our introduction of a value-oriented 500 ml package which largely replaced our 600 ml offering in that market.
And our developed markets as a group also achieved steady volume and revenue growth in beverages.
So let me comment briefly on North America where we are making good progress on a number of our highest priorities.
First we gained LRB volume share in the United States in the quarter and we remained the LRB share leader in measured channels.
Second we've largely completed the integration of PBG and PAS into PepsiCo.
We've achieved synergies above our original targets and ahead of schedule.
Importantly we have not had any disruptions to the business as a result of the integration.
Third our strategic restages of Gatorade and Tropicana have shown good results and the performance of these 2 key trademarks gives us confidence that we're moving in the right direction.
Let me talk of Tropicana.
Two key points: we've completed our national introduction of the carafe packaging that our consumers prefer and our low-calorie natural-sweetened Trop50 line continues to perform exceedingly well.
Based on the strong customer and consumer response to Trop50 we’ve expanded the line to include apple lemonade pomegranate blueberry pineapple mango and raspberry lemonade.
The Trop50 line grew volume 50% in the quarter and that's on top of the 37% growth we had in the third quarter last year.
We are selling everything we can make and that's a good challenge for us to meet.
Gatorade continues to perform very well with volume up 9% in the quarter lapping 15% growth last year.
And all elements of the Gatorade plan are contributing to growth.
Our refocus on the core athlete consumer the brand restage to G the introduction of G Series our expansion to the FIT and Pro line and our transition of go-to-market for small formats to DSD.
If you're closely following the late rounds of the Major League Baseball playoffs and the early weeks of the NFL season I'm sure you've seen our ubiquitous dugout and sideline presence.
The net result of our efforts in the quarter and year-to-date is that Gatorade has delivered the greatest absolute volume growth of any trademark in the U.S.
liquid refreshment beverage category.
Turning to CSDs.
We are pushing forward with our aggressive game plan to engage consumers through innovation marketing and value and at the same time navigating high-input cost inflation.
Our innovation and marketing programs are focused directly on our big trademarks: Pepsi Mountain Dew and Sierra Mist.
For example Pepsi's marketing partnership with the X Factor kicked off with the show's premiere on September 21 driving high levels of consumer awareness for trademark Pepsi while it reinforces Pepsi's strong emotional ties to music and pop culture.
X Factor has been particularly effective in creating highly positive social media buzz for the Pepsi brand.
And we are making progress with our other CSD initiatives as well.
Pepsi Max continues to perform well with volume nearly doubling over 2 years behind our message of 0-calorie maximum Pepsi taste.
We've launched Mountain Dew Game Fuel as a limited time offering.
And together with Doritos we are partnering with Activision on their introduction of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 which is expected to be the biggest entertainment launch ever.
We're using price/pack architecture to more effectively target locations consumer cohorts and channel opportunities.
In large-format channels we have reached national distribution of our new value-oriented 1.5-liter PET take-home package.
And in the cold channel we have a broad package lineup including 16-ounce 20-ounce and 1-liter packages to address a variety of consumer price points and occasion needs.
And as I mentioned earlier we implemented pricing actions broadly across CSDs in the third quarter above the industry average based on syndicated retail data and we did this to help partially offset commodity inflation.
So in beverages do we have more work to do in North America beverages? Yes we do.
This is a competitive business in a tough environment and there are no quick fixes.
We're intensely working away at it and we're approaching it deliberately and sustainably.
Our third plan is to grow our nutrition business.
Our nutrition products grew net revenue 8% excluding acquisitions.
Our growth is coming from the success of Gatorade and the Tropicana initiatives I mentioned earlier and from strong Quaker international growth.
In addition our dairy platform continues to perform very well notably in Russia through the Wimm-Bill-Dann business and in the Middle East through our joint venture with Almarai.
Our fourth plank is to unleash the power of Power of One.
Over the past few months our Power of One initiative has been the topic of speculation largely fueled by a number of high-profile corporate split-ups.
I firmly believe that PepsiCo's value is maximized as one company.
It was created as an integrated snack and beverage business and its success is tied to this combination.
This has been true in the past and will remain in the future.
So allow me to explain.
In many international markets we build an extended scale of our overall business with beverages by ourselves and with our franchise partners.
Our snacks businesses in these markets then follow well whether through greenfield or acquisition benefiting from our beverage scale.
Our beverage scale also allows us to attract great talent makes us highly relevant to retailers and gives us visibility to consumers and other important local constituents.
Outside the Americas our beverage and snack leadership is comprised of one team and deeper into the organization talent flows seamlessly between snacks and beverages.
In fact in some countries we have very fully integrated snack and beverage business models with snack and beverage products carried on the same route truck.
Let me now turn to the Americas and focus particularly on Power of One in North America.
To understand how we operate in North America it's best to look at all elements of our value chain across snacks and beverages.
In our back office operations we have shared services across accounting transaction processing call centers IT.
In R&amp;D we have synergies across multiple platforms including flavorings packaging environmental initiatives.
And in procurement we have one global center of excellence with deep capability.
In sales we align with our key customers' strategic priorities by executing on top-to-top summits and joint innovation calls that utilize our full portfolio to share unique shopper and consumer insights and provide cross-category product and merchandising solutions.
And in go-to-market we are piloting promising in-store merchandising models designed to reduce out-of-stocks in high-volume stores.
Even in those areas where we find the benefits of focus to outweigh scale like many manufacturing and marketing we're able to realize the Power of One benefit by sharing best practices and the transfer of ideas and talent between these 2 businesses.
So in North America we are already realizing some of the potential of Power of One and we'll continue to deliberately and systematically pursue every opportunity area to realize its full potential as we go forward.
Net-net PepsiCo is an integrated company with 2 highly focused and complementary businesses: snacks and beverages with the nutrition business nested within these 2 segments.
It is simply a clean focused company that derives its strength from a world-class snacks business augmented by a geographically diverse iconic profitable beverage business.
Our success is absolutely linked to the Power of One.
So with that let me turn the call over to Hugh to cover our fifth slide prudent financial management.
Hugh? Great.
Thanks Indra and good morning everyone.
Let me comment on our financials for the quarter and our outlook.
Core EPS was up 7% in the quarter reflecting 6% core division operating profit growth and approximately 1 point of corporate leverage.
Core division operating profit growth was driven by strong top line growth.
We had good net price realization in the quarter across our businesses as we took incremental pricing on top of this year's earlier pricing actions to partially offset commodity inflation.
As you know commodity inflation has ramped up as we moved in the second half of the year as we expected so some of the incremental pricing is simply offsetting the incremental inflation.
In addition we experienced the reversal of the concentrate shipment timing benefits that we experienced in the second quarter.
These items negatively impacted Europe's and EMEA's operating profit by about 4 and 9 percentage points in the quarter respectively.
As a consequence operating margins compressed somewhat in the third quarter as we anticipated.
Below the core division operating profit line we had some deleverage from corporate unallocated costs where we were lapping a gain in the prior year of approximately $60 million related to our post-retirement benefits program.
The tax rate in the quarter was lower year-on-year based on an adjustment to our estimate of geographic profit mix and our fully diluted share count for the quarter was approximately 1% lower year-on-year reflecting the impact of our share repurchases.
Net the impact below the division operating profit line of lapping the gain in corporate costs the lower tax rate and the reduced share count provided approximately 1 point of core EPS leverage.
Now let me comment briefly on pricing.
Our third quarter pricing actions were implemented as planned and the elasticities we've observed so far are largely in line with what we'd modeled.
Looking now to the fourth quarter we've reaffirmed our full year target for high single-digit core EPS growth on a 52-week U.S.
dollar basis.
Our outlook for commodities for the balance of year has not changed since the time we spoke to you on the Q2 call and that's because by mid-year we had the full calendar year substantially locked in through our hedging programs.
The magnitude of commodity inflation ramps up consecutively from Q3 to Q4 and we have incremental pricing planned in the fourth quarter to partially offset the incremental inflation.
In part our Q4 net price realization will be driven by recognizing a full quarter's impact of the actions we took mid-Q3 and we're also considering some incremental actions for Q4.
Currency will not provide the full year benefit we anticipated on the Q2 call given the recent strength of the U.S.
dollar and for that reason we've called down our estimate of the full year FX benefit from 2 points for the full year to 1 point for the full year.
On share repurchases we're on track to achieve our share repurchase target of $2.5 billion for the full year with over 1.9 billion in share repurchases completed year-to-date through the third quarter.
Now looking ahead here's what we'll be focusing on for the balance of year.
First we're going to continue to support our brand building and consumer-facing initiatives.
With the pricing we've put in the market it's more important than ever to clearly communicate the value of our brands and to keep our consumers engaged in our products and categories.
Second we're staying committed to our emerging markets initiatives especially those extending our go-to-market reach and increasing our level of consumer engagement.
Third we'll continue to carefully balance pricing and value as we manage through commodity inflation.
We're doing this through pricing price/pack architecture and providing products that appeal to the broad consumer spectrum from the value-conscious through premium seekers.
And finally we're accelerating and intensifying our productivity agenda across our entire compressible cost structure.
We're reducing packaging costs energy use empty miles to name a few systematically taking out costs that do not detract from our customers’ or consumers' experience with us.
We're making progress here but we believe there's still lots of opportunity to do more.
Looking further out I know many of you are interested in hearing our outlook for 2012.
We're right now in the process of finalizing our plans which will occur over the next few weeks.
We plan to get back to you by conference call in early December once our plans are finalized to review our outlook with you.
This will include a game plan for 2012 and our views on commodity costs investments productivity programs and foreign exchange.
Now we're happy to move on and take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can we just talk about Russia a bit? I think you mentioned it was up 70% over the last 2 years.
Can you maybe comment on how Russia's done a bit more recently? And then also with how much you've invested in that market over the last few years it sounds like you may have withdrawn some television advertising through the end of the year.
So if you could just talk about some of the context on that decision.
Yes we have Zein Abdalla here Kaumil and he stands ready to answer your questions.
Go ahead Zein.
Kaumil look it's always an absolute pleasure to talk about Russia.
As you know it's one of our largest businesses globally and a market that we really believe has an enormous long-term potential.
The fundamentals in Russia are very strong.
It's one of the countries that has got I think a very robust set of economic indicators low debt ratios good foreign exchange reserves and strong and obviously continuous leadership.
Now nonetheless it has gone through some short-term challenges as we've seen how commodity inflation and disposable incomes have challenged some of the consumer markets.
And also Russia has experienced some of its own local inflation.
If you'll all recollect in 2010 they experienced a very hot summer that had a detrimental impact on their agricultural programs and certainly things like wheat and potato cost and basic commodities went up quite radically in terms of price.
But against that backdrop I have to say we're delighted with the performance of our business competitively very strong.
We've continued to manage our pricing carefully to protect gross margins and to continue to drive revenue growth.
And that's across all of the diverse categories in which we operate.
Now clearly there will be a few more challenging months still ahead in Russia and this is where scale of your operating business and the strength of your operating businesses really really counts.
At more than 2x the scale of our nearest competitor with this very diverse operating model across a diverse set of categories and really just a tremendous Power of One model both in terms of the supply chain that we operate across that geography the strength of our go-to-market systems both in traditional trade and organized trade.
So yes a very strong performance competitively in Russia.
Now let me just turn to the comment you made about advertising.
I mean clearly in these type of volatile conditions and in a developing market one of the key things is stay agile with where you make your investments.
We've continued to make investments in Russia but we have emphasized in our investments in go-to-market systems and our selling capability.
We've expanded significantly the number of routes in 2011.
We’ve put more than 250 new routes to support that very broad-based business.
We've continued to invest very strongly in coolers and racks because driving our single-serve business driving our traditional-trade business and having a platform to leverage all of those categories across is critical to our long-term future.
So we're pleased both with the short-term performance.
We are maintaining investment but a slightly different emphasis in the shape of that investment.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Hugh I know you're not giving specific guidance on 2012 but can you at least talk conceptually about some of the puts and takes as you look out to 2012 in terms of consumer demand and commodities? Dara I appreciate the question.
And of course there's desire to hear it right now.
But I think to get into any level of specificity that would be helpful to you in 2012 is just simply premature.
With the commodities markets as volatile as they are with the economies as volatile as they are to start getting into where we might go I think would probably just -- it's too early as we sit in mid-October.
The things I would say are -- and as we think about not just 2012 but Q4 as well the things we clearly need to do are number one we clearly need to ensure that our brands are sharply defined and well supported; we need to make sure that our pricing is competitive; we need to make sure that our innovation is well supportive; and to fund all of that we need to be sure that we absolutely max out on productivity.
So when you talk about what are the things that we're working on it's truly working on those things.
And if we do those things successfully I'm confident we'll win in the marketplace and we'll win financially and investors will be well-rewarded for it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then you talked about potentially taking some additional pricing in Q4.
Can you give us some more detail there? Is that focused more in beverages or snacks or both areas? And from a geographic standpoint would it be more focused on the U.S.
or potentially also international too? Yes it's really the things that we've talked about up to now.
So the Gatorade pricing of course is going in in Q4.
The single-serve pricing in Frito-Lay is going in in Q4.
And then there are some select areas internationally where we're pricing.
But by and large even by now it's in the marketplace pretty much.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you could sort of go through by the divisions and talk about the elasticities.
It sounded like when you presented at the Barclay's Back-to-School Conference back in September that you were more concerned about the elasticities and that didn't show up as much as I think maybe I had feared in the volumes.
So can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in your different divisions particularly in North America? Sure John I'd be happy to.
Up at Barclays John Compton and I were both there and what we had talked about in the snack world was we thought at the time that the elasticities were a little bit -- were shallow or that consumer response was a little bit stronger than we had expected on large bag.
And we've sharpened some of our price points and some of our promotional strategies in order to address that.
Single-serve on the other hand which has gone into the market more recently and we hadn't talked about that up at Barclays we've actually -- and it's early days but we've actually seen that pricing stick well.
In fact if anything the elasticities have been a little bit more favorable to us than we'd expected.
Beverages as you know and particularly in North America is a complex evaluation because there's category elasticity as well as cross-competitive elasticity.
I think we're at this point seeing that as we've gotten through kind of the initial period of pricing I think we've seen the elasticity settle in about where we expected.
From an international perspective I don't think there have been any particular surprises.
The comments that we made up at Barclays were probably more North America oriented.
So I think we've gotten to a point now where the pricing is reasonably settled in.
Of course in beverages it's a competitive marketplace and we'll always have to address that as a part of managing the business.
John I just want to add one more thing.
I think the level of pricing we’re taking in the marketplace puts us in uncharted territory.
We haven't had this amount of pricing in a long time and so I think pricing actions require courage.
You've got to stick with the pricing actions and let it stick and not let any short-term share changes disrupt your long-term direction.
And so our experience is that when you put in place significant pricing actions it takes several periods before it takes root.
And as leaders in many of the categories we just have to have the courage to stick it out.
And that interim period may be uncertain but where we’ve stuck it out we've actually seen positive benefits that accrue to us from the pricing actions.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And so as we look out you talked about taking even more pricing as we look out into the fourth quarter.
So should we expect another tick down into the volume? Any sort of -- any thoughts as we look out sequentially there? Or do you feel like okay the pricing’s going through pretty well and there's not big impacts incrementally from the next round? Well it's always tough to project where competition is going on that.
Obviously that has an impact as well.
But I feel like we've gotten the pricing reasonably burned in.
I think what we're doing right now with Gatorade and with single-serve on Frito-Lay is working pretty well.
So I think we feel pretty comfortable with what we have.
Your next question comes from the line of Carlos LaBoy with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Indra you have Gatorade and juice marketers that surely want more funding and you have newly hired soft drink marketers that need funding to close competitive gaps and to win.
Do you have enough efficiency and cost reductions identified to fund the step-ups that are necessary for these marketers to win and still hit the long-term guidance? And similarly do you also have enough funding sources identified to step up the U.S.
marketing programs that you like internationally? Carlos I think Hugh touched on this when he answered one of the earlier questions.
One of the things we do is we focus a lot on productivity and we look at every aspect of the cost structure of the company.
We look to see where we can take out layers or inefficiencies make the company more agile more flexible.
And in making the company more productive we take these productivity savings and then we use some of it to cover commodity costs and the rest of it goes into investments.
But the priority is investments in the brands and driving innovation and making sure our businesses are well supported first and then it is on covering commodities.
And that's the game that -- Hugh outlined that we want to play going forward and that's what we're focused on right now.
As you look at our North American beverage brands Gatorade needed immediate attention about 3 3.5 years ago and that's where we started.
We put the money we put the effort behind it with enormous success.
Then we went to work on Tropicana again success.
We went to work on Pepsi Max.
We went to work on Sierra Mist.
We bolstered Mountain Dew.
And every one of these deliberately invested behind in a very difficult environment is yielding results.
Our next effort is to focus on brand Pepsi and to keep all of the other initiatives we're doing going.
So I think we are focused on the right things.
And as a company we are focused on unleashing enough productivity to put back into the brand.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Pecoriello with Consumer Edge.
LLC</strong> Indra I'm just trying to -- so you've been talking about -- when you think about the consumer environment competitive environment retail environment both in snack and beverages you're talking about -- elasticities have been in line and some sharpening of the price points.
But also the need to properly fund the brands remain price competitive.
So when you assess the spending behind the brands both to snacks and beverages are you talking about here kind of tweaking and sharpening versus really say there needs to be a step-up and we need to both really step up the productivity and really step up the support given the difficult consumer competitive retail landscape that's out there? Just trying to get a feel of the magnitude.
Is this tweaking and sharpening or more of a step-up that's needed on both fronts given that difficult environment? Bill as Hugh mentioned in his opening comments we're going to be back to you in early December to give you a fuller picture of what we intend to do in 2012 and going forward.
It's too early because we're still trying to see where commodity costs are going to settle down what the economic environment is going to look like how much of the pricing is going to stick how much more we can take.
So as we sort all of that out and that in large part drives the room left for investments what our productivity programs are.
Just hang tight for the next 6 to 8 weeks.
We’re going to be back in the first week in December and we'll give you a full picture based on much better information in the environment because our actions are in large part dictated by what happens in the environment also.
We cannot operate independent of that.
So first week in December I look forward -- we all look forward to a robust conversation with all of you.
LLC</strong> Great.
And just one follow-up.
In terms of the fourth quarter you had mentioned on the last conference call the pricing was going in uncertain how much had to be spent back your reiteration of guidance.
You feel that with the elasticities the level of spend back and promotion between now and year end is within your expectations or is it being offset elsewhere in the portfolio or largely the promotional spend back has been in line? Yes Bill.
Obviously we feel comfortable when we reiterate that we’ve got it captured.
As I mentioned earlier we've certainly sharpened some of our promotional strategies within Frito.
But when we add up the aggregate of pricing productivity consumer response to the pricing we feel comfortable overall that the equation hangs together.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Indra a question on North America as we think of the strategy in beverages looking forward.
Could you give us an update about how you think the business stands in terms of the price/pack positioning today versus what it might be in light of consumer needs? And then secondly as you think about Power of One how is that in any way preventing or aiding even your ability to work with other suppliers beyond snacks to promote your beverage brands? Let me start with the second one then come to the first one.
I think on Power of One beverage into snacks works very well together now with John Compton leading the Power of One Council and with Al Carey running beverages.
Al Carey was the father of Power of One which started 12 years ago.
And now with Al Carey running Pepsi Americas beverages I think you're going to see a level of cooperation and idea generation that's going to be quite impressive.
So I remain very very optimistic about Power of One now beginning to start driving the top line even more than it used to before.
Doesn't stop us from working with other people.
I'm going to have John talk about that because with a lot of our customers we do Power of One programs which cover multiple categories.
So John do you want to touch on Power of One with other categories and whether our beverages and snacks prevents you from working with anybody else? Yes Indra and Mark within consumer packaged goods I think we're best suited to work with ourselves in terms of food and beverage product because we haven't fully tapped that potential out.
Clearly there are other related categories that make these holidays stronger for the retailer that we can bundle with.
And to your point Indra having Al running the beverage business and now Tom Greco who also worked in the Power of One center in the past working together across North America where you'll see us beginning in Q1 begin to unleash I think some new benefits behind Power of One.
Customer channel consumer promotion and looking at ideas that can grow horizontally paying off a consumer benefit from snacks to beverages.
But you've also worked with many other retailer products.
Game Time included multiple products...
Multiple products.
So again it's retailer specific.
You don't do it on a blanket basis.
But there are multiple retailer specific programs we do which cover multiple categories.
And so -- and they've all been very successful.
So Power of One I think is the unique differentiator for PepsiCo.
We are an integrated snack and beverage company and so that's what we are.
Let me talk a bit about North America.
The North American beverage business is a terrific business and a tough business the 2 Ts.
And I'd say that it's a business which is large.
We are the largest liquid refreshment beverage player.
We have 23 24 share of this LRB market and we have leadership brands in this business.
This business has also for many many years been one where it's very profitable but the profit pool has not grown.
Between the bottlers and the franchise company the profit pool has not grown as much as it needs to and that's been the challenge for this business because it's a repertoire category.
There's no clear demarcation between each business.
It's a repertoire category and how you play this business between the 2 or 3 big players and with the pure plays determines how you perform quarter in and quarter out.
From PepsiCo's perspective I think that especially in the period about 2004 to 2006 I think we hit the volume pedal a little too much when we perhaps could have invested more in the brands.
And then we went into this tremendous economic downturn and now what we are looking at since about 2007 how do we take each of our brands and make sure they're supported correctly and we are driving them to remain the leaders in their categories? We started with Gatorade tremendous success; Tropicana success.
We are now beginning to work on Sierra Mist which again is now growing.
Pepsi Max doubled in size.
We started to invest behind Diet Pepsi trademark Pepsi Lipton Tea.
Brand by brand we're beginning to work on brand investments.
And along with brand investments given the new economic realities we are beginning to think about creative ways to implement revenue management and price/pack without creating a problem with retailers with consumers trading down because we have to make sure that any price/pack architecture we do makes -- keeps the retailer whole.
So this is not an easy one to just put in new packaging.
We have to work very carefully with retailers to make sure there's no trade down in the category.
So we are working through all of these strategies as we speak.
And the good news is that we are seeing success when we invest behind the brand when we focus on execution.
We're seeing success in each of the brands and their performance.
But this category's so big it has so many brands and so many categories you can't try to address all the businesses in one broad brush.
So I think it's a deliberate sustainable strategy Mark.
And we're feeling cautiously optimistic about where we are headed in this North American beverage business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And if I could on one follow-up could you speak -- could you just build on what you said Indra there specifically as it relates to the convenience channel that concern about consumers trading down but that interest in improving revenue management? Again I think every time you put a package -- and remember the 20-ounce single serve package is a fantastic package in convenience stores.
It's a great value.
We sell a lot of it and we are -- convenience stores is a channel that we love.
In fact I think John you were showing a number we'd said in year-to-date...
11 out of the 15.
11 out of the 15 top products in convenience stores are PepsiCo products.
So this is a very -- it's a wonderful channel.
It's still growing.
Even in this economic situation it's growing because the up-and-down-the-street consumer is still using soft drinks and snacks as their moment of pleasure.
So we like this business a lot.
We have to make sure that we don't trade down volume or we don't trade down packages which make consumers go to a different package size without getting the appropriate value benefit from that.
So we are looking through what's the right package to give consumers enough beverage to drink at a price that delivers unbeatable value to the consumer.
And we're doing it in beverages.
But more importantly we're looking at doing it in a bundled way between snacks and beverages so the consumer can go into the store and get a phenomenal PepsiCo beverage and a Frito-Lay snack at a combined price that generates enormous value to the consumer rather than just go head-to-head on beverage.
Mark I'll add one point to the -- it's nice to have 11 out of the 15 top new items in the C&amp;G channel but that led PepsiCo to be the largest dollar growth contributor to the channel.
So we are very important to the C&amp;G store business and they're pleased with our growth year-to-date.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about Frito-Lay North America.
It sounds like the unmeasured channel performance is much stronger than what we're seeing in the measured channel data so maybe a little bit more color around sort of the unmeasured channel performance.
And John maybe just talk a little bit about the competitive dynamics that you're seeing in the marketplace.
You've talked about sharpening the promotional price points.
But in the measured channel data at least you're starting to see the gap widening again versus some of the smaller players.
Is that a concern? Is there more work to do just in terms of just tackling the competitive dynamics? Judy thank you for the question.
Let me start with the bigger picture first around what Frito-Lay does so well is we go where the consumer is shopping and we've talked about low medium and high-income consumers.
And as you saw in our release more than our -- more than normal of our growth came out of channels that are unmeasured.
So the C-store channel the club channel the dollar channel.
Those disproportionally drove growth for us this quarter.
Within the "traditional measured channels " it is true that our share was down roughly about 1 point on dollar share.
Most of that went to private label.
And in this down economy we chose not to price down to cover private label okay? There is some growth in sort of higher income products that we are going to address in Q4 going forward.
And you'll see that when I do the Back-to-School Conference coming up in later this fall.
So I'm pleased overall with the volume growth.
I'm pleased that we're able to get the pricing through and we remain as competitive as we've always been in terms of addressing market share.
And Judy I'd tell you I've had the privilege of seeing Frito's innovation for next year and it's phenomenal.
So we feel good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Hugh just fourth quarter obviously you're sticking to the 27% tax rate for the full year.
So sounds like the tax rate will ramp up in the fourth quarter and then the corporate expenses maybe it's not going to be up as much as what we saw in the third quarter.
And then I'm just wondering about the impact of the 53rd week.
I know your earnings guidance is really on a core 52-week basis but is there some element of the -- having the 53rd week actually beneficial to looking at a 52-week numbers because on the 53rd week it's not as profitable? Yes.
So Judy 3 questions there.
Let me take them one at a time.
From the standpoint of the tax rate you're right.
We've said that we'll be approximately 27% so that implies a higher tax rate in the fourth quarter.
That's correct.
Number two you asked about the corporate expenses.
From a growth standpoint the numbers won't be as high because we're overlapping a big credit last year.
From a run rate perspective you can probably expect them to be reasonably consistent with what you've seen in the first 3 quarters.
And then number three in terms of the 53rd week anything -- you're right.
We talk on a 52-week basis and anything that we would think about doing with the 53rd week if we were going to do anything with that we'd probably get back to you on the December call.
So no news there to talk about on the 53rd week.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a little bit more about investments and elasticities because it looks like if you back out Latin America for this quarter at least U.S.
beverages was down something like 2% and CSD is probably higher than that given Gatorade which has longer term been somewhat of a trend.
So what do you really need to do longer term and maybe your peers too to see this trend abate? And you said in an earlier question that when you do focus on a business when you do apply resources then you show success and I think that's been clear.
But how many of those holes are there still to plug particularly given your drop in asset sales over the past several years at the company? And again it's kind of a question of what's the right level of add to sales and price growth that longer term you need to deliver to show what you want from a volume perspective? And again I'm not asking a 2012 question.
So hopefully you don't use that as an excuse.
I’m asking a broader strategic question about the category and your positioning in it.
Yes Ali this is Hugh.
That was certainly an impressive question.
Let me try to parse it and address some of the pieces.
You talked about CSDs and obviously CSDs are an important part of our portfolio.
But keep in mind we do play an LRB game and that's -- we've been doing that for more than a decade.
We were certainly the first to go and do that.
But undeniably CSDs are an important category.
So what do we need to do in CSDs? Obviously we've got a price to be competitive.
And in doing that we've got to balance commodity costs we've got to balance consumer and we've got to balance input -- commodity cost consumer and competitor.
Those are the 3 pieces that we balance in dealing with that.
In doing that we also need to make sure that our brands are sharply defined and we need to make sure that our innovation is very strong.
The category obviously it's a challenging category.
Clearly anyone that looks at the numbers can see that and that's true for the broad category.
I'm not just speaking of PepsiCo's business.
Now what are the things that we've tried to do for the long run? The long run in consumer categories always comes back to innovation and the thing that we've obviously done is we've innovated from a flavors perspective to drive some level of incremental growth.
We've innovated from a branding perspective in order to create interesting positioning for consumers.
And then as we've discussed in the past we're innovating from a sweetener perspective which we do think is a meaningful unlock in the category and we've gone down a couple of paths with that.
First around the newer sweeteners such as stevia.
And then obviously we got some relationships with flavor-enhancer companies which have enabled us to try products like Pepsi Max and to be able to do those things successfully.
So I think in terms of CSDs and for that matter the broader LRB category the key to being successful here is going to be making sure our pricing is competitive making sure that our brands are very sharply defined and innovating on product over time to ensure that we actually can differentiate ourself clearly from competition.
That's the strategy we're following as Indra referenced on the script that we read earlier.
We think we're successful in moving that agenda forward but we also fully acknowledge that we've got more work to do on that and that's what we'll -- we're going to continue to work at.
We view it as a terrific business and we view it as one that generates a lot of cash for shareholders that we feel very very good about.
So it's certainly one that we're going to continue to compete vigorously in.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So how much did that cost you? Sorry? LLC.
Research Division</strong> How much does that cost? How much does it cost to do what? LLC.
Research Division</strong> To do all of that.
So does margin compression kind of have to be an outcome of this? I mean you've clearly increased investment pretty significantly again with successes but you've increased the investment.
So as you go forward for the categories you operate in and maybe disproportionally CSDs is the investment return kind of getting worse as you go forward here and forever will be I guess? Yes I don't think so.
I think what we're trying to do right now -- and obviously we're thinking about 2012.
We're certainly assessing all of those things.
One of the questions that was asked earlier on the call was around marketers looking for more money and we feel very good about the marketing team we have.
And listen it's been my experience over 25 years that good marketers always ask for more money.
It's tradition in effect.
I think as we go through our planning process we'll determine what we think are the right investments in order to generate competitive success as well as to generate financial success.
And to talk about 2012 and beyond at this point it would probably just be a bit premature.
Yes Ali I think the other thing too is I wouldn't separate out any costs and talk about what does it cost in North America because investments we make in technology Hugh talked about sweeteners enhancers.
I can talk about processing technologies that we're investing in to take down the cost of processing in all these products apply across our global beverage portfolio.
So some of these investments we are making are not just for North America.
We've got to think of it as how can we drive the overall beverage business.
So I think in the context of all of that given the size and the profitability and the cash flow generation that we get from our North American beverage business and global beverages we feel pretty good about where we're headed.
And all that it takes is a couple of breakthroughs which as I said in one of our earlier interactions we are very very close to these breakthroughs.
It's always the last 5% or 10% that you've got to sweat the details on which is what we are doing now.
But when these do -- these breakthroughs do get commercialized it's quite a breakthrough.
And so we feel quite optimistic about the prospects for this business.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one quick one.
It sounds also that you're a lot more optimistic at least versus what we've heard on pricing rationality in North America versus kind of the language that was in Q2.
Is that a fair read again pricing rationality in the U.S.
in particular versus your competitor? Ali pricing is sort of a week-by-week period-by-period thing in this business and particularly in the beverage business.
So I think what we're saying is we feel comfortable that we're getting pricing in place but we'll see what happens.
Let me just summarize this call.
We're encouraged by the balance of top line and bottom line performance in the quarter across snacks and beverages and we are totally focused on and committed to our 5 key planks and we're encouraged by the progress we're making on each of them.
And as we said on our earlier comments we'll come back to you in early December to provide our outlook for 2012.
Thank you very much for your interest in our company and for your time this morning.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen please welcome Senior Vice President Investor Relations PepsiCo Jamie Caulfield.
Good morning and thank you for attending PepsiCo's Investor Meeting.
Presenting today will be Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
Following the presentation Indra and Hugh will be joined for Q&amp;A by John Compton CEO PepsiCo Americas Foods and Global Snacks Group; Al Carey CEO PepsiCo Americas Beverages; Zein Abdalla CEO of PepsiCo Europe; and Saad Abdul-Latif CEO PepsiCo Asia and Middle East Africa.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This presentation includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2012 guidance and our long-term growth targets based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made during the meeting should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
And unless otherwise indicated all references to revenue EPS growth ROIC and division and total operating profit growth are on a core constant-currency basis.
Finally defined disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results please refer to the Investor section of PepsiCo's website under the Investor Presentation tab.
And now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us in person here today.
My goal is to cover 5 topics this morning.
I'm going to very briefly cover 2011 results and take a little journey back over the last 5 years and tell you what we've accomplished.
And then we'll give you an overview of PepsiCo and outline our strategic priorities very briefly.
We're then going to spend quite a lot of time reviewing the results for comprehensive review of our businesses that we recently completed.
Then we'll provide you our financial outlook for 2012 and beyond and then introduce to you a scorecard which we will use to measure our progress.
So with that let me start with our 2011 performance.
We issued our 2011 results this morning and I'm not going to spend too much time going into details except to tell you that 2011 on balance was a good year.
Snacks volume grew about 8%.
Beverages volume grew about 5%.
Net revenue was up 14% and both core division operating profit and core EPS grew 7%.
We had broad-based gains in snack and beverage volume and net revenue.
And we were able to achieve net price realization that partially offset the extraordinary commodity inflation we faced.
More importantly in 2011 we made disciplined investments in the business to generate long-term growth.
We drove productivity through cost management.
And more importantly we were able to offset the impact in some of our markets our skittish economy natural disasters and political unrest with gains from some selective disposals of noncore businesses.
And of course we benefited from the acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann which is a critical addition to our Russia business that further strengthened our already strong position in this key developing market.
Importantly we also continue to generate strong cash flow.
Management operating cash flow exceeded $6 billion.
And as a result we were able to return $5.6 billion in cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
So that's 2011.
For 2011 really caps a 5-year performance that delivered core net revenue compounded growth rate of 13% core operating profit growth of 9% and core EPS growth of 8%.
This performance also drove terrific cash returns.
Dividends per share grew at 12% annually.
And our cash return to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases totaled $30 billion over the past 5 years.
This is the financial scorecard.
What's not evident from the 5-year financial performance is the incredible transformation that took place in PepsiCo during the same time.
When I came into the CEO job in late 2006 I realized that PepsiCo had to make some bold transformative moves to remain successful well into the future.
Because most the tailwinds of the first part of the decade were not going to be around in the second half and in fact some of them became headwinds in the second half of the decade so we got to work.
Starting in 2007 we began to scale up our emerging and developing market business.
In fact our emerging and developing markets revenues went from $8 billion in 2006 to $22 billion in 2011 with the mix increasing from 22% of revenues to 34% of the revenues over that same time frame.
Over that period we also addressed a number of business issues that faced us.
First we had to reconfigure our North American bottling operation in order to address the serious structural issues of not having an integrated bottling operation in this increasingly diversifying but slow growth liquid refreshment beverage market.
We had to restate the Gatorade brand and return it to growth following significant volume declines in 2007 to 2009.
Then we had to restructure and refranchise our Mexican beverage operation to create a single entity with capable partners so that we can restore that business to growth.
And then to kickstart the China business to a level -- beverage business to a level that was higher than the past we refranchised our business to Tingyi which is now in the midst of government approval.
And with this partnership I think we really take our whole China beverage growth to a whole new level.
I think all of this creates tremendous vehicles for sustainable profit growth across many of our markets.
But beyond that we also increased our investment in R&amp;D by 50% boosting our core capabilities and making substantial talent additions and partnership investments in areas such as advanced retail technology; packaging where we came out with the first 100% plants derived bottle; and equipment innovation where we're going to be alpha testing a very exciting food service beverage dispenser in 2012.
In 2007 to '11 period we also significantly expanded the health and wellness offerings of our portfolio.
And I know some of you have expressed some concern whether the pendulum swung too far in the direction and whether we took our eye off the core offerings.
What I'd like to tell you is that the direct answer is this is an and game not an or game.
We have to focus on both growing the core which is the Fun-for-You products and the Better-for-you products and step up our investment in Good-for-You products.
And I assure you that that's what we've done and we'll continue doing.
So let me provide some context on what we've done in the whole health and wellness space.
First we increased the permissibility of our core salty-snack and beverage products by reducing sodium frying them in heart-healthy oils using natural ingredients and reducing sugar and reducing calories.
The second thing we did was dialing up the sales of our baked products and snacks and 0-calorie beverages which is really capitalizing on a sustainable consumer trend.
And the third thing we did was focus significant attention resources on our Good-for-You businesses to make sure that we're fully capitalizing on their global growth potential.
In North America for example we've been very successful in restoring momentum to Gatorade.
We've made good progress with Tropicana.
And the next one we have to address is Quaker Oats especially North America.
Internationally we've had strong double-digit growth over the past 5 years for both Tropicana and Quaker and we've expanded this well through juice and dairy acquisitions.
Importantly we've targeted resources working on nutrition platforms globally the benefits of which we will start seeing over the next few years.
As a result of these efforts we've enhanced our core offerings and our Good-for-You portfolio.
And the Good-for-You part has now increased its share in our portfolio from 17% to 20% of our revenue over the past 5 years.
So that's our narrative on our product shift.
But the other thing we did over the last 5 years was continue our investment in SAP.
And we did that without taking any chance to the P&amp;L.
We just kept investing because we believe that we had to really fix the technology base of the company so that we can have more opportunities for productivity improvement.
And beyond financial investments we made a major commitment to start shifting the culture of the company.
The first thing we did was put in place an organization structure that leverages the scale of PepsiCo in a much more substantial way.
And I believe the change was absolutely necessary.
Because with this shift we've gone from decentralized silos decentralized regional silos to what I would call now as much more of a connected autonomy structure.
And if you look at the chart the primacy of the P&amp;L still stays with the regions the geographies.
And that's the fundamental principle of PepsiCo.
But we’ve begun to connect important elements of the enterprise to much more effectively leveraged ideas capabilities and scale across the globe.
But this organization shift was just one piece of the culture change.
We began to address other aspects of our culture we just absolutely had to change.
We're evolving from being developed market dominant to having a truly global mindset in the company.
We're also moving from a trade spending push model of selling to a more balanced push/pull model of both marketing and selling.
The other change is that emerging markets in the first part of the decade used to largely be a pay-as-you-go approach.
But it doesn't work for emerging and developing markets which take a lot of time to build.
So over the past 5 years we made deliberate choices to step up our investments in key emerging markets because I think it's absolutely necessary to fully capitalize on the growth opportunities and keep PepsiCo growing well into the future.
And lastly over the last 5 years we started to change our talent development process from a traditional model which has been very effective for us to a more strategic approach to build buy and bond talent to the company.
We have tremendous talent within PepsiCo and we're absolutely committed to developing the talent.
But it's also important to note that as we implement some of the changes in the company into our portfolio we need experienced people with different skills to help us navigate through this new volatile environment so that we can remain a growth company.
And I want to mention to you that the portfolio changes the transformation the culture changes all of these changes were affected in a difficult macro environment.
So on balance I believe we've done many of the right things over the past 5 years to improve the business and position for sustained growth and attractive financial results for years to come.
Now let me be clear on one thing.
I'm not suggesting we executed everything perfectly over the last 5 years.
Could we have done something differently or better? Sure.
So we've gone back and looked at every one of our decisions and said what could we have done differently? Let me give you some of these things that I think we could have done differently.
First I think we could have used the synergies from the bottling acquisition to invest more in growing the top line rather than committing to flow it through to the bottom line.
Second I wish we had stepped up our overall brand support especially in North American beverages earlier.
Third had we anticipated the commodity volatility that we saw in 2010 2011 and going into 2012 we could have gone after productivity much more aggressively sooner to help cushion some of those commodity cost increases.
I also think some of the people moves that I made perhaps could have been made a bit earlier so that we could have gotten on with this program faster.
And lastly I think we could have done a better job establishing performance expectations with you our investors at a level that we could absolutely deliver on.
And I think some of these topics addressed earlier or more effectively would have resulted in even better operating performance.
And as a result better stock price performance an area that I know has been frustrating for many of you in this room in this morning.
And to be honest the reason I didn't take some of these resets earlier is because a CEO gets a chance to make a reset once every 10 years.
And you only make a major reset when you have a clean line of sight to bounce back.
And I didn't feel I had that clean line of sight the last 5 years.
We have it now and that's why we're doing it today.
And that's why today as you see in the press release we are taking clear actions right now to step up brand investment increase productivity reduce capital spending and improve shareholder returns.
So as we pause to look at PepsiCo today I think we are extremely well positioned.
We generate $66 billion in annual revenue.
We're the second largest food and beverage business globally.
We have operating margins of 16%.
We have net ROIC of 17% and we have return on equity of 31%.
Our mission for the company is clear and focused.
We want to captivate consumers with the world's most loved and best-tasting convenient foods and beverages.
And we feel confident in our ability to deliver on this mission based on the significant structure and capability advantages that we possess as a company.
We compete in categories with attractive growth margins and returns whether it's snacks beverages or the nutritional category because all of these categories have global growth of 5% or more.
Our core businesses of convenient foods and beverages are highly complementary.
They share not only common consumers and customers but they also share resources and capabilities like agro sourcing R&amp;D capabilities packaging flavoring go-to-market systems finance HR talent and all the G&amp;A functions.
And I think our businesses will continue to benefit from global mega trends like on-the-go lifestyle a rapidly growing middle class in emerging and developing markets and consumer seeking a repertoire of products that spans Fun-for-You to Good-for-You.
We have a very broad and powerful brand portfolio that connects with consumers including 22 iconic billion-dollar brands a number that's doubled in the past 11 years.
And these brands span everything from Fun-for-You to Good-for-You and all of our brands are typically #1 or #2 in their respective categories.
I don't know if you know this little factoid but Lay's is the #1 global food brand.
Lay's is the #1 global food brand.
And Pepsi as you well know is the #2 global beverage brand.
We also have a truly global footprint with trends in more than 150 countries.
And as I mentioned earlier we have a $22 billion emerging market business.
And we have tremendous go-to-market reach which is largely enabled by our DSD systems which have been developed over many many decades.
And they're all tailored to suit local market dynamics so that we can efficiently and effectively reach millions of points of sale everyday and billions of end consumers.
And we leverage all of these strengths to deliver against our 5 strategic priorities which we've been focused on for the past several years.
To build and extend macrosnacks globally.
As most of you know we have a 10x relative market share in salty snacks globally and we are growing the core or extending towards adjacencies.
We just keep growing this macrosnack business.
Secondly we are the #2 player in beverages globally.
And our goal is to sustainably and profitably grow this beverage business worldwide.
Third we have 3 of the top brands in health and wellness.
And we're going to leverage these brands in the health and wellness category momentum to grow this Nutrition business.
The fourth strategic priority is to leverage the coincidence of consumption between snacks and beverages and capitalize on this cross category presence to grow our scale in individual countries.
And lastly we will manage the financial results and position of this company in a prudent and responsible way.
These strategic priorities have not changed over the several years and we will remain focused on them going forward.
Taken together we believe our mission the strength of our portfolio and strategic priorities will enable us to generate top-tier financial results for our investors over the long term.
Revenue growth in the mid-single digits.
We expect balanced growth between Fun-for-You Better-for-You Good-for-You.
And this growth will be predominantly organic.
And we expect to continue to benefit from an increasing emerging and developing market presence.
And this portfolio translates to high-single digit earnings per share growth with increasing margins and return on capital and leads to free cash flow growing in line with net income.
Which in turn enables strong cash returns to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
So the key question that U.S.
investors have asked us is can this portfolio generate these kinds of returns on an ongoing basis? And that's what prompted us to undertake a comprehensive review of our business.
We looked at every aspect of our portfolio and operating practices.
And what I'd like to do is to share with you the scope findings and the go-forward actions now that the review is complete.
So the first area we examined was our portfolio.
We began with a question that's been speculated upon a lot in the recent months.
Should PepsiCo split its snack and beverage businesses? And the overriding finding from our portfolio analysis is that PepsiCo's value is maximized as one company.
Because the current structure there's 3 things.
First it provides compelling cross leverage across the value chain from an R&amp;D procurement consumer insight sales merchandising back-office functions.
It provides compelling scale and cost leverage.
Second it enables us to accelerate in-market growth.
Because in market we benefit from the coincidence of snack and beverage consumption occasions.
We benefit from the commonality of consumer and the opportunity to cross-merchandise and promote our products.
But in emerging markets in particular our Snacks business benefits massively from the scale of our Beverage business which can be scaled up very quickly.
And without the presence of our Beverage businesses our ability to establish and grow Snacks businesses in emerging markets would be significantly reduced.
It will take much more time and require a significant amount more of investment.
That's the second reason.
The third reason is that our operation as one company enables us to share capabilities across geographies and sectors and allows us to attract better talent.
This is important everywhere in the world but particularly in emerging and developing markets where the combined scale of our 2 businesses helps us be the preferred company to work for.
I can tell you that in emerging markets and I travel there all the time Pepsi is such an iconic brand that young people want to come to work for Pepsi.
You bring them into Pepsi and a little while later you put them into Lay's and Coqueiro and those products.
So that's the virtuous circle how it works.
We estimate that simply on the cost side of the equation the benefits of having an integrated company are somewhere between $800 million to $1 billion primarily related to in-country G&amp;A procurement share distribution and infrastructure corporate G&amp;A and financing costs.
And this does not take into account the profitability associated with top line synergies.
And it does not factor in the massive disruption that would surely occur if we try to separate these 2 businesses.
So net-net based on this exhaustive analysis we undertook as a management team with external advisors with the involvement of our Board of Directors we are absolutely convinced that PepsiCo's value is maximized as one company.
Well we didn't stop there.
We expanded our portfolio review to dig deeper into our portfolio of countries and businesses.
And we asked ourselves the question what is the performance trajectory of the individual businesses in countries and how can we sustain or improve well-performing businesses? And what can we do to fix the few underperforming business we have? And we looked at what additional options exist to strengthen the portfolio and the optimal portfolio configuration to maximize shareholder value.
And to answer all of these questions we mapped our businesses across 2 dimensions: margin and growth performance.
With performance relative to each businesses respective market and whether the business was related to our mission.
And what we found is that for the most part our businesses are highly related to our mission and are generally performing well.
So this chart shows how our division operating profit falls across these dimensions.
75% of our profit comes from businesses highly related to our mission and performing very well.
Noncore businesses comprise a relatively small percentage of the overall portfolio about 5%.
And these are well-performing businesses.
The gray box down there represents less than 1% of our profit.
And we have largely addressed these opportunities and I'll tell you what they are.
And that leaves 20% that are related to the mission but with some opportunity to improve their growth and/or margins.
And we are absolutely clear on what needs to be done in each of these quadrants.
High-performing rate of business will be sustained invested in and supported.
Higher performing but unrelated business will be managed judiciously and they'll be divested only if it makes financial sense.
Because most of them contribute positively to our returns and cash flow.
Lower-performing unrelated businesses should be divested and will be divested.
And low-performing related businesses will be operationally improved to drive better growth and return with clear timetables for improvement.
And if the underperformance cannot be addressed operationally then we will seek structural solutions to improve return or reduce our exposure.
And this quadrant is clearly a major area of focus for us.
So let me give you examples of how our businesses mapped across these quadrants.
Clearly on the upper left you see Frito-Lay North America our Quaker Tropicana Gatorade businesses many of our international beverage and snack businesses.
On the upper right you'll find some of our central store food businesses which are pretty small compared to the size of our portfolio.
And while they don't really relate to our Convenience mandate they are prolific cash generators with very high returns and will be dilutive to our returns and earnings under any divestiture scenario that we want.
In our lower right box there are a couple of very small businesses Kretschmer Wheat Germ Coqueiro our fish business in Brazil and they've all been divested now.
Finally in the lower left we find a couple of our emerging market beverage businesses our North American DSD Beverage business and some emerging markets snacks businesses.
And we're making great progress in addressing each of these businesses.
One of the businesses that was in this box was Mexico beverages.
By refranchising it and creating a very strong entity with 2 highly capable beverage partners I believe we've addressed the Mexico beverage underperformance issue.
In China the growth of the market is explosive.
Our growth was explosive but we needed a partner to really kickstart this growth.
We now have a transaction with Tingyi pending.
Tingyi will be our franchisee it's pending regulatory approval and will create an anchor bottle in China that will really help PepsiCo take its Beverage business to a whole new level.
We have a few snack businesses in emerging markets where I believe the natural growth of these businesses will improve the results and the operating margins of those businesses.
That leaves the North American DSD business DSD Beverage business which accounts for a lion's share of the profits in this quadrant.
So I want to set the context for North American DSD beverages.
It's a large highly profitable category North American beverages.
It's important to retailers because of its ability to generate shopper traffic and because it's profitable and an excellent cash-generator even to retailers.
As PepsiCo we have a very good competitive position with the #1 share of the liquid refreshment beverage category in retail.
And most importantly we own 3 of the top 5 LRB trademarks with Pepsi Mountain Dew and Gatorade.
And with Mountain Dew we have the fastest growing major CSD trademark in the industry.
However there are some issues.
Category growth has been challenging.
The marketplace is intensely competitive.
Commodity inflation and volatility have made this market that much more difficult.
And let's not forget we do face a competitor who's emerged from a major reset that they undertook between 2004 and 2008.
And I will tell you between 2007 and 2010 we did lose some market share.
Recently our share trends have begun to improve but we are not happy with the pace of improvement and recognized the need to accelerate progress.
One of the reasons we brought the bottlers back is because we wanted to address the share issue in this business.
So against this backdrop we are totally committed to actions to improve both the growth and returns of our North American Beverage business.
So what are we going to do? We are going to significantly step up our A&amp;M support to reengage consumers with our terrific brand focusing on our most important brands to drive the maximum impact from our investment.
And you know what's interesting? Over the last 5 years North American A&amp;M did not decline but the spending was supporting too many brands and was spread across too many agencies.
We allowed nonworking A&amp;M to squeeze out working A&amp;M.
So we went to work and we cleaned house.
We've reduced agency relationships in North American beverage from 150 to about 50.
So it's not just a step up in A&amp;M.
The impact of shifting nonworking A&amp;M to A&amp;M will be significant and this whole A&amp;M spending will be amplified.
We're also accelerating our innovation across product and package with a very special focus on revenue management.
For example Pepsi NEXT is a great example of leading the market in product innovation.
And thanks to the investments we made in long-term sweetener technology.
We are launching a product that delivers the great taste of Pepsi with 60% less sugar.
We're also going to step up our package innovation.
And great examples that will drive our revenue management agenda are the 24-ounce Dew can which will drive further growth of this $1 billion brand into new location.
And the Starbucks Refreshers launch in the 12-ounce slim can.
Grab a can of that Mountain Dew as you leave and the Refreshers are out there in the lobby.
We're also going to capitalize on the food service opportunity especially local and regional food service.
As many of you know this was an area where we had a structural disadvantage relative to our largest competitor prior to our acquisition of the bottlers.
We've made the appropriate changes and we're making good progress in food service.
We're also dialing up our excellence in execution by shifting distribution systems that will improve performance.
A good example of that was moving Gatorade to DSD in small format.
But we're not stopping there.
We're looking for other opportunities to leverage the right distribution system for the right product.
We're also going to use our snack business to drive greater frequency of coincidence of consumption.
And linked to our overall productivity efforts we are stepping up productivity to improve margins and create additional funding for future investment.
We intend to take out about $500 million to $600 million in costs to the North American Beverage business by 2014.
We're also accelerating R&amp;D in key breakthrough areas like low-cost natural sweeteners more packaging innovation and food service equipment innovation.
So a lot is happening in North American beverages all focused on one thing: to hold or increase value share in this market.
And while we work through these operational improvements we are simultaneously exploring structural options to jump shift PepsiCo's returns on capital that's deployed into this business.
So that's a summary of the overall portfolio look that we undertook.
While our operational review of the last 6 months went beyond a high level portfolio analysis and really took a deep dive on the supporting fundamentals that drive our business.
We know that success for PepsiCo is dependent on world-class brand building and innovation.
It's dependent on excellence in execution every day and every moment of truth achieving the right cost structure and the optimal capital structure and most importantly being a great place to work.
We went through and looked at how we stack up against each of these requirements.
And let me walk you through the conclusions of our review on each of these items what we found and what we'll be doing as a result.
On brand management.
In PepsiCo our marketing approach has historically been highly decentralized with each country introducing brands as needed.
To prove the point it may surprise you that we have more than 400 brands in our portfolio and this brand proliferation over the years has diluted the incrementality of our initiatives.
And there's no point stepping up the A&amp;M investment if it's going to be fragmented across 400 brands.
So we knew there was a consolidation opportunity here.
So as a result of our deep dive we'll be refocusing and streamlining our brand portfolio sharpening their positioning with consumers herding a lot of the new innovations of the big brands and slowly start shifting volumes from the tail of the portfolio to the core brand portfolio.
We're going to invest and drive growth behind 12 mega brands: Pepsi Dew Sierra Mist 7Up in international markets Gatorade Tropicana Mirinda Lay's Doritos Cheetos Lipton Quaker and the Sun brand.
These 12 brands will have aligned positioning globally.
They'll have consistent campaigns and scaled innovation platforms.
For example we'll be launching the first global Pepsi campaign in the summer of this year with common iconography a common approach and common positioning.
The first global Pepsi campaign in PepsiCo's history.
We're also stepping up our investment our A&amp;M investment behind these 12 brands by $500 million to $600 million in 2012 which represents about a 15% increase.
And because North America is such a large market it will receive a disproportionate share of this increased funding.
And while we are increasing the A&amp;M we're also streamlining our agency relationships.
Today we have about 300 relationships with strategic vendors across the globe.
And we're looking to reduce that number by more than half driving greater efficiency of spend.
But spend is one thing.
We're also instituting joined performance metrics with our partners.
And we're implementing a pay-for-performance model which makes sure that we get the best talents and agencies devoted to PepsiCo's businesses.
So what all of this will do is allow us to shift more of our overall A&amp;M from nonworking A&amp;M to working A&amp;M which means reduce what we spend on production costs and agency fees to actually consumer facing A&amp;M.
And this target of shift of spending to more working A&amp;M will add considerably to the brand presence consumers will feel than just the $500 million to $600 million in incremental spending.
And beyond just the spending increase and the shifting of A&amp;M we've developed one common way to measure brand equity across the world.
And our goal is to track the brand equity evolution of each of these global brands regularly and intervene when appropriate to make sure we hold or increase the brand equity with our overall consumers in every one of the key countries in the world.
And that was all the brand work we did.
The next area that we reviewed was innovation.
And innovation is our lifeblood we need that to keep growing.
But as we dug deep into innovation no surprise to you the consumer environment has changed radically.
Retail shelf space is scarce.
Consumers have become more demanding.
Competition has intensified especially with the emergence of pure-play competitors fragmenting the market a lot.
PepsiCo is a prolific innovator.
And there's a lot about our innovation that we should feel great about and you should admire.
IRI consistently ranks us as a leader in innovation in their center [ph] report.
And in 2011 alone we have 11 of the 15 top-selling items in C-stores and a lot of them were new products that came into the market in 2010 and '11.
But the problem is that yes we are a prolific innovator but the staying power of this innovation can be much better.
Some of it relates to the quality of the innovation.
Sometimes it also relates to our lack of patience and a bit of Darwinian mindset that's engendered by the DSD go-to-market system.
So as we sat back and looked at all of our innovation we realized that something had to change in what we were doing in PepsiCo.
We don't believe we are delivering enough incremental innovation.
And we can do better.
So we are rebalancing our approach.
We have now set very specific goals for 3 innovation types: refresh innovation which is mostly line extensions; reframe innovations; and breakthrough innovations.
And our goal is to drive a higher mix of reframe and breakthrough which have the potential of being a lot more incremental.
So examples of reframe innovation would be Trop50.
Which has brought back users into the juice category who left the category because of the high calories of juice.
And Tostitos Scoops.
We've solved the issue of getting dip on your tie or dress when you eat a regular Tostitos.
An example of breakthrough innovation would be products based on the work we're doing with natural 0-calorie sweeteners.
Our belief is that when that commercializes which I hope is pretty soon it will really start reframing the carbonated soft drink category.
And to enable all of this we've improved the stage gate process to allow for greater incubation of new products.
And we're doing one more thing we are leveraging a Frito-Lay North America best practice.
They have something called a new growth ventures model.
They incubate products in a second distribution system and it reaches a certain size bringing it in to DSD if necessary.
We're going to lift and shift that idea to North American beverages because I believe we have a lot of great innovation which are smaller volume and tend to die in the DSD system if you put it in there right away.
So we're going to incubate it into a second distribution system in PepsiCo and then bring it into DSD.
More importantly the fact that we've now created a horizontal structures with the global groups is enabling the creation and development of more innovation platforms as opposed to products.
And we're also able now to lift and shift ideas across the globe so we don't keep repeating what we're doing country after country.
And the other amazing thing is in somewhat of a role reversal.
We're explicitly taking innovation from our developing market especially their great work on value innovation and bringing it back to the developed markets.
Stila Bars and Quaker cookies from Mexico is one example of a developing market innovation that's being launched very successfully in North America.
The last thing we've done on innovation is we restructured our relationships with our consumer insights providers.
And what we've told them is we're going to pay for insight not data.
So we've given them specific questions and we want them to answer those questions as opposed to just buying data and allowing us to troll for it.
So our priorities here are to drive higher top line get better price realization but most importantly increase our value share.
And that's the result of our brand and innovation look.
Let me turn to the third area we looked at in great detail which is our execution.
Some of you asked in the reports you wrote or in meetings we've had with you whether we've lost our execution edge especially here in North America.
I would say no but we went back and looked at it in great detail anyway.
Generally speaking this is an area where we are very good at.
And in many cases I'll argue we have best-in-class execution.
Frito-Lay North America in particular is awesome at execution.
But we have to push the boundaries and not just be complacent that we're very good.
And we also have to learn to share best practices across the company.
So in the case of our North American bottling this is going to be a renewed area of focus having just spent the last 2 years with an appropriate focus on getting the integration complete and delivering against the synergy targets.
And we know there's a lot of best practice sharing that can go on between North American bottling and Frito-Lay both ways.
So our execution focus going forward has several elements.
In terms of driving inventory share in the store our Beverage business as one company is beginning to align marketing and sales to one set of programs on promotional inventory.
In terms of ensuring perfect orders and on-time delivery our Beverage business will be creating a centralized dispatch headquarters in order to use sophisticated dynamic routing algorithms currently being used by Frito-Lay to improve service levels and reduce costs.
And in terms of new product execution our Beverage business will start to deploy Frito-Lay's industry-leading tools to ensure disciplined store-level execution and tracking of all new products.
And these programs respond directly to the measures most important to our customers and they have the highest correlation to increasing sales.
We're also going to leverage data we've collected for our top accounts across both snacks and beverages to drive continuous improvement and perhaps stimulate some healthy internal competition to ensure that we're best in class in this critical area.
And the last thing we're going to be doing on execution is driving and tracking coincidence of purchase between snacks and beverages.
We have told you many times that our snacks and beverages are highly complementary and are consumed and purchased together.
For example 30% of CSD shopper occasions include salty-snack purchase and 30% of salty-snack purchases include a CSD.
So the opportunity for PepsiCo is tremendous as we drive incremental core purchases.
And every point of additional share is worth $120 million in retail sales.
So we intend to exploit this coincidence a lot more.
Finally now that we have food service in our control we are increasing our push on gaining both local and regional food service accounts.
And in 2011 we had real progress.
We gained 2 points of market share in food service.
I mean that's a lot on this business.
We converted key accounts from our primary competitor Papa John's Chuck E.
Cheese Tim Horton to name a few.
And most importantly we achieved a 98% contract renewal rate for our existing customers.
We launched new product innovations in food service.
For example oatmeal in McDonald's and Burger King and culinary innovation at Taco Bell via Fritos Burritos.
I hope you've had a chance to enjoy the product.
And we acquired 35 000 new food service accounts as a result of expanding the use of broad line distributors to secure new local and regional beverage accounts and all of our field acquisition efforts.
So let me assure you if you had any doubt execution excellence is what we are about what we're really good at and we will ensure that we drive ourselves and each other to be best in class uniformly.
And that's execution.
Now let me turn to the whole area of cost and productivity which is another area that we spent a lot of time on as part of this operating review.
PepsiCo's always been known to be a highly productive and cost-efficient company and we aggressively manage our cost year in and year out.
We know that we're in a new environment with tremendous macroeconomic volatility including commodity cost volatility.
So we knew that we had to get even more productive to create the breathing room to deliver our numbers.
So let's just take a quick look at our cost structure.
About 29% of the cost structure's raw commodities a little over 5% is A&amp;M and 50% is manufacturing and SG&amp;A excluding A&amp;M which results in this operating profit of 16% of revenues.
Our goal is to increase that operating profit number.
So let me just walk you through each of the pieces.
From a commodity cost standpoint the way we manage risk is through systematic forward buying so that we can get more cost certainty and increase cost visibility.
But we're going to keep reviewing our commodity procurement approach to make sure that we have the optimal balance between risk management and visibility.
On A&amp;M we're going to grow it from 5.2% of sales to 6% of revenues by 2015.
And in 2012 with the increase in A&amp;M it'll actually go up to 5.7% of sales.
So the focus then is on this 50% the big bucket.
Our goal over the next 3 to 4 years is to take out 250 to 300 basis points of cost from this bucket.
And today we announced a 3-year plan to double our ongoing productivity which will generate over $1 billion in cost savings in 2012 and $3 billion by 2014.
And $1.5 billion of the $3 billion is incremental productivity versus our historical run rate.
These productivity initiatives are multifunction cross sector and they're going to be delivering benefits throughout the entire value chain.
Our plan will become the new norm for PepsiCo by creating an ongoing global productivity culture.
And this productivity program just didn't happen.
It's been months of efforts across people across the world across all of our businesses involving all of the functions all of the businesses all of the sectors.
We are taking actions to significantly reduce our G&amp;A by implementing simplified organization structures.
We're going to wider spans of control fewer layers of management with consolidating facilities.
We are accelerating the development and deployment of global projects impacting our products packaging manufacturing transportation how we grew our various factories and much more.
We set up a global operations group.
And that's been a critical unlock because they've been able to coordinate all of these new ideas and facilitate the lift and shift of current best practices across all of our businesses.
And we have a program management office to track each of these initiatives monitor progress manage priorities review achievements identify key risks and develop mitigation plan for the global leadership team.
A critical aspect of this program is a focus on increasing operational productivity into 3 key areas of make move and sell.
And what we plan to do here is to drive world-class efficiencies through the deployment and execution of what we call global playbooks.
Because these global playbooks are targeted to positively impact areas such as yield change over times labor and asset utilization across geographies and key lines of businesses.
Now as I mentioned to you the financial results of all of this work is that we're going to take our 250 to 300 basis points of operating cost over the next 3 years.
Now these productivity efforts will impact about 8 700 associates worldwide.
Let me tell you the most difficult part of this whole productivity program has been the fact that we have to take out people.
It's never easy when we have to take out people from the organization.
The 8 700 people represent about 3% of our workforce.
And we have to make these tough choices if we are to create the breathing room to keep reinvesting in the company.
And the other thing we did just to give you comfort is that we were very careful to make sure that we were not impacting the core operations of the business in taking out these people.
We looked very carefully to make sure that we had all of the right functions staffed with the right people and have the right resources so that we can keep the growth of the company going in the future.
Well we didn't stop just with productivity and the P&amp;L.
We also looked at capital productivity.
Over the last 5 years CapEx has been about 5.5% of revenue.
For 2012 we've reduced CapEx to 4.5% of net revenues.
Now some of you might say "Oh you must have just cut it." Now we reduced it.
We took a very granular approach to understand where the capacity was in the organization where the underutilization was how can we get lower capital into emerging markets so that we can match capital cost with the economies of the economics of that marketplace.
So we took a very granular look at our capital and that's what allowed us to cut the CapEx into 2012.
And our goal beyond 2012 is to run our business with the CapEx level of about 5% of net sales.
But it's not just capital expenditures we're also looking at working capital.
We believe we do a pretty good job with our cash conversion cycle.
But again as we looked at our cash conversion cycle in a lot more granularity we think there's improvement in our days in inventory DSO and DPO days.
And we think there's an opportunity to reduce this whole cash conversion cycle by 10% which will actually generate about $200 million of cash annually incremental cash.
And to institutionalize capital productivity in the company we will implement an EVA approach at the operating unit level an economic value-added approach at the operating unit level so each of our businesses can see the direct cost of the capital they deploy whether it's normal capital expenditures or tuck-in acquisitions they propose.
This is going to be part of our ongoing performance management system and all of these efforts are designed to increase management operating cash flow and improve ROIC.
Finally let me turn to last and most important part of our operating review which is our organization and people.
We looked at every aspect of the company in terms of morale succession organizational structure.
We looked at everything.
And let me start by telling you that PepsiCo is and will always remain an academy company.
We are a highly desirable place to work.
And in fact according to the Chief Executive Magazine we just moved up on the list of leadership companies from #17 to 7.
And we've been named the Fortune's Top 10 Companies for Leaders.
But as a company we don't just rest on those laurels.
We actually assess the morale of the company every year because we conduct an annual organization health survey which we then augment with a midyear pulse survey just to get a sense for how people are feeling.
And then we compare it on a cross-sectional basis across the company over years.
We look at it by function across genders ethnicities and we benchmark ourselves against the peer group of companies who conduct similar org health surveys.
I'm pleased to report to you that our org health survey results show that by and large we are doing better than the peer group and the basic morale of the organization is pretty good.
So from an organization perspective we feel good about where we are.
From a succession perspective for the top 200 roles in the company we have a 5 deep bench.
We identify people who can fill the job if somebody is hit by a bus ready in 1 to 2 years or ready in 3-plus years.
And coming out of this exercise we have identified 500 high-potential executives who we are going to -- we've developed 10-year development plan for them and we're going to accelerate their progress with the company.
Let me briefly touch on CEO succession.
CEO succession at PepsiCo started day 1 when I became CEO.
We've updated our Board of Directors every year and we provide midyear updates as necessary on this topic of CEO succession.
This is very much on top of my priority list has been since 2006.
And I believe we have outstanding leaders running each of our major businesses who are all CEO capable.
So from an organization perspective from a people perspective succession perspective we feel very good about where we are.
So that was the summary of our detailed operational review and a look at all the drivers of our performance.
Once again based on this very detailed look we are comfortable with our long-term targets grow revenues in mid-single digits deliver high-single digit EPS growth grow free cash flow in line with net income and deliver attractive cash returns to our shareholders.
This performance will be balanced across our geographies and our categories.
And as you can see we plan to do a lot of things differently in 2012 and going forward.
We're going to increase A&amp;M spend by $500 million to $600 million and total marketplace spend by $600 million to $700 million.
We're going to focus our brands reduce the numbers of agencies and strategic partnerships we have.
We're going to focus on improving brand equity for our key brands and you're going to start seeing stepped-up innovation levels in the marketplace.
We will deliver incremental productivity of over $500 million this year and a total of $1.5 billion of incremental productivity over the next 3 years.
We will reduce CapEx to 4.5% of net revenue which is about $300 million lower than it was in 2011 while still growing the top line.
We'll generate more than $6 billion of management operating cash flow and return $3.3 billion in dividends which is about $100 million increase over 2011 and we'll repurchase at least $3 billion in shares which is an increase of about $600 million over 2011.
And we'll do all this while navigating through incremental commodity costs -- or additional commodity costs of $1.5 billion.
Finally in terms of operating and reporting transparency historically we provided you data on Pepsi Americas Foods Pepsi Americas Beverages Europe and EMEA.
Going forward we will provide additional data on global snacks and global beverages.
And within that we will provide you top line numbers volume revenue on our global nutrition business also.
So that's the comprehensive summary of our operating review the findings and what we're going to do differently going forward.
With that let me turn it over to Hugh Johnston to talk in detail about 2012 and go through all of the financial information.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you Indra and good morning everyone.
As discussed earlier 2012 is a year of transition with EPS down 5% on a core constant-currency basis.
As we compare 2012 to our high single-digit long-term growth targets there are several key drivers for this gap.
I'll cover them briefly here and then we'll look at each individually.
First we face another year of higher-than-normal commodity inflation driven by the lag effect of our forward-buying program.
This negatively impacts our EPS growth by 9 points.
Second the extraordinary investments we are making in the marketplace both A&amp;M and to a lesser degree in racks and routes drives another 8 points of EPS gap.
To help offset this marketplace investment we are as Indra mentioned embarking on a multi-year productivity effort which is expected to deliver over $500 million in incremental productivity savings in 2012 for cumulative incremental productivity of $1.5 billion through 2014.
This initiative is expected in 2012 to contribute 7 points of EPS growth.
Below-the-line pension cost will increase as a result of the lower discount rate we used to calculate pension expense.
And finally our net interest cost also rises.
We increased our borrowings and term out debt in a low interest rate environment and our tax rate will be slightly higher at 27%.
The net impact of the latter 2 items is a reduction of 3 points.
Note at this point based on market consensus forecast we anticipate FX to be a 3-point headwind in 2012.
Now I'd like to take a moment to go a little bit deeper on some of these.
Overall we are anticipating 7% commodity inflation for this year.
Our commodity spend consists of 3 components: raw commodities which we purchased via a systematic forward-buying program; raw commodities for which there is no active traded market; and then finally cost our suppliers incur to convert raw commodities into ingredients and packaging materials.
On non-traded raw commodities we will have moderate inflation of 4% this year.
And on conversion costs we are actually benefiting from 5% deflation as a result of value engineering and productivity efforts with our suppliers.
But we are facing a steep 16% inflation in market trade and commodity purchases.
Because we secure coverage in advance of the start of the year via our systematic forward-buying program 35% of our commodity purchases were already locked by July 2011 more than 40% by September and almost 2/3 by the end of December 2011.
As a result we are not fully benefiting from the recent declines in raw commodity prices yet.
While this program proved to be very beneficial to us in the past 2 years and over a cumulative period we are still ahead of the market.
Our cost for traded commodities are unfavorable to the market in 2012 on a percentage basis.
It's important to note though that we expect our actual prices to be at or below the market prices on many commodities but the rate of inflation will be higher because of the different prior-year basis.
The commodity inflation is highest in the first quarter and mitigates as we move forward through the year as you would expect with the lagging effect.
Regarding our productivity program as indicated earlier we expect to deliver $3 billion in savings over the next 3 years which is double our historical productivity run rate.
Our productivity program will touch virtually every aspect of our business including manufacturing distribution and SG&amp;A.
Specifically we are heightening our ability to execute best practice sharing across our organization leveraging new technologies and processes across our entire cost structure and will increase yield and throughput and reduce waste throughout the value chain.
In addition we are consolidating a number of manufacturing warehouse and sales facilities and we're implementing a more simplified organization structure with wider spans of control and fewer layers of management which will enhance our cost competitiveness and drive more effective accountability.
The restructuring actions will have a onetime cost of about $910 million of which about $750 million is cash.
As mentioned earlier overall below-the-line costs are a 3-point drag on EPS.
Our pension costs are increasing by almost $100 million this year as a result of a decrease in the discount rates.
This is after a $1 billion discretionary pretax contribution to the pension and retiree medical plans which reduced the expense by $100 million.
In addition our net interest costs are increasing by about $200 million as we term out debt to benefit from long-term low interest rates.
Borrowing increases generally in line with cash which sits internationally.
All other corporate G&amp;A costs are flat as reductions in corporate G&amp;A are being redeployed to support the global productivity initiative.
Turning to capital allocation and cash return.
We announced this morning that we will increase our dividend by 4% to $2.15 with the June dividend payment and we intend to step up our share repurchase program to at least $3 billion in 2012.
Simultaneously we will term out debt taking advantage of that low interest rate environment.
This will increase our leverage which we are comfortable with because we intend to limit both our number and size of tuck-in acquisitions and to do them only in emerging and developing markets.
Net we expect to increase our borrowing but again it will only increase in line with our growth in cash.
This cash is largely offshore and is therefore tax inefficient to repatriate.
With this despite a year of earnings decline we expect to return about $6.3 billion to shareholders this year up from $5.6 billion in 2011.
Turning to the portfolio review.
I'm sure many of you focused on the lower-left quadrant of the matrix that Indra showed you earlier and have questions about how we will scorecard that.
For these businesses we expect them to hold their grow of share begin to achieve profitable growth and improve their ROICs within a 12- to 18-month time frame.
If they don't we will seek structural solutions as an alternative collaborations JVs refranchisings or divestitures are all on the table all with the objective to improve PepsiCo's shareholder value creation.
Summarizing 2012 we're targeting EPS to decline by approximately 5% on a constant-currency basis.
Based on current market consensus ForEx this is a 3-point headwind resulting in an 8% decline in EPS on a USD basis.
As you model out the quarters please keep in mind that commodity inflation is steepest in the first quarter and consequently we anticipate first quarter earnings to decline high-single digits.
We expect CapEx to be approximately $3 billion a 10% reduction from our 2011 CapEx level.
Management operating cash flow is targeted at about $6 billion an amount similar to our 2011 management operating cash flow despite an earnings decline in 2012.
And we have plans in place to return over $6 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Long term as many of the headwinds we are experiencing in 2012 moderate and as our A&amp;M investments take hold we anticipate returning to our long-term targets of 6% to 7% core constant currency growth in division operating profit core constant currency EPS growth in the high-single digits CapEx investment of no more than 5% of net revenue and core management operating cash flow growing in line with net income on a rolling 3-year basis.
Now let's turn to how we'll measure progress on our performance scorecard.
We will measure our performance along 8 key metrics 4 of which relate to what we do to deliver results and 4 of which reflect the results of what we do.
Let's talk first about what we do or what I call our input metrics which include brand strength execution cost and CapEx efficiency and innovation.
For brand strength we expect brand equity on our top 12 global brands to improve year-over-year and we expect A&amp;M spend as a percentage of revenue to increase or stay flat after 2012.
In terms of execution we will track 2 key measures: inventory share and coincidence of purchase.
These each have a strong correlation with sales growth and do so in a cost-efficient manner.
Cost and CapEx efficiency are critical to our ability to deliver profit and returns to shareholders.
We are confident that our productivity programs in both P&amp;L and CapEx investments will enable us to deliver on these targets.
Last we'll measure the success of our innovation defined as new product sales as a percent of total PepsiCo sales.
While we expect the first 3 metrics to deliver in line with our long-term target in 2012 we are not counting on an increase in innovation as a percentage of sales in 2012.
For these metrics we expect to share our performance with you on a semiannual basis and we expect to perform against these targets beginning in 2012.
Obviously we'll also measure our performance against key output metrics that are highly relevant to investors.
The metrics are value share EPS ROIC and operating cash flow.
Our guidance and performance targets are consistent with these long-term targets and we'll continue to report to them -- to report them to you as we currently do.
Because 2012 is a transition year however we expect to achieve only the value share targets in 2012.
We believe that this scorecard is well-connected to both operating performance and shareholder value creation and will enable you to clearly understand our results.
With that now I'll turn the meeting back over to Indra.
Thank you Hugh.
Thanks to all of you for your attention this morning.
And before we open it up for questions let me just recap the key points we'd like you to takeaway this morning by returning to one of our earlier slides.
We're excited about the initiatives we shared with you this morning and look forward to sharing with you our progress as the year progresses.
And as I said as I close my talk this morning you should expect to see the following: a substantial increase in our brand support and focus improvement in our brands' health delivery of significant incremental cost productivity greater efficiency in capital spending strong cash flow generation and attractive cash returns to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Now as I turn it over to you for Q&amp;A and if I could just have John Zein Al and Saad join me here on the podium and we will take questions from you and then we'll toss it to our sector heads so that they too can share their thoughts with you.
So with that it's over to you.
Yes? Go ahead.
Indra how do you know this is enough? And I say that in the context particularly around the spend back so $500 million to $600 million A&amp;M only gets you kind of halfway to where you were at the beginning part of this decade even if you pull out PB U.K.
asset [PH] and Wimm-Bill-Dann.
How do you know that's enough? And in particular what does it tell us about the ROI of the overall business and the trend of the ROI in the overall business as you're spending more and more and more you're doing more and more but you're getting to the same number from a growth perspective.
How should we feel about that? I'll make a couple or 3 comments and I'm going to toss it to Al to talk about how they're reorienting the advertising spending especially -- you focus more on North American beverages right? Let me start by saying to you that over the last 5 years the A&amp;M has not been cut.
That's the interesting part of the whole North American beverage discussion.
So the dollar amount has not been cut.
The non-working A&amp;M squeezed out the working A&amp;M.
That's the big issue.
What you see is measured media.
We look at total A&amp;M in the North American beverage business nothing has changed.
The thing to be careful about Gatorade for example the working media that you see the ads are a very small portion of Gatorade.
A lot of Gatorade is more what they do with sideline presence and what they do with athletes and what they do to market the product to them.
So you've got to look at the overall A&amp;M bucket.
Over the last 5 years the single biggest trend is that we had non-working A&amp;M squeezed out working A&amp;M because inflation and contracts and we had too many agency relationships.
And the second is that we supported too many brands.
I mean in North America because we are a total beverage company with a large portfolio of non-carbon carbonated brand we supported too many brands.
So the first thing they're doing is first focusing our effort behind a few brands -- and Al's got a list of brands he's really going to focus on.
And by shifting more non-working to working A&amp;M what you're going to see is that 15% to 20% increase in visible dollars that we're talking about is going to feel like hell of a lot more in North America.
So that's the top line number.
But that's not enough.
If you don't support the A&amp;M with innovation and execution you can talk about the brands all you want but you need news to drive incrementality so that's why we're going to focus a lot more on innovation.
And Al maybe you can talk about some of the innovations the second point and execution on the ground is going to really go up when we start tailoring assortments by store so we can actually get that incremental growth.
Lastly on total growth the marketplace in North American Beverage business is only growing 1% in volume; and in value maybe 3% to 4%.
In the last 4 to 5 years the new entrants in the pure plays have taken a lot of the growth and the big 2 2.5 3 have not really had as much of the growth as the pure plays.
So we have to figure out how to be a pure play within our own company and it's not for not having the innovation.
We have had tons of innovation.
We just kill it too fast and this new growth ventures that Al is setting up now mirroring what we've done with Frito-Lay will allow us to incubate these new products so that it doesn't always have to be a $50 million $100 million case innovation the first year.
We can actually start smaller and build up the business.
So let me turn it to Al to give you his perspective.
Al it's all yours.
Okay.
Indra's mentioned already -- spent the money on many brands not the 5 core brands.
So this coming year you'll see on Pepsi Mountain Dew Gatorade Tropicana and Lipton substantial increases not the usual just double-digit increases in these campaigns.
And the campaigns are not going to be just increases in media television also digital is -- shows tremendous promise.
I think not just digital but customer digital.
Some of our customers are on the leading edge of digital shows some remarkable new ideas that we could probably tie into and drive business much more directly and focused to those consumers.
So if we're looking at selling Gatorade to athletes or families that have young athletes we can get to these consumers much more directly by using let's say the Safeway card and the digital approaches that they use.
But let me go back on a couple of the key things that we're going to be working on at PepsiCo beverages North America.
I don't believe -- my observation is the business is not broken.
It needs to be -- I would describe it as a focus on the back to basics and that means investment -- substantial investments in the top 5 brands.
And then the other thing we need to do is significantly improve the innovation that we have going into the marketplace both on healthy and core.
So this year in 2012 you're going to see a substantial improvement in innovation but the 2013 pipeline is the one that we really expect to see some really big gains.
But this year as well you'll see things like this that I would call not giant innovation but we've worked with customers on this particular product right here it's a 24 ounce can of Mountain Dew.
Our initial test market we blew out every can that we made and it appeals not only to Mountain Dew users but also to energy drink users.
So if they normally pay $2.99 for a can like this this will be a lot less.
Then I'd call it mid-type of innovation like Pepsi NEXT and Pepsi NEXT will have 60% less calories than a normal Pepsi and I'd ask you to try some of it on your way out.
I think you'll find that it tastes exactly like a regular Pepsi.
I'm a regular Pepsi drinker and it really is the same.
We've made a substantial progress on that product.
And then big innovation is all-natural sweeteners big breakthrough in fountain equipment.
And those things are towards the end of this year and really into 2013.
And we'll have the -- what I would call the proper investments against those brands.
One last thing I'd mention putting a local structure in place that allows us to get the most out of these big national ideas but also to capitalize on these granular opportunities that exist in the marketplace.
Today I believe we call too many of the plays out of the center meaning in my group.
We're going to have a structure that's announced very quickly here where we'll have general managers in the marketplace.
They will have regional resources for marketing and we'll be able to work with our customers on things that are going on specifically in Los Angeles.
I just don't think we're able to make these calls out of the center as good as the people who were down in the marketplace in the Californias and in Texases and in those kinds of markets.
And let me just add one last point.
As I said to you in the opening comments this is the first time we're going to have global management of big brands.
I mean it might seem unusual to you but Pepsi was never managed as a global brand.
It was managed in a much more fragmented way.
Brad Jakeman who joined us 6 9 months ago is doing a fabulous job thinking about Pepsi as a global brand and you'll start seeing the results of this global brand work in summer of this year.
And so the leverage of all of this investment is what gives us confidence that -- at first step hold share start slowly moving this value share to pick it up.
And then would be technology breakthrough really start thinking about how to gain share.
But the real important thing in all of this is to play in this market in a responsible way.
I think this category has been played in interesting ways by the competitors too much pricing action even when commodities have gone up.
So it's very important that pricing is responsible and that's what we've been trying to do in the last 6 9 months.
Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions one is on China.
It's such a strategically important market for long-term growth.
And having met with Tingyi over the last couple of years a number of times they've always said "We don't think carbonated soft drinks are a good business in China." People like teas.
People like this.
So there was -- I don't know if they've changed their tune but it scares me that that's been their attitude in the past.
So my question would be I see the short-term benefit of getting losses of the income statement from the refranchising.
But what are the measurements that you're putting in place to make sure that Tingyi doesn't do a blast to target all the volume benefit but actually delivers over time in this critical market? And then a question for John.
Just on the volume growth at Frito which was the slowest it's been in the last as I remember the 1% what do you think it looks like over time and why? So Saad you want to take the Tingyi question because you meet with Chairman there on regular basis...
Yes we're extremely very pleased about the alliance if approved by the Chinese government with Tingyi.
The CSD category in China has been growing.
And in fact in 2011 has grown faster than NCBs.
And Tingyi and their portfolio it doesn't have that.
So our alliance with them actually is complementary.
It will give us access to wide areas where we don't have production facilities with them.
So we have planned our CSD business there.
It's an alliance between the #1 ready-to-drink tea the #1 water the #1 cola and the #1 flavor.
So I think now we've set and transformed if approved by the Chinese government this alliance our Beverage business on trajectory for growth for many many years to come.
How are we going to measure the performance of Tingyi going forward? We have a joint planning with them.
We operate as we operate with the franchise there bottler.
Every year we set up the annual operating plan.
We measure it quarterly.
We adjust where we need to adjust and then so forth.
Most of our people running our business will be working with Tingyi on this so there is no change.
So we're not like giving our business with these people.
Actually we're moving a lot of our people in operation to Tingyi.
The beauty about this alliance is we get access to distribution points we get access to wide areas where we've never existed before.
There was a structural disadvantage on operating plants.
We had 22 Coke have 34.
With this now probably we will be set for good for sustainable growth.
And once approved we will be the #1 actually beverage company with Tingyi overnight.
Caroline that's a great question.
And when we went into the alliance with Tingyi I mean we've all had a chance to meet with Chairman Wei who we adore.
I want to tell you that was the thing we worried about the most.
And what we found that was refreshing was Chairman Wei actually -- I don't know what he told you but he sought us as much as we sought him.
He wanted this business because he realized that this business had more price incrementality than tea where there's so much local competition.
So this actually gives him some insulation.
PepsiCo also provides him a lot of best practice sharing from all of the stuff we do around the world whether it's marketplace investments how we grow the business how we put in coolers how we put in the route.
There's a lot of sharing of knowledge and know-how.
And he genuinely believed that carbonated soft drinks will actually grow as a percentage of sales in China may not be to the U.S.
level but it will grow.
It's about 20% today it will grow.
So this was a mutually sought after marriage and we feel very good about the prospects for this business.
So now let me toss it to John to talk about the...
So let me -- 2 weeks ago I gave a big speech to an industry conference of the Food Marketing Institute and I was challenging the group on how to rethink growth because if you look at all food and beverage in the fourth quarter of 2011 volume declined 1.5%.
Revenues grew 5% but there was almost 7 points of pricing behind that 5% revenue growth.
So I look at Frito-Lay North America and say 1% volume growth in the quarter compared to everyone else declining 1.5% I think is pretty good.
And the algorithm for the quarter of a 1 7 10 I would say is world-class.
Ongoing when we took as you know almost 6 points of pricing and drove 1% volume growth in that business.
Ongoing we said for Frito-Lay is a low single-digit volume growth company.
We expect a positive spread between volume and revenue and a positive spread between revenue and profit and that's our expectation.
We're very proud of Frito-Lay.
Judy? Research Division</strong> Just in terms of commodities the $1.5 billion step up in 2012 a little bit more color just in terms of maybe key inputs or by-product categories where you're seeing the most pressure? And then as related to that the inflation impact for 2012 that you won't be able to cover price -- with pricing just seems a little bit larger.
So is it really a consumer issue? Is it -- is there an element of a brand equity issue that you're really trying to address here? And then how much is also driven by perhaps maybe your hedge position being a little bit of a disadvantage versus your competitors? Hugh go ahead.
Sure.
So in terms of the key commodities obviously we tend not to talk about specific commodity pricing for obvious reasons.
That's information we'd rather not share with competitors.
What I would say to though Judy is it is very much driven by the lagging effect of the timing of purchases.
We do think based on the pricing that we have and we obviously have knowledge of what the marketplace prices are with 1 or 2 notable exceptions the pricing that we're paying is better than what's in the market or equal to what's in the market right now.
Relative to competition hedging strategies that's hard for me to speculate on.
Obviously it's just difficult to say what competition is doing.
We've seen obviously a number of CPGs come out and start to share guidance.
And I think we've seen people talk about anything from low- to mid-single digits.
Obviously the number that we shared is a notch above that.
I guess generally speaking the more you're exposed to agro you probably have a bit more commodity inflation as opposed to being exposed more to energy.
So the food and beverage company is probably a little bit higher than the HPCs.
And the longer you tend to hedge and we've been pretty open about the fact that we tend to work about 9 months out the more the effect will hit in 2012.
In terms of pricing behind the brands we actually lead pricing in many parts of even North America.
None of our snack businesses are an issue.
But in beverages we've been trying to take pricing up.
It is a very competitive market out there.
And if the market place behaves in a sensible way based on commodities I think the pricing will go up.
This has nothing to do with our brand.
One example I'll give you is in the cold channel and Al you can talk about it.
We've taken pricing up and it stuck.
And our cold channel volume is up significantly.
Yes.
Our cold channel business right now for probably the last 12 weeks is very solid and a good indicator of the brand strength as we put some programs in place on Mountain Dew and Pepsi.
But the pricing in the marketplace even on large format is rational right now which is a good thing for all of us.
Let me take a question here and then come there.
Indra could you talk about why you have a line of sight now and it's the right time to reset? So why do you have it now? Why didn't you have it 3 years ago? Is it due to the macro or can you just explain that a little further? I have a follow up.
Good question and I tell you 2007 '08 -- let me -- just typically when new CEOs come they just like to sort of throw everything in the kitchen sink and reset.
I was looking at the portfolio and saying "Hey you can reset all you want but developed markets are getting a little soft." We don't have much emerging and developing markets in my portfolio.
And sometimes when you have a problem in the portfolio overall you take a gigantic reset.
The issues that I was facing at that time required transformation which was going to take several years.
I'll be honest with you.
Had we not had this macroeconomic meltdown and this commodity cost volatility this whole reset would have happened earlier and the transformation could have happened earlier.
The problem is we faced the worst crisis and we had to reset in the middle of this crisis.
The other problem was anytime we wanted a reset for North American beverages there was this giant sucking sound where the bottling systems took out all of the extra funding and demanded bottle funding okay? And so we had to address that structural problem we had with the bottling systems so that we didn't have 2 companies fighting over a shrinking profit or a flat profit pool.
So I had to wait for that bottling system integration to happen okay? And so finished the bottling system integration 2010; in 2011 brought the management of all of it under one person Al Carey and said okay now is the time to go off and make the reset happen because now we know that every dollar of shareholders' money we put behind the reset will actually yield results as opposed to you put the money -- and as I said every CEO gets an opportunity once in a decade to make a reset.
It's like running a car race.
You got to take a pit stop at some point and you don't get too many chances to take a pit stop and then still win the race.
We want to win the race.
So this was the pit stop and we had to pick it very strategically.
So that's what we did.
Talked through about it every year I'll be honest with you.
Got you.
And then Hugh can you just talk about volume was a little tight into this year and maybe the long term because I don't think it was mentioned in any of the slides.
Revenue was at mid-single digits this year too.
Yes we said mid-single on revenue.
And then no volume? Yes revenue is probably the more relevant thing at this point.
Because of the pricing yes.
Can I take a question then come to you? Yes.
A question there please.
Yes Indra 2 questions.
One on North America beverages.
You talked about the opportunity through structural change to jump shift ROIC.
Could you elaborate on that comment? Are you rethinking about how you're thinking about wholly owning the bottling assets for the long term? What did you mean by that comment is question one.
And then question two is as you think about the larger organization the whole of PepsiCo and as the Chairman of the company and its CEO how do you think about a kind of internal versus external candidates for key leadership roles; and b how are you thinking about those 2 roles being occupied by one person? Let me first turn to Hugh on the structural issue.
Sure.
Well as we laid out in the scorecard I think we're open about how we are going to look at the business.
Regarding alternatives to increased returns first of all from an operating perspective we're obviously going to be looking at capital investments with extreme scrutiny when the business is challenged from a growth perspective.
Working capital the same.
We do think that there are lots of opportunities to manage inventory more tightly and as Indra said to reduce days both on the payables and -- or on the receivable side and increase on the payable side.
From a structural alternative perspective I think it's fair to say that there's a variety of items on the table.
And we're going to look at each of the options and determine what makes sense if we don't see internal operating performance of the business and the returns of the business improve over time.
That can be anything from collaborations right through to all variety of other options as well.
Let me talk to you about organization.
We do a great job developing our internal talent for succession at the senior-most level.
You see an outstanding group of leaders here who've all grown up in the PepsiCo system doing outstanding job but I think the mark of a good company is to be able to bring in external talent when needed at the right level whatever the level of the company is if the belief of the leadership of the company is that this external talent will significantly improve the thinking of the company and help us position ourselves to perform in a new and changing environment.
I think all of us are in an extraordinary period of change.
Many of the skills we had over the -- that we learned over the last 10 or 15 years don't apply in the future.
So very often you have to buy some of this talent to just improve the overall knowledge base in the company.
I mean I'll give you an example Enderson Guimaraes.
Where are you Enderson? Enderson came to us from Electrolux and he was running a big piece of Electrolux.
Now he's running global operations for PepsiCo.
The thinking that Enderson brings to us challenges the way we do things in PepsiCo which is great because it makes us all a better company a better group of leaders.
So I think any good company the mark of a great company is to be willing to be open to bringing an external talent when needed assimilating them learning from them and then getting better as an overall company.
On the last thing on the Chairman and CEO roles look I've been Chairman and CEO and I've seen the benefits of being both the Chairman and CEO being able to manage the board external constituencies and be able to run the company.
If you have a Chairman and CEO that runs a very flat organization 20 reports and they're not of the caliber of being Chairman and CEO themselves then you have a problem.
I have the unusual benefit of having 4 sector heads who each of them can be Chairman and CEO in their own right and a phenomenal CFO.
So I look at my team and say "I work for them they are all Chairman and CEOs in their own way." And so I think in PepsiCo this role combination actually works.
I promised to come here.
Yes right here on the first row.
Indra can you discuss your level of confidence that you will get returns behind this marketing spending in beverages? And also as we look at 2013 and '14 I'm assuming that your EPS growth will be in line with your long-term goals.
Why would that be if you're getting a return on the marketing investment in 2012 versus depressing the earnings base and you've also got incremental cost cutting in those years? Your question is why isn't it higher in 2013? Yes.
Look what we've given you is the long-term algorithm.
We said high-single digit.
We'll come to 2013 guidance as we get to the early part of 2013.
Let's see what the environment is like what all of the cost situation looks like.
Why do we believe that we'll get a return on investment? I'm going to use Pepsi Max as an example.
We invested heavily behind Pepsi Max and the restaging of Pepsi Max last year and this year.
Pepsi Max is up more than 50% in volume between last year and this year.
Now it's off a small base but it's up 50% and it's almost one share of the carbonated soft drink business.
So you can't run 20 brands and try to invest behind all of them and expect them to cut through the clutter.
But if you take a focus group of brands that actually belong in different aisles in store look at the brands that Al talked about.
You've got Pepsi Dew in the CSD aisle.
You've got Gatorade in the sports aisle.
You've got Tropicana sitting in the refrigerated aisle.
If you invest behind each of these sitting in different parts of the store and put the appropriate media rates our testing shows that you can actually get growth in each of these brands.
And that's the model we've been using.
We have tested that and we believe we will get a return on it okay.
I have to go to a question there.
Yes go ahead.
Two questions.
One just implied in your long-term model is there an expectation that gross margins will expand over time or is all the leverage going to be below the gross profit line? Hugh? To be perfectly candid a little tough to say given commodities have been so volatile.
We will clearly see margins below the line improve where the impact of lower cost below the line.
NVA which is the non-commodity portion of cost of goods sold we clearly expect to see productivity there.
How commodities shakeout and how that balances out to me is very much an open question.
Under normal circumstances yes I would expect to see gross margin improvement as well but...
So you'd expect to be able to start to -- or be able over time to cover some level of commodity inflation with pricing I guess is my -- did the company loss pricing power is what I'm asking.
Yes.
The way I think about it is when I think about commodities I tend to think about them longer term growing roughly in line with global GDP and so somewhere in 3% 3.5% range.
At that level certainly we would expect to be able to price the cover.
What happens in any individual year tough to ascertain further out than a few months before the year begins.
The thing to be careful about just say on pricing I'd be careful about assuming that the brands don't have pricing power.
I'll tell you why because this is a tough economy.
It's not that the brands don't have pricing power.
Consumers don't have the buying power.
Okay if you had a normal year we would be looking at a very different dynamic.
In countries where consumers have buying power the emerging market of EMEA Asia and Middle East we have been able to price.
We are getting the value -- volume growth and the value growth not an issue.
The last thing I'd tell you is on gross margins.
As the mix of countries changes and as we get more growth in emerging and developing markets which is what all of us should want because that drives long-term growth sometimes the gross margin picture starts looking muddy because in those markets we're still in the early stages so the gross margin is a little bit lower and then they ramp up.
So when you have a large company and you're looking at a combination of different businesses categories countries with different dynamics and a combination of franchise and operating business there's not a linear relationship on the gross margin.
So it requires explanation.
And we'll provide it to you in our quarterly calls.
Okay I'll take a question on this side.
Is there a question on this side? No? Go ahead.
I'll come back again for you.
Hugh thank you so much for your commentary around balancing your leverage increase in tuck-in acquisitions.
If I could just dig in to that a little bit.
When you look at your short-term borrowings and your access to commercial paper do you see a need to maintain Tier 1 CP access or could you look for increased balance sheet flexibility by moving towards Tier 2? It's a good question.
At this point in terms of commenting on specific ratings it would probably be inappropriate for me to do that right now.
I've -- we've shared with you what our plans are and what our leverage roughly looks like.
Beyond that I probably rather not get into it.
I wouldn't necessarily take anything off the table.
A question there.
One back and then you John.
Yes I just wanted to ask you you have an increased budget for advertising.
Just wanted to know which sectors are you targeting? Are you moving more or less towards the Internet print or TV? And also do you have any hand in the Olympics with your Gatorade drinks and so forth? I mean the advertising spending is broad-based.
As Al mentioned it's a 360 degree activation.
So each of those elements you talked about will get an increase in advertising spending.
And no we are not in the Olympics.
We were the proud sponsors of the NFL and the outstanding Super Bowl we just witnessed where we had phenomenal results with our advertising campaign.
And that's what we're doing.
And I would not say we're not in the Olympics but we have 3 substantial campaigns this summer.
One on Gatorade one on Pepsi and Mountain Dew.
Yes John? So you talked about one of the targets that you are going to keep for 2012.
You had those targets when you talked about the bottom the page.
One of them was value share growth.
So going back to Dara's  Question I guess historically advertising takes a little bit of time to seed.
And so can you talk about what you see as the key drivers of those values -- of that value share growth? So advertising takes a little time seed the innovation is a little back-end loaded.
Taking less price relative to raw material inflation sounds like we could actually see price gaps widening from that standpoint.
So how much of that short-term value share growth do you think comes from potentially widening of price point gaps? Hugh? John from that standpoint we -- and let me focus more on North America because that's sort of the more logical area of emphasis.
We really did get our pricing in place in the fourth quarter particularly in the Beverage business.
And we were comfortable with where we are right now and I think we’d expect to see that stay roughly where it is right now.
Any other question this time? Yes go ahead Damian.
Inc.</strong> Indra just a 2-part question.
On -- just give us your global perspective in terms of what's happening around the globe currently what do you think of each market in terms of is it getting better or worse? And then I don't know if I missed it but if I look at your goal for Good-for-You the $30 billion by 2020 is that still a target? And since you sort of said no big acquisitions do you think that you can still get there with organic or mostly organic growth? I'm going to answer that question and then what I'm going to do Damian is give you a gift.
I'm going to have Saad Zein talk about their regions and then I'm going to have John and Al talk about Latin America because they also cover Latin America.
Currently our Good-for-You portfolio is about $14 billion in PepsiCo.
That market category is growing between 89% globally.
If we just keep growing at that rate between now and 2020 we will be a $30 billion business.
So we don't need any extraordinary intervention to grow that business.
What we need to do is to invest to grow in those markets we are in and go into new markets with just our Quaker Tropicana Gatorade and where appropriate our Naked Juice brands.
So we're not looking at any dramatic expansion through acquisitions at this point.
So let me turn -- Zein let me turn it to you to talk about what you're seeing in Europe especially Western Europe Eastern Europe Southern.
Give us your perspective.
Yes well I mean clearly you all read the news.
Europe is going through a lot of challenges.
And you almost see either issues unfold by the week or some issues just repeat by the week.
One of the I think wonderful things about our business in Europe is it's very finely balanced between the East and the West.
We're pretty evenly split between the emerging markets of Europe and the developed markets of Europe.
And what that tends to do for us is in good times allows us to accelerate growth and move ahead of the pack.
And obviously in more challenging times when the developed markets tend to be more stable it allows us to hedge against the challenges.
So even in a very difficult year like 2011 we still delivered very very solid top line growth.
I would say looking back 2011 obviously the developed markets are more stable and performed better.
Russia had a particular challenge.
You’ll have heard that from many food and beverage companies from many FMCG companies not so much drive by their economy where they actually had good GDP growth but much more driven by the excessive inflation in the country because they suffered both from the global inflation but also particularly in Russia a very severe crop shortage in 2010 as a result of a very hot summer that played out into basic commodities hurt consumers really in terms of their basic basic purchases.
And you saw a decline in disposable incomes.
Now we do see that normalizing in Russia and we do see the market coming back.
And we will see a stronger performance in Russia in 2012.
Now again having said that we're very pleased with the top line performance around Russia growing double digits in 2011.
And again the wonderful hedging of that business across the multiple categories in which we compete.
Following the Wimm-Bill-Dann acquisition and the integration we're nearly 12 months into that now and the integration of it into our business.
I can tell you we've gone in 12 months from essentially serving consumers between about 12:00 midday to about 6:00 in the evening.
They're now serving them from the moment they wake up to actually the moment before they go to sleep.
And the traditional drink in Russia before you go to bed is a glass of Kefir which is a fermented yogurt drink.
It's a digestive.
It helps you sleep and that's actually one of the fastest-growing beverage categories.
When you talk about snacking and we all tend to think about nutrition versus Fun-for-You well one of the fastest-growing snacking areas in many of these emerging markets is as the meals deconstruct and as people move from formal breakfast at home before they leave home to needing that midmorning snack or that second breakfast.
And again products like value-added dairy play very very strongly in that segment.
So yes I mean a challenging macroeconomic picture in Europe challenging consumer picture.
But we've always I think said to you that the good news is people have to eat and drink.
The really good news is we have a balanced portfolio both geographically and in terms of the categories and the consumer needs and occasions that we service.
Saad? Yes.
Well EMEA is a vast territory as you know and I have three-quarters of the world's population and...
Then we want 3 quarters of the profits of the company come from your group.
We're working towards that.
I'll tell you we called engine for growth for PepsiCo for a reason.
First of all the economies are growing where China and India they're growing at high single-digits GDP.
The population is young and the per capita consumption of both snacks and beverages is a fraction of the developed world.
So we have a huge runway to grow in both businesses and we are poised to capture that growth.
We have outstanding businesses in beverages and in snacks and I'll just tour around the area with you area by area.
So if we take the Middle East we are the overwhelming choice of consumers there in beverages and in snacks.
But that's been happening lately in the Middle East while it would set us back a little bit for a year or 2.
However for the long term it's great because it will bring a lot of transparency and governance and it will bring a lot of employment at greater stage to our businesses.
And we are very well positioned to capture that growth.
India has been great.
We have fantastic businesses in beverages and in snacks.
In fact in 2011 we out grew our competitor by 6 7 factor points in LRB.
Our snacks business is -- close to 100 000 tons [ph] and then doing great.
And we're capturing all the growth of the GDP.
It slowed a little bit down but not at the level that really worried us.
There is a lot of consumers coming in with purchasing power into that as in China.
In China our snacks business is doing great.
We are growing in high high teens.
And in the beverages when the government approves the alliance with Tingyi we have really set our beverage business on sustainable growth path.
As I said earlier we’re aligned with the #1 tea and the #1 water.
We're the #1 cola and #1 flavor.
So coming together we put that business on a trajectory to growth.
And with snacks it's a very fragmented market.
And we are very well poised with the capability of people that we have there to grow.
Asia-Pacific is the mixture of countries there we have developed such as Australia.
Like the other developed world there have seen some challenges there but we are managing these challenges and actually we are growing on the snacks business.
And we have a lot of emerging markets that we are doing extremely well such as Vietnam where actually we are the choice of consumer there for both snacks and beverages.
Pakistan which is part of the Asia-Pacific there is also growing.
So overall we have the great businesses in foods and beverages.
The economies are growing.
The population is young and we are very well poised to capture that growth for the future.
John can you talk about Latin America but stay with the macroeconomic...
Yes Latin America remains 3% to 4% GDP growth.
Obviously that's driven by Mexico and Brazil.
Mexico for the year was around 3%.
Brazil slowed some but I think as you look forward you've got to believe that that economy is going to continue to grow 4% 5% maybe 6% going forward with the Olympics and the World Cup coming there.
And our business collectively grew volume about 5% during the year so strong.
And in Brazil our snack business was up 8% and I think it's -- to Indra's point about the dis-synergies of the 2 it's one of our best markets with the Power of One where we leverage the Frito-Lay's system to distribute many of the beverage brands.
So very optimistic about Latin America.
Yes? Research Division</strong> Indra 2 questions.
One I didn't hear a lot about mix on a consolidated basis.
I think you touched on the fact that emerging markets are in negative to mix but if you're no longer doing as much M&amp;A I would assume that's no longer going to be as much of a drag.
And if you're focusing on the top 12 global brands I assume they typically have a higher-than-average mix benefit.
So maybe you could touch on those and then I'll follow up.
Yes.
Mix I think our expectations again depends on how the economies evolve Eric.
But right now emerging markets -- emerging and developing markets about 35% of the revenue of PepsiCo.
We think it'll get to 50% by the end of the decade okay.
That's the range.
And it takes that long only because our developed markets business is also growing okay.
So that's how we think it will evolve.
The good news is in emerging and developing markets once they get to a certain scale their margins escalate quite fast.
The best example is Sabritas in Mexico.
It's a developing market.
But if you look at the margins we get in our Sabritas business it's very attractive.
And so because we have scale we are the largest salty-snack player there.
So I think it's a couple of dynamics.
One we'll keep moving the emerging and developing markets up get it to half-and-half and there should be even more skewed to emerging and developing markets based on the world population.
But let's start with 50-50.
And then hopefully sometime around 2015 the profit acceleration from emerging markets will start picking up even more because the investments to build scale now are returns from the scale investments.
So I hope that change will happen.
Research Division</strong> And then in looking at that 4-quad grid that you put up so basically in the top left quadrant it was 74% to the business and the other 26% had issues one way or the other.
And I'm kind of wanting to think about that like -- or how should we think about that relative to the Power of One? Because it seem like the top-left quadrant was what really benefited from Power of One whereas the others were more difficult to kind of see where that -- where the benefit comes in there.
And then to the extent that you get a 1% lift from the Power of One quantified I guess is like $120 million in sales I mean you're talking relative to a business that's got $60 billion $70 billion of sales.
So how is that like incremental? So Eric the Power of One increment we're talking about in North America all right that number was a North American coincidence number increasing about 1%.
Believe me our normal businesses grow.
Frito-Lay grows North American beverage grows.
Over and above that if we can get an additional $120 million sales 2 or 3 points from that in North America that's a bonanza.
I mean to get $300 million $400 million from an over-the-top co-merchandising activity co-promotion activity is gigantic for an overall food and beverage business market that's not growing as robustly as it used to grow.
I have looked at the portfolio differently.
I actually -- when putting it together I looked at it very carefully the businesses on the lower-left quadrant okay some of the emerging market snack businesses they're only there because we don't have the scale as yet.
They're going to use the Beverage business to plus up their scale.
They'll quickly move into the top-left quadrant okay.
But we need to make sure that we manage that business to drive the growth make sure that we leverage the Beverage business to drive the growth get the right people and we have to do that.
That's why we put it there honestly.
The -- some of the emerging market Beverage business we've done the Pareto.
We have looked at each of these businesses and said "Do we have an operational line of sight to get to the top quadrant or do we have to consider structural option that is refranchising into a well-capitalized bottler who has a reason to refranchised?" And let me speak to that a little bit.
In the past one of the mistakes we made as a company I'll go back when we gave Mexico Russia to PBG all right we gave it to them because we felt they needed a growth market.
Well one of the big lessons Eric was that you give a growth market which is not the whole market to a bottler only they have reason to combine with something else they have and get scale.
You just don't throw a growth markets to them okay.
And that's why the whole international experiment of PBG wasn't wildly successful.
So when we think about refranchising some of these emerging market Beverage businesses we have to find a bottler who has other businesses so that they can leverage the scale like AmBev in Brazil was a great example.
And we have partners like that in Asia-Pacific.
I look at our Japanese bottlers who are absolute terrific partners taking them to other parts of Asia-Pacific.
I think there are lots of opportunities there to think about how to move emerging market Beverage businesses to the top box.
The biggest elephant there is North American DSD in that bottom box.
If commodity inflation wasn't prevalent we wouldn't have put it in that bottom box because margins for that business normally are in the teens.
It shouldn't have been a problem at all.
And then we bought the bottlers back I mean we were thrilled at the synergies and what we can do.
What we need to navigate through now is how do you manage a Beverage business which is not growing too much but not a commodity inflation? How do you reset that whole business? And if you can't reset it through a technology breakthrough through a different way of operating it through innovation through brand building then you have to think about structural options.
And that's what we're going through.
So what I would suggest is just focus on the percentage of profitability from North American DSD beverage that belongs in that box.
The rest of it will take care of itself because of the growth and the way we are managing it today okay.
Caroline I think we have to shut it down but one last question.
Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> This is just for Al.
Make it a good one.
Research Division</strong> It will be -- well a good 2 for Al or maybe both for Al.
On feet on the street you've got a lot of layoffs coming.
How do you feel about the capability of the Pepsi system right now? Do you need more people rather than less? And the other is do you think you should be doing more targeted Hispanic marketing given the growth rate in consumption of beverages by that consumer group? Now those are good questions.
I -- let me just say with the layoffs that will occur at Pepsi North America very few will be at the front line.
Most will be focused on middle and above management.
So I'm not worried about this feet on the street.
But as time goes on there are a few gaps in service and those are being taken care of I believe in customer service just like at the Frito-Lay system.
So I feel very good where we are there.
On the Hispanic opportunity I think probably more than 60% of the growth in the category is going to come from the Hispanic consumer and I have seen some estimates that are quite a bit higher than that.
And this whole local campaign that we're putting together in our local region markets very focused on that as opportunities come up in the Texas Florida California market.
And actually that opportunity is becoming bigger in almost every city not just in those Southwest cities that we typically talk about.
Thank you Caroline.
So let me just close by saying thank you again to all of you for coming to our meeting this morning and thank you for your attention over the past couple of hours.
We look forward to seeing a lot of you over the next few weeks and certainly reconnecting with all of you at CAGNY later this month.
But as you leave I just want you to take a picture of PepsiCo back with you.
$66 billion of revenue 16% operating margin 17% net return on invested capital 31% return on equity a prolific cash generator and a company with 22 brands each one generating over $1 billion in retail sales and a company with terrific people and great growth prospects.
So with that thank you for your time and hope to reconnect with you soon.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thanks Jackie.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
Indra will lead off today's call with a review of our overall performance.
Hugh will cover the financials and our balance of your outlook and then we'll move on to Q&amp;A.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2012 guidance based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to revenue EPS growth and division and total operating profit are on a core basis.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results please refer to the Investors section of PepsiCo's website under the Investor Presentations tab.
And now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results came in right in line with our expectations.
The major economies we do business in consumer behavior the competitive landscape and commodities were all in line with our assumptions.
Our focus this quarter was first and foremost to make sure we got our pricing into the market and we are pleased with the level of pricing we achieved across each of our businesses.
In addition it was important to gain traction on the brand building innovation execution and productivity initiatives we communicated to you at our Investor Meeting on February 9 and we made good progress on each of these with momentum building as we enter the second quarter.
Before I discuss our progress on these initiatives though let me quickly review the financial highlights for Q1.
Our financial results were right in line with our expectations.
Core EPS was $0.69.
Net revenue grew 4% and was up 5% on a constant-currency basis and reflected strong price/mix across all of our businesses.
Globally price/mix was up 5.5% and this pricing helped to offset the impact of about $300 million in commodity cost inflation.
We had revenue gains across each of our 4 business units on an organic basis.
Global snacks revenue grew.
Global beverage revenue grew.
And in our nutrition portfolio which is a subset of global snacks and global beverages we saw a 10% revenue growth.
Emerging markets revenue growth was particularly strong up 13% on a constant-currency basis led by strong double-digit organic revenue growth of 21% in India 13% in Brazil 33% in Saudi Arabia and 26% in Egypt just to name a few.
And division operating profit declined 2% again in line with our expectations and a solid result given the magnitude of the commodity cost inflation we absorbed in this quarter.
Hugh will take you through the financials and outlook in a few minutes.
But overall our Q1 results are encouraging and indicated we're off to a good start and on track to deliver our full year financial targets.
So let me now turn to the progress we're making on our key initiatives for the year.
We're focused on 5 big areas: brand building innovation execution productivity and driving cash returns.
So let me walk you through each.
On brand building when we met with you on February 9 we said we would do 3 things.
First increase our investment in advertising and marketing from 5.2% to 5.7% of revenue this year shift more of our spending from nonworking to working dollars and focus our A&amp;M investments against our 12 global mega brands to drive greater scale and impact with our spending.
And I'm pleased to report that we made good progress on all of these initiatives.
We significantly stepped up our media in key markets in Q1.
For example in the U.S.
alone our media spending was up 25% and for the full year we expect to achieve our targeted level of incremental investment.
We're also being much more productive with our so-called nonworking dollars which is an incremental source of funding for stepped-up media investment.
One of the major drivers of this productivity is the rationalization of our agency partner relationships.
In North American beverages for example we've reduced the number of partners from roughly 150 in 2011 to about 50 today.
And this rationalization is also driving better alignment in our brand messaging and marketing execution.
As we execute our brand-building initiatives our expectation is to see our brand equity scores strengthen over the course of the year building off of a solid base.
And this should begin to translate to incremental top line benefits later this year and into 2013.
We'll share with you our brand equity scorecard results during the second quarter earnings call this year.
Our second focus area is innovation where our goal is to double the contribution of our new products to our total net revenue and our Q1 result in this regard are encouraging.
Our innovation is targeted on a specific channel cohort and occasion opportunities with a particular focus on emphasizing our mega brands.
For example Pepsi NEXT which offers a great cola taste with 60% less sugar is off to a good start and initial feedback is that the brand is sourcing volume from other categories consistent with our objective of bringing back lapsed cola users.
And while it's very early the results are ahead of our launch expectations and we've already achieved nearly one value share point.
Packaging innovation plays an important role in our innovation plans as well and we've made good progress in this area.
We're encouraged about the national launch of our differentiated 24-ounce can for regular and diet Dew and this is showing positive customer and consumer responses in tests.
We believe this product plays well to young males who are loyal Dew consumers.
Building off the success of the Brisk 1-liter package we launched the Brisk iced tea gallon jug in 4 flavors in Q1 and the launch is off to a good start.
In the first 12 weeks Brisk jug achieved almost 2.5 points of volume share of ready-to-drink tea in grocery and drove total Brisk brand volume growth of 14% across all channels in the United States.
We're also accelerating our premium innovation to drive higher net price realization and we're increasing focus on opportunities at the value end of the spectrum to capture incremental sales and keep value-oriented consumers engaged in our categories.
For example on the premium end Quaker Medleys offered in a convenient single-serve bowl allows consumers to have a premium breakfast anywhere there's hot water or a microwave.
It's made from a premium blend of hearty rolled oats and whole grains with tasty chunks of real fruits and nuts.
Medleys targets busy adults who are seeking healthy choices that will set them up for a successful day.
The other example is Stacy's gingerbread and Stacy's cocoa which deliver a differentiated snacking experience by providing seasonally relevant flavors to consumers.
And Stacy's pita crisps will attract new consumers to the Stacy's franchise.
In the more value-oriented offerings Lay's Stax delivers a great tasting stacked potato chip at value price points.
Stax grew net revenue 13% in the quarter and gained 2 points of value share in the stacked potato chips category and we expect to see continued momentum as we launch new Hispanic-inspired flavors in Q3.
And we're launching Taqueros in the U.S.
which is a value-oriented indulgent thick and hearty potato chip that addresses the Hispanic meal occasions.
We're also accelerating our ability to lift and shift platforms and products around the globe.
For example we continue to leverage the success of our Do Us A Flavor campaign that originated in our Walkers business in the U.K.
The program promotes consumer engagement by having consumers propose new flavors that are then voted online with the winners being launched as new products.
We've successfully expanded this concept to markets as varied as Holland Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
And we continue to expand our Quaker business globally.
For example in Australia we launched a range of new products including Hot Oats and healthy bars and cookies under the Quaker trademark.
And in Russia we're using our extensive oats expertise to provide healthier offerings by launching oats-based products under the locally relevant Wimm-Bill-Dann's Chudo trademark.
Our Quaker efforts are delivering solid results overall with double-digit revenue growth in markets like the U.K.
and China.
And finally we're leveraging our big brands into new product platforms giving us access to incremental cohort and channel opportunities.
For instance with Doritos we've launched Doritos JACKED the ultimate extreme snack that recently debuted at the South by Southwest Festival.
JACKED is everything consumers love about Doritos only jacked up for a bigger experience.
It's 40% larger in size and thickness and offered in Enchilada Supreme and Smoky Chipotle Barbecue flavors and it's supported by absolutely great advertising.
Doritos Dinamitas offers consumers everything they love about Doritos rolled in a taquito-like shape with explosive flavor.
And we built upon our beverage relationship with Taco Bell to jointly launch Doritos Locos Tacos.
Doritos Locos Tacos was introduced nationally on March 8 with approximately $60 million in media support from Taco Bell.
Over 60 million units have been sold to date which is over 1.5 million tacos per day.
Already new line extensions are underway to build on the success of this partnership.
So on innovation we had a good level of new product innovation that began to launch in Q1 and you should expect to see the pace of innovation accelerate as we move through the year with great new products across the full spectrum of our portfolio in both snacks and beverages globally.
Now let me turn to execution.
We're measuring and driving execution across every element of the value chain to increase efficiency quality and service to best-in-class levels and we're seeing good results across our functions and businesses.
For example our sales organization just gained Family Dollar as a new partner for our beverage business opening up more than 7 000 new points of distribution for our products in North America.
And the Papa John's conversion was one of our fastest ever with 3 000 outlets converted to PepsiCo products in 3 weeks.
Overall our sales organizations drove 6% growth in food service with gains of 4 500 new local food service accounts in Q1.
We're seeing strong execution in our DSD systems.
For example in our launch of Pepsi NEXT in the United States we achieved over 90% ACV distribution in GDMx in 3 weeks which is truly great execution.
And our DSD system is driving terrific results in the C-store channel in North America.
Our net revenue across snacks and beverages was up 8% in the Convenience channel in Q1 and we were the #1 contributor to the C-store channel's entire growth in the United States.
And the final example I'll point to on execution is on our integration of Wimm-Bill-Dann.
We've achieved higher-than-planned synergies ahead of schedule and virtually all Wimm-Bill-Dann functions have been fully integrated with our One Russia operating model within the first year of the acquisition.
So that's on execution.
Let me turn to productivity.
As we shared with you in early February we're targeting more than $1 billion in productivity this year and $3 billion in total over the next 3 years which includes the restructuring program we announced early this year and other productivity initiatives.
Our productivity programs of 2012 are locked in and we are very confident in delivering the targeted savings.
We've made substantial progress against our productivity plans in the first quarter.
Because most of the restructuring actions began in mid-Q1 the financial benefits of the restructuring will accelerate in Q2 and as we move through the year.
In addition to the restructuring program we've also accelerated other productivity initiatives.
We're driving hard against reducing the capital intensity of our business and we are already seeing results in reduced capital spending.
We're implementing programs like GES in Frito-Lay to improve the efficiency of our product distribution and we're increasing automation in our plants to drive higher labor productivity.
Finally we're doing a better job leveraging global capability and know-how.
By sharing best practices and implementing best-in-class processes we're improving the operating performance of each of our businesses.
So we're encouraged by the pace and progress of our productivity plans.
Then we're taking steps to drive higher returns on our invested capital and cash returns to shareholders.
We reduced our net capital spending in Q1 by $122 million and reduced our net CapEx as a percentage of sales over the last 4 quarters by 80 basis points.
We're achieving this both by driving higher utilization of our assets and by reducing the cost of replacement in growth capacity through value engineering and through enhanced global procurement management.
And we remain committed to returning cash to our shareholders.
In the first quarter we returned almost $1 billion in cash to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and we expect to return more than $6 billion for the full year an increase of approximately 12%.
Our dividend will increase again this year with the June payment making this our 40th consecutive year of dividend per share increases.
To recap we're focused on brand building innovation execution productivity and cash returns.
We've made good progress in Q1.
We expect momentum to build as the year progresses and we are confident in achieving our 2012 goals in these areas.
Finally let me comment on the alliance with Tingyi that we announced on March 31 after the end of our Q1.
The PepsiCo-Tingyi beverage system will provide Chinese consumers with some of the country's most popular beverage products including Pepsi China's top-selling cola; Mirinda China's top-selling flavored carbonated soft drink; Gatorade one of China's top-selling sports drinks; China's top-selling tea and water brands sold under the Tingyi's Master Kong brand; and China's second-largest juice portfolio.
Overall this combination has created the #1 LRB manufacturing network in China by a wide margin and relative market volume share of 1.6x the next largest competitor's position.
In addition to creating this terrific combined brand portfolio we also expect that this alliance will allow us to do the following: bring innovative new products to market faster; improve operating efficiency and reduce costs by combining local and global expertise in manufacturing and distribution; provide better service to PepsiCo's retail and food service customers in China through Tingyi's superior distribution expertise and network; support new opportunities to develop local economies in interior and western China; and significantly accelerate the national distribution of PepsiCo's brands in a capital-efficient way using Tingyi's extensive manufacturing and distribution network.
We are absolutely delighted to have established this partnership with Tingyi.
Both Tingyi and PepsiCo have a long history of successful partnerships with other companies and we believe this alliance will significantly enhance our beverage business in China in the near term while maximizing our future potential in the second largest and one of the fastest-growing beverage markets in the world.
And our Q2 will be the transition quarter for our China beverage business and we expect to see the benefits of this alliance accelerate in the second half.
The integration is well underway and progressing very nicely and we look forward to updating you in our progress with the China beverage business.
So with that let me turn the call over to Hugh Johnston.
Hugh? Great.
Thanks Indra and good morning everyone.
As Indra mentioned the quarter came in in line with what we expected.
Reported net revenue was up 4%.
Constant currency net revenue increased 5%.
Net revenue included a 1 point FX drag and less than a point of M&amp;A benefit with the net revenue contribution from Wimm-Bill-Dann largely offset by the refranchising in Mexico where we no longer consolidate bottling revenue.
We realized 5.5 percentage points of effective net pricing with increases across each of our divisions.
Core gross margins were down 218 basis points driven by higher commodity costs in the quarter and core division operating margins were down by 91 basis points with productivity and SG&amp;A helping to offset a substantial portion of the commodity inflation.
All-in this resulted in a 2% decline in core division operating profit and a 1% decline excluding a 1-point drag from currency in line with our expectations.
Core corporate unallocated expenses increased in the quarter.
There is also a $12 million change in corporate unallocated expenses related to our mark-to-market of deferred compensation balances but this is offset by a credit of roughly the same amount in net interest expense related to our hedges on the deferred compensation balances.
Net interest expense was $175 million in the quarter an increase of $12 million over Q1 of 2011 which is a function of both higher average debt net -- net debt balances and slightly higher rates on our borrowings offset somewhat by the deferred comp credit that I mentioned earlier.
And our core tax rate for the quarter was 26.7% which is 70 basis points higher than the rate of Q1 2011 driven by country mix and the favorable resolution of some tax items in Q1 of last year.
So in total below-the-line items mainly corporate expenses interest and tax rate drove 5 points of deleverage from our core constant-currency division operating profit decline of 1% to our core constant-currency EPS decline of 6%.
Turning to our outlook.
Consistent with the outlook we shared on February 9 we expect our core constant-currency EPS to decline roughly 5% for the year.
We anticipate continued strong effective net pricing which will contribute to net revenue growth but will likely negatively impact volumes.
We expect continued commodity cost pressures.
Our estimate of approximately $1.5 billion of commodity inflation for the full year which is about a 7% increase year-on-year.
We expect that the rate of inflation in Q1 will be the highest of the year with the rate of inflation abating somewhat each quarter as we work our way through the year.
We anticipate productivity of more than $1 billion this year which represents a substantial increase versus our historical productivity target.
The incremental productivity is largely driven by the restructuring program that we announced on February 9.
The majority of the restructuring actions took place in the first quarter and we expect the remainder will take place over the course of this year so the productivity benefits will accelerate as we move through the year.
We're investing more in A&amp;M this year to support our brands and we're making incremental marketplace investments in routes and racks.
We expect A&amp;M as a percent of sales to increase by approximately 50 basis points on a full year basis.
We began to put more media in the market in quarter 1 but the impact of the A&amp;M expense in the P&amp;L will be more pronounced in the back half based on how the accounting curve of the expense works.
Below the division operating profit line we expect an increase in corporate unallocated expenses reflecting higher pension costs related to the change in the discount rate and investments in productivity capability.
Net interest expense is expected to be higher driven by higher net debt balances as -- and higher rates as we term out some of our debt.
And we expect our core tax rate to be approximately 27% for the full year but with some variability each quarter.
Based on current ForEx market consensus currency translation would have approximately 2 points unfavorable impact on our full year core EPS.
As you model out the year you should be mindful of 3 structural changes in particular.
First we refranchised our Mexican beverage business early in Q4 of 2011.
Second we adjusted our ownership in our joint venture with Almarai such that we are now in the minority.
And third we entered our alliance with Tingyi which closed on March 31.
In each of these transactions the accounting result is that we will no longer consolidate a substantial portion of the revenue.
Including the impact of these transactions we expect our core constant-currency net revenue growth to be in the low-single digits.
Excluding the impact we expect our core constant-currency net revenue growth to be mid-single digits which is exactly what we communicated on February 9.
As we report out the remaining quarters we'll provide visibility into the impacts of these structural changes.
From a cash flow standpoint reported cash used for operating activities was $690 million which includes a $1 billion discretionary pension and retiree medical contribution.
Net CapEx was down $122 million and down 80 basis points as a percentage of sales on a rolling 4 quarters basis.
Management operating cash flow excluding certain items was $79 million which is a slight increase versus Q1 of 2011.
We returned about $1 billion to shareholders in Q1 through dividends of $816 million and share repurchases of $142 million.
For the full year we expect to generate more than $6 billion in management operating cash flow excluding certain items and return more than $6 billion in dividends and share repurchases including our previously announced increase in our quarterly dividend that will take effect with our June dividend payment.
Net-net the quarter came in pretty well exactly as we expected.
The pricing picture was positive and our outlook for the year for earnings cash flow and cash returns is completely consistent with what we shared with you on February 9.
And now we'll open the line for your questions.
Thanks Hugh.
Jackie we'll take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Bill Pecoriello with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> A question on Frito-Lay.
One was the -- you talked a lot about the initiatives on the premium and value side.
When do you expect to see that begin to impact the share trends? What do you estimate the volume and value share did in Q1? And then on the profit performance in the quarter at Frito was that 2% profit growth also impacted by that New Year shift that you quantified on the volumes there? So Bill P3 P4 we're already beginning to see share start to come back.
In fact if you look at the IRI data that's coming out today you're already beginning to see Frito share improve steadily.
I think the most important thing what we told all our businesses focus on getting the pricing into the marketplace first and then we can start slowly figuring out the revenue management to make sure there's a good balance.
But we had to get the pricing in as early as possible and Frito did exactly what's needed to get done to cover commodity cost inflation.
And in terms of the impact on profitability for sure the 53rd week had an impact on volume revenue and profitability.
Yes.
Bill I think what you can extrapolate from that is we said the volume impact was about 2 points.
I think you would put the profit impact in a roughly similar place.
So the 2 points they did would be closer to 4.
And remember this is the heaviest of the commodity impact for Frito-Lay in Q1.
So as we get through the year the commodity impact on Frito-Lay will be less impactful.
So that's kind of tying back to where you would expect Frito-Lay to be roughly normally.
LLC</strong> And then the improved share performance that you're seeing now is that coming from the initiatives on the premium and value side or is it on all the core innovation in the mainstream segment? I think it's coming from all 3 Bill.
Bill you're going to -- as Indra said you're going to steadily see those things impact positively during the course of the year both core as well as the new products.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In looking at your commentary on the North American beverage industry you talked about sort of maintaining share in LRBs which at least from a reported results standpoint we're not seeing.
So a couple of questions on that in terms of can you talk to us about what you're seeing that maybe not -- may not be showing up in the reported results? And then similar to what you talked about with the Frito piece how should we judge your momentum in terms of market share as we go through the year? So John in Q1 x 53rd week if you look at like-for-like Q1 in measured channels GDMxC which is really what we see from an IRI perspective we gained 1/10 of value share.
And we have to use measured data because that's an objective data set that we can measure ourselves by.
Now when we talk about additional investment and changing the innovation model and really recommitting to this business in a different way the results come steadily and over the year as we talked to you early in February.
What was very encouraging was in the first quarter we began to see positive results.
And if you look at the P4 IRI data one more time in GDMxC we gained value share.
So on North American beverages we look at those numbers and we say it's making great progress.
I think the other aspect of the share numbers that made us very encouraged about the progress on the business was the co-channel value share.
And we've made tremendous progress in that whole co-channel business which is really the best part of the whole beverage business and we feel good about the progress we've made there and the successes we've had in the co-channel business.
And Frito-Lay ditto.
Period 1 period 2 we put the pricing into place.
Started end of last year we put it into place.
And today's IRI data period 4 IRI data is beginning to show the positive momentum from all of our initiatives.
So as Hugh mentioned in his opening comments and I did in my opening comments as the year progresses quarter-by-quarter you'll start seeing the business strengthen.
And we're really watching for the steady improvement in the business as the year goes on and make sure we do it the right way not try to jerk the business around by pushing for volume in one quarter and trying to do something else in another quarter but steadily build the brands steadily build the business and focus on value share in the measured channels in North America because that's the only objective measure that exists.
Research Division</strong> If I can ask a follow-up on the cold drink stuff.
So we've seen strength from other manufacturers in convenience and gas and a lot of it's been pricing driven.
I guess -- so 2 follow-ups here.
The first would be can you talk about units versus pricing in convenience and gas? And then secondly can you sort of try and give us an idea how much weather has been a positive impact versus gas prices being a negative impact? If you have some thoughts on that.
I think that weather versus gas prices have netted out John.
I mean the convenience channel has been pretty strong in the first quarter and we are I’d say cautiously optimistic on the outlook for the convenience channel.
And in terms of units versus pricing we don't have the numbers right now off the top of our head.
But Jamie or somebody will make sure that we get back to all of you on this question.
Yes.
John the thing I would say is that we're seeing both price and feeling good about volume as well.
Obviously in a world where everyone's trying to interpret what's going on with the economy generally certainly the convenience channel and the way it's held up well bodes well for both economic signals but also for our business.
So we certainly feel good both in terms of volume but we feel good competitively as well as to what's going on in that channel.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get your perspective on the pricing environment in the U.S.
CSD category and your confidence that price increases will hold here as we head into the summer.
Yes.
Dara why don't I jump in on that one? What we've seen in the pricing environment is all of the players in the industry being very steady about pricing.
Haven't seen a whole lot of discounting.
Occasionally though a skirmish will pop up in the drug channel or something like that.
But the broad indications are that the pricing that we saw in Q1 continues to stick.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Europe segment.
And I was surprised by how weak the margins were in the first quarter and understand I guess there's some -- an accrual or a reversal on the trade receivables.
But is there something else that's going -- that was specific to the first quarter that drove the profitability so low and the margins so low sequentially? And if you can talk a little bit about maybe the outlook there just in terms of the profitability in Europe.
Yes.
So in terms of generally how Europe came in Bryan it was very much in line with our expectations and plans.
There's a couple of factors to consider in that regard.
Number one the trade accrual fall out and fall in year-over-year.
In the context of full year it was relatively nominal.
But in a 2-month quarter and in a business where the profitability is obviously quite low in the first quarter I think it was $81 million in Europe for the quarter it's -- it has market impacts relative to the impact on the year.
Relative to margins the other thing to consider is in last year's numbers we only had Wimm-Bill-Dann for 1 out of the 2 months.
And we only owned 77% of the business for that one month and Wimm-Bill-Dann obviously is a lower-margin business.
So that certainly presented something of a drag for the quarter.
But we obviously don't give guidance on a sector-level basis.
But even in the environment that's as weak as it is in Europe I think we've got to plan for it correctly and it's certainly trending in line with our expectations.
Bryan the other thing I'd tell you is even the team would tell you that first quarter is a small quarter as Hugh said only 2 periods.
But as we go into P3 P4 the business is looking good and very much in line with what we expected.
And the Russia business in particular looking very very good.
I mean we did great on CSD share and the way we are re-architecting the juice business to be more disciplined about pricing not chase volume at any cost and build the whole profitability of the business.
The team is doing an absolutely superb job and the Wimm-Bill-Dann dairy business is doing exceedingly well.
So we're looking at the overall Europe business and feeling good about how our team is managing through what I would characterize as a mixed economic environment.
Research Division</strong> Indra if I could just follow up.
One of the things that we've heard through this earnings season has been -- maybe I don't know if improvement but at least at Eastern Europe and Russia especially the consumer may be stabilizing and in some pockets maybe even a little bit better just the macro environment not as depressed or at least not moving in the wrong direction.
Can you comment on that at all? Is that -- have you seen any -- broadly any stabilization or any signs of improvement in that region of the world? No I'd say that region of the world is looking good.
And as we looked at upping our investment in Russia a year ago the fundamentals of that region of the world are good because you've got huge oil reserves in Russia.
You've got a well-managed economy on many economic fronts.
And so we look at that part of the world and say the prospects for the whole Russia-CIS-East European cluster if you want to think of that as one cluster is very strong.
And again strong is a relative term but it is good.
And so in this world today where you've got GDPs ranging from negative to sort of high-single digits this Russia-East Europe cluster is looking like a solid 2% to 4% GDP growth.
That's very good today and we're feeling good.
Bryan one comment I'd add to Indra's comments as well.
In Eastern Europe and Russia we've probably got the broadest portfolio that we have anywhere in the company.
And one of the benefits of that is when the economy is a little bit tougher we have products that sell well.
When the economy is going well we have premium products that tend to sell well.
So we certainly feel good about the way that we've positioned ourselves strategically in that area.
And the Power of One helps us enormously there because we can flex the distribution systems.
We can load up the trucks with products that cube out weight out.
I think the Russia-East Europe-CIS cluster is probably our best example of Power of One and that's what's working so well right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you speak a little more specifically on how Mountain Dew and Pepsi did in the quarter? And I believe the 24-ounce launch is in progress.
If you could maybe just talk about how we should think about that.
Yes.
So Mountain Dew had a terrific quarter I mean feel great about where that brand is and we obviously have -- had new products coming out against that.
The 24-ounce can for regular and diet Dew is going along very very well.
It's -- it looks like a real premium innovation that's going to create incremental revenue and margin for us.
The Pepsi business is going to steadily improve over the course of the year.
A couple of things to consider in that regard: number one the Pepsi Max business continues to chug along very well; number two Pepsi NEXT as Indra mentioned has really exceeded our expectations coming out of the gate; number three the media that we've significantly increased in the first quarter.
If you watch much TV I'm sure you've seen lots of Pepsi ads out there; and then number four we've got lots of new marketing coming against Pepsi that we'll talk about a little bit later this year.
So I think what you're going to see with Pepsi is just a steady progression and a steady improvement in that business during the course of this year.
And as we exit into 2013 we expect to feel pretty good about it.
Kaumil the other thing is this is a business over the years that has been characterized by price discounting dealing sort of back-and-forth trading share at the margin.
With all the commodity cost increases it was critically important we put in place deliberate increases in pricing and manage this business very steadily and responsibly.
And that's what we've been doing.
So our goal is to look for steady share improvements through the year so that we hold value share in LRB as the year ends and to make sure that we don't do anything silly just to go after any sort of a value gain.
So value share is really our focus.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Maybe -- and thinking about NEXT some innovations have a halo effect on the core others are cannibalistic.
Where would NEXT fall? Interestingly NEXT is sourcing from outside the cola category.
In fact it's even sourcing from outside the CSD category which means that lapsed cola users are coming back into the cola category.
Now I want to make sure that you hear the appropriate caveat.
It's too early to call this brand and say it's a gigantic success.
But what's surprising to us is a few weeks after the launch it's now almost one share point which has not happened in a long time in any new product launch.
So we are watching every metric very very carefully.
And every quarter we'll update you on the progress of Pepsi NEXT.
But it's really bringing back lapsed cola users which is what's surprising.
So not terribly cannibalistic.
Yes.
Not much at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question is just in terms of bridging to the EBIT decline in the first quarter.
I guess I'm just trying to better understand different components.
You've got the commodity inflation.
You've talked about the brand investment.
But maybe if you can just give us a clarity on how much the brand investment step-up occurred in Q1 sort of the allocation by different segments as best as you can.
And just give us clarity on sort of bridging to the EBIT decline and then how some of those components get phased out as we get into the back half of the year.
Yes Judy.
Actually if you go to what we shared with you on a full year basis it was actually pretty consistent with 2 exceptions.
The curbing of the A&amp;M has less impact in Q1 which is what we had shared earlier and that's purely due to the curbing.
We’re being very specific about saying we're going to increase by 50 basis points on A&amp;M during the course of the full year but we curbed that with volume and then you're dealing with the curb of the prior year.
So that had a little bit less of an impact in the quarter.
And then offsetting that as we shared with you at Feb.
9 the commodities had a bigger impact in the quarter relative to the impact of the full year.
Other than that everything else was pretty consistent with what we shared with you in the -- back at the Feb.
9 meeting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Hugh the unallocated corporate expense though just even including the pension step-up just seems like you had a big step-up.
So was there anything going on in that line item? No.
I mean nothing in particular.
Corporate unallocated can be a little bit choppy but there was nothing of note and we indicated what we expect out of that for the year.
So I wouldn't change how you're thinking about that for the year.
There is no big news there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Indra just going back to Frito-Lay.
And you talked about improving share performance in period 3 period 4 and you've talked about some innovation around the premium and the value segments.
But maybe if you just sort of take a step back and look at Frito and maybe including Quaker sort of in the context of the broader macro snacks and you're seeing growth in some of the adjacent categories like snack bars maybe exceeding salty snacks and how are you thinking about positioning Frito and Quaker kind of to really better address the faster-growth adjacent categories? And are you thinking about perhaps focusing on stepping up innovation and spending around that arena? Judy I mean you captured in your recent note what we've been telling all of you for the last couple or 3 years that the growth in all these categories is coming from Fun-for-You Better-for-You and Good-for-You and it's critically important PepsiCo places its bets in all 3.
And let me tell you what our strategy has been and let me refer back to what trends you're seeing in the marketplace.
In the Fun-for-You category there's still growth especially in salty snacks value growth.
And what we have to make sure is increase the permissibility of our Fun-for-You products by reducing the salt levels going to heart-healthy oils.
That is our "health and wellness" push in the Fun-for-You category and we've been doing that over the last few years.
The second leg of the strategy is dialing up our baked snacks whether it's Baked! Lay's whether it's Quaker Lite snacks which is a baked snack making sure we dial that up.
That's what we've been doing.
And the third is really investing behind the Good-for-You snacks because the growth rate of Good-for-You snacking and Good-for-You products across the world is about 2 or 3x that of Fun-for-You and Better-for-You.
And in fact our nutrition business in Q1 grew revenue 10%.
So those categories are growing exceedingly rapidly.
So what we're doing with Quaker -- I mean as the quarter progressed period 3 period 4 the Quaker trends are looking positive.
But using the Quaker trademark we're looking to launch more healthy snacks.
But what we don't want to do is to launch much lower-margin commodity healthy snacks.
We have to play in the value-added healthy snacking.
And what we're looking for is new innovation to play in the value-added healthy snacking a new twist on bars new ways to marry dips with chips so that the dips are very healthy and can provide a great source of a mini meal.
So that's really what we're working on.
For example our Sabra hummus dips are just flying off the shelf.
That's an example of a healthy accompaniment to any snack that you want.
Our Stacy's business is doing very very well.
So I think the name of the game for Frito-Lay is slowly and deliberately building the business rather than jerking the business around to gain short-term share.
And I feel good.
I mean look at the IRI data for this period 4.
You see very nice steady progress across the board.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So a few things.
One is we asked you this back on February 9 at the strategy reset and again at CAGNY about Frito-Lay North America and the growth in margins and the growth in top line.
And I just want to make sure we're -- you're still on the same page in terms of for this year -- despite what we've seen this quarter from margin and from a volume perspective but for this year you're going to be able to price away commodities.
You're going to be able to hold or grow volumes and hold or grow margins.
Is that still the expectation? Yes.
I mean -- yes.
So Ali what we're really focused on is ensuring that we are both getting the pricing through and we will and certainly expect to hold or grow margins.
The volume obviously in Q1 was down 2 but we also said that we saw a negative 2 impact from the 53rd week.
As the innovation gets out the door we certainly expect to see all of the metrics from Q1 improve.
And to focus on value share.
Yes.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So I think that's helpful because I think that's a yes.
That's good that that's still consistent.
Shifting gears a little bit and this is more of a kind of philosophical question and maybe it's just me being confused again but whenever we talk about shares on the beverage business we're always refocused on LRBs versus just CSDs.
You guys consistently talk about LRB shares.
But doesn't that muddy the waters a little bit and isn't that manifested in what we saw this quarter? I mean you had pretty good non-carbs of plus 1 CSD is down 2 and in the end you had a negative 1 in PAB.
So how do you think about that balance internally? I know you're communicating it as an LRB and I understand why but how do you think about that balance internally in funding the non-carbs piece versus the CSD piece? Because you have to be successful in CSDs obviously.
Yes.
So Ali I guess a couple of things.
One we think about the LRB category because we know consumer behavior at the end of the day is such that people cut across LRBs.
It's a repertoire category and it's certainly been that way for a while.
The one thing that we point to as something of an exception in that regard is energy because it's such a unique category from so many dimensions.
In terms of how we manage do we have expectations for CSDs as well as for individual non-carbs and Gatorade and Tropicana and SoBe Life Water and all those things? Yes absolutely we do.
Do we see ourselves in a position where we want to lose large amounts of value share in any of those categories? Certainly not.
We would not want to see that.
But we do have to also recognize and acknowledge the fact that it is a repertoire category.
Certain of the subcategories have more tailwinds than others and certain of them we have better brand positions primarily in non-carbs.
So we're going to look at our funding opportunities based on where we think the best value creation comes from and that value creation includes a recognition of we need to manage value share effectively.
But LRB we do think is the right way to think about it because of the repertoire nature of consumer behavior.
And Ali if I look at overall North American beverage volume if you look at about the 20 billion 8-ounce cases that are sold I've been tracking this industry for a long time it used to be sort of 60-40 carbs non-carbs shifted to 50-50.
It's now shifting the other way.
And so consumer behavior is shifting that's one.
And second the way we look at this business we look at profit per case across each of our categories and we make sure the combination of businesses drives the best profit per case result for us.
And that's what we do in each region of the country by brand and we do that over the year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
But your portfolio is still very much skewed certainly in North America to carbonated.
So you have to win.
You have to be successful in CSDs to win in LRBs.
And it's tough for me I guess to differentiate those 2 somewhat.
Well but I -- I think actually you just made your point and our point which is given CSDs are such a substantial portion of our portfolio we've set out as an objective hold or grow value share.
And we can't allow CSDs to do poorly if we intend to do that.
So I agree with your point.
It's an and game not an or game.
We have to be able to do both.
And Ali key thing is look at CSDs as a whole.
I mean look at LRBs as a whole look at CSDs as a whole because what happens is we start with LRB then we quickly come down to CSD.
Then we quickly come down to colas then we come down to regular colas then we start defining the market too narrowly.
So clearly we look at overall LRB.
And you're right.
To gain -- I mean to hold value share in overall LRB you've got to do well in CSD but CSDs as a whole.
We've got Mountain Dew which is doing very very well.
Parts of the CSD portfolio doing well.
The challenge is to play a deliberate profitable game in the whole CSD category which is really what we're focused on.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That helps a lot.
And just one last one to shift gears.
If you can remind us a little bit more about where the productivity is coming from specifically.
So how much is in North America DSD? How much is just broadly GES or overhead? Just – for you to help us bucket that overall productivity that'd be helpful.
Yes.
So in terms of -- we haven't really broken out the specifics of exactly where the $1 billion-plus money is going to come from.
But certainly you can expect more of it to come from the North American businesses and both the Frito business and the -- or the PAF North American businesses as well as the PAB business in North America.
And then probably the next biggest area where you'll see it come from is Europe.
AMEA will probably be the smallest of the 4 for all of the reasons you might expect.
Ali you know what I feel good about? We've put in place a restructuring program.
We put in place $1 billion productivity program.
We announced it right after the February 9 meeting.
Our teams did a terrific job making sure they delivered on the restructuring program.
And they did it flawlessly and they did it with great sensitivity.
So I'm actually feeling good about how well this was done without disrupting the business.
For our final question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could spend a minute or 2 -- a few minutes here talking about AMEA a little bit more.
Because as you point out in the press release and it's been evident for a while now it's really been a standout region for you even in the more difficult recent years.
Can you speak a little bit -- and markets are a factor here right just the dynamics there.
But when you think about the strategy you've deployed in that market can you speak a little bit to how relevant it is to your efforts to sharing best practices and other aspects of PepsiCo and maybe use that as a platform for talking to this larger subject of learning from each other so to speak within the larger PepsiCo company? Yes Mark great question.
AMEA clearly is riding the wave of GDP growth all of these economies east of the Middle East.
I think what we shouldn't forget is our AMEA business has performed well in spite of all of the geopolitical issues they've had to handle the natural disasters that happened in AMEA.
So we have a resilient AMEA team and a good business in all of AMEA.
So that's the good thing that I'll tell you about AMEA.
Now let me talk about the business model in AMEA.
I think you've got a mix of developed developing and emerging markets in AMEA.
It's a unique region besides the regional and cultural diversity.
You can argue that Japan Australia fall in the developed market Korea all of those countries.
Then you've got parts of the Middle East that are more developing markets.
Then you've got China and India which fall more in the emerging markets category.
So for each of these clusters what we have to do is sit down and think about what model can we take from the proven PepsiCo models adapted for the local countries but then more importantly how can we evolve local models which play to the local cost structure and then bring it back to the developed market.
I'll give you an example.
We opened a value innovation center in India a year ago and what we told them was rather than take our western equipment and our western approaches and cost reduce them start clean sheet of paper in India.
Whether it's a cooler a food service equipment whatever it is start clean sheet of paper and tailor that piece of equipment for the economics of the business in India and then let's see how we can ruggedize it to bring it back to the west.
It reduces the cost base significantly.
The initial results from the value innovation center are very encouraging.
And so I think piece by piece we're looking at AMEA not just as a growth engine for the company for many years because the population of -- the percentage of young people in that part of the world is very very high.
So we have years of growth there.
But we're now looking at it as an innovation source so that we can do reverse innovation bring products and ideas from there at a very different set of economics back to the developed world for the value consumer or for whoever else.
So it's a great learning lab and a growth source.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that's helpful.
And in terms of -- so there's an opportunity there and then of course unlocking is another exercise.
In terms of your ability to unlock that in whatever market might be appropriate or whatever sector might be appropriate whether it's in North America beverage or Latin America snack in terms of unlocking having that organizational capabilities where are you in your opinion in that exercise? We're making progress.
It's a big market.
It's growing changing.
So the journey is never going to end there.
I think the strength of PepsiCo is the Power of One.
Because with snacks and beverages and the fact that we have a diversified portfolio we're able to attract very good talent to our businesses in AMEA and then we're able to give them extremely wide range of experiences move them from beverages to snacks and back and forth.
And people love coming to work for PepsiCo.
I'll be honest with you.
Even people who get recruited out of PepsiCo within 60 days or 6 months are always calling saying "Can I come back?" That's the strength of the company.
So I think our teams there are all local Mark.
I'd say almost no expats.
Everybody there is local.
And so we have the benefit of local knowledge and we have the benefit of getting those people to come to the developed market and transfer some of the knowledge back to us.
So I think AMEA is going to be a growth engine for many many many years.
And our models are going to evolve.
Our partnerships are going to evolve in AMEA.
But we're going to have to play the game for each of those local markets not export our model there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And finally on -- that's helpful.
And finally on China.
You just called out the 500 ml and also of course the Tingyi transaction closed so -- or I guess at the -- shortly after the end of the quarter.
But what -- to what extent was Tingyi a factor? And what did the -- what was the beverage performance there in the quarter and what's going on in that market? The first quarter in AMEA the China volume was impacted because of the 600 ml to 500 ml trade down.
So unit growth was robust but volume growth was impacted.
x China volumes in AMEA grew spectacularly in double digit.
So we had a very good quarter in AMEA.
I think the real benefits of Tingyi you'll start seeing in Q3 because Q2's a transition year -- transition quarter and we want to make sure the business transitions the right way.
We build all the disciplines and really work with our partners in Tingyi to make sure this is a excellent transition to them.
They're a great company incidentally.
But starting Q3 I think you'll start seeing tremendous ramp-up in performance.
So we look at the prospects of this business.
We look at the relative market share that the system is going to have in China which is going to be the second-largest LRB market in the world and we're feeling good at this point.
So in closing Q1 marked good progress against a clear focused game plan that allowed us to compete effectively today and it also positions well for sustainable long-term growth and value creation.
You have my and our entire leadership's commitment that we'll continue to act with great urgency to deliver against our 2012 targets and our strategic objectives.
So let me close by saying thank you to all for joining us and for the confidence you've placed in us with your investment.
Have a great rest of the day.
Thank you.
This concludes PepsiCo's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO as well as a few of our operating executives.
We'll lead off today's call with a review of our second quarter performance and our balance-of-year outlook and then we'll move on to Q&amp;A.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2012 guidance based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with the cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to revenue EPS and division and total operating profit growth are on a core basis.
In addition references to organic results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and beginning with this quarter foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures we use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results please refer to the glossary and other attachment to this morning's earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo's website under the Investor Presentations tab.
And now.
it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thanks Jamie and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter results came in right in line with our expectations.
The major economies we do business in consumer behavior the competitive landscape and commodities were all in line with our assumptions and expectations.
Net revenue in the quarter grew 5% on an organic basis supported by organic net revenue growth in each of our 4 business units.
This is a solid result reflecting balanced revenue management which led to a healthy price mix benefit.
Our organic net revenue growth was 5% year-to-date and we're on track to deliver organic revenue growth of mid-single-digits for full year 2012.
Our organic net revenue growth was ahead of our reported revenue growth owing to structural changes and to the negative impact of translating our international revenues with the strengthened dollar in Q2.
The structural changes included refranchising our bottling operations in Mexico in the fourth quarter of last year and in China with the transaction with Tingyi at the beginning of Q2.
As a consequence of entering into new franchise agreements with our highly capable partners we no longer report bottling revenues in these markets.
From a strategic standpoint these transactions strengthen our operations and are expected to improve our operating margins and key efficiency metrics including revenue and EBIT per employee improve our returns on capital and reduce the capital intensity of PepsiCo's operations in these markets.
Importantly in addition to very solid organic top line growth in the quarter we continue to gain traction on the brand building innovation and execution of productivity initiatives that are key elements of our 2012 plan.
Before I discuss progress on these initiatives though let me quickly review the financial highlights for Q2.
Our financial results are right in line with our expectation.
Core EPS was $1.12.
As I just mentioned organic net revenue grew 5% and it reflected strong price mix across all of our businesses.
Globally price mix was up 4% and this pricing helped to offset the impact of about $350 million of commodity cost inflation.
We had growth in both global snack revenue and global beverage revenue on an organic basis.
In emerging and developing markets revenue growth was particularly strong up 9% on an organic basis led by strong double-digit organic revenue growth in key emerging markets.
Results are generally strong across our 4 business units and each business unit posted organic revenue growth and achieved solid productivity gains to help offset inflation.
Within PepsiCo Americas Foods Frito-Lay North America executed very deliberate channel and revenue management strategies that drove very good net price realization revenue growth especially in the C-store and foodservice channels and positive unit growth overall while they delivered volume performance that was even with prior year.
We could have employed different volume-oriented tactics particularly in large format channels but they would have been detrimental to our overall channel mix and net pricing objectives and we are comfortable with the channel pricing unit and volume balance we achieved.
PepsiCo Americas Beverages had another solid quarter of solid net price realization.
We remain highly disciplined in the execution of our price/pack and channel strategies and as a result we are seeing very good performance in the immediate consumption packages which led to strong net revenue growth in the C-store channel and we are seeing good stable and value share performance relative to our primary competitor in measured channels.
Europe was a terrific story with strong performance with organic net revenue up 3% and constant currency operating profit up 15%.
Zein will comment on Europe in more detail in a few minutes.
In AMEA we had 10% organic net revenue growth and terrific operating profit performance reflecting the strength of the top line growth and our productivity programs.
Overall our Q2 results encourage us that we're making good progress and we're on track to deliver our full year financial targets.
Let me now turn to the progress we are making on our key initiatives for the year.
We remain focused on 5 big areas: brand building innovation execution productivity and driving cash returns.
Let me talk to each of them.
On brand building.
We're on target to increase our investment in advertising and marketing to 5.7% of revenue this year which is an increase of 50 basis points over our investment level last year.
We've made good progress on increasing our consumer-facing A&amp;M investment focused on 12 global mega brands to drive greater scale and impact with our spending.
Much of this is enabled by having much greater coordination among our operations globally allowing us to leverage creative and production activities across multiple geographies which gives us cost leverage and drives greater consistency in our brand messaging.
And we've significantly stepped up our media in key markets.
For example in the United States alone our media spending was up over 40% in the second quarter and over 30% year-to-date.
And we're beginning to gain traction with these efforts.
Brand equity scores for our major brands in our key markets are showing improvement in many cases and are stabilizing in the remainder.
We will sustain our efforts in this area and we are confident we will see higher brand equity scores translate into strong top line growth with healthy price premiums.
Our second focus area is innovation where our goal is to consistently increase the contribution of new  products to our total net revenue.
Our innovation is targeted on specific channels cohorts and occasion opportunities and with the balance focused on Fun-for-You Better-for-You and Good-for-You products.
For example at Frito-Lay North America innovation drove incremental sales all across the portfolio.
Doritos had double-digit sales growth in the quarter behind innovations such as Doritos JACKED and Doritos Locos Tacos which continues to drive strong growth at Taco Bell.
Ruffles delivered mid-single-digit sales growth supported by incremental sales from Ruffles Ultimate which continues to gain distribution during ramp up with strong retail activations surrounding the launch.
In our Frito-Lay growth ventures business which is focused on incubating new premium and value products revenue grew 13% in the quarter led by double-digit gains in Stacy's and our Smartfood platform.
In North American beverages Pepsi Next is off to a strong start and we have just launched 2 new limited-time-only flavors Pepsi Next Cherry Vanilla and Pepsi Next Paradise Mango to satisfy the thirst of cola lovers looking for unique fruit flavor blends both with 60% less sugar than regular colas.
We're also driving growth across the Gatorade portfolio with additions to the G Series line and introduction of differentiated packaging.
One of our most recent introductions is the Prime Chew.
The Chews come in 3 flavors and contain 25 grams of carbohydrates as well as B vitamins to help your body break down carbs into fuel and helps you maintain your performance throughout your activity.
And at Quaker we are driving organic sales growth and share gains with innovation like Quaker Real Medleys and Quaker Yogurt Bars.
Interestingly on both Quaker Real Medleys and the Gatorade Chews we are selling all we have the capacity to make.
Year-to-date our innovation is off to a good start and it provides a good base to build on.
Let me turn to execution.
We are measuring and driving execution across every element of the value chain to increase efficiency quality and service to best-in-class levels and we are seeing good results across our functions and businesses.
One example is how we've executed our price/pack and channel mix strategies this year driving strong revenue realization and positive mix.
This is evident in North America where our C-store growth remains very strong with retail sales gaining 8% in both snacks and beverages in the second quarter making us the #1 contributor to growth in the channel.
In fact PepsiCo was the largest contributor to food and nonalcoholic beverage growth across all measured channels in the United States in the second quarter.
And our businesses are executing well together.
We launched our Rock Your Summer campaign where consumers are encouraged to match snap and win.
Match any Frito-Lay product with any Pepsi beverage product and then snap and submit a picture of the 2 products for a chance to win a variety of prizes.
We featured the campaign in 46 of our top 50 retail accounts and increased our Power of One displays on the grocery channel by 13% compared to last summer.
Joint promotion merchandising is a key element of our Power of One programming and it's driving coincidence of purchase of PepsiCo beverages and PepsiCo snacks at a rate well above our fair share.
And our execution focus is especially evident in many of our emerging and developing markets.
For example we had strong double-digit organic revenue growth in beverages in India and Brazil and snacks in Mexico and India and we are especially pleased with the progress we've made in Eastern Europe.
I'd like to ask Zein to give us a quick update on this business which had very good results this quarter.
Zein? Thank you Indra and good morning everyone.
Despite the well-known challenges in Europe we continue to build momentum in our business beginning with a very solid performance in Q1 followed by strong results in Q2.
We grew our organic net revenue by 3% and delivered 15% growth in our core constant currency net operating profits.
We've done this through a disciplined approach to pricing and mix management together with terrific execution against an aggressive productivity agenda.
A particular highlight this quarter has been our acceleration in Eastern Europe where our successful integration of Wimm-Bill-Dann and our Power of One initiatives drove outstanding results in Russia.
Our success has really been enabled by the transformation we've made to our business over the last few years with a strong focus on expanding in the faster-growing Eastern European markets encompassing a broader set of categories to cater for more consumer needs and day part a portfolio that is wonderfully balanced across Fun-for-You Better-for-You and Good-for-You which is the best way to compete in this region.
In 2008 less than 25% of Europe's revenue mix came from the east.
And by last year that figure had increased to well over 50%.
And this portfolio transformation is helping us weather the macroeconomic headwinds facing other parts of Europe.
PepsiCo Europe's increasingly diverse category portfolio -- about 40% of net revenue comes from snack with the remainder well balanced across noncarbonated beverages DSDs and dairy -- has positioned us to respond to changing consumer preferences and to strengthen our mix.
Central to these changes has been PepsiCo's journey in Russia one we embarked upon some 50 years ago.
Through our recent investments we've built the largest food and beverage business in Russia a powerhouse business primed for growth and positioned to capitalize on the market with lots of growth potential.
PepsiCo Russia net revenues now represent some 40% of our total sector's revenue and Russia is growing profit at the fastest rate in Europe.
We have leading positions in multiple categories: savory snacks juice tea water energy and dairy with a portfolio of strong global and local brands.
In fact we now have 10 of the top 25 nonalcoholic food and beverage brands in Russia each with retail sales of more than $250 million.
By building on this strong base PepsiCo Russia provides a gateway to more than 400 million consumers.
It's our base for expanding successfully across Eastern and Central Europe and we started to see the benefits of this in the quarter with accelerated growth in Ukraine and other CIS markets.
The integration of Wimm-Bill-Dann is progressing very well.
Adding this to the Power of One business infrastructure we had already put into place across our Russian businesses we've been able to drive significant synergies and productivity.
We have a fully integrated and low-cost supply chain and back office delivering substantial cost synergies.
We have tremendous go-to-market advantage with unparalleled reach across the organized and traditional trade channels.
We've created a single-sales structure to our top 8 national accounts enabling us to capitalize on the benefits of scale to enhance customer engagement.
We've integrated our foodservice teams in Moscow and St.
Petersburg now delivering dairy juice beverages and snacks to on-premise and social channels.
The top line synergies have come in in the form of convergence and brand building and go-to-market which is the recent launch of Oats products under Chudo branding and with single-serve kefir or drinkable yogurt being distributed through the PepsiCo system.
All this is helping us to deliver strong revenue realization through selective pricing portfolio management and strong speedy innovation.
We have very strong share positions across our strategic categories in Russia.
Highlights include very favorable savory snack share with 1.9 percentage point value share gains year-to-date and strong CSD share with 0.8 percentage point value share gains year-to-date.
In short we are pleased with our results in Europe overall enabled by a well-architected geographic and product portfolio with Russia and the balance of Eastern Europe well positioned to be a substantial growth engine not only for -- in the European sector but for all of PepsiCo.
Thank you Zein and that's a great report out on East Europe and Russia.
Let me now turn to productivity.
We're targeting more than $1 billion in productivity this year and $3 billion in total over the next 3 years which includes the restructuring program we announced earlier this year and our other productivity initiatives that are incremental to our ongoing productivity agenda.
Our productivity programs for 2012 are locked in and we are very confident to deliver these targeted savings.
We made substantial progress against our productivity plans in the first half of the year.
The financial benefits of the restructuring accelerated in Q2 and will continue to benefit financial performance as we move through the second half of the year.
In addition to the restructuring programs we've also accelerated other productivity initiatives.
We're driving hard against reducing the capital intensity of our business and improving working capital efficiency and we are already seeing good results.
Finally we are doing a better job leveraging global capability and know-how.
By sharing best practices and implementing best-in-class processes we are improving operating performance.
So we are encouraged by the pace and progress of our productivity plan.
And finally we are taking steps to drive higher returns on our invested capital and enhance cash return to shareholders.
We have reduced our net capital spending year-to-date by $338 million and reduced our net CapEx as a percentage of sales over the last 4 quarters by more than 100 basis points.
We are achieving this both by driving higher utilization of our assets and by reducing the cost of replacement and growth capacity through value engineering and through enhanced global procurement management.
And we remain committed to returning cash to our shareholders.
In the first half we returned $2.8 billion in cash to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and we expect to return more than $6 billion for the full year an increase of approximately 12%.
Our dividend increased again this June making 2012 our 40th consecutive year of dividend per share increase.
Based on yesterday's closing stock price our current dividend represents a 3.1% annual dividend yield.
To recap we are focused on brand building innovation execution productivity and cash return.
We are making good progress.
We expect momentum to continue to build as the year progresses and we are confident in achieving our 2012 goals in these areas.
Let me now turn the call over to Hugh Johnston.
Hugh? Thanks Indra and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by reviewing the scorecard we introduced at our investor meeting in February.
At that time we shared that we'd review with you on a semiannual basis our performance in 8 key areas and I'm pleased to share our initial results with you today and look forward to providing another update following Q4.
Let me review the results briefly.
We're focused on 4 key input metrics: brand strength innovation execution and cost and capital spending; and then 4 key output metrics: value share EPS net return on invested capital and operating cash flow.
We're making good progress on each of these and our results were right in line with where we expected to be at this point in the year.
On brand strength our objectives are to step up the level of investment in A&amp;M and to improve the brand equity for our major brands in our key markets.
At the end of Q2 our brand equity scores are stable or improving in 85% of our key brands in strategic markets with sequential improvement from Q1 to Q2 and we're on track to achieve our targeted A&amp;M investment level of 5.7% of sales for the full year.
On innovation our goal is to increase the contribution of innovation to our overall net sales.
Year-to-date our innovation is currently at 7% of net revenue and is on track with where we want to be.
And our expectation is for this number to trend up as we launch products currently in the pipeline.
Turning to execution.
As a proxy for overall execution we're providing share of inventory on display and coincidence of PepsiCo snack and beverage purchases in the United States.
Share of inventory on display increased in the second quarter for both snacks and carbonated soft drinks and we continue to achieve above our fair share of co-purchases of salty snacks and CSDs which improved from 2011 to 2012.
From a market share perspective we're gaining or holding LRB value share versus our primary competitor in a majority of our strategic markets.
While our value share trends in savory are a bit more mixed we've shown sequential improvement from Q1 to Q2 and we expect this to continue to improve.
This is not an area where we expect to see results overnight because it's partly an outcome of our brand-building efforts which are just beginning to gain traction.
We stay -- we're staying focus on this and expect to continue to see sequential improvement.
And we feel good about our performance against our financial metrics.
Cost and CapEx performance are both positive with CapEx trending at 4.4% of net revenue over the last 4 quarters and we're projecting to meet our targeted operating cost reduction of 75 basis points of net revenue.
And with respect to EPS ROIC and operating cash flow as Indra mentioned earlier we're on track to deliver our EPS and cash flow targets for 2012 and our capital investment in 2012 is in line with our target to begin to see ROIC improvement of 50 basis points per year beginning in 2013.
So overall we're pleased with the progress we're making on our scorecard and we'll provide another update on our Q4 call.
I'll wrap up now with a quick discussion of the numbers in our outlook and then we'll turn to Q&amp;A.
As Indra mentioned the quarter came in in line with what we expected.
Organic net revenue increased 5% while our reported net revenue declined reflecting the structural changes including Mexico and China which reduced the reported number by approximately 4 points and by negative currency translation which was a 3-point drag on the reported net revenue.
We realized 4 percentage points of effective net pricing with increases across each of our divisions.
Core gross margins were down 64 basis points driven by higher commodity costs in the quarter which is a sequential improvement from the first quarter.
And core division operating margins were down by 22 basis points with productivity and SG&amp;A helping to offset a substantial portion of the commodity inflation.
All-in this resulted in a 1% decline in core division operating profit on a constant-currency basis and a 3% decline in core division operating profit on a U.S.
dollar basis reflecting a nearly 3-point drag from currency in line with our expectations.
Core corporate unallocated expenses increased in the quarter reflecting higher pension-related costs.
Net interest expense was $208 million in the quarter an increase of approximately $30 million over Q2 of 2011 which is a function of both lower net interest income and higher average debt balances.
And our core tax rate for the quarter was 27.8% which is 180 basis points higher than the rate in Q2 of 2011 driven by country mix and the favorable resolution of some tax items in Q2 of last year.
And finally our fully diluted share count was down 1.5% in the quarter compared to the prior-year period reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program.
So in total below-the-line items mainly pension-related expenses we record at the corporate level interest and tax rate offset somewhat by the benefit of the reduced share count drove about 3 points of deleverage from our core constant currency division operating profit decline of 1% to our core constant currency EPS decline of 4%.
Now turning to our outlook.
We anticipate continued strong net effective pricing which will contribute to net revenue growth but expect continued impact from negative currency translation and from the deconsolidation of revenue related to structural changes.
We expect continued commodity cost pressures.
Our current outlook on commodities is consistent with our previous outlook at about $1.5 billion for the full year.
As Indra mentioned we're on track to deliver productivity of more than $1 billion this year which represents a substantial increase versus our historical productivity target.
The incremental productivity is largely driven by the restructuring program we announced earlier this year.
A majority of the restructuring actions have already taken place and we expect the remainder will take place over the course of this year.
So the productivity benefits should accelerate as we move through the year.
We're investing more in A&amp;M this year to support our brands and we're making incremental marketplace investments in routes and racks.
We expect A&amp;M as a percent of sales to increase by approximately 50 basis points on a full year basis.
We began to put more media in the market in the first half but the increase in A&amp;M expense as a percent of net revenue in the P&amp;L will actually be more pronounced in the back half based on how the accounting curve of the expense works.
In fact we expect A&amp;M as a percent of sales will increase by approximately 100 basis points year-on-year in the second half so you should model this increase into your operating margin and operating profit growth assumptions with the impact heavier in Q3 than in Q4.
Below the division operating profit line we expect an increase in corporate unallocated expenses reflecting higher pension cost related to the change in the discount rate and investments in productivity capability with Q3 corporate unallocated expected to be a bit higher than what we saw in Q2 based on the timing of expenses.
Full year net interest expense is expected to be higher driven by higher debt balances and higher rates as we term out some of our debt during the year.
And we expect our core tax rate to be approximately 27% for the full year but with some level of variability between the quarters.
Based on current ForEx market consensus currency translation would have approximately 3 points unfavorable impact on our full year core EPS with a Q3 impact on both net revenue and operating profit estimated at approximately 5 points.
As you model out the second half you should be mindful of 3 structural changes we've mentioned where we will no longer record the revenue.
First we re-franchised our Mexican beverage business in early Q4 of 2011.
We adjusted our ownership in our joint venture in Almarai such that we are now in the minority.
And finally we entered our alliance with Tingyi which closed on March 31.
We estimate the impact of these changes will be an approximately 5-point drag on our reported net revenue in Q3 and approximately 3 points in Q4.
The impact abates somewhat in Q4 as we lack the Mexico re-franchising that occurred in Q4 2011.
From a cash flow standpoint year-to-date reported cash generated by operating activities was $1.2 billion which includes a $1 billion discretionary pension and retiree medical contribution we made in Q1.
Reflecting our capital spending productivity initiatives net CapEx is down $338 million year-to-date and down more than 100 basis points as a percentage of revenue on a rolling 4 quarters basis.
In addition our working capital also improved year-to-date with net working capital on receivables inventory prepaids and payables improving by more than $300 million year-on-year.
Our management operating cash flow excluding certain items improved by $28 million to $1.4 billion year-to-date.
We returned $2.8 billion to shareholders year-to-date through dividends of $1.6 billion and share repurchases of $1.2 billion.
For the full year we expect to generate more than $6 billion in management operating cash flow excluding certain items and return more than $6 billion in dividends and share repurchases including our previously announced increase in our quarterly dividend that took effect with the June dividend payment.
Finally from an earnings perspective consistent with our previous outlook we expect our core constant currency EPS to decline 5% for the year.
Now I realize that the first cap came in a bit ahead of the consensus estimate but you should not flow that through to the bottom line as you model the full year.
As I mentioned A&amp;M expense based on how it was curved in last year and in this year will result in a substantial reported increase in the back half.
In addition if we have upside in areas like commodities our intention is to reinvest those in the business to support and accelerate our brand building innovation and productivity initiatives.
Net the quarter came in as we expected.
The pricing picture was positive and our outlook for the year for earnings cash flow and cash returns is exactly and completely consistent with what we previously shared with you.
And now we'll open the lines for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the convenience store business doing better generally which would imply I guess that the large format store business is probably struggling a little bit.
So can you talk a little bit about some of the challenges there? Is it just fundamentally a consumer spending issue or -- what color can you give us on the large format store business? John I'm going to toss this over to Brian Cornell and then maybe Al Carey.
So Brian do you want to take it from here? Yes.
And John I think as you've seen there has been considerable weakness in the core grocery channel but that's being offset by growth in other channels: foodservice C-store and certainly club.
So as we look at our business we're managing through those channel mixes and making sure we're making profitable investments to grow our business and sustain the volume in those channels.
Al did you want to add anything? I'll just add one thing.
It was mentioned earlier that the discounting for holidays that's a disproportionate amount of the business and we need to spread the value throughout the month rather than just during those holiday peak periods.
And I think we're doing some work on that right now that I have optimism for in the future.
John this is Hugh.
The only thing I'd add to that is one of the things that's important to us in large format is that we have consistency in our pricing across the channels and that's been a real point of emphasis for us.
So to the degree that that has something of an impact on volumes particularly in areas like bottled water where we're not electing to go chase that type of volume we don't view that as detrimental to the performance of the business nor do we do it as value creating by chasing those things.
So from our standpoint we're trying to maintain consistent levels of pricing discipline across large format channels.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping for more color on trends in the gas-convenience channel post quarter end over the last month or so here in the U.S.
Have you seen any type of slowdown or is the momentum continuing there? And what are your thoughts around the sustainability of some of the year-to-date strength just given we saw weather boost first half results? This is Brian Cornell.
We're seeing very consistent performance trends in both the convenience and gas channels.
Their traffic trends remain strong.
They're seeing broad growth across regions but very very consistent traffic and revenue gains.
So it's a channel that's performing very consistently across the country with strong traffic and revenue gain.
And we have not seen a slowdown.
Not seeing that at all.
We've not seen any signs of slowdown in the C&amp;G channel.
I'd add to that and say that sometime ago the convenience business was losing a fair amount of their volume for cigarettes and they have done a pretty good job of offering food service that I think has picked up their business.
So our trends are very solid in the convenience business.
Go ahead John.
Dara the other thing that the teams are doing is their more coordinated effort across Power of One snacks and beverages.
And I think particularly in the convenience and gas channel that's a benefit to PepsiCo.
And what is it? We have 11 of the 15 top-selling SKUs in C-stores? Yes 11 of the 15 top-selling SKUs.
And as Hugh and Indra both mentioned in their comments I mean we're far and away the largest contributor of growth to the C-store channel.
Our Mountain Dew and Gatorade business is very strong in the small format.
And I think we have innovation and good execution of the DSD system.
We were able to drive growth in this channel.
Traffic still seems to be okay Dara.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Al at the Deutsche Bank conference you seemed to be more focused on using mix to drive CSD pricing longer term than we've heard from Pepsi in the past.
So is that an increased area of focus and can you discuss how much tangible incremental benefit we could expect from that focus over the next few years? And then also you mentioned managing the highs and lows from a pricing standpoint in terms of everyday versus holiday pricing more over time and mentioned it again here today.
It sounds great in theory but it's often hard to execute day-to-day.
So in your mind is that also a significant opportunity or something which takes a long time to play out? Well I think 2 areas that will help us improve in the future and this is balancing out the value across the month in the large format.
And we're working on that but it's tricky.
It'll take us a little bit of time to get there.
And the second thing is to offer flexible package opportunities in that channel as well which we're putting capacity and capability in our system right now so that in 2013 you'll see us offer more flex packaging different packages that will be variety packs and those kinds of things in the marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions related to the Europe and AMEA segments and profitability specifically.
First in AMEA just what effect did the implementation of the Tingyi relationship have on the profitability in the quarter? I guess what I'm trying to drive at is was there a profit lift that we realized in the quarter because of the structural change? And then second in Europe.
Just in Russia -- the margin expansion there or the profit growth there how much of that is a function of your pricing and maybe some improvement in the consumer and how much of it is still structural benefits? So integration benefits from Wimm-Bill-Dann.
And I'm just trying to understand how much more runway we have in terms of margin growth there.
Bryan it's Hugh.
Regarding Tingyi we haven't disclosed specifics on the bottom line on that.
It sufficed to say in the context of the overall AMEA business that we clearly got a bit of a benefit but it was not by any stretch of the imagination the big driver.
The big driver was the organic performance of the business.
Russia.
Bryan on Russia I'd say the performance is just very balanced across top line initiatives and management of the cost [indiscernible] to productivity initiatives.
Clearly as we put these businesses together we have tremendous scale benefits as we drive supply chain consolidation and that obviously is helping -- they're helping margin expansions.
But equally we're able to drive now a much more positive mix as we drive our brands into the convenience channel and also we build out innovation that is highly accretive highly accretive to the margin mix.
So it's a very good balance across both.
Research Division</strong> Has the nature of the competition in Russia changed at all? You've got so many more multinationals now operating in that market.
Has that affected the competitive landscape at all? Clearly.
I mean Russia is an attractive market across all -- for all of the multinationals.
But we enjoy considerable scale and considerable operating history in Russia.
What it's allowed us to do is to build a talented management team and a capability across many years.
So I mean our sources of competitive advantage are both scale and the -- of the development of the capability of our business over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I know you maintained your guidance on COGS inflation and such.
But I just want to ask given the drought situation if there's something we need to be thinking about -- perhaps about next year or maybe even perhaps from a supply chain standpoint maybe there's not enough supply.
Kaumil this is Hugh.
I'll handle that -- this one.
From the perspective of 2012 because of the forward buying or the hedging program that we have in place really nothing to discuss in that regard.
Obviously and I talked about this in the past we're out about 9 months.
So we were also starting to buy into 2013 given that it's already -- it was already June before the drought situation really started to hit and before prices started to pop in the last couple of weeks.
The thing I would tell you in that regard is while grains are certainly up remember that there is no individual commodity that accounts for even 10% of PepsiCo's overall commodity buy.
So grains are up.
Aluminum's obviously moved in the other direction.
Oil and all of the things that flow out of energy move in the other direction.
So really nothing to report in terms of 2013 at this point because we're not going to get into that until we get into pricing and get into more of the details of 2013.
I do though just want to remind you that our basket of commodities is pretty broad.
So I know corn's certainly been in the news but we buy an awful lot of other commodities as well.
And the commodities numbers are moving both up and down depending on the individual commodity.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then if I can -- if I can ask you maybe this is a softer answer is operationally obviously earnings were a little bit ahead of expectations.
You'll be spending that back behind the business.
Is that in incremental spend? Are you stepping up -- are you further stepping up how much you're going to be spending on marketing versus what your initial plan was or is this part of the original plan? Go ahead.
Yes.
Right now Kaumil we're still basically saying we're going to spend 5.7% which was the number that we originally put out for the year.
But we'll obviously continue as the year evolves to look at opportunities.
And as the overall margin mix of the business comes in to the degree that we do have upsides we will look to invest it behind -- behind brand-building activities.
So -- but no the 5.7% is still the number that we're talking to right now.
The one thing to keep in mind in that regard though is there is marketing that we spend in the A&amp;M line which shows up through SG&amp;A.
There's also marketing in joint ventures that gets reported just in the consolidated joint venture line.
And then there is marketing that is -- it comes in the form of bottler support but it's bottler support that is clearly A&amp;M that occurs between gross and net revenue.
Where we talked about 5.2% to 5.7% we were talking specifically about the SG&amp;A and that's the number that we're still saying is going to be consistent.
But to the degree that we choose to do some more marketing through bottlers you could see some of those numbers change as well.
We'll talk about that in Q4 as to where all of the numbers came out but the one thing I want to emphasize is there's no change in the 5.7% number.
That's the number that we are managing to and that's the number we'll look to hit.
And as the business presents more opportunities we'll evaluate what types of brand-building investment opportunities are before us at that time.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to drill into Frito-Lay a little bit.
So from a share perspective I know you talked about sequentially maybe getting a little bit better and it looks like the C-stores and non-measured channels are doing a little bit better.
But just sort of taking a step back if you can just tell us kind of what you're seeing from a competitive perspective and just what's holding back from Frito's -- from getting better more quickly? And then on the profit side in the quarter I'm just wondering how much of the margin decline was commodities.
They're still -- they're not being fully offset by pricing.
And then how much of that was marketing spending step-up? Go ahead Brian.
Yes.
As Indra mentioned we took a very disciplined approach to managing revenue and our channel mix during the quarter.
We're really focused on investing in brand building in innovation and continuing to deliver the productivity initiatives at Frito.
I expect that's going to serve us well as we go into Q3 and Q4 and you're starting to see evidence of that in our P4 share result particularly during the important 4th of July period where we grow -- we grew share at Frito.
So I think we're well positioned right now to continue to see performance improvement in Q3 and Q4.
We're going to continue to focus on being very disciplined in our revenue management and channel management mix and continue to invest in our brands and innovation to make sure that we can continue to deliver sustainable growth at Frito.
Yes.
Judy if you recall I think it was at CAGNY when John Compton presented he talked about the Frito-Lay business growing at the 2 ends the value and the premium side and we had a very very very strong position in the middle.
The middle continues to grow.
We were looking for the right model to compete against the value segment of the business and the premium segment.
The premium segment we started to compete with our growth ventures business and that's doing very well.
Again also for small base.
But it's doing well and that growth will continue.
Our challenge is to figure out the right model to play against the value players without impacting the middle and we wanted to make sure we did it the right way and not take down the pricing level of the middle.
And that's why when Brian talked about playing the channels and the portfolio very carefully we want to make sure that we keep the pricing in place and don't take it down because getting pricing back in the market is much harder than tweaking the product portfolio to go against specific consumer needs.
So as the year goes on you see improvement in Frito-Lay because we are fine-tuning the model and doing better as the quarters go on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Hugh when you put up the slide with the brand strength the equity scorecard? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Basically that 85% of your core brands are showing improvement up from 81%.
Can you give us a little bit more color just in terms of what brands you're actually seeing maybe a better improvement versus what are the 15% that's not showing improvement? Yes.
I mean to talk to the ones that are doing better Lay's was notably strong in the quarter.
We really saw terrific results on Lay's and Gatorade we also saw terrific results on.
The Lemon-Lime still a little bit more work to do.
Research Division</strong> That's the brand equity scores or the share scores? Those are the equity scores.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on Judy's question.
If you could talk about brand Pepsi which is the centerpiece of everything you're doing just in terms of what we can look for what you've seen so far.
I know it's very very early but it's such a huge brand that -- within the total company.
And I'd like to also understand what we can look for as progress measures in the Tingyi JV going forward now.
Al you want to talk about brand Pepsi? Yes.
Brand Pepsi the campaign began in about April and it's very early to try to indicate whether or not we've seen a result.
But the thing that I like to look at is our single-serve business which will be a first indicator and that's usually not impacted by these holiday discounting overlaps.
So we see growth in brand Pepsi on single serve for the first time in a very long time and our brand equity scores have improved for the second quarter.
So some improvement.
We have Pepsi Next in the marketplace that is delivering about what we expected very happy with it.
And in the just recent few weeks we've just launched the -- a new TV campaign and also 2 new flavors of the product.
So let's say cautiously optimistic on that brand.
And on China Saad you want to give some color on Tingyi? Yes.
Caroline we really feel good about the progress of our transitioning our business in China to Tingyi.
As you know we've got the approval in the end of March and we've spent the months of April and May and big part of June transitioning our business into our partner.
We've moved upwards of 20 plants and about 20 000 employees into that.
Now I think the transition is complete that we're going to see sequential improvement into our volumes.
And basically there are 3 areas where we will see huge improvement as we go Q3 Q4 and for next year.
One a new area is white areas we will have accessible to us that we would not have before.
Two we will have production availability for water and other products such as the Gatorade and that.
And thirdly we will benefit a huge deal from the distribution strength of Tingyi.
So we really feel good about that alliance and we're going to start bearing the fruit Q3 and going forward.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Can I also just clarify? I think you said you did raise your efficiency target for the total company.
Can you just remind us how much you've increased that now? This is Hugh.
No -- I'm sorry we didn't raise the efficiency target.
So we said $1 billion -- $1 billion plus this year $3 billion over 3 years.
And that's exactly where we are.
No change on that at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I have a long question.
So I'm sort of confused on some of the numbers.
So I think you said U.S.
media spend was up 40% and then you looked at sort of the year-over-year SG&amp;A and that was down.
And then I think you said 100 basis points increase in that ad ratio on the back half of the year which sort of implies that there was sort of flat advertising ratio on the front half.
And then let's kind of take it a step forward.
I was looking at the Pepsi Americas Beverages margins and given that shift away from the center store and towards the C-stores you would have thought you would've seen a little bigger uptick in the margin structure.
Can you sort of square this for me? I know it's a long question.
Yes.
Bill why don't I take a shot at that because that's a big causal chain you just laid out.
The thing that -- first and foremost the thing to keep in mind is the way we talk about media is that's publicly reported media data.
Okay? And that's based on the actual spending that's going into the marketplace.
At the same time when we talk about advertising and marketing expense which is obviously inside of SG&amp;A that's curved over the volume curve during the course of the year.
And you have to consider those numbers from 2 perspectives: number one what's happening this year with the curve; and then number two what's happened last year with the curve.
And the way our spending -- or the way our curve worked last year was you saw the A&amp;M number fall off during the latter portion of the year.
So we had from an expense standpoint more of the spending in the first half of the year relatively speaking compared to the 2012 timing of the spend.
So it's almost impossible to connect the media number to the A&amp;M expense in the P&amp;L.
I wouldn't spend a whole lot of time doing that.
And what I wanted to do when I gave you the A&amp;M expense timing comments was not so much to tie to the media spend but rather to connect the fact that the year-over-year impact in H1 versus the year-over-year of impact in H2 it's much more substantial in H2.
So hopefully that kind of addresses your A&amp;M question.
Regarding the bottling or the beverage -- PAB business and the impact on margins there's 2 things to keep in mind there that are also important to balance out.
On the one hand the convenience store business performance was strong.
On the other hand the inflation that we have inside of PepsiCo particularly in beverages is much more front loaded than it is back loaded.
So those 2 are probably having something of an offsetting effect and therefore in the back half of the year you should see the margin impacts start to improve really in the PAB business in the back half of the year due to the commodities overlap timing muting while we certainly expect the C-store business to continue to perform well.
Research Division</strong> Great thanks.
And then just to quickly follow up did you see a benefit from the PET deflation? Because I think that's one of the few commodities you can't hedge out 9 months and I think a lot of your competitors have talked about some relief there.
Yes.
Bill we actually can hedge out PET pretty well because of the nature of the relationships that our global procurement team has created.
You're right in saying there's no market to do that.
But through suppliers we've been pretty successful in moving our PET buy further and further out over the last couple of years.
So in terms of your question on any benefit the answer is basically no.
From our perspective the commodities for this year have been largely hedged out for a couple of months now.
So not a whole lot of change is going be coming in the balance of the year on that.
Your final question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on a couple of things and ask a slightly different question.
Just to follow up on Frito-Lay North America.
In February and I think since then we've also heard you guys still expect flat volumes flat margins.
Now that's a little bit better than what we've seen in the first half of the year.
It sounds like you're expecting an inflection as you go into the back half of the year for Frito to maintain that flat margin-flat volume expectation for the year.
Is that the right way to interpret your comments today? Brian? Ali it would be.
I think we expect to see improved performance in the third and fourth quarter.
The benefits of our investments in brand the continued focus on innovation and productivity should show improvements in our third and fourth quarter results.
And Ali we started the year across all of PepsiCo saying "Don't chase volume for the sake of volume chase share in a very responsible way." So we've tried to balance volume pricing revenue and profit in a very very balanced way through the first half of the year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So still sticking to flat margins flat volume for the year for Frito? Yes.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on PAB the volumes whether it be negative 1% or negative 1.4% were I guess a little bit lower than I'm hearing some folks expected.
Can you help us disaggregate that? I know you're going to do it in your Q but disaggregate that between North America and the rest of PAB Latin America.
And then also between CSDs and fill just to give us a sense of where the volumes were looking for each of those segments.
Yes.
Ali this is Hugh.
From the standpoint of CSDs again we -- our focus was first and foremost on let's make sure that we get the right place -- pricing into the marketplace and let's make sure we maintain the consistent funding behind the brands and behind the innovation that we've launched this year.
So as you know because you've been around the consumer space for a while when you're doing brand building and innovation types of build it takes a bit longer for those things to get traction.
But when they get traction they are more advantaged than simply dropping price and that's the strategy that we've chosen to follow.
And frankly the expectations that we had for the volumes in the business are basically right on where we would have expected them to come out both from a volume perspective and from a market share perspective in terms of the reported market share numbers that are out there.
Regarding the other piece the non-carbs in the overall volumes I think the other factor that you have to consider is around this whole area of water and in particular case-packed water.
We're in the business.
We promoted sufficiently to stay in the business but we're not interested in chasing case-packed water pricing down.
We just don't think that's the right strategy for us.
We do think it's an important part of the overall Aquafina business but we do -- we promote it just enough to really maintain our relevance.
On the other hand the single-serve side of water is -- obviously it's a great business.
It's a profitable business.
We like that business quite a bit but we're not interested in chasing volume just by promoting case-packed water at the end of the quarter.
Ali the other thing too is we don't have as much of a tailwind on the distribution of energy drinks as anybody else might have.
And second our foodservice business is substantially different.
As you know our footprint is very different and therefore our foodservice volume uplift is overall lower than it might be for other people.
So if you take into account these fundamental structural differences in our respective businesses between us and competition you'd see that we held value share which is what we are focused on in the measured channel business and on foodservice we gained share but from a very very small base.
And the energy drink is the big wildcard and something we distribute but we not -- we don't get as much tailwind as the market does.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that makes sense from the spirit of the answer.
But would you care to offer numbers on North America CSD volume growth Latin America fill especially.
So if you broke that down would you care to offer those? I think a lot of that will be in your Q but I was trying to get a head start on that.
Yes.
So basically the way the numbers came in North America volumes were down 2; North America volumes on CSDs were down 4; and non-carbs were up 1.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
And then just the last thing if you would indulge me.
So I guess we do appreciate -- you've heard this from others as well.
But we appreciate the change to how you're disclosing things like organic growth.
And that -- for us at least that's been very helpful in understanding how you actually are operating.
If we could push for another potential change or at least some clarity is -- within SG&amp;A.
So I think it might help answer some part of Bill's question a little while ago as well.
So in your SG&amp;A obviously you put your JVs.
So there's a bunch of income with no revenue attached to it whether it'd be Lipton or -- Tea in your Starbucks or Muller or Almarai I'm probably missing a few.
So it's difficult for us at least for me and maybe I'm just missing something to figure out what your real SG&amp;A productivity is or what your real level of improvement is at the overall company level but also at the -- perhaps even more importantly the operating segment level.
So is there consideration to split that out as you go forward given it's become a big chunk number one? And number two is to the question part.
Can you help us understand what were the actual operating leverage on SG&amp;A if you excluded those JV incomes that you report through that line item? Yes.
Ali this is Hugh.
I hear your feedback on that one.
And one of the things that we do every year is we both look at the disclosure to ensure that we're maintaining the right level of transparency without obviously giving away anything that would be competitively sensitive.
Now SG&amp;A would be less concerning in that regard although I'm not crazy about the idea of breaking out JV profitability.
I hear your feedback on that.
We at the same time also look at other big multinationals and we're trying to position ourselves where we're certainly at or better than most in terms of disclosure.
But at a certain point it also makes sense to limit the amount of disclosure based on frankly not giving away competitive information.
So I appreciate the perspective.
We're going to take a look at it again during the course of the fall as we think about 2013 and perhaps we can talk off-line a little bit more about some of the detailed thoughts that you have on that.
It'd be helpful to get your point of view.
But Ali I'll tell you one thing.
When we look at productivity we look at every item of the cost structure including G&amp;A: what's the corporate unallocated what's the infrastructure running to the sectors and are we actually making that bucket more and more efficient over time? And so from an internal management of the cost structure believe me we are maniacally focused on any sort of overhead structure to run this company.
And based on all of our benchmarks our core G&amp;As around the company is among the lowest of any multinational company.
So we feel good about the way we're managing G&amp;A.
So let me just close by saying Q2 marked good progress against a clear focused game plan that's allowing us to compete effectively today while positioning us for sustainable long-term growth and shareholder value creation.
And you have my and our entire leadership team's commitment that we'll continue to act with great urgency to deliver against our 2012 targets and our strategic objectives.
So let me close by thanking you all for joining us and for the confidence you place in us with your investment.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's PepsiCo Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
We'll lead off today's call with a review of our third quarter performance and our balance-of-year outlook and then we'll move on to Q&amp;A.
In an effort to get through as many analysts' questions as possible within the hour we're doing 2 things today: first we've shortened the amount of time for management's prepared remarks; and second we're going to have a one-question limit so we can hopefully get through the full queue of analysts' questions.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2012 guidance based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with our cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to revenue EPS and division and total operating profit growth are on a core basis.
In addition references to organic results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results please refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning's earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo's website under the Investor Presentations tab.
Now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that we continue to make progress against the plan we shared with you earlier this year.
Let me give you the headlines on our progress for the quarter.
Our Asia Middle East Africa division had an excellent quarter across-the-board.
Europe delivered solid results with very good pricing.
Frito-Lay North America and Latin American Foods had good volume growth and net price utilization.
And within Pepsi Americas Beverages we gained value-sharing carbonated beverages while executing a much-needed cleanup of unprofitable segments of our noncarbonated portfolio.
And across our businesses we continued our stepped-up brand investment programs heightened focus on innovation productivity and execution and cash returns to you our shareholders.
Our financial results for the quarter were in line with our expectations.
Core EPS was $1.20.
Our 5% organic revenue growth reflected organic volume growth of 1% and positive price mix of 4% which helped to offset steep commodity inflation.
And our organic net revenue growth for the quarter is right in line with our year-to-date performance and they're on track to deliver the mid-single digit organic revenue growth target we shared with you at the beginning of the year.
So overall our results for the quarter and year-to-date as well as the outlook for the remainder of the year are right on track.
So let me comment on each of our business units share what's working and what we are pleased with and what aspects of the businesses we are still making progress on but remain work in process.
Frito-Lay North America delivered a strong quarter.
We saw a 3% organic revenue growth in the quarter and our brand equity scores continue to strengthen.
Our premium products gained share in the quarter and the increased advertising behind our mainstream products is strengthening our performance.
Our value share trends have sequentially improved throughout the year and Q3 was no exception.
And as we enter Q4 we are seeing that trend continue.
Our Quaker Foods business also had a good quarter.
We are gaining share in hot cereal driven by both increased advertising and breakthrough innovation with Quaker Medleys.
The oatmeal category is very much on trend both in the United States and globally and you can expect us to leverage our global groups to take innovation like Real Medleys around the world.
Our Latin American Foods business delivered strong volume and double-digit organic revenue growth and we continue to invest in routes and racks to support the robust growth in these markets.
In Europe we had strong performance with organic net revenue up 7% on 6 points of net price realization despite a challenging macroeconomic environment.
Our performance is a result of both the portfolio strategies that we've executed including our move to strengthen our presence in the faster-growing eastern European region coupled with good operating execution to capture growth opportunities.
Our AMEA performance for the quarter was outstanding with strong volume growth double-digit organic revenue growth and 14% core constant-currency operating profit growth.
The strong results were across both our snacks and beverages businesses.
For example in India our snack volume grew 12% and our beverage volume grew 23%.
In Pakistan our snack volume grew 27% and beverage volume grew 25%.
Beverage volume grew 34% in Vietnam 10% in Saudi Arabia and 7% in the Philippines.
And in China the Tingyi integration is substantially complete and we've seen volume growth accelerating every month since June.
The fourth quarter is off to a strong start with CSD volume up 15% in the month of September.
Our North American beverage performance was mixed some positives and a few areas that are works in progress.
As we look at Q3 performance keep in mind that we had one fewer trading day due to the timing of Labor Day which impacted volumes by 1 percentage point.
On the positive side I am pleased with the discipline we've maintained on pricing.
We achieved 3 points of positive price mix in the quarter.
And we are pleased with our carbonated soft drink performance.
Based on the IRI all channel data we gained both value and volume share in the quarter.
So even at higher pricing at retail we grew our volume share.
Our brand equity scores are strong and our brand-building investments are working.
Our noncarbonated beverage performance in North America was more challenged driven by 3 factors: first we cleaned up our juice portfolio by pulling out of unprofitable juice drinks; second we made deliberate decision not to compete in case-packed water at unprofitable pricing levels; and third Gatorade's performance was off this quarter which was really a function of competitive pricing actions and an inventory outage at one of our major accounts.
Q4 is off to a good start and we expect the business to be positive for Q4.
So we are being deliberate about where we're choosing to compete and about maintaining disciplined pricing.
Our objective is to grow beverages profitably in North America and we're making the right decisions for the long-term health of the business.
Across PepsiCo we continue to make good progress on the brand building innovation execution productivity and cash-return initiatives that are key elements of our long-term plan.
From a brand perspective we continue to increase the level of effectiveness of our advertising through our global campaigns by directing more of our spending to consumer-facing media.
We are seeing positive results already but as we've mentioned in the past these investments typically take a year to fully take hold.
We are 6 to 8 months into the program and I'm pleased with our steady improvement in brand-building initiatives.
We'll be back to you on the fourth quarter call with another update on the specific brand equity performance just as we did on the second quarter call.
Innovation has been solid across our businesses and was a key driver of our organic net revenue growth in the quarter.
Our global beverage snack and nutrition groups are having a positive impact.
They are making good progress in refresh reframe and breakthrough innovation and that's reflecting the solid top line growth we've seen over the past few quarters and the fact that our innovation as a percentage of net revenue is now running at approximately 8% of sales.
In particular I am pleased with breakthrough products like Quaker Real Medley Pepsi Next and Gatorade Energy Chews which have continued to steadily build during the quarter.
We're on track to deliver in excess of $1 billion in productivity this year and to deliver our 3-year target of $3 billion.
We're driving productivity across the entire value chain across all our businesses and have a robust pipeline of projects that span from best practice sharing to increased automation to new processing technology which all give us confidence that we will achieve our 3-year target.
And we continue to execute well.
A good example is our activation of our partnership with the NFL.
We are building on our 28-year relationship with the NFL one of the world's most valuable sports properties.
We are integrating on execution activities from national advertising to localized packaging in-store activities and promotions.
The national ties between the NFL and PepsiCo are happening across our portfolio from Gatorade to Pepsi and Lay's to even Quaker and we're leveraging them both using traditional and social media.
And at the local level we're bringing them to life in the marketplace with team-specific packaging and merchandising displays in 22 of 32 team markets.
We also have retail store managing incentives and player appearances right through to the stadium with beverage and snack time promotions.
In short the connection between the NFL and PepsiCo is bigger and better than ever and enabling us to convert fans' passion for their teams into passion for our products.
We'll cap off the season's partnership with the NFL by having Pepsi as the official sponsor of the Super Bowl's halftime show.
And just yesterday we announced that Beyoncé will be the featured artist so it will be a performance you just don't want to miss.
This is just one of the many examples of our sharpened execution and it's one of the reasons why we are making steady progress on improving our share results.
Finally we are making progress to drive higher returns on our invested capital and enhance shareholder return.
We're delivering our earnings goals and we're converting them to stronger cash flow.
We've reduced our net capital spending this year by $565 million year-to-date.
We've returned $4.8 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases year-to-date a 12% increase over the comparable prior year period and remain on track to return more than $6 billion for the full year.
Overall in a cautious consumer and retail environment in developed markets and generally strong consumer conditions in the developing and emerging markets we continue to build our businesses in a fundamentally sound focused consistent manner.
Our balanced portfolio of Fun-for-You Better-for-You and Good-for-You products positions well with consumer trends.
And our investments in brand building innovation and execution are working well and enhancing both our competitiveness and capability for margin-accretive sustainable growth in the future.
To recap.
We are pleased with our year-to-date progress in this reinvestment year and are executing well against our plan.
Overall our Q3 and year-to-date results give us confidence that we're on track to deliver a full year of financial targets for 2012.
Just as important our growth is balanced and reflects the successful execution of our strategy.
So with that let me turn the call over to Hugh Johnston.
Hugh? Great.
Thanks Indra and good morning everyone.
As Indra mentioned the quarter came in in line with what we were expecting.
Organic net revenue growth increased 5% while our reported net revenue declined reflecting the structural changes including Mexico and China which reduced the reported number by approximately 5 points and by negative currency translation which was a 5-point drag on the reported net revenue.
We realized 1 point of organic volume growth and 4 points of effective net pricing globally.
Core gross margins rose 56 basis points driven by our effective net pricing and productivity initiatives offsetting commodity inflation.
And core division operating margins were down by 13 basis points reflecting a substantial increase in advertising and marketing investment to grow our brand equity.
All-in and in line with expectations this resulted in a 3% decline in core division operating profit on a constant-currency basis and a 6% decline in core division operating profit on a U.S.
dollar basis reflecting a nearly 3-point drag from currency.
Core corporate unallocated expenses increased in the quarter reflecting higher pension-related costs and a deferred compensation charge that was offset by a corresponding credit reflected in net interest expense.
Net interest expense was $181 million for the quarter a decrease of approximately $28 million over Q3 of 2011.
The impact of higher debt balances was more than offset by lapping a debt tender premium included in the prior year and by the deferred compensation hedge credit I just mentioned.
And our core tax rate for the quarter was 26.3% which is 90 basis points higher than the rate in Q3 of 2011.
And finally our fully diluted share count was down 2% in the quarter compared to the prior year period reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program.
So in total below-the-line items mainly pension-related expenses we recorded at the corporate level and a higher tax rate offset somewhat by the benefit of reduced share count drove about 1 point of deleverage from our core constant-currency division operating profit decline of 3% to our core constant-currency EPS decline of 4%.
Turning to our outlook.
From an earnings perspective consistent with our previous outlook and what we've been saying since February we expect our core constant-currency EPS to decline 5% for the year.
We're on target to increase our investment in advertising and marketing to 5.7% of revenue this year an increase of 50 basis points over our investment level last year.
Now I realize that EPS for the first 3 quarters came in a bit ahead of consensus estimate but you should not flow that through to the bottom line as you update your full year models.
Our intention is to reinvest any upside into the business to support and accelerate our brand building innovation and productivity initiatives.
Based on current ForEx market consensus currency translation would have approximately 3 points unfavorable impact on our full year core EPS and we expect the core tax rate to be approximately 27% for the full year.
As you update your models for the fourth quarter you should be mindful of a few items in particular.
The impact of structural changes will have an approximate 2.5-point negative impact on revenue.
ForEx is expected to have an approximate 1 point negative impact on revenue and operating profit.
We anticipate both commodity inflation and price realization to moderate somewhat in the fourth quarter from the level we saw in Q3.
We're lapping several divestiture gains from Q4 of 2011 most notably the sales of several unrelated businesses within QFNA and LAF and the sale of our interest in a bottler in AMEA.
Corporate unallocated expenses in Q4 are expected to be higher than in Q3 due to the fact that Q4 is a longer reported period so we have 4 additional weeks of costs in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
Net interest expense is expected to be higher year-on-year in Q4 given higher debt balances and higher rates.
From a cash flow standpoint year-to-date reported cash generated by operating activities was $5.1 billion which includes a $1 billion discretionary pension and retiree medical contribution that we made in Q1.
Reflecting our capital spending productivity initiatives net CapEx is down $565 million year-to-date and down more than 120 basis points as a percentage of revenue on a rolling 4-quarters basis.
In addition our operating working capital also improved year-to-date with net working capital on receivables inventory prepaid expenses and payables improving by $685 million year-on-year.
Our management operating cash flow excluding certain items improved by $670 million to $4.9 billion year-to-date.
For the full year we expect to generate more than $6 billion in management operating cash flow excluding certain items and return more than $6 billion in dividends and share repurchases.
Net the quarter came in where we expected.
The pricing picture and volumes overall were positive and our outlook for the year for earnings cash flow and cash returns is completely consistent with what we've shared previously with you.
Operator we'll take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Americas Beverages.
Just if -- just want to understand the drag that you saw in the quarter in the noncarb portfolio relative to the inventory outage I guess on Gatorade and also calling some SKUs.
Does that also continue into the fourth quarter and 2013 or is that just a 3Q effect? It's a 3Q effect.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping for more detail on your progress so far with the Tingyi alliance and specifically I'm curious for how much progress you've made in terms of expanded distribution so far and how distribution expansion plays out going forward over the next few quarters.
So the Tingyi deal was closed in the early part of second quarter.
And through June July and August we went through the integration process.
And starting sort of June July we started seeing the volumes pick up because the integration activities were completed.
And in September we actually saw the CSD volumes grow 15%.
Now September is the first month in Q4 so it's not in the Q3 numbers.
We haven't yet started to reap the benefits of the increased Tingyi manufacturing footprint because we haven't yet pulled the [indiscernible] lines in the new Tingyi plant.
So the benefit you're seeing now is just the benefits from our own brand equity and our focus back on the business now that the integration activities are over.
On the reported number you saw volumes in AMEA up significantly that's because some of the juice volume that we have transitioned to Tingyi and everything got rebranded as Tropicana so you'll start seeing an acceleration of our noncarbonated beverage business starting Q4 and going into 2013.
As we've mentioned before the alliance between PepsiCo and Tingyi creates the largest beverage company in China with a 1.5 to 1.6 relative market share of -- versus the next largest competitor.
Between us we will basically cover the entire country and have over 70 plants between the 2 of us in China.
So I think us going into 2013 and forward this business is going to look very very good.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Wanted -- just want to ask about Frito.
So as we look at this you're getting a little bit of volume growth a little bit of positive price mix.
From what we can tell from the scanner data you're losing a little bit of share within the category.
So can you talk about sort of what you're willing to do in terms of going after the higher end and in terms of getting the shares up? And how much do you view Frito as look we'll take the top line and the share growth is less important or do you feel like you need to fight back a little bit more aggressively to stem some of the share declines? And can you also comment on shares in C&amp;G relative to shares in large format? John I'm just going to give you some overall comments and then toss it to Brian Cornell who's here.
Frito-Lay as we mentioned in the script we're seeing sequential improvement in shares Q2 Q3 and in Q4 we're actually in the positive territory.
So we feel very very good about it.
Second we talked about the premium business the value business and the mainstream business.
The good news is in premium we are now gaining share; mainstream the share is stabilized and now getting into positive territory.
And we want to make sure we crack the code on the value business in a responsible way without diluting anything we're doing in the mainstream business.
We are focused on share.
We do not intend to lose share on a consistent basis.
We are the category so we are looking at ways that we can keep the share progression and remain in the positive territory.
So let me turn it to Brian to give you a little bit more color on Frito-Lay and also talk about the convenience trend.
Sure.
Well John as Indra mentioned we really felt like Tom and the team delivered very strong results in the third quarter.
That team is focused on balancing both profit volume and growing share.
And I think some of the investments we've made in the first half of the year really started to pay dividends in the third quarter.
Our investments in brand in innovation our continued focus and execution delivered 1% pound growth.
We saw that translate to 3% in revenue.
And despite a 41% increase in our advertising expenditures we grow our [indiscernible] by 1%.
So we're starting to see that deliver stability and share.
And as I look at our share over the balance of the year we expect to see sequential improvement continue.
We were very pleased with our share performance at T10 [ph] both from a value standpoint but importantly from a volume standpoint.
And that increased pound growth is turning into an increase in our overall volume share.
So we feel like we're on the right track.
We've taken a very disciplined approach at Frito.
We got our pricing in the first half of the year but we're now seeing pound growth revenues increase and stability and share improvement from a volume standpoint.
So I really feel like we're on track at Frito and we expect to see sequential improvement in the fourth quarter.
John you also asked about some of the overall trends and before I just jump into C&amp;G why don't I just give you a general sense for the food and beverage landscape in the third quarter.
Overall we did see food and beverage trend soften in Q3.
And if you remember the second quarter report as we started talking about these new [indiscernible] results the overall food and beverage growth was 3.9% in the second quarter.
That softened to a growth rate of 2.4% in Q3.
That was largely driven by soft trends in grocery and we did see grocery soften to only a 50 basis point growth rate in the third quarter.
That was down from growth of 1.4% in Q2.
C-store continues to outperform the overall food and beverage trends.
And again in the third quarter C&amp;G was up 4% so continuing to outperform the overall food and beverage trend.
And as Indra mentioned we continue to see big growth in that value segment and dollar continued to drive very strong growth.
It was up 16.1% in the second quarter and actually increased its growth rate in Q3 to 18.3%.
So overall at Frito we feel like we're on the right track.
We're looking to balance our focus between maintaining and growing our position in the mainstream.
Indra mentioned we've been focused on accelerating our performance in premium.
And in a category that grew 16% our performance in premium was up 17%.
So we're building share in those important categories and we're focused on our portfolio performance in the value segment.
But overall for Frito a very solid third quarter.
We feel like we're building sequential performance as we go into Q4 and we're balancing that with the changing retail landscape.
Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.
Research Division</strong> If I can ask also about China and maybe a 2-part question.
The first is if you'd like to give just some context on what you're seeing from a macro perspective.
And then second your results are quite different from what we're seeing with some other companies in the region.
So can you talk maybe about the sustainability of the strength you're seeing in China.
And then maybe is there -- was there anything that was short term maybe incremental distribution or anything in 3Q that may not continue forward in the next year or so? So Kaumil I'm going to start with the last question you asked and then work my way backwards.
First there was nothing in Q3 that was a result of increased distribution because we haven't even begun to reap the benefits of the increased distribution that as I said earlier will come in the first quarter of 2013 and forward.
So what you're seeing is just the strength of the brand and our innovation in China.
That's the first observation.
Second both our snacks and beverage businesses are growing very nicely.
The snacks business was always growing well.
The beverage business for a quarter or 2 went through its transition pains but we're through with that and the business is back to growth.
And so we feel good about China business overall.
Being in partnership with Tingyi has really strengthened our franchise massively and given us instant access to the whole country.
And once we've put the right manufacturing lines in Tingyi's plant remember we only had about 20 plants in China.
Tingyi has got over 50 plants so the combination gives us complete coverage of China.
And so the combination when once we've put the [indiscernible] lines in Tingyi plants is going to give us a real boost in the coverage in China.
Let's talk about the macros in China.
I've been there 3 times this year Kaumil and I'm back in China next week.
If you are on the ground in China you don't really sense the slowdown.
If GDP slows down from 9% or 10% to 7% to 8% from a country's perspective when you're trying to get more and more people out of unemployment into employment and then trying to address underemployment it matters a lot.
But from a consumer product perspective especially on small ticket items which are very basic food and beverage products you don't really see the impact in our categories.
And in every city that I've been in China and I've crisscrossed the country there is buoyancy there is a certain optimism in the country.
Of course everybody would like the growth to go back to 9% or 10% in China but at 7% -- 7.8% I still think China is performing at the peak of its game versus all of the other countries in the region or in the world today.
So macro is a bit slow but certainly not impacting our categories at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the Frito question.
And I understand the volume trend has improved sequentially this year but pricing has also moderated.
So when we hear you say you're on track with Frito I'm just wondering what kind of organic revenue and profit growth that is really realistic for this business to kind of deliver in more normalized inflationary environment.
Is it sort of 3% revenue 5% kind of profit growth or can we get back to kind of mid-single digit 6% 8% kind of profit growth that we saw in prior years? And what is really needed to kind of get Frito to that position? Judy Hugh is going to take this question and then Brian you can chip in with any additional comments you might have.
Yes.
Judy why don't I start on the questions you're asking specifically about Frito's algorithm going forward.
As we've talked about in the past we don't share division-specific algorithms.
We think we wind up getting into a level of conversation that frankly isn't productive for everyone as we get to quarter's end.
That said in general I think you can expect to see as commodities normalize you can expect to see Frito go back to a more normal type of an algorithm.
Obviously it's been more price-driven as we've seen exceptional commodity inflation.
As we see commodities normalize as the business both does well in mainstream and continues to gain share in the premium segment you can expect to see an algorithm that's a little bit closer to what we've traditionally delivered in the past in Frito-Lay.
Brian I don't know if you want to add any color to that? I think you've captured -- I think as we go forward you're going to continue to see us take a very balanced approach.
We recognize the importance of growing pounds.
We want to continue to make sure we're managing pricing appropriately.
And we think that'll yield through our productivity initiatives expansion of our [indiscernible] margins.
So as we go forward you'll continue to see our strategy focused on building our mainstream portfolio.
Our investments in brand and innovation are going to continue to solidify that position.
We believe we can accelerate our position in premium you're seeing that take place today.
And we're very pleased with the performance of brands like Stacy's as we move into the fourth quarter.
And we'll continue to make sure that we participate appropriately in the value segment.
So we're going to stay very focused on executing that agenda continue to invest in our brands in innovation making sure that our execution continues to improve at the point-of-purchase and as a company that's very focused on its productivity initiatives.
So a very consistent strategy as we go forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give us an outlook on Pepsi Americas Beverages when you think volume growth is going to resume? I mean will it be as easy as when the pricing starts to lap volumes should come back? Or has there been a change in some of the elasticity curves? And then if I could just sneak in one more.
Can you just tell us what Gatorade grew in the quarter? Hugh? Yes.
So hey Bill why don't I start and then Al is here with me and he can add a bit as well.
In terms of determining when volume growth is going to resume again we're getting back to sort of decision -- division-specific guidance.
It's a place that we really don't want to get into on a broad-scale basis.
I do think that we look at the volumes we look at our portfolio.
As commodities normalize we think the category is still overall LRB probably has a little bit of growth in it.
And in terms of our portfolio there's no reason that we wouldn't be able to hold share in that environment.
So a lot of the question of when is going to be driven by commodities and what happens there.
But I do think that we think the category has got a little bit of volume growth in it and I think our portfolio positions us well to hold share within the category.
But I should add another thing Hugh in that we've always said we want to grow this beverage business profitably.
And this year was a big reinvestment year.
We invested significantly and there was commodity inflation.
But going into next year we want to play this game in North American beverages very responsibly and make sure we're generating profit growth.
So it's important we don't chase unprofitable businesses unprofitable categories.
For example bottled water.
There was hell of a price war going on in bottled water so we chose not to play in the unprofitable segment of bottled water.
We did a real portfolio scrub and we said hey terribly unprofitable businesses which were chased many many years ago for the sake of volume share which everybody was maniacally focused on as opposed to responsible volume share we got out of.
Very painful decisions but we got out of that.
And Gatorade was down high-single digits in the quarter but I would say a bulk of that was an inventory problem at a certain customer.
As we go into Q4 we're already in the positive territory.
And again what we want to make sure in Gatorade is that we don't make the mistakes that we made in the 2004 '05 '06 time frame where we grew it as a general hydration product as opposed to a sports nutrition product.
Because if we go back to that strategy of just selling it as a everyman's hydration and just another beverage we're again renting volume.
We've been there done that.
So we want to make sure we're going after the active thirst occasion going after the athlete sustaining our pricing and then flanking our core Gatorade product with innovation.
So that's the strategy we're going to pursue in Gatorade.
And we're going to focus on the overall beverage portfolio going into 2013 as opposed to looking at one category or the other.
The good news is we started with carbonated soft drinks.
It's going well.
We are holding volume share and value share.
So we're feeling good about that.
And now we'll start working the other parts of the portfolio.
Did you want to add anything? I'd just add this just a quick thing.
Our overall Pepsi-Cola business our overall beverage business and our bottling system our company-owned as well as our franchise bottling system was actually right in line with Q2.
And our CSD trends are actually better with an improved share.
Now the Gatorade business was the big drag on our non-carb business in Q3.
Some of that we knew was going to happen because we were lapping a time when we put DSD Gatorade out on our route trucks in the drug and the dollar channels so we ended up having to lap that business and we knew that would probably happen.
But we also chose to not participate in some deep discounts that we had on Gatorade from a year ago.
And while it was painful this is a year we're trying to clean up that portfolio where we're not renting share and getting into promotions that we really can't sustain the volume.
So right after the summer was over with our Gatorade business has moved back to a growth territory.
And the way we think about Gatorade right now is it can grow through 3 steps: one is what I call solid hybrid EDV [ph] pricing where we're competitive but we're reasonable on the shelf every day.
The second thing is advertising that's effective.
And I think if you look at this RG3 advertising that's being played out on a lot of the NFL shows and also on the baseball playoffs that's the kind of advertising that works for Gatorade.
We're getting very good consumer response from it.
And then finally product news.
And these new Chews are doing a terrific job but they're small.
We have plans next year for improved product news on the base Gatorade business that I think will add some growth.
So all in all it was a short-term blip for Gatorade and I expect that that business will be solid for the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So one quick clarification on the core question just a quick clarification in terms of the stuff you pulled out in terms of cleaning up the juice and not playing in water why that's just a Q3 effect versus going forward.
But the core question is if you take all of the explanation that face value from a PAB volume perspective in this quarter or even FLNA and how you're thinking about that and you translate that forward do you think you're going to have to invest more in this category to get the results you're getting now? Or do you think you're at the right level of investment for the types of growth you're seeing in those categories underlying taking away all these outages on inventory and all that sort of stuff? Ali I believe that we are investing at the right amount in this business.
What we talked about is stepping up our advertising from 5.2% to 5.7% this year and then we said over the next 3 years we're going to increase that steadily okay? And at this point we feel good about where we are.
The other thing we're doing is advertising money that sat with our bottling partners our joint venture partners.
We're making sure that's also being deployed the right way and that's not even included in the 5.7% numbers.
So I think taken together all the marketplace investment that we have in the marketplace today the fact that we're shifting more nonworking media to media -- working media and that we are focusing our portfolio down to 12 muscular brands I think all of that is really driving results for the business and we feel good about the progress.
Now all of this is for naught if we don't back it up with good innovation.
So our global groups are focused on innovation and not just rifle-shot innovation more platform innovation and focusing on refresh reframe and breakthrough.
And I think this sort of a deliberate focus on innovation deliberate focus on execution and brand building is beginning to yield results.
And what we have to make sure is that we don't chase or we don't try to chase volume growth at all costs.
I think historically the strategy has been for many people in this industry to go after volume growth at all costs.
So bottled water was fair game going after value snacks without regard to responsible portfolio management was sort of the right thing to do for the segment -- for the category.
I think going forward especially large companies like us branded companies like us we have to think through carefully which parts of the portfolio we actually add value.
And that's why I think we're playing a much more focused deliberate and differential game going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To continue the conversation on Americas Beverage could you give us the actual numbers for carb and noncarb in North America? And then more qualitative perhaps for you Al still on track for your plans to decrease promotions around key holidays and using the fourth quarter to kind of lay the structural foundation for that for next year? Yes Mark this is Hugh.
The numbers on sparkling and on noncarbs sparkling was down 2 but as we talked about we do have a timing difference in terms of the quarter.
And in terms of the impact on that when you work your way through that timing difference the down 2 is closer to flat once you sort of take out that trading day piece.
So we think on carbonated we were basically in line with primary competition.
Noncarbonated was down 7 which was obviously much -- a much deeper number.
And the reasons were exactly the ones that Indra shared earlier: number one we made some changes in terms of some unprofitable juice drink businesses that we had; number two was there were some pretty aggressive case-packed water deals out there that we chose not to participate in; and then number three was the Gatorade issue that we've been talking about.
Going forward the Gatorade issue is behind us.
As Al has referenced we're back to growth in the fourth quarter.
In terms of the unprofitable juice I think we're largely past that now at this point.
That overlap is also largely behind us.
Case-packed water as Indra mentioned our stance is going to be consistent on that.
We're not interested in chasing unprofitable case-packed water deals.
So given all of that we'd certainly expect to see the noncarb numbers pick up on a go-forward basis and that's how we're thinking about it.
Mark the other part of your question was about the tremendous amount of volume done on promotion in the category.
It's not just us I think it's the overall category.
And the answer is we're moving to what I call a hybrid EDV [ph] pricing strategy.
It's a tricky thing to implement so you can't do it overnight.
But I think towards the end of the fourth quarter you'll see more of that and certainly in 2013.
And that'll benefit we believe pricing flow-through within the PepsiCo P&amp;L.
We think it's the right strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
But I'm actually going to ask about your thinking in North America Beverages.
First I think you said that you'll examine all underperforming assets and you've done that with Mexico done it with China very successfully.
Can you update us Indra on your thinking on North American bottling ROIC et cetera? And separately energy drinks are taking market share in CSDs and they seem to be to some degree the drink of the youth today.
What's your position on energy drinks? On energy drinks I think the way we'd like to play the energy drinks is in a more responsible way maybe I should use that word.
We have some interesting launches that we have next year on the cards which plays it in a way that is consistent with our product portfolio and consistent with where we think consumers want to go with energy.
So I think that's the right strategy for energy and you'll see some of those launches coming to the marketplace next year.
There's no question energy drinks took share from mainstream players.
But I think that's not a strategy that any of the big companies could have deployed and been successful at.
So we're going to take a more responsible and a disciplined approach in energy drinks going into next year.
Let's talk about our thinking in North American beverages.
What we told you earlier this year was that in North American beverages we were going to execute -- improve our execution significantly.
We would invest behind brand building.
It was going to take a year or 18 months to start to see the results.
And we are very steadily executing on the game plan that we outlined for you in the early part of February.
Meanwhile we also have seen some interesting results come out from our technology investments.
And our hope is that by this time next year we should start seeing the benefit of a lot of the technology bets we placed whether it's natural sweeteners enhancers whatever that will allow us to go in and create real differentiation in our product portfolio especially in carbonated soft drinks so that we can actually offer to the consumers in the 2014 and beyond a product portfolio that consumers love.
They love bubbles they love the caffeine they love cola taste but addresses any value that might exist in the areas of sugar in the portfolio or artificial sweeteners.
So we are optimistic about the results of R&amp;D investment and we are hopeful that towards the end of 2013 early 2014 and beyond we can actually launch differentiated innovation in some of our core categories.
So our North American beverage business our reinvestment activities our turnaround activities are all on track and we'll keep giving you updates every quarter.
But believe me we look at everything about this business and we look at improving the returns of the company on an ongoing basis.
And Indra if I can add one more comment to that.
Just going back to the energy drink question I want to take one thing off the table very explicitly.
We do not have the strategy or an intention to deploy significant M&amp;A capital into the energy drink category.
So I want to make sure we're crystal clear on that so that it's well understood by all.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Indra I thought it was interesting on the Asia Middle East and Africa business not only the great volume performance but really the margin performance.
And I wonder if you take a step back and you talked about China do you -- is there an opportunity over time to raise the margin of that business over -- through positive price mix over time? I think we're trained to thinking about emerging markets businesses as lower gross margin.
I think that's true in most cases.
But have we hit inflection point at China or other major emerging markets where either volumes are good enough the consumer healthy enough that you can really start to up margin those markets over the next couple of years? I think overall AMEA our Middle East business is very strong.
Great volume growth revenue growth margin growth margin expansion profit growth no issues.
I think markets like South Asia you get tremendous volume growth you get revenue growth but we're also investing heavily because the market is growing 15% 20% so we have to put in tremendous investment to keep the growth going.
And the good news is once the growth starts moderating and I hope it takes many years before it moderates the business starts to yield very very attractive return.
But on the short term we have to keep growing the business through investments both P&amp;L and on the balance sheet.
And in China absolutely once the Tingyi deal is up and running which we hope will be going into 2014 and beyond you should start seeing margins in the beverage business improve.
But again we want to reinvest that back in the snacks business and keep growing the overall portfolio.
So basically what we are focused on is PepsiCo as an overall portfolio.
AMEA will always be a big growth engine.
We will always keep investing in AMEA and then the slower growth markets will be the source of investment for areas like AMEA.
And so taken together this portfolio should be able to deliver for PepsiCo along the lines that we talked about.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Torres with HSBC.
Research Division</strong> It's been great to hear that you've been able to confirm and I guess reaffirm guidance for this year throughout the year.
But as most of us are thinking about next year Indra I was curious to get your confidence level if you think we could return to your long-term growth goals in 2013? I'm going to have Hugh talk to that.
Hugh? We'll talk about 2013 specifically in February.
We've given long-term guidance to give you an indication as to how you should model out multiple years.
But with the world as volatile as it is we think just as a practice the right answer is to give guidance in February as we do our Q4 call.
So no indications positive negative or otherwise in terms of 2013.
We'll get to that in the course of a couple of months.
Your final question comes from the line of Damian Witkowski with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> As we're 6 I think 8 months into the incremental advertising spend here in the U.S.
just curious how do you measure its effectiveness and how -- is there a way of measuring shorter-term versus just looking at it from a long-term perspective? And then any media that's performing better than other whether it's for beverages or snacks that's sort of standing out? We did talk about the fact that we are going to be measuring brand equity especially of the 12 big brands that we outlined in our February meeting.
And we're doing 2 things: We're looking at what we're doing in process and then we're looking at sort of tailpipe metrics.
In process we're looking to make sure that we are shifting more nonworking media to media -- to working media.
And then we're also making sure we're investing more in the 12 brands and slowly start to cull the tail.
So we are making progress on that and we track it almost on a monthly basis.
From a tailpipe metric it's brand equity.
Now typically brand equity scores take 12 18 months to really show improvement sustained improvement.
Interestingly as we shared with you in our Q2 scorecard and we're going to show you again the next scorecard in Q4 as part of our Q4 call we are beginning to see improvement across most of the brand portfolio.
So the programs we have in place the additional investment and the fact that we're doing a 360-degree activation not just spending money on television advertising but in the digital world executing better doing the right promotion.
All of that we're seeing as beginning to drive the brand equity scores into positive territory.
Now let me make sure we all understand.
Our brand equity scores for these 12 brands is already pretty high.
And we wanted to make sure that we continue to hold it or increase it in an advertising environment that was extremely cluttered.
And I think the efforts that we're undertaking we're already beginning to see some results which is very very comforting to see.
And I think as the quarters go on you'll see even more benefit and that will then translate to higher value share.
And so we're watching this virtuous circle very very carefully and making adjustments as we go along and it's happening both in beverages and snacks and our nutrition products and it's across all 12 brands.
So with that let me just say in closing Q3 marked good progress against a clear focused plan.
As we said earlier our AMEA region had an excellent quarter across-the-board.
Europe delivered solid results behind good pricing and marketplace execution.
Americas Foods had good volume growth and net price realization.
Share trends in Frito-Lay North America are encouraging.
And North American beverages we gained value share in carbonated beverages while executing a cleanup of unprofitable segments of our noncarbonated beverage portfolio.
Our stepped up brand-building investments are beginning to pay off.
Innovation performance is improving.
We are executing in a disciplined way in the marketplace.
We're on track to deliver our productivity commitment and on our cash returns to you our shareholders.
In short we are executing with great focus to drive results and do what's right for the short-term medium-term and long-term health of the business.
So with that let me just say thank you to all of you for joining us and for the confidence you've placed in us with your investment.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's PepsiCo's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at<a href="http://www.pepsico.com/" rel="nofollow"><u> </u><u>www.pepsico.com</u></a>.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield operator and good morning everyone.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
We'll lead off today's call with a review of our fourth quarter performance and 2013 outlook and then we'll move on to Q&amp;A.
In an effort to get to as many analysts' questions as possible within the hour we're going to have a one question limit so we can hopefully get through the full queue of your questions.<br><br>Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2012 guidance based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with the cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.<br><br>Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and total operating profit growth are on a core basis and all references to volume exclude the impact of an extra week of results in 2011.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions structural changes foreign exchange translation and the extra week of results in 2011.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results please refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning's earnings release and to the investors section of PepsiCo's website under the investor presentation tab.<br><br>And now Jamie and good morning everyone.
Because this is our year-end call I intend to provide a broader context today on PepsiCo's journey our progress to date and our expectations for the coming year.
As we entered 2012 I shared with you that we needed to use the year to reinvest in PepsiCo.
Our business strengthened during the course of the year with the fourth quarter looking particularly good.
And we are well positioned to compete and create value as we enter 2013.<br><br>Let me look back on the year and I think we made good progress on several fronts.
First we delivered on all of our financial commitments.
Our 2012 organic revenue growth was squarely in the middle of our long term target range of mid-single digits with growth of 5% both in the quarter and for the full year reflecting a good balance between volume growth and net pricing.<br><br>We grew organic revenue growth across each of our businesses both for the quarter and the full year with particularly strong growth in emerging and developing markets.
And we also had very solid growth in a number of our large developed markets businesses like Frito-Lay North America where organic revenue was up 5% in the quarter driven by strong volume growth and was up 4% for the year.
We stepped up investment in our brand by increasing our advertising and marketing support by 50 basis points of net revenue exactly on target.<br><br>We delivered our earnings per share directly on target.
We exercised very disciplined cash management.
Our capital spending was 4% of net revenue for the year below our target of 4.5% a 20% reduction from our 2011 CapEx investment level.
We also saw improvement across each our key working capital metrics particularly a decrease in inventory days and increase in payables days.
All of these contributed to extremely healthy cash flow for the year.<br><br>Our management operating cash flow increased 3% even with the $1 billion after tax discretionary pension contribution and cash payments related to the major restructuring actions we implemented in 2012.
Excluding the pension and restructuring cash outflows our management operating cash flow increased 20% or by more than $1.2 billion compared to 2011.
This cash flow performance enabled us to return $6.5 billion to PepsiCo shareholders through a combination of share repurchase and dividends a 16% increase from 2011.<br><br>Just as importantly we leveraged our 2012 investments to strengthen the competitiveness of our businesses across a number of key dimensions that will drive long term value creation.
First we enhanced the equity of our global brand.
We increased our spending across geographies and across both the food and beverage businesses.
Importantly these increased investments made across the spectrum of our brand from expanding our media spend in Good-For-You product platforms like Quaker to ensuring the competitiveness of our large Fun-For-You brands like Pepsi and Doritos.<br><br>And we not only stepped up the level of investment in A&amp;M but we also took steps to improve its efficiency and effectiveness by better leveraging our global scale and driving consistent brand positioning and coordinating advertising creative and production activities.
By doing this we made our investment dollars work harder allocating a greater percentage of the investment to what we refer to as working A&amp;M that is media and other consumer facing activities that drive greater awareness and regard for our brand.
We’re seeing positive results already from our increased investments both in higher brand equity scores and in market share results that are beginning to improve nicely.<br><br>Second we stepped up our game-in innovation by bringing to market more balanced offerings from line extensions that bring additional locations to our existing products and to new product platforms that are truly transformational.
I am particularly pleased at both the number and rate of our new product platform as these typically have higher greater staying power and also the opportunity for consistent growth over a number of years.
For example just in the last year or so we’ve introduced Quaker Real Medleys a high quality oatmeal with real fruits and nuts which was just named breakfast product of the year for 2012.<br><br>Pepsi Next which delivers real cola taste with 60 percent less sugar and achieved more than $100 million in retail sales in its first year.
Starbucks Refreshers our 60 calories sparkling beverage that provides a delicious boost of natural energy from green coffee extracts and real fruit juice and Gatorade Energy Chews a convenient form of carb energy to fuel athletes prior to athletic competitions.<br><br>In snacks Doritos Locos Tacos sold more than 325 million shelves contributing to the most successful product launch in Taco Bell’s 50 year history and expanded our presence in the food service channel.
We are gearing up for year-two of our Doritos partnership with Taco Bell with even more exciting products.
And Quaker Yogurt Bars originally launched in Canada were a great example of our lift and shift model as we successfully introduced them in the United States driving recent U.S.
share gain in bars.<br><br>And we believe we are still in the early stages of reaping the benefits of our investments in R&amp;D over the past several years.
During 2012 we continued to invest in the R&amp;D platform that will drive us future innovation and we will continue to do so in 2013.
Now our R&amp;D investments are highly focused.
We are investing in technologies and capabilities that will enable us to deliver differentiated taste functionality packaging and other benefits to consumers over the next five years and beyond.
All of which we believe will enable us to create differentiated product platforms that resulted in incrementality both at the top and bottom line.<br><br>Third we delivered on our productivity commitment.
We executed a comprehensive restructuring program and accelerated our productivity efforts across the value chain.
How we make move and sell our products.
We de-layered the organization and improved its efficiency.
We reduced our headcounts and we rationalized our supply chains to reduce cost and investment in fixed asset.
As a result of these efforts we delivered in excess of $1 billion in productivity in 2012.
And we are continuing to drive productivity across the entire value chain and across all of our businesses.<br><br>We have a robust pipeline of projects from leveraging best in class supply chain activities around the world to increasing automation across the value chain from raw materials handling through to the route truck to implementing new processing technologies that enable us to both increase asset utilization and reduce input cost.
Now much of this is enabled by the IT investments we have made over the past several years giving us greater visibility into our performance metrics across the globe.
Some of these changes from small actions repeated millions of times to utilizing new technology that changes the overall cost of key processes.
Both of these give us high confidence that we will achieve a three-year $3 billion productivity target through 2014.
And even more importantly we have already begun the work on our next big tranche of productivity.<br><br>Fourth we stepped up our execution game in 2012.
In North America we continued to drive cross-category in-store programming to increase the frequency with which our snacks and beverage products are purchased in the same basket resulting in increasing in our share of our cross-category co-purchases in the United States.
So while we have a great deal of opportunity to sharpen our capabilities of brand building innovation productivity realization market place execution I believe that 2012 marked a turning point for PepsiCo.
We truly stepped up our game and created a foundation for continued improvement and competitive advantage.<br><br>Now let me turn to our businesses and comment briefly about them in five buckets.
I am going to talk to Frito-Lay North America North American beverages other developed markets in the group developing in emerging markets as a group and our Good-for-You nutrition businesses.
Let me start with Frito-Lay North America.<br><br>Frito obviously plays a critical role in the PepsiCo portfolio.
It still enjoys terrific leadership in the growing savory snack category with lots of room to grow in the overall macro snacking market share in the United States and North America as a whole.
Specifically Frito's focus on generating steady predictable growth and value creation by sourcing occasions from other macro snacks category growing into the premium segment of snacks and selectively competing in the value tier of the category.
And doing all of this in a sensible margin accretive competitively advantaged manner.<br><br>As you saw in the fourth quarter and for the full year Frito-Lay North America generated very healthy organic top line growth which is an encouraging sign that our strategy and execution are both working.
As we look to 2013 we expect continued steady top line growth.
And because we have returned to a more normal commodities environment with lower inflation we expect the top line to have more balance between volume and pricing.
Our goal is to gain value share in a sustainable way over the long-term through iconic brands differentiated targeted innovation and flawless execution from farm to shelf.
This is what the teams are focused on and I’m pleased with their progress.<br><br>Let me now turn to beverages North America and let me start by giving you my perspective on the CSD category.
To begin there is still growth potential in Carbonated Soft Drinks outside of Colas.
Evidence the fact that Mountain Dew our second largest CSD trademark grew volume in North America in 2012 and we continued to innovate behind you as you saw with the launch of Mountain Dew Kickstart earlier this week.<br><br>However Colas have been under pressure for some time now.
Colas have declined as consumers have increasingly sought greater variety in their repertoire of beverages.
For this reason we diversified our portfolio in North America actually that begun in the early 1990s when we embarked on a strategy to be a total beverage company and as a result of multiple steps in the diversification today we have the leading position in liquid refreshment beverages in measured channels in North America.
Almost 40% of our North American beverage volume is non-carbonated and only a fifth of our North American beverage volume is full sugar Cola.<br><br>Our non-carbonated portfolio is very strong with great brands in isotonics juice and juice drinks ready-to-drink teas ready to drink coffee and waters all of which have good growth prospects and we continue to innovate in every one of these categories.
So what’s our approach in Colas? Simply put we’d like to lead disruptive innovation.
The industry has not had truly meaningful innovation in Colas since the introduction of Diet in 1960s.
Our research indicates that consumers still love bubbles.
They love the Cola taste but would like to lower their caloric intake without the taste of artificial sweeteners.<br><br>So as we shared with you over a year ago we’ve been developing new natural sweeteners and flavoring aimed at producing calories with no compromise on taste.
We have some promising projects that are currently going through the FDA review process that once commercialized could potentially alter the trajectory of our Cola business in a meaningful way.
And in the meantime we’re just going to continue to appropriately invest behind trademark Pepsi with marketing and innovation in order to maintain consumer excitement in the brand.<br><br>Now besides our work on disruptive innovation across the entire North American beverage business we’ve continued to optimize our supply chain to reduce costs.
We’re implementing price pack strategies to maximize revenue realization and we’re exploring a variety of potential structural alternatives to improve profitability and returns and to drive further value creation.
Early next year we’ll report our progress on these initiatives which will allow us to further unlock value from the PepsiCo North American beverage portfolio.<br><br>Other developed markets.
These businesses are relatively well positioned.
We have very strong leadership positions in salty snacks in many of these markets and our beverage portfolio is strategically well positioned with a highly developed zero calorie carbonated soft drink and non-carbonated beverage portfolio.
Even in a relatively difficult macro environment our major west European markets as a group grew snack and beverage volume in 2012.<br><br>Moving on.
We continue to see very good growth in our developing and emerging markets with organic revenue growth of 9% in the fourth quarter and for the full year 2012.
Over the past five years we’ve deliberately invested to increase the significance of our emerging and developing markets within our total portfolio so that we could provide a more attractive growth profile for PepsiCo overall.
We are growing in these important markets by driving greater penetration frequency of consumption through tailored distribution models and by offering locally relevant innovation and a broad spectrum of value oriented offerings.
These markets still have relatively low per capita consumption and therefore provide sizeable runways for future growth.<br><br>Moving to major developing markets.
Let me speak to a couple of key countries.
We have a terrific position in Russia where we are the number one food and beverage business by a factor of two.
And in the fourth quarter our organic revenue growth in Russia was 10% demonstrating our ability to leverage our brand scale and product spread to drive growth in this important market.
A second developing market Mexico.
We have a powerful snacks business with clear leadership in both salty snacks and biscuits.
We have combined our salty and biscuit businesses into one unit driving greater synergies and growth.
And just over a year ago we strengthened our Mexican beverage business through the consolidation of our bottling system under a new joint venture that increased our scale and stepped up our operating capability.
And our snacks and beverage businesses in Mexico continue to find new ways to work together on joint promotion and creative channel development initiatives.<br><br>The strength of our operations in Mexico was evident in the fourth quarter with organic revenue growth of 7%.
Moving on to our emerging market businesses which are largely centered in our EMEA sector because EMEA is predominantly an emerging market business because we have relatively small presence in countries like Japan.
Within the Asian emerging markets we have strong salty snack leadership.
Our China beverage business was recently strengthened by a formation of a partnership with Tingyi giving us a [system] relative market share advantage of 1.5 times.<br><br>And in India we recently further consolidated our bottling network which will drive greater scale and advantage in that market.
In the Middle East we enjoy a five times relative market share in snacks and a three times relative market share in beverage.
Reflecting the strength of our business across EMEA we enjoyed double-digit organic revenue in 2012 with especially strong organic revenue growth in Saudi Arabia India and Pakistan.<br><br>Let me now turn to our nutrition business.
Over the years we have built a strong Good-for-Your portfolio across the key platforms of food and vegetables grains and sports nutrition.
We have strong well-positioned brands like Tropicana Quaker Gatorade Sabra and Stacy's.
We are innovating with differentiated products that are worth paying more for.
We are increasingly leveraging these brands and product portfolios globally and we are intelligently addressing gaps in our portfolio as we did with protein through the value-added dairy platform with Wimm-Bill-Dann in Russia and through our capital efficient Muller and Almarai joint venture that leverage both PepsiCo and our partners unique capability.<br><br>Now these Good-for-You products are an attractive category with strong growth tailwinds and good margins and offer the potential for continued value creation for many years to come as consumers migrate more of their beverage and snacking habits to include more protein food and vegetable and grain and value-added dairy products.
Because consumers are both very loyal and willing to pay price premium for products in these categories we have continued to see the opportunity to create a great deal of value through investing behind Good-for-You innovation and expect that we will continue to accelerate our efforts in this attractive space.<br><br>Overall we feel good about the state of the company our execution capabilities and the caliber of our associates.
Now on to our outlook for 2013.
I don’t have to remind you that there are still considerable unresolved economic and political issues in the United States and Europe and there are number of emerging and developing markets that are also subject to economic and political volatility.
So it's against this uncertain macro backdrop that we are providing our outlook.
Now Hugh will provide a lot more color on the financial outlook in a moment but in summary for 2013 we expect mid-single digit organic revenue growth with contributions from each of our division driven by continued relatively strong growth in developing and emerging markets.
And we expect 7% core constant currency EPS growth reflecting the earnings associated with solid organic revenue growth and our continued focus on productivity and strategic investments.<br><br>Well let me wrap up my comments before I turn it over Hugh.
We believe we have a stronger business as a result of investments we made and the actions we took in 2012.
And we are well positioned as we head into 2013 with lots of runway for growth in the future.
We have strong presence and attractive and highly complementary growth categories.
Our product portfolio has broad appeal across dayparts need states cohorts and occasions from indulgent products to nutritious Good-For-You offerings.<br><br>Our global footprint is balanced with well-established positions in virtually every emerging developing and developed market in the world with strategies and business models tailored to maximize our performance in each market.
We have an enviable portfolio of well-defined brands that consumers know and love.
Our advantage supply chains enable us to achieve superior reach with greater efficiency.
And we have deep offering capability in every aspect of our business.
Most importantly we’re not content with the status quo.
We’ll continue to work hard to strengthen our brand accelerate innovation and drive relentlessly productivity and excellence in every aspect of our business.<br><br>So with that we expect core constant currency EPS growth of 7% off our core 2012 base of $4.10.<br><br>We expect organic revenue of mid-single-digits core constant currency operating profit growth of approximately 6% and approximately 1 point of leverage below the operating profit line driven by share repurchases offset somewhat by higher net interest expense of approximately $90 million from higher debt balances.<br><br>And we expect our core effective tax rate to be approximately 27% for the full year.
Within these expectations we assume positive price mix low single digit commodity inflation productivity of $900 million and A&amp;M growing at least in line with our net revenue growth.<br><br>We continue to manage our commodities using a systematic hedging program and at this point we have more than half of our commodity exposures covered for the year with more coverage in the clos-in quarters and the level of coverage will ramp up as we move further into the year.<br><br>We expect the rate of inflation to be fairly consistent across the quarters in total and that rate of inflation will be more pronounced in foods than in beverages.
Our productivity assumption is completely in line with the three year $3 billion program that we launched last year and the savings will be used to help offset inflation as well as provide funding for investment back into the business.<br><br>One of our key investment areas was supporting our brands with advertising and marketing where we’ll grow our A&amp;M investment at least in line with net sales meaning you should expect A&amp;M spending of at least 5.7% of sales which was our 2012 base line investment.
In addition we’re also accelerating our investment in research and development and innovation.<br><br>We anticipate foreign exchange translation to have up to a 1 point negative impact on our net revenue operating profit and EPS for the full year and this includes the impact of last week’s Venezuela devaluation.
We also expect an approximate $100 million non-core charge related to the devaluation of our monetary assets in Venezuela in Q1.
And we anticipate structural changes primarily bottler re-franchisings will have a negative impact on our full year net revenue growth of approximately 1 point.<br><br>As you model out the first quarter we expect foreign exchange translation to have a negative 2 point impact on EPS.
Revenue in the first quarter will have an estimated 3 point negative impact from structural changes and a negative 1 point impact from foreign exchange translation.<br><br>From a cash flow perspective we except management operating cash flow excluding certain items of more than $7 billion.
We’ll continue to drive cash flow through even more efficient working capital management and continued tight controls over capital spending.<br><br>For 2013 we expect to see continued improvement in our key working capital metrics and to manage net capital spending to $3 billion which is well within our long term target of less than or equal to 5% of net revenue.<br><br>From an M&amp;A perspective consistent with our past comments we believe the portfolio was largely where it needs to be and consequently we do not see the need for any large scale M&amp;A.
As a result we will continue to return strong cash flow to our shareholders.
We just approved a new three-year $10 billion share repurchase program to succeed the current program that expires in June of this year and our board has approved a 5.6% quarterly dividend increase beginning with or June payment.<br><br>In total we expect to return approximately $6.4 billion to shareholders in 2013.
$3.4 billion in dividends and $3 billion in share repurchases.
Next our outlook for 2013 is consistent with our long-term targets for net revenue operating profit and EPS.
We expect to drive improved margins and improved net ROIC and we expect to generate and return cash flow to our shareholders and that remains a top priority for the company.
With that I will wrap it up and operator we will take the first question.
whether it's the absolute level of sales or even the market shares the results today are better than I think we would have expected.
So can you talk a little bit about what's your scene and maybe in the non-track channel there.
And then if you think about the market share issue in innovation our focus on productivity and execution Brian and the business is performing at CapEx levels.
You know I have here Zein who was the architect of the Russia business.
Wayne as Indra said Bryan the integration has gone exceptionally well.
As we did the due diligence on the whole Wimm-Bill-Dann acquisition we realized that we are buying a business with very strong brands and a very strong management team.
And obviously those two things really do support your ability to integrate.
I think the other thing that we would really call out is that as we have merged these businesses it's given us the opportunity to really strengthen our go-to-market systems across our total businesses.
And again as I have told you about many times when you think about Russia with its multiple time zones the immense geography that the strength that you have in reach across that country as a result of the scale of your operation is critical.
And Wimm-Bill-Dann has given us a real step up in that.<br><br>And I guess the final thing we would call out is that the innovation opportunity that it brings to really strengthen our snack and beverage approach by getting us into that morning day part and our ability to leverage our assets into a whole new day part has really proven out as well.
So we are just immensely pleased with both the top and the bottom line performance I guess your thought process on the returns of the investments you made this year and as manifested in your 2013 EPS guidance.
Because the 7% core numbers sounds a lot like other CPG companies; but most other CPG companies didn't go through a big reinvestment year and a negative 7 EPS type number.
So I totally get the macro challenges here but could that growth trajectory suggest that they’re not just macro challenges we set that out within the context of making those investments.
So what we were doing with the investments in 2012 was certainly known to us when we said mid-single digit on revenue we said high single digit on EPS.
I don’t think that should come as a particular surprise.
In addition to that as we talked about the investments we were making were in brand building they were in innovation and they were in execution.
And obviously the returns on those things are not an immediate one year flip the switch type of return.
What they’re really geared towards is strengthening the franchise and extending the duration of performance of the company.<br><br>So as we put our numbers together and it all really goes back to the fact that we broadened our product portfolio we expanded our geographic portfolio and then we felt like at that moment we had a good opportunity to so called fuel up the race car to basically deliver an extended period of mid-single digit revenue and high single digit earnings per share by virtue of strengthening our innovation our brand building and our execution capabilities.
And I think from those moves that we’ve made in 2012 the big reinvestment we made in the company and the down earnings is because we had extraordinary commodity inflation.
All of it was not reinvestment.
Commodity inflation was extremely high.
Going into 2013 we don’t see massive commodity deflation.
We’re still seeing inflation that’s just headed to the lower level and we have a very uncertain macroeconomic environment.
So I think it’s critically important we take all of that into account while we manage this very large company and not try to get ahead of our teeth and that’s what we’re trying to do.<br> there is not much gap between your 2013 mid-single digit organic top-line growth guidance and 6% profit growth.
So can you discuss your expectations in a little more granularity around margin performance in 2013 and why you wouldn't see greater margin expansion with both the strong productivity as well as fairly benign commodity costs and flat ad spend as a percent of sales?<br> Dara.
Obviously there’s a lot of variables that go into a $66 billion P&amp;L.
we talk about productivity.
We talked about the low single digit commodities.
We talked about A&amp;M being at least 5.7% and we also talked about making investments in R&amp;D and innovation.
All of those are factors.
In addition to that as you certainly know and is common across CPG companies the faster growth comes from developing and emerging markets and there is a bit of a margin drag out of the faster growth in those markets.
Obviously over time the margins will increase in those markets but it takes a bit of time for that to happen.
So as we put all of the numbers together risk access the plan Indra can you talk about the update on the US DSD system? I think you said at the Analyst Day it was 12 to 18 months to decide how it was progressing.
So can you just give us an update on relative to the plan you put in place last February as we talked about on the script we are doing a lot of things with our North American beverage business.
We are investing in brand all the brand equity scores are trending up nicely.
We are optimizing the supply chain to reduce cost doing a lot of work in price-pack strategy and while doing all that we are looking at structural alternatives.
Sensible structural alternatives to improve profitability and returns.
Bill early next year we will report our progress on these initiatives.
And we want to make sure that as our disruptive technology all comes to the marketplace we don’t do something in the short-term to really lose out on big value creating opportunities in the long-term.
So stay tuned consumer a little bit still challenged.
And in snacks with more benign commodity environment Judy this is Hugh why don’t I take that one.
From the standpoint of the foods businesses I think what you are going to expect to see for the year is modest pricing.
Obviously the numbers that you are seeing right now don’t reflect that but as we get towards the end of the first quarter I think you will start to see modest pricing come into place inside of the food businesses.
In the beverage business the business has strengthened quarter after quarter.
And our business in China especially as we are going to the Chinese New Year as we speak is looking very strong.
Remember the refranchising to Tingyi was done from a position of strength.
They brought to the market teas some juice and juice drinks.
We brought to the market some juice and juice drinks and we brought a very strong CSD portfolio.
So the combination created a business that’s 1.5 times the size of the next player.
As I look at the business today February second week and year-to-date and looking back over the last couple of quarters since the refranchising the business is strengthening.
And usually in the December period in anticipation of Chinese New Year you start seeing some weird volume numbers but the best way to look at it is through Chinese New Year.
And we are in the middle of the Chinese New Year as we speak and I would say that through this Chinese New Year it seems better consumer confidence but at the same time you are getting hit with this payroll tax.
Would you say the fourth quarter was a better sequentially from the third quarter as far as your takeaway on performance in those macro-sensitive channels? And looking into 2013 you are asking the question of the impact of the economic environment on the retail channels.
In a quarter that’s usually the most difficult quarter to read because Q1 is full of storms in the East Coast storms in the Midwest and retail activity is influenced by all of these weather-related activities which have nothing to do with the underlying performance.
All I would tell you is as we came out of Q4 going into Q1 notwithstanding the fact that we've had all these weather-related issues and we are overlapping a very warm winter from last year retail trends are okay by and large holding up.
Week-to-week there are some changes but overall they are holding up and our business is holding up too.<br><br>This year it's more about volume.
Last year it was more about price.
We’re still seeing foot traffic and gas prices haven't gone up too much.
So on balance our retail activity still seems to be holding up and our business is holding up because again as I said Q1 is probably the most difficult quarter to extrapolate from especially January and February because weather plays havoc on traffic business and overall performance.
So we plan accordingly.<br> very well Mexico Latin America all over Western Europe East Europe Middle East you name it Asia Pacific.
There is not a country in the world that our snack business is not doing well.
More importantly many many countries of the world the snack business piggybacks off of our beverage business very nicely.
We take talent from our beverage business put them into the snack business and in many cases they even share a common distribution system.
So our snack business is looking good.
Low per caps in many countries so we have lots of room to grow going into the future.
So good prospects.
Turning to sugared beverages in North America as we said in our script a couple of decades ago we started to diversify the portfolio.
We are the number one liquid profession beverage company in measured channels in North America and we have a very diversified portfolio where 40% of our volume in North America comes from non-CSDs.
And so we feel good about the portfolio.<br><br>Yes there is a lot of talk about sugared beverages and sort of negative conversation going on about it.
Diversification of the portfolio is one thing.
Investing in disruptive technology as we talked about is the second thing.
And we started to do both several years ago.
Diversification a couple of decades ago with so much to be proud of and upon which we can continue to build and grow.
And finally we remained unwavering in our focus to deliver results create value and doing what's right for the short Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you operator.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo’s Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo’s CFO.
We’ll lead off today’s call with a review of our first quarter performance and 2013 outlook and then we’ll move on to Q&amp;A.
In an effort to get to as many analysts’ questions as possible within the hour we have kept our prepared remarks relatively short this morning and we are going to have a one question limit so we should be able to get through the full queue of analysts when we get to Q&amp;A.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2013 guidance based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with the cautionary statements and other information contained in today’s earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and total operating profit growth are on a core basis.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures structural changes and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo’s financial results please refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning’s earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo’s website under the Investor Presentations tab.
As we discuss our results today please keep in mind that our Q1 reporting period is the 12 weeks ended March 23 for North America businesses and is the months of January and February for the vast majority of our businesses outside North America.
And now it’s my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thanks Jamie and good morning everyone.
Last February we announced and then executed a number of important actions to strengthen and ensure the long-term success of our business.
Since then we have driven greater productivity significantly increased our advertising and marketing investments and upped our execution in the market.
Today I am very pleased to report strong first quarter results.
We had mid single-digit organic revenue growth double-digit core EPS growth and a significant improvement in cash flow.
We feel good about these results in what has been and continues to be a competitive landscape and a volatile macro environment.
The first quarter has us confident that we are on track to meet our 2013 financial guidance.
Our organic revenue growth was 4.4% right in line with our mid single-digit long-term target with particularly strong growth at Frito-Lay North America Latin American snacks international beverages and snacks and beverages throughout Asia Middle East and Africa.
Organic revenue growth reflected a good balance of volume and net pricing.
Our overall servings increased 3% with snacks volume growth of 4% and beverage volume growth of 1% in an organic basis but our international beverage volume growth was very strong up 9% on a reported basis and 6% on an organic basis.
More specifically developing and emerging markets volume was particularly impressive with snacks volume growth of 5.5% and beverage volume growth of 7% of an organic basis.
North American beverages volume was negative driven by specific decisions we made to take pricing and sustain it during the quarter.
We had good profit flow through with core gross margins improving almost 130 basis points in the quarter core constant currency operating profit up 9% and our core operating margin up more than 80 basis points.
Each of our four business units grew core gross margins expanded our health core operating margins and grew operating profit and we remain focused on cash flow and cash returns.
Management operating cash flow excluding certain items was more than $460 million a significant increase over Q1 2012.
In addition we returned over 1.4 billion to shareholders in the quarter in the form of dividends and share repurchases up more than 50% year-over-year.
We’re encouraged by the continued strength in the top-line.
Innovation was a strong contributor to our overall organic sales growth and we continue to see positive signs in terms of both improving brand equity scores of our global brands and market share results.
And our productivity program is squarely on track.
We have targeted $900 million in savings this year which is a second year of our three year $3 billion productivity program.
We’re leveraging best in class supply chain activities from around the world.
We’re increasing automation across the value chain from raw materials handling through to the route truck and we’re implementing new processing technologies that enable us to both increase asset utilization and reduce input cost.
We are well on our way to achieving our current productivity goal of $3 billion and we have our team now focused on identifying and planning the next generation of projects that would extend our productivity savings well beyond the current program.
With the productivity we’re unlocking we’re able to invest in growth drivers like advertising and new product launches and to simultaneously drive margin improvement.
This was evident in the first quarter where A&amp;M expense increased by 50 basis points while delivering an 80 basis point improvement in core operating margins.
Turning now to our businesses let me comment briefly on them in four buckets Frito-Lay in North America North American beverages all other developed markets businesses and then developing and emerging markets.
Let me begin with Frito-Lay North America.
Frito had a good first quarter we generated mid-single digit volume and revenue growth and going forward we expect modest pricing to create a bit more of a spread between volume and revenue than you saw in the first quarter.
We expanded core operating margins by 40 basis points even as we increased advertising and marketing expense.
More importantly in Q1 Frito-Lay gained volume unit and value share across major channels in the United States.
We feel good about Frito-Lay’s growth model because our business is largely focused on salty snacks and we’re able to grow by taking occasions from another macro snacks like cookies crackers nuts and seeds.
For example our Tostitos Cantina is sourcing cracker occasions while Doritos Jacked is sourcing occasion from microwavable snacks.
Additionally with our focus on the growing premium snacking occasion we’re realizing additional growth and profitability.
For example in Q1 Sabra dips grew volumes 16% and Stacy’s grew revenue 21% and both these are premium offerings which give us additional space in the produce and deli sections of the grocery stores.
So as we look at Frito we believe it's in good shape.
Let me turn now to North American beverages.
Our goal in North American Beverages is to judicially balance share and profitability.
Now this is very important because we compete in every sub-category of the LRB segment and any growth we achieve in one business comes largely at the expense of another sub-category where we also compete.
So we have to be very careful to compete in this large and profitable LRB business in a responsible way focused more on innovation marketing balancing share and profit.
It's our experience that short term volume driving activities merely rent share and is not a value creating strategy.
Now let me talk about the category itself and our performance in it.
As you all know about [65%] [ph] of category is non-carbonated beverages and this segment continues to show growth potential.
In the first quarter we had good performance in teas and chilled juices ready-to-drink coffee and sports drinks all supported by successful innovation.
Our Pure Leaf product under the Lipton trademark Tropicana Farmstand Naked our super-premium chilled juice Starbucks’ Iced Coffee Starbucks’ Refreshers Gatorade’s Chews and Shakes each performed well in the first quarter despite less than favorable weather in many parts of the country.
In the other 35% of the LRB category that’s CSDs about 17 points are made up of colas and about 18 points are made up of flavored CSDs.
Within flavored CSDs Mountain Dew continues to perform well significantly outperforming the overall CSD category and gaining four-tenths of a share point in the quarter bolstered by the launch of Kickstart and the momentum of Kickstart continued into April.
However the cola category continues to be a challenge.
We took pricing in this declining category and continued to invest in R&amp;D to break some of the compromises that caused consumers to leave the cola category.
While this work progresses we are managing the business responsibly and profitably.
We are supporting Pepsi with package and product innovation to drive price realization and investing appropriately in A&amp;M.
And this is what you see reflected in our first quarter PAB performance.
We had good disciplined net price realization.
Our revenue performance was generally in line with the category.
A&amp;M expense increased by 30 basis points versus Q1 of 2012.
We expanded core operating margins by 50 basis points and we grew core constant currency operating profit 4% in the quarter.
So as we go forward expect us to continue to play a responsible game in North American beverages to be competitive of course but to also enhance our financial performance.
And across the beverage business we are taking out costs to drive margin and improve returns under our current structure while we continue our work to explore sensible opportunities to unlock incremental value through meaningful structural alternatives.
And as we told you in the last earnings call we do not intend to talk about this until early next year.
Let me now turn to our other developed markets outside the United States.
We saw good performance in some of our larger markets.
The UK had 5% organic revenue growth Germany was up 8% France grew 10% but Western European macros overall continued to be challenging and we expect it will continue to put pressure on consumer spending going forward.
Emerging and developing markets we saw very good growth in these markets in Q1 with organic revenue growth of 12% made up of 14% in snacks and 9% in beverages driven by execution of our strategy to increase household penetration and frequency of consumption.
We had terrific growth across each of our major developing markets with organic revenue growth of 6% in Mexico 8% in Turkey and 12% in Brazil.
And our emerging markets performance drove the continued great results in our EMEA sector where organic volume grew double-digits in each of snacks and beverages and organic revenue grew 15%.
Within our emerging markets organic revenue was especially strong in Saudi Arabia Pakistan Vietnam and the Philippines with each growing in excess of 20%.
And organic revenue grew 19% in Jordan and 18% in Egypt.
And China performed especially well with organic volume growth of 17% in beverages and 47% in snacks.
Importantly we also saw nice improvement in core operating margins in EMEA with a 450 basis point increase even as we continued to invest in brand building and capacity to drive future growth.
So overall we feel good about the state of the business and our first quarter performance.
Top line was strong.
We continued to invest in our brands to fuel growth.
Productivity is on track.
And we saw solid core operating margin improvement and core operating profit growth.
With the strength of the first quarter’s performance we have an even greater degree of confidence in delivering our 2013 financial guidance in a global micro-economic environment that continues to be volatile.
To summarize PepsiCo is performing well.
We’re growing the top and bottom line and driving margins and cash returns.
We’re being disciplined and responsible across the board in balancing value share and profitability and the overall portfolio is working in terms of scale geographic reach and product diversity covering snacks and beverages and different day parts need states and cohorts.
So with that let me turn the call over to Hugh.
Thanks Indra and good morning everyone.
I will spend just a minute covering the financial results and guidance in a little more detail and then we will open the lines to your questions.
For Q1 organic volume grew 4% in snacks and 1% in beverages with international organic volumes up 6% in beverages and 5% in snacks.
Organic revenue grew 4.4% our core gross margins improved by about 130 basis points and we reinvested almost 50 basis points in A&amp;M.
core operating margin improved by 80 basis points and core constant currency operating profit grew 9%.
Net interest expense increased by $12 million reflecting higher debt balances our core effective tax rate was 24.5% approximately 220 basis points below Q1 2012 and core constant currency EPS grew 13%.
So between core constant currency division operating profit growth of 7% and core constant currency EPS growth of 13% we got about six points of leverage one point from corporate unallocated some of which is timing related.
Slight leverage from net interest expense three points from tax rate which will reverse as we’re forecasting the full year rate to come in at approximately 27% and one point from weighted average share count which was down 1% year-on-year.
Overall the quarter came in as expected with pricing actions commodity inflation and productivity all in-line with our expectations.
On a reported basis net revenue was up 1% and that was driven by a 0.5 point drag from 4x and at 3 point negative impact from structural change reflecting the China we’re franchising.
And reported operating profit and EPS included to be $111 million net monetary asset write down in Venezuela that we talked about on the Q4 call.
We generated over $700 million in cash flow from operations in the quarter a $1.4 billion positive swing versus last year.
This was driven by lower pension contributions stronger working capital improvements and a reduction in net capital spending.
Management operating cash flow excluding certain items was $464 million an increase of $385 million over Q1 of last year and we returned over $1.4 billion to shareholders this quarter in the form of dividends and share repurchases of 52% increase year-over-year.
Now turning to guidance for 2013 we expect core constant currency EPS growth of 7% of a core 2012 base of $4.10.
More specifically we expect organic revenue growth of mid-single digits core constant currency operating profit growth of approximately 6% and approximately 1 point of leverage below the operating profit line driven by share repurchases offset somewhat by higher net interest expense of approximately $90 million from higher debt balances.
And we expect our core effective tax rate to be approximately 27% for the full year.
Within these expectations we assume positive price mix low single digit commodity inflation productivity of $900 million and A&amp;M growing at least in-line with our net revenue growth.
Our productivity assumption is completely in-line with the three year $3 billion program that we launched last year and the savings will be used to help offset inflation as well as to provide funding for investment back into the business.
One of our key investment areas is supporting our brands with advertising and marketing where we will grow A&amp;M investment at least in line with net sales meaning you should expect A&amp;M spending of at least 5.7% of sales which was our 2012 baseline investment.
In addition we are also accelerating our investment in R&amp;D and innovation.
Based on current market consensus we anticipate foreign exchange translation to have approximately a 1 point negative impact on our net revenue operating profit and EPS for the full year including the impact of the Venezuela devaluation.
Our ForEx outlook is marginally more negative than what we shared with you on the Q4 call but still rounding to 1% at this point.
And we anticipate structural changes will have a negative impact on our full year net revenue growth of approximately 1 point driven by China and Vietnam.
Overall we are pleased with how the first quarter came in and that increases our confidence in delivering our full year guidance.
I would encourage you not to increase your estimates however.
The world remains a volatile place and we may also choose to incrementally invest in the long-term value building initiatives such as advertising innovation and in emerging markets growth capacity.
As you model out the second quarter we expect foreign exchange translation to have up to a negative 2 point impact on second quarter revenue and EPS based on current market consensus rates.
We expect revenue in the second quarter will have an estimated 1 point negative impact from structural changes due to the beverage refranchising’s both China and our recently announced refranchising of Vietnam.
We will also have a gain on the Vietnam transaction which we intend to reinvest in the business so we don’t expect it to have any impact on our full year earnings guidance.
Commodity inflation will ramp up sequentially from the first quarter but our full year outlook remains unchanged from our original guidance of low single-digits.
In Europe given the timing of expenses and continued challenges in Western Europe Europe sector’s operating profit performance may moderate from the Q1 performance and we expect higher A&amp;M expense will negatively impact margins around – across the business.
From a cash flow perspective we expect full year core management operating cash flow excluding certain items of more than $7 billion.
We will continue to drive cash flow through even more efficient working capital management and continued tight controls over capital spending.
And for 2013 we expect to see continued improvement in our key working capital metrics and to manage net capital spending to approximately $3 billion which is well within our long-term target of less than or equal to 5% of net revenue.
As a result we will continue to return strong cash flow through our shareholders.
In total we expect to return approximately $6.4 billion to shareholders in 2013 $3.4 billion in dividends and $3 billion in share repurchases.
Net our outlook for 2013 is consistent with our long-term targets for net revenue operating profit and core constant currency EPS.
We expect to drive improved margins and net ROIC and generating and returning cash flow to our shareholders remains a top priority for the company.
So with that operator we will take the first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Bryan.
Just a question on the operating leverage in the quarter and I don’t know how difficult that it’s going to be to try to parse this out but just try to get a sense for how much of it was driven just simply by commodity disinflation how much of it is driven by the pricing – pricing actions I guess in Latin America foods and in America’s beverages And then how much of it is you’re actually beginning to see more of the productivity kind of drop to the bottom-line.
So I’m just trying to get a sense for when we look at the margin expansion in the quarter and try to look at it going forward just the weightings in terms of what those items contributed to the margin expansion.
Obviously we’re getting into a fair amount of detail and in a global P&amp;L it's a little bit difficult to parse all of that.
No doubt they were all contributing factors we clearly did have some pricing in excess of inflation for the quarter but we also got more than our share of the $900 million of productivity in the quarter and that was flowing through as well.
Instead of breaking the specific pieces down what we really try to do is just give you guidance on what we expect the outputs to be and at least give you a sense for the difference between what’s happening in gross margin and what’s happening in operating margin.
What I would just say is at both price in excess of commodity as well as productivity we’re significant contributors to that margin expansion.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan Chase.
Just want to follow-up a little bit Indra on your comments on North America if we look at the scanner data pricing which is really what we have to work with your pricing in CSDs accelerated a little bit through the quarter and on a two year basis you’re ahead of both of your largest competitors in terms of pricing in CSDs and I guess the big concern given the weak volume number is profits without a balanced algorithm really are not sustainable and people would argue that’s one of the things that got you in the hole that you’re in heading into 2012.
So how do we think about that balance going forward because to Bryan’s point the leverage looks good but the view point is going to be that it's not sustainable and you’re going to have to drive some of that back in order to get the volume moving? So any sort of follow-up there?  In the last call I think we talked about Q1 always being sort of a funny quarter because all the weather related impacts hit us on Q1.
So it's very hard to read the year from Q1 alone but having said that let me tell you that we look very carefully at this trade-off between volume pricing and profit we look at it constantly and we began the year saying we’ve got to take pricing and we’ve got to stick with it because this is a category where you got to behave in a very responsible and a consistent way so that you don’t destroy value in a business that requires reinvention that’s way we approached it.
We saw some interesting pricing activity in the first five or six weeks of the quarter and at the second half of the quarter we started to put in the right actions on pricing very granular very targeted still with an eye towards profitability to make sure that we balance volume revenue and profitability very carefully and if we look at the last six weeks or the last nine weeks the performance is very different.
So believe me John your point is exceedingly well taken we’re threading this thing very very carefully but at the end of the day I think this industry requires responsible behavior and we’re going to try to make sure that we play this carbs non-carbs portfolio very carefully while getting ready for this reinvention of carbonated soft drinks.
So we will continue to play this game where we don’t allow volume declines for the balance of the year to be at the magnitude of the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
On some of your emerging market or developing market performance I guess it's been now a few quarters where your profitability is starting to really ramp up.
So can you just give us some perspective on the sustainability of that kind of profit improvement your level of investment that’s going into those markets and the potential for continued I guess profitability improvement how much of that is going to really drive your overall profit growth performance.
Judy emerging and developing market have been growing robustly from a GDP perspective and the differential between developed markets and emerging and developing markets tend to be about between three and six points in terms of GDP growth.
So if you look across the world emerging developing markets have robust growth.
That’s the macroeconomic factor.
Over the past five or six years as you well know we have been investing to shift our portfolio to be more balanced between emerging and developing markets and developed markets because prior to 2006 we tended to be more of a developed market predominantly U.S based company.
So the last six years we have been working very hard to diversify the portfolio.
So what you’re beginning to see right now is a result of all those investments beginning to pay off bit by bit.
When you first make the investments it is dilutive to profitability but you have to make those investments between M&amp;A and organic investments we had to do it.
Now bit by bit as developed markets don’t grow as robustly as it did pre-2005 and as the developing and emerging market investments start to payoff the combination is beginning to yield results.
Now if you are asking for projection I mean that’s very hard to give you a projection all that I tell you is the overall PepsiCo algorithm works because we have this nice mix of developed and developing and emerging markets and as margin improves in those markets and developed markets also continued to grow the overall portfolio works the overall financial profile works.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Good morning Ali.
Hi how are you?  Very good.
Thank you.
Good.
Want to ask a little bit about this balancing act that is certainly going on in North America it sounds like successfully particularly on North America CSDs where you are seeing volume as what volume is we are going to try to do better but it is what it is and we are going to try to drive profitability to try to….
And so the question being Ali?  I think he is asking the balancing act between profit and market share.
Yeah good ahead.
Yeah.
So Ali I guess what I would say is this as Indra mentioned in her opening remarks we are basically trying to do two things.
Number one we want to make sure that we ensure our competitiveness and that’s something that we think is important for the long-term of the business.
At the same time we do think that this is a – it’s a good business it’s a business that generates a lot of cash flow and obviously we are looking for it to generate profit growth as it did in Q1 with PAB delivering 4% profit growth which is certainly a positive I think in the industry.
The balancing act that we are ultimately going to manage to is ensuring that within the categories we are being smart about how we manage each of the categories where we choose to gain share where we choose to hold share.
The second thing that we are going to be doing is we will be playing a price package game to ensure that we do look to across the package portfolio to get price realization where we can and in that vein one of the things that you know we are doing this year is what we have called our hybrid EDD which is to try to balance out holiday and non-holiday pricing to try to send the message to consumers that not to buy only when the product is deeply discounted.
And then obviously the last decision that we have made is a decision to invest in research and development to address some of the core dissatisfiers with some of the products with the belief that innovation is the way really to create sustainable value in the category.
And I think that’s what we are looking to do in the North American beverage space and we think it’s a successful strategy.
And Ali the other thing as we talked in our earnings call it’s interesting because the North American beverages we participate in every sub-segment of the North American beverage business.
So we have to be careful that we don’t take too much – take pricing down too much in one category and source from a more profitable part of the other sub-category.
So we have to make sure we play this overall category game very very carefully.
And because we have owned the operating businesses around the world in snacks we are very very cognizant of how you play the game in a big operating business.
It’s very different from playing the game in a franchise business and we have volumes of learning’s from around the world from our various operating businesses.
And I think we are borrowing a page from that playbook to participate in this NAB in the North American Beverage business.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Good morning Dara.
So Hugh given that the 9% core profit growth in Q1 despite the 11% ad increase your full year guidance implies a few hundred basis point slowdown at least in the balance of the year on core profit growth and I know you mentioned commodities get worse but I was hoping for a bit more detail on why you would expect that level of deceleration.
And also can you quantify what you are expecting on commodities in the balance of the year relative to Q1?  Yeah.
So I think a couple of things to keep in mind on that Dara.
The first and probably the biggest factor is the world’s certainly a volatile place.
And as we look forward into the balance of the year we are certainly thinking about our guidance in the context of the world being a volatile place and at the same time ensuring that we deliver our guidance through thick and think in terms of the challenges that we might face.
The second piece to consider is given that we have seen some success in terms of moving the top-line with investments that we have made in the business we’re only going to do things that we view as creating sustainable shareholder value but to the degree that there are opportunities to invest in the business to create sustainable shareholder value.
We’re obviously going to be looking towards doing that as well.
And then the last piece I talked about core division operating profit growth of 7% for the quarter and core division operating profit growth of 6% for the year.
So that’s about a one point gap and frankly with the timing of the A&amp;M expenses with the timing of commodities that gap isn't so large that just sort of the general quarterly movements in those expenses would move the number from a 7 through a 6 in a relatively undisruptive way.
So that’s basically how we get there and hopefully that gives you a little bit of a sense of the context as to how we are thinking about it as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Can you just give us some color on the organic growth rate and some of the bigger country? So Russia China exiting the partnership Brazil and Mexico and maybe Gatorade on the organic side too and then the second part of the question is maybe how March is looking at some of the international markets because I know (inaudible) in February so maybe some update on what is going to happen in March and what’s your view is going forward?  So organic growth pretty much in every one of those markets was strong and we talked about it in our earnings.
China volume grew organic revenue grew if you look at the UK you look at Russia; you look at every country pretty much across the board we had organic revenue growth whether it was developed or developing.
I don’t think there was any country around the world they will wear.
We did not have some organic growth.
So we feel good about the growth rates even though many of these international markets were just two months.
India grew 9% Egypt grew 20% Saudi grew 21% Pakistan grew 37%.
I could go on and on but every one of these grew mid-single digits or even in the 20s or 30s.
So good revenue performance across the board.
The first quarter is a two months quarter it's a lowest it's the smallest quarter in the year and so the cost and the profits are not fully balanced.
So what I would say to you is that we had very good growth margins in EMEA for example we had 438 gross margin basis point improvement in gross margins but it's a small quarter so let’s wait and see how that evolves through the year but all that I tell you is that Latin America EMEA doing well margins expanding profit going well Russia doing well.
Western Europe we’re going to watch and wait and see what happens to the macroeconomic environment and North America we have talked enough about it.
So overall I would say it's a good outlook for our developing and emerging markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
I wonder if you could actually just the last part of the last question was around Gatorade and Trop and talk about the strategy for this year and longer term the repositioning that happened at Gatorade and what the volume was like this quarter.
Actually Gatorade and Tropicana had very good quarters and sequentially the performance is sustaining itself.
Again as you well know and Gatorade we’re playing sports nutrition game between Gatorade Juice Gatorade Hydration and Gatorade Recover and as a system that business is doing well.
We are staying very true to our premium sports nutrition positioning and we continue to play the games that way.
We’re beginning to gain share and sports nutrition even though we had low priced competition come in with really aggressive pricing.
We held our ground and we’re beginning to gain shares.
So we feel very good about our sports nutrition strategy.
In the case of Tropicana between Tropicana Trop 50 name of the Tropicana franchise also includes Naked but let me just speak to Tropicana.
Again coming out of the first part of Q1 going to the second part and now going into Q2 we are beginning to gain share in the chilled juice category just a lot of great advertising incredible execution focus in all of our traditional strongholds.
And we are seeing impressive performance gains in Tropicana.
And just look for us to grow the Naked franchise it’s continued to bring innovation into the Tropicana franchise and the launch of Tropicana Farmstand which is our fruit and vegetable product is also doing very very well.
So continued to look for innovation from Tropicana we feel good about tailwinds of those categories because they are more in the nutrition space coupled with the fact that our brands are very strong.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Yeah good morning.
Good morning Mark.
How are you?  Good morning Indra.
I am good.
Thank you.
Two-part question it looks like in C stores there is an increasing divergence between what you are seeing on the snacks side of your business and the beverage component of your business and how do you say we have only got two months here.
So perhaps on the beverage side we should not make too much of that.
Can you speak to how accurate that assessment is and kind of what kind of promise these tie-ins with AB and the promotions you have kind of incrementally from a (indiscernible) perspective how you feel they might address that issue? And then kind of related to that but could we speak a little bit more about how this large format effort on the promotional side changing the promotional calendars is actually going it sounds like the aim is good and you have had some success to an extent but perhaps the pace of success in terms of getting a better promotional environment is a little slower than you would have thought about a year ago?  Convenience stores in the first quarter especially the first part of the first quarter perhaps not a very good performing channel.
I wouldn’t say we are talking about our business as a channel convenience stores did not perform very well because weather impacted convenience stores significantly and you can’t do anything about Mother Nature.
So convenience stores didn’t perform well but now as the weather is improving across the country little bit slower than we would like because snow in the West in April doesn’t feel that good.
But we are seeing trends improving convenience stores and we are very strong in convenience stores both in beverages and snacks.
And we are beginning to see sequential improvement.
And because of the underperformance in the first part of Q1 of the channel itself and now that we are seeing sequential improvement we think the year for C stores would still end up with sort of 3.5% 4% growth in the channel.
And if the channel grows at that rate you should expect to see good performance from PepsiCo in that channel.
I would be honest with you the divergence between snacks and beverages is not that much both our businesses are doing fairly well in the convenience stores.
And I think that as the year goes on you start to see better performance in the convenience store channel.
And in terms of – you wanted to add something Hugh?  Yeah if I can add just particularly to the convenience store please as well.
I mean as Indra mentioned that the weather lapped in convenience is particularly challenging for beverages.
I mean we had a particularly warm winter last year lapping that now with a really long extended winter.
That’s just going to have a more natural effect on beverages than it will on the snacks business.
And I think the divergence that you are referring to can be more attributed to that than it can be to anything else.
It’s also indicated in the overall performance of the convenience channel which was down obviously in the first quarter.
And as Indra mentioned we expect the full year that channel to be up 3.5% 4%.
So we don’t normally like to use weather as much of a conversation piece but I think in this case because it’s just so historic and it does have such a significant impact on that channel in that particular set of businesses it is a relevant factor.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
Hi.
I just had a follow-up on the C store channel and then Frito-Lay.
I was actually hoping you could give us a little more color in some of the new initiatives in this channel such as your individual store plan events that you started to implement curiously how broad-based this initiative will be and then maybe could you talk about any other changes you have been making in the important channel?  Well Frito-Lay has always had the convenience store as a very very strong go to market outlet and continues to be that way.
Frito had terrific performance in Q1 and to get to that level of detail on how individual store planograms are working on.
My suggestion is that at some point if you want to visit Frito-Lay and get a better sense of what they are doing in these stores we invite you to do that.
In addition to that I don’t know what’s going as its planograms oriented.
We obviously have made the move with certain packages in terms of moving into a larger volume on size and in addition to that we got some terrific innovation out in convenient stores right now and that innovation obviously really does help Frito-Lay it is so sensitive to flavor innovation and convenience is where you tend to get a lot of trial on that stuff early on.
Frankly if that works really well and we feel very very good about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Damian Witkowski with Gabelli &amp; Company.
In the past you have called the U.S.
pricing environment probably one of the most irrational you have seen in the industry and I’m wondering if you have changed your mind about that with what happened over the last couple of years and pricing seeming to be a little bit more rational and then the second part is are we seeing any of that in the international markets especially ones that are growing and getting bigger?  I made that comment a couple of years ago when pricing was crazy but I would say that it's become rational.
I would say in burst it becomes irrational and I think if we continue to focus just on volume and mainly on volume I’m talking mostly about beverages.
If we only focus on volume growth it does lead to some irrational pricing especially when quarters have to end or when people are trying to make some volume number just to report something good.
I think in this LRB category in particular it's very very important.
We thread volume and value very carefully.
It's a big profitable category and we run the risk of sucking the profits out if we don’t play this game responsibly.
So that’s the tact we have chosen to take and I hope that how the industry gets played out.
We see burst of responsible behavior then at times we see action that we can’t even explain but I guess this is part of free markets and competition so we will keep playing this.
Your final question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
My question is a little bit broader which is really around whether we should philosophically think of the global portfolio being one of part generating cash and profit in North America beverage in particular particularly North America CSD to then take that and invest in parts of the global business that are actually growing more robustly.
So emerging markets snack markets in particular is that the model you guys explicitly think about and talk about internally like some other CPG companies and retail companies do or is that just more organic in the way it's been happening.
Actually that’s a very insightful observation because I think every company needs if you go back to road share metrics that Boston Consulting came up with I think in the 60s or 70s you’re really talking about how you have some cash cows to go off and invest in big broad stars and that’s how we all have to play the portfolio because a portfolio complete comprised of growth vehicles.
You can’t sustain in the investment.
You do need some cash cows to be able to invest in growth engines.
Having said that I think that mature low growth businesses especially if they are big and have consumer appeal and also right to reinvention and I think it's very important that established players reinvent their categories as opposed to allowing others to reinvent it and push them out and there are examples many many examples of big companies especially companies based here in the U.S.
that did not reinvent their categories.
So I think we adopt today behave responsibly generate the cash in the North American business grow responsibly and wait for international growth but reinvent North America simultaneously which is why we have stepped up all our R&amp;D investments in sweeteners flavoring agents new processing technologies.
Unfortunately the timing is a bit off because R&amp;D projects don’t result in major breakthroughs in the same timeframe with which you can manage responsibly.
So you got to give it little bit more time to yield results.
So you are absolutely right in saying you have got to play the overall portfolio carefully.
And what I feel good about the PepsiCo portfolio we have a very good mix of growth businesses businesses that generate cash and good returns to keep funding this growth.
And I think our portfolio is so well-balanced in terms of snacks beverages geographic mix different growth rates that we are able to manage it sensibly and deliver the kind of profits that I think this portfolio is capable of generating well into the future.
That was our final question.
I’d now like to turn the floor back over to Indra for any closing comments.
Thank you all.
In closing I just like to say that we are pleased with the way we are navigating through an uncertain and volatile environment.
We have taken all the steps necessary to strengthen and position ourselves for sustainable long-term growth.
I think the first quarter of 2013 is an excellent example of how well constructed and developed portfolio coupled with disciplined execution and reinvestment can drive high-quality top and bottom line results.
So I thank you for your time and for the confidence you have placed in us with your investment.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you operator and thanks to all of you who are listing on the call for your patience this morning as we implemented a solution for technical issues we’re having with our website today.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
We'll lead off today's call with a review of our second quarter performance and 2013 outlook and then we will move on to Q&amp;A.
Because of the delayed start to our call and the fact that I know that this is a busy earnings day for all of you we've kept our prepared remarks short this morning.
We’re going to have one question limit and we may not be able to get through the full queue of analyst questions.
If that's the case I'd ask you to please call me after we conclude the call this morning and I’ll be happy to take your questions individually.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2013 guidance and our long-term targets based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and total operating profit growth are on a quarter basis.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures structural changes and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results please refer to the glossary and other attachments in this morning's earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo's website under the Events &amp; Presentations tab.
As we discuss our results today please keep in mind that our Q2 reporting period is the 12 weeks ended June 15 for our North America business and the months of March April and May for the vast majority of our businesses outside of North America.
Now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thanks Jamie and good morning everyone.
I’m very pleased to report another quarter of strong results.
In Q2 we had our sixth consecutive quarter of mid-single-digit organic revenue growth.
We generated double-digit core EPS growth and drove significant improvement in cash flow.
Our organic revenue growth in the quarter was 4.2% in line with our mid-single-digit long-term target with particularly strong growth in international beverages at Frito-Lay North America Latin American snacks and snacks and beverages throughout Asia Middle East and Africa.
We are encouraged by the continued strength in the top line with our marketplace investments playing an important role in driving solid growth brand equity and market share results.
Organic revenue growth reflected each of our full business units achieving positive net price realization in the quarter.
Our overall servings increased 4% with snacks volume growth of 3%.
Beverage volume grew 1.5% on an organic basis and our international beverage growth was strong up 11% on a reported basis and 5% on an organic basis.
We had good profit flow through with core gross margins including 120 basis points in the quarter.
A&amp;M up 55 basis points core constant currency operating profit up 11% and our core operating margin up 120 basis points.
Ex the Vietnam gain and incremental investments our core constant currency operating profit was up 8% and core operating margins improved by 60 basis points.
Our productivity program remains clearly on track.
We have targeted $900 million in savings this year which is the second year of our three-year program and we are well on our way to achieving our current goal of $3 billion.
Year-to-date management operating cash flow excluding certain items was more than $2.3 billion a significant increase over the first half of 2012.
And we returned over $2.7 billion to shareholders in the first half in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
These results are especially pleasing in the context of some very difficult market conditions worldwide.
Particularly tough macro challenges challenging the consumer in developed markets especially in Western Europe slowing food and beverage growth in the United States political unrest in several important markets most notably Egypt and Turkey and adverse weather in the U.S.
and Western Europe.
We are able to continue to deliver in these trying conditions largely due to the strength of our portfolio both the geographic diversity and product diversity.
We have a wonderful balance of developed and emerging markets with the developed markets providing strong cash flow generation and scale-enabled capability that we leverage globally.
Now emerging markets provide tremendous potential of top line growth and margin expansion.
This is important.
We have a diverse but highly complementary portfolio of brands and products.
The high coincidence of snack and beverage purchase and consumption provides numerous commercial opportunity and our nutrition portfolio provides new growth avenues to capture expanding consumer demand.
We continue to exploit the potential of our portfolio by sharpening our efforts against a few key platforms.
We have stepped up our investments in advertising marketing and R&amp;D to further strengthen our brands and to accelerate our product innovation.
We have stepped our market based execution across the board.
For example we are driving even greater partnership with our customer by engaging in joint business planning that aligns our product brands and in-store merchandizing capability with our customer's growth strategy.
The scale and complementary nature of our categories makes us a clear partner of choice with our customer to drive their growth.
We continue to refine our revenue management capability to drive both greater values for our consumer and price realization for PepsiCo.
And in a number of international markets we have improved the effectiveness of our go to market systems by driving synergies in selling and distribution systems across snacks and beverages.
We continue to execute against our productivity agenda that’s funding stepped up marketplace investments and at the same time expanding our margins.
We now have our team focused on identifying and planning the next generation of productivity projects that will extend our productivity savings beyond 2014.
We have also strengthened our global bottling network and systems scale in a number of key markets through our new partnerships with Tingyi in China with (inaudible) and Polar in Mexico and in just this past quarter our partnership with Suntory in Vietnam.
And we're driving high returns in invested capital and cash returns to shareholders through highly disciplined capital allocation.
Let me now turn to specific businesses.
All our business units performed well financial and in the marketplace in Q2.
Let me share with you some of the highlights.
At Frito-Lay North America we generated 3% volume growth and mid-single-digit organic revenue growth with net price realization widening sequentially from what we reported in Q1.
We gained volume share and maintained value share across major channels in the United States.
And we expanded core operating margins by 40 basis points even as we increased advertising and marketing expense.
In Beverages Americas we achieved another quarter of solid price realization in the United States.
We held CSD share in U.S.
major channel with pricing and retail ahead of the category.
We drove growth and core operating margin expansion while we increased advertising and marketing spend.
We generated 4% core constant currency operating profitability.
And innovation was encouraging with Mountain Dew Kickstart Tropicana Farmstand and Starbucks iced coffee each demonstrating potential to become $100 million plus at retail platforms and contributing to positive price utilization and value share gain.
And strong marketing and merchandising led to value share gains by Gatorade sports drinks in our coffee tea and chilled juice business.
In other developed markets despite the tough macros we saw good performance in some of our larger markets.
France grew organic revenue 9% and the UK and Germany each posted 3% organic revenue growth.
Innovation played a large part of our success with the launch of the naturally sweetened Pepsi Next in France and Trop50 in the UK.
We saw very good growth in our developing and emerging markets in Q2 with organic revenue of 11% made up of 11% in snacks and 10% in beverages and this was driven by execution of our strategy to increase household penetration and frequency of consumption.
We had terrific growth from each of our major developing markets with organic revenue growth of 7% in Mexico 15% in the rest of Latin America and 12% in Turkey.
And we are especially pleased with our beverage volume performance in Russia where we grew Pepsi Lipton 7UP and Russky Dar kvaas each in the double-digits.
And we saw the benefits of our Russia platform with strong results in Ukraine.
Our emerging markets performance drove the continued great results in our EMEA sector where organic volume grew 6% in snacks and 9% in beverages and organic revenue grew 14%.
Within our emerging markets organic revenue was especially strong in Pakistan and the Philippines with each growing in excess of 20%.
Organic revenue grew high teens in Jordan mid-teens in India and Egypt and 12% in Saudi Arabia.
We'd like to point out one of our emerging star brands in the region Mountain Dew.
It posted another quarter of double-digit volume growth in the region marking the 10th consecutive quarter of double-digit volume growth in the region.
And Mountain Dew is now our largest carbonated soft drink brand in Pakistan and growing rapidly in India.
And China performed especially well with organic revenue growth of 22% in beverages and 23% in snacks.
We are particularly pleased with our CSD performance in China with year-to-date volumes up 10% significantly outpacing the category.
In addition our beverage volume grew 24% in the Philippine 13% in the in Pakistan 11% in India and high single-digits in Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
So overall we feel very good about our results in the state of the business.
However in any portfolio there are always areas that need some attention.
So let me cover the two areas that we're especially focused on North American Beverages and Quaker North America.
Now I must say we're making good progress at North American Beverages to accelerate innovation improve our marketplace execution and drive productivity to improve our competitiveness and profitability.
But the fact remains the beverage category in the U.S.
has its challenges especially carbonated soft drinks.
Against this challenging backdrop we are pleased with the progress we've made with our beverage business.
We’ve stayed focused on repositioning our business for long-term sustainable growth.
We have made solid progress on brand building and innovation.
We have improved marketplace execution.
We've stepped up productivity which coupled with disciplined pricing drove solid bottom line performance.
We are leveraging the strength of the portfolio which is well balanced between CSDs and non-carbs and within CSDs we possess the fastest growing mainstream brand Mountain Dew.
We will continue to invest in breakthrough innovation and new technologies that have the potential to reframe the beverage category by removing some of the compromises that consumers face with regard to calories and ingredients.
In addition as we've said in the past we're also exploring every possible alternative including structural alternatives to further improve our margins and returns in this business and we'll provide an update on our efforts in early 2014.
The second area is Quaker North America This is a business with great brands high margins high returns on capital and it generates a lot of U.S.
cash flow.
So there is a lot to like about this business.
But a good deal of this business lives in the center of the store and the center of the place and that makes it a challenge to grow especially as consumers increasingly see convenience.
To be short we've made good progress in this business with improved marketing and execution and we've had some recent innovation wins.
Real Medleys is being extended from a successful new product to a successful new brand platform.
It's expanding into bars with double-digit revenue growth and has a lot more potential for growth.
Plus the international Cracker business is doing exceedingly well and grew volume 5% in Q2.
But we're still in the early innings of capturing the full potential of this business in North America.
We are focusing on driving innovation that truly excites consumer and for us it's a work in progress and we have the right resources and talent dedicated to getting this business on a firmer footing.
You know the fact that PepsiCo continues to perform well even as it addresses these opportunities speaks to the power of our portfolio.
We have the products and geographic breadth to participate and thrive in categories in markets that are growing and that gives us the flexibility to address all opportunities in a sensible responsible way without disrupting our overall financial results.
So as we look ahead to the balance of the year we are confident in our ability to achieve our full year 2013 financial goal.
And as we look beyond 2013 we believe we're positioned well to deliver our long-term financial goals which we believe will translate top tier shareholder returns on a sustainable basis.
With that let me turn the call over to Hugh.
Hugh? Great.
Thanks Indra and again good morning everyone.
I will spend just a minute covering the financial results and guidance in a little bit more detail and then we will open up the lines for your questions.
For Q2 organic volume grew 3% in snacks and 1.5% in beverages.
Organic revenue grew 4.2%.
Our core gross margins improved by about 120 basis points and we increased A&amp;M expense by 13%.
Core operating margin improved by 120 basis points and core constant currency operating profit grew 11%.
As we've previously disclosed and mentioned in the release we realized $137 million pre-tax gain on our Vietnam refranchising and incrementally invested $46 million pre-tax in the quarter.
Excluding the impact of the Vietnam gain in incremental investments core operating margin improved by 60 basis points and core constant currency operating profit grew by 8%.
Our core effective tax rate was 24.5% approximately 335 basis points below Q2 2012.
And core constant currency EPS grew 19% and 13% % excluding the Vietnam gain and incremental investment.
So between core constant currency division operating profit growth of 11% and core constant currency EPS growth of 19% we got about 8 points of leverage.
About 1.5 points of that came from net interest expense 5 points came from tax rate which will reverse in the second half as we're forecasting the full year tax rate to come in at approximately 27% and 1 point from weighted average share count which was down 1% year-on-year.
Overall the quarter came in as expected with pricing actions commodity inflation and productivity all in line with our expectations.
On a reported basis net revenue was up 2% and that was driven by a 1.5 point drag from ForEx and 1 point negative impact from structural change reflecting the China and Vietnam re-franchisings.
We generated over $3 billion in cash flow from operations in the first half a $1.8 billion positive swing versus last year.
This was driven by lower pension contributions and strong working capital improvements.
Management operating cash flow excluding certain items was more than $2.3 billion an increase of approximately $1 billion over the first half of last year.
And we returned over $2.7 billion to shareholders in the first half in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Turning to guidance.
For 2013 we expect core constant currency EPS growth of 7% off a core 2012 base of $4.10.
We expect organic revenue growth of mid-single-digits core constant currency operating profit growth of approximately 6% approximately 1 point of leverage below the operating profit line driven by share repurchases and we expect our core effective tax rate to be approximately 27% for the full year.
Within these expectations we assume positive price mix low single-digit commodity inflation and productivity of $900 million.
Our productivity assumption is completely in line with the three year $3 billion program that we launched last year and the savings will be used to help offset inflation as well as provide funding for investments back into the business.
One of our key investment areas is supporting our brands with advertising and marketing where we'll grow our A&amp;M investment at least in line with sales meaning you should expect A&amp;M spending of at least 5.7% of net revenue which was our 2012 base line investment.
In addition we're also accelerating our investment in R&amp;D and in innovation.
You should also take into account that we intend to incrementally invest the balance of the Vietnam gain in the second half of the year which will impact operating profit growth and margins.
We expect the full year operating profit impact of the gain to be offset by incremental investments.
Regarding ForEx based on current market consensus we anticipate foreign exchange translation to have an approximately 1 point negative impact on our net revenue and a 2 point negative impact on operating profit and EPS for the full year including the impact of the Venezuela devaluation.
Our full year ForEx outlook for EPS is 1 point more negative than what we shared with you on the Q1 call which is an incremental $0.04 versus where we were at the end of Q1.
As we anticipate structural changes driven by China and Vietnam we will have a negative impact of approximately 1 point on a full year on our net revenue growth.
Overall we're pleased with how the second quarter and first half came in.
For the full year we are maintaining our constant currency guidance.
The world remains a volatile place and we may also choose to incrementally invest in additional long-term value building initiatives such as advertising innovation and in emerging markets growth capacity.
As you model out the third quarter we expect foreign exchange translation to have up to a negative 0.5 point impact on third quarter revenue and 1 point impact on EPS based on current market consensus rates.
We expect revenue in the third quarter will have an estimated one-half of percentage point negative impact from structural changes due to the Vietnam re-franchising.
Division operating profit will be impacted by commodity cost inflations sequentially higher than in the first half as we expected.
Incremental investments funded by the Vietnam gain increased A&amp;M expense and negative ForEx.
Below the division operating profit line corporate costs in Q3 will be above Q2 levels based on the timing of investments primarily in R&amp;D.
Net interest expense will increase sequentially from Q2 reflecting primarily higher rates.
And our tax rate will be significantly higher than our half one tax rate as we trend toward our full year estimated tax rate of approximately 27%.
From a cash flow prospective we expect full year core management operating cash flow excluding certain items of more than $7 billion.
We'll continue to drive cash flow through an even more efficient working capital management program and continued tight controls over capital spending.
And for 2013 we expect to see continued improvement in our key working capital metrics and to manage net capital spending to approximately $3 billion which is well within our long-term target of less than or equal to 5% of net revenue.
As a result we'll continue to return strong cash flow to our shareholders.
In total we expect to return approximately $6.4 billion to shareholders in 2013.
$3.4 billion in dividends and $3 billion in share repurchases.
Our outlook for 2013 is unchanged from our last call and it's consistent with our long-term targets for net revenue operating profit and core constant currency EPS.
We expect to drive improved full year margins and net ROIC and generating and returning cash flow to our shareholders remains a top priority for the company.
Operator we will take the first question.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from John Faucher from JPMorgan.
Hugh I want to talk a little about the gross margin.
You talked about sort of more cost pressures flowing through in the back half.
I'm assuming some of that's sort of corn in the cadence of the hedging and things like that as well as may be some of the shorter term raw material impacts.
Can you talk about how you see that playing out a little bit further forward? Will there be a corn benefit at some point over the next 12 to 18 months do you see that roll out? And can you talk just about what you're seeing on sort of the resin side as well as some of the more chemical or petroleum based raw materials? Thanks.
Yeah.
Sure John happy to.
Again a lot of the impact that we're seeing is we were in the first half overlapping a higher inflation from 2012 and we're lapping lower inflation in the back half of 2012.
As to the commodities it's really a combination of a couple of areas.
Some of it is in the whole Ag complex and corn obviously is a piece of that and some of that is also PET as well in the back half again driven more by the overlaps than anything else.
It will be roughly even between Q3 and Q4 and it should play out as we mentioned earlier.
Regarding 2014 it's really premature to comment on that.
We're still six months away from that.
We try not to get into 2014 until we get to the guidance on that and for me to just start talking about pieces of it probably wouldn't be beneficial to do right now.
So we'll hold on that until we get to our Q4 call in next February.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Hi this is [Maria Golop] good morning.
I'd like to ask about the Vietnam gain.
So it's giving you some incremental funds to spend.
You previously had a funding budget for 2013 and this adds to it.
So my question really is sort of what type of specific activities are you spending on and in what geographies? And then related to that why shouldn't we expect sort of an incremental boost to sales in the near term from these investment activities? Hugh you want to? Yeah I would be happy to handle that.
So where you're going to see us invested is largely in international and it will be geared towards top line driving types of activities.
Now when we do these things they typically don't pay back immediately you typically see the payback in one to two year types of time frames.
So I wouldn't necessarily expect to see a short term acceleration in revenue driven by all of that.
What we're really doing here is extending both the duration and the durability of our strong top-line growth as well as flowing it ultimately through to stronger bottom-line growth.
So we feel these are the right decisions to make for the franchise as well as to enhance and solidify our operating performance.
Our next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
I just wondered if you could comment since your international and even your domestic quarter ends a little earlier than many other companies on how June looks and just volume wise particularly in beverages if you still face huge challenges that then carry through to the third quarter giving you some pause on any recovery in beverage volumes looking out this year Caroline we don't really comment on one month’s performance but we'll talk more about it in our Q3 call.
Our next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Indra you mentioned in your remarks that you're looking for ways to drive margin improvement on the beverage side of the business and obviously the strategic piece of that you probably will be hesitant to comment on.
But I was hoping you could comment on what you can do internally to boost beverage margins as you look out over the next few years.
And as you look at that business do you think the lower margin structure that exists versus beverage or CPG peers in general is that more due to structural reasons such as scale et cetera? Or are there significant cost savings opportunities you can go after internally on that business beyond what you've already outlined? Dara I presume you’re talking about North American beverages because when I was talking about margin improvement opportunities I was talking about North American beverages.
Just roughly speaking our franchise business has got much better margins than an operating business in the beverage world because you've got the entire cost line to work with.
I think in the North American beverage business as we've mentioned before Dara we've been investing in many technologies whether it's processing technology packaging technology ingredient technology and one-by-one some of these technologies are beginning to start being commercialized.
So as we look at our productivity program and we’ve talked about the next [branch] of productivity some of that next branch of productivity is from North American beverages.
And that comes from some of these technologies beginning to get implemented in the marketplace.
And that's what gives us confidence that there are opportunities to improve margin performance.
On top of that we’ve really cranked up innovation machine and the combination of the new innovation coming to the marketplace driving top-line in a category that has slowed down a lot.
But our goal is to use the power of our portfolio to drive the top-line growth.
Coupled with these new technologies and different ways of working within North America to improve the productivity of the operations is what gives us confidence that we can improve the margins in North American Beverages.
Our final question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Hey can you just elaborate a little bit more just update us on the acquisition strategy.
I think you're still sticking with just smaller niche fields that fill in strategic holes.
And then maybe just some commentary on some of the noise recently in the press.
Bill we’ve been incredibly consistent.
PepsiCo is an extremely well architected portfolio geographically.
From a product perspective we are hitting our stride.
Every part of the business is functioning well and we do not need large scale M&amp;A to deliver on our financial goals.
We do have a strategy to focus on tuck-in acquisitions and we’ve said tuck-in acquisitions in any year will be $500 million or less.
And that's all we are focused on.
And I would look beyond the noise and let's just focus on PepsiCo and the performance of the company.
And we feel very good about it.
Thank you Bill.
So thank you all for your questions.
In closing let me just say that our performance for the second quarter and through first half of 2013 are excellent indications of how our well constructed and developed portfolio coupled with disciplined execution reinvestment can drive high quality top and bottom line results on a sustainable basis.
That is the purpose of PepsiCo.
And I thank you for your time this morning and for the confidence you’ve placed in us with your investments.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo’s Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thanks Jacky.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo’s Chairman and CEO and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo’s CFO.
We’ll lead off today’s call with a review of our third quarter performance and 2013 outlook and then we’ll move on to Q&amp;A.
In an effort to get to as many analyst questions as possible within the hour we have kept our prepared remarks relatively short this morning and we are going to have a one question limit so we should be able to get through the full queue of analysts when we get to the Q&amp;A.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2013 guidance and our long-term targets based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today’s earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and total operating profit growth are on a core basis.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures structural changes and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo’s financial results please refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning’s earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo’s website under the Events &amp; Presentations tab.
As we discuss our results today please keep in mind that our Q3 reporting period reflects the 12 weeks ended September 7 for our North America businesses and the months of June July and August for the vast majority of our businesses outside North America.
Now it’s my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to report good results for the third quarter despite significant volatility experienced in a couple of our AMEA region markets.
From a top line perspective our business largely maintained the top line momentum we saw in the first half and our year-to-date and expected full year organic revenue growth is right in line with our long-term mid-single-digit growth target.
Our organic revenue growth reflected each of the four business units achieving positive net price realization in the quarter and we had particularly good organic revenue growth at Frito-Lay North America which was up mid-single-digits and Latin America foods which was up double-digits.
And this was both in the quarter and year-to-date as well as in key developing and emerging markets such as China where we had strong double-digit organic revenue growth both in the quarter and year-to-date; Brazil where we had 9% organic revenue growth both in the quarter and year-to-date and Turkey where we had 7% organic revenue growth in the quarter and 9% organic revenue growth year-to-date.
Snacks volume grew 3% and our beverage volume grew 1% on an organic basis globally both in the quarter and year-to-date.
Our international beverage volume growth was strong up 4% on an organic basis in the quarter and 5% year-to-date.
Operating performance was solid.
We had good gross profit flow through with core gross margins improving 70 basis points in the quarter.
We improved core operating margin even as we continued to invest in A&amp;M with A&amp;M as a percent of sales up 40 basis points and we made incremental marketplace investments of almost $30 million as part of the incremental investment program we announced last quarter.
In addition our three year productivity program remains on track; we project delivering $900 million of productivity in 2013 and expect to deliver the full 3 billion three year target by year end 2014.
Our productivity is funding our growth initiative and is contributing to our operating margin improvement.
We’re reaping productivity from across the value chain through the acceleration of global procurement initiatives and coordination of our global supply chain which in turn is enabled by the investments we have made over the past decade in our SAP platform.
Year-to-date in 2013 PepsiCo organic revenue grew approximately 4% core gross margins improved by 1.5 basis points A&amp;M as a percent of sales increased 50 basis points and operating margins expanded by 65 basis points.
Core constant currency EPS is up low double digits year-to-date and we continue manage cash flow exceedingly well.
Year-to-date management operating cash flow excluding certain items was $5.5 billion a 12% increase of the comparable 2012 period.
We have returned $4.6 billion to shareholders to the first three quarters in the form of dividends and share repurchases and we’re on-track to return $6.4 billion by the end of this year right in line with the target we set at the beginning of the year.
As you all know the macro environment continues to be challenging.
Developed markets remain sluggish and emerging markets are volatile particularly those experiencing political and civil unrest.
In challenging times such as these it's especially important to stay focused on execution and that’s really what we’re doing focusing on the fundamentals to drive good sustainable performance.
Additionally we have performed well because our portfolio of brands are extensive and strong our products are on trend and relatedly diverse.
And we have a broad geographic footprint let me talk to each.
Our brand portfolio as you know has been well architected.
We have a great line-up of iconic brands that cover everything from treat to healthy eats.
Our brands worldwide stands for safety quality taste and affordability.
We’re investing appropriately behind our brands and our increased investments have resulted in even stronger brand equity scores.
More importantly the strength of our innovation design capabilities and revenue management skills which are all foundational building blocks are applied across our categories to sustain top-line growth and profitability.
Just to give you some examples in innovation we had six of the top 25 new food and beverage product introductions across all measured U.S.
retail channels year-to-date and we have seven new products this year that are on pace to achieve $100 million each in annual retail sales in the United States Mountain Dew KickStart Tostitos Cantina Quaker Medleys platform which has been expanded to ready-to-eat cereals and bars Starbucks Iced Coffee Lipton Pure Leaf Tea Muller Quaker Yogurt and Gatorade Frost Glacier Cherry.
We continue to see positive results from my investments in innovation.
Innovation as a percentage of net revenue is more than 8% year-to-date a 100% basis point improvement year-over-year.
We have recently opened our innovation design center and they are looking to increase the pace and incrementality of innovation with more reframed and breakthrough innovation as we move forward.
In addition our geographic footprint allows us to fully capitalize in the diversity of our portfolio including the solid top-line performance high margins high returns and healthy cash flows of our developed market with a high top-line growth and future marginal return expansion potential of emerging and developing markets as we drive greater scale by fully capitalizing on the related diversity of the portfolio.
In many markets including the U.S.
Russia Mexico we’re either the largest or the number two food and beverage supplier and this scale is so important in today’s environment where retailers competition for share of the shoppers basket and manufacturers competition for share of retail sales is intensifying.
The scale ubiquity and related velocity of our categories make us an essential partner for retailers and consequently we relied upon to drive a large share of our retail partner’s growth.
And our retail partners increasingly seek us out for joint business planning activities to explore mutual creative ways to drive our respective businesses.
So all the benefits of our scale and product and geographic portfolios enable us to deal with headwinds and capitalize on the tailwinds within categories and across geographies.
So with that as a background overall our business is on track and we are pleased with the progress we have made strengthening our competitive position across our key developed developing and emerging markets.
We have managed the business as a portfolio and we have remained highly disciplined in our approach leveraging our combined scale and capabilities to build sustainable value rather than overreacting to short-term pricing pressures or local value brand initiatives.
As a result over the past six quarters in both salty snacks and beverages we have seen increases in aggregate market share for our top strategic international markets that account for approximately 80% of our total international business.
And year-to-date in the United States we have grown value share at Frito-Lay and sequentially improve the value share in beverages even as we have outpaced the industry in net price realization at retail.
Let me comment now on our individual operating segments.
Each of our businesses performed well financially and the marketplace in Q3.
Just to give you some highlights.
At Frito-Lay North America we generated 3% volume growth and mid-single-digit organic revenue growth with 2 points of net price realizations and the performance was very balanced with volume and revenue performance positive across each major U.S.
channels.
We gained value volume and unit share in salty snacks in the quarter and year-to-date.
We expanded core operating margins by about 25 basis points in the quarter and 35 basis points year-to-date even as we increased advertising and marketing expense.
Our advertising initiative was focused on our core brands for example Doritos’ For the Bold integrated marketing campaign was executed across TV digital and social media and was supported by new Doritos logo and updated packaging.
And our Lays 75 and Sunny campaign sort of celebrated 75 summers of Lays and we continued to capitalize on a highly successful consumer driven Do Us a Flavor campaign with a winner Cheesy Garlic Bread launched at retail in Q3.
And our innovation continues to perform well led by Tostitos Cantina Doritos Jacked Ranch Dipped Hot Wings Cheetos Mix-Ups as I mentioned Lays Do Us a Flavor.
So that’s Frito-Lay North America.
Now before I go into the Pepsi America’s beverage performance let me give you some perspective in the North American beverage industry which is much watched and much talked about.
First the beverage category in North America remains the largest category in food and beverages here in the United States at over $90 billion at retail and it is very profitable.
It’s very relevant to retailers and is one of the first categories retailers look to when overall growth slows.
As many of you know the LRB category has slowed and the shift from the CSDs to non-carbonated beverages has accelerated.
CSD is now comprised approximately 40% of the U.S.
LRB category volume versus approximately more than 50% a decade ago.
We have a competitive position in CSDs and we have a very strong leadership position in the faster growing non-carbonated beverages.
This advantage enables us to hold or grow overall measured channel LRB value share as we manage the challenges of the CSD category in a responsible and sustainable way.
Our strategy is to compete on the basis of innovation and marketing and to manage the business responsibly and profitably.
We are convinced this is the right strategy to increase shareholder value given category realities.
And as we have said in the past we continued to explore the potential for structural changes in our North American beverage business to create further value.
So we continued to achieve attractive net price realization as we simultaneously invest in brands and R&amp;D.
So with this as the backdrop let me now talk about our performance at Pepsi America’s beverages in the quarter with the focus on North America.
We achieved another quarter of solid net price realization with net price realization up 3 points.
In the U.S.
our LRB value share slightly out performed our primary competitor and measured channels lead by our advantage non-carb portfolio with value share gains and ready to drink sports drink and chilled juice.
Our retail pricing in LRB and in CSDs led overall pricing in those categories and our key new product launches are performing very well.
Mountain Dew KickStart a product targeting morning energy needs of Millennials is expected to significantly exceed a $100 million in the first year retail sales.
Capitalizing and momentum of the morning platform we will be expanding Kickstart as an evening energy occasion in early 2014.
Lipton Pure Leaf Premium Tea continues to perform well and has reached a 9% value share and ready to drink tea and is also on track to exceed a $100 million in retail sales in its first year.
Tropicana Farmstand is a delicious chilled 100% juice of one serving of fruit plus one serving of vegetables in every glass and that’s doing well and Starbucks Iced Coffee is performing ahead of expectations it has reached a 7.5% value share position ready to drink coffee and is on pace to achieve approximately a $100 million in retail sales in it's first year.
And of course our businesses we continue to sharpen how we leverage our scale and capabilities to drive incremental value.
As a focus and integrated food and beverage company we are able to better serve our consumers and retail customers by providing unique value to them through powerful properties like the NFL.
Our partnership with the NFL continues to be among PepsiCo’s most successful sports sponsorship.
This year we’re taking our partnership to the NFL to a new level with NFL activations that include Pepsi Gatorade Tostitos Quaker Tropicana Aquafina and Sabra brands.
Let me now move on to developing and emerging markets organic revenue grew 9% in the quarter.
Most of our developing and emerging market continue to perform well.
As we build our business by driving greater penetration.
Organic snacks volume increased 4% in developing and emerging markets in the quarter led by particularly strong growth in China which is our 15% Pakistan of 23% and Turkey which grew 11% just to name a few.
Year-to-date organic snacks volume in developing and emerging markets also grew 4% led by double digit growth in China and Pakistan and high single digit growth in Egypt Turkey South Africa and India.
And again we’re managing the business in a sustainable and responsible way by focusing on profitable growth in segments where brands and quality matter.
Organic beverage volume grew 4.5% in developing and emerging markets led by double digit growth in China Philippines Pakistan Poland and South Africa.
Year-to-date organic beverage volume in developing and emerging markets grew 5.5% led by double digit growth in China Philippines Pakistan and Poland to name a few.
We’re encouraged by our performance in these important markets and excited by the long term growth prospects they present.
We have built extremely strong businesses across every important developing and emerging market in large part by leverage the presence of the beverage businesses we established decades ago.
So for example today we have an integrated food and beverage business in Ukraine with sales approaching $0.5 billion.
We’re the number one food and beverage business in the Middle-East and along with our partner Tingyi has the number one beverage business in China.
As we continue to drive greater consumer penetration frequency in these markets we build scale which makes us more efficient.
This allows us to continue to invest in these markets and at the same time increase our operating margins.
However as we mentioned in our earnings release there was a meaningful slowdown in the third quarter in our businesses in Egypt and India which accounts for the deceleration of organic revenue in AMEA from the double digit rate of growth we saw in the first half of the year.
Egypt’s performance was impacted by the political turmoil and India reflected unusually aggressive industry pricing.
In each case we’re pleased to note early trends in Q4 have improved.
The potential for volatility especially in developing and emerging markets is in part why we provide annual but not quarterly targets.
The important thing to remember is that we fully expect to achieve a mid-single digit organic revenue growth goal for full year 2013 and as we look beyond 2013 we believe we’re positioned well to deliver our long-term financial goals which we believe will translate to top tier total shareholder return on a sustainable basis.
With that let me turn the call over to Hugh.
Hugh?  Great thanks Indra.
I will spend just a minute covering the financial results and guidance in a little more detail and then we will open up the lines to your questions.
For Q3 organic volume grew 3% in snacks and 1% in beverages.
Organic revenue grew 3.3%.
Commodity inflation was up low single-digits.
Our core gross margins improved by about 70 basis points and we increased A&amp;M expense by 8%.
Core constant currency operating profit grew 3%.
Incremental investments totaled $28 million pre-tax in the quarter.
Excluding the impact of incremental investments core constant currency operating profit grew 4%.
Our core effective tax rate was 25.5% approximately 80 basis points below Q3 2012.
And core constant currency EPS grew 5% and 6% excluding the incremental investment.
So between core constant currency division operating profit growth of 3% and core constant currency EPS growth of 5% we got about 1.5 points of leverage including nearly a point of de-leverage from higher net interest expense 1 point of leverage from a lower tax rate which will reverse in the fourth quarter as we are forecasting the full year core effective tax rate to come in at approximately 27% and 1 point from weighted average share count which was down 1% year-on-year.
Overall the quarter came in largely as expected with pricing actions commodity inflation and productivity all in line with our expectations.
On a reported basis net revenue was up 1.5% reflecting over a 1 point drag from foreign exchange and about a 0.5 point negative impact from the Vietnam refranchising.
We generated over $6.6 billion in cash flow from operations year-to-date an improvement of $1.5 billion versus last year.
This was driven by lower pension contributions and strong working capital improvements.
Year-to-date management operating cash flow excluding certain items was approximately $5.5 billion an increase of approximately 12% year-over-year reflecting the growth in earnings disciplined capital expenditure investment and continued improvement in working capital management.
And we returned $4.6 billion to shareholders year-to-date in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Now turning to guidance consistent with what we have said throughout this year for the full year 2013 we expect core constant currency EPS growth of 7% off of a core 2012 base of $4.10.
And consistent with our previous guidance we expect mid-single-digit organic revenue growth core constant currency operating profit growth of approximately 6% approximately 1 point of leverage below the operating profit line driven by share repurchases and we expect our core effective tax rate to be approximately 27% for the full year.
Within these expectations we assume positive price mix low single-digit commodity inflation and productivity of $900 million.
Our productivity assumption is completely in line with the three-year $3 billion program that we launched last year and the savings will be used to help offset inflation as well as provide funding for investment back into the business.
And as we mentioned on the last conference call you should also take into account that we intend to incrementally invest the balance of the Vietnam gain in the balance of year which will impact operating profit growth and margins.
Regarding foreign exchange based on current market consensus we anticipate foreign exchange translation to have approximately a 2 point negative impact on our net revenue and at least a 2 point negative impact on operating profit and EPS for the full year including the impact of the Venezuela devaluation.
As we anticipate structural changes driven by China and Vietnam we’ll have a negative impact of approximately 1 point on our full year net revenue growth.
As a reminder the world remains a volatile place as evidenced in our AMEA region this quarter.
Despite the volatility we continue to expect investments in long term value building initiatives such as advertising innovation and in emerging markets growth capacity.
As you model out the fourth quarter these are our expectations foreign exchange translation should have an appropriate three point unfavorable impact on fourth quarter revenue and upto a four point unfavorable impact on fourth quarter EPS based on current market consensus rates.
Revenue in the fourth quarter will have an estimated 1.5 of a percentage point negative impact from structural changes due to the Vietnam we’re franchising.
Division operating profit will be impacted by higher sequential commodity cost inflation as we had expected incremental investments funded by the Q2 Vietnam gain increasing A&amp;M expense and negative foreign exchange.
Below the division operating profit line corporate cost in Q4 will be above prior year levels based on the timing of investments primarily in R&amp;D.
Net interest expense will increase versus last year primary reflecting higher rates.
And our tax rate will be significantly higher in Q4 as we approach our full year estimated rate of approximately 27%.
From a cash flow perspective we expect full year core management operating cash flow excluding certain items of more than $7 billion.
We will continue to drive cash flow through an even more efficient working capital management and continued tight controls over capital spending.
And for the full year 2013 we expect to see continued improvement in our key working capital metrics and to manage net capital spending to approximately $3 billion which is well within our long term target of less than or equal to 5% of net revenue.
As a result we will continue to return strong cash flow to our shareholders.
In total we expect to return approximately $6.4 billion to shareholders in 2013 $3.4 billion in dividends and 3 billion in share repurchases.
Net our outlook for 2013 is unchanged from our last call and it's consistent with our long term targets for net revenue operating profit and core constant currency EPS.
We expect to drive improved full year margins and net ROIC and disciplined capital allocation coupled with returning cash to our shareholders remained a top priority for the company.
With that operator we will take the first question.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question is coming from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So question about America’s beverages you know if you look at the profitability in the quarter the margins held up you know pretty consistent with last year even despite the volume declines and understanding that there is some price that help that could you talk a little bit more about the nature of the productivity that’s flowing through try to get a sense for how much productivity is actually helping most margins and maybe connected to that the types of initiatives you’re taking and how that might change the structure of that business as we all begin thinking about you know whether you refranchise or do something structurally different with the business going forward just trying to understand I guess what types of changes you’re actually making to that business today that might be different than what we would have known before you put it together?  Okay.
Bryan I’m going to answer the second part of the question and then Hugh is going to answer the first part of the question.
So you know when we talked to you about structural options way back in February of 2012 we said we would look at range of structural options JVs collaborations any sort of structural separation we look at every option and at the end of the day we will do something that makes sense for PepsiCo for the beverage business globally and for North American beverage business.
So we want to approach this in a very sensible way because buying spinning buying spinning is lot of sustainable way to run any business especially one that has terrific possibility and generates extraordinary U.S.
cash flow and more importantly houses some of our most important global beverage brands.
So we are approaching this in a very very sensible way and we are looking at every structural option possible that will allow us to manage the global beverage business in a sensible way not jeopardized PepsiCo overall by any sort of loss of the U.S.
cash flow and in a way that’s long-term shareholder value creating.
So we are looking at fundamental operational improvements in the North American beverage business also.
And our strategy has been very simple focus on innovation focus on R&amp;D investments to create disruptive innovation so that we can get incrementally and think about how to price very very sensibly in a segment that’s going through a lot of volatility.
It’s still a very big market very profitable very important to retailers but in 2012 second half and 2013 it did go through a slowdown and was very important that we don’t start competing strictly on price.
This category has been competing on price for years.
And last couple of years we have been trying our best to become a lot more disciplined and inch the pricing up and play a very very disciplined game and that’s really what we have been doing.
So with that here let me turn it to Hugh to talk about the mix between pricing and productivity and everything else in between.
Yes sure happy to do that Indra.
Good morning Bryan.
If you look at the margin performance you really do have to look at it from three perspectives.
First is from kind of net pricing in the marketplace and from that perspective as we look at a category that doesn’t have a lot of growth in it we do believe the right and responsible way to manage this category is for us to be very consistent in taking that price.
We have been consistently articulate about that over the couple of years.
And I think if you look back at our performance we have consistently led the industry in ensuring that we do take that net price and we have taken in an appropriate and responsible way.
So that’s driver number one.
Driver number two is net revenue management.
We have gotten more sophisticated on that over the course of the last couple of years.
I think that’s been a product of the reintroduction of the bottling businesses back into PepsiCo.
And I would look at it from two perspectives.
One is package management where the array of packages that we have and the opportunity to extract incremental margin from those packages has actually increased substantially compared to where we were three or four years ago where we were much more heavily focused on just 2-liters and 12-packs.
And then second from a channel management perspective I think we have gotten much more granular using technology and much more specific in the way that we price cross channels in a manner that allows us to also drive margin.
The third area as you mentioned is productivity.
There is little question that the productivity has ramped up in the business and I’d explain it this way if you think about the way that we historically looked at productivity it was a very manufacturing centric point of view in terms of consistent year-over-year productivity and then episodically there would be productivity coming out of G&amp;A primarily through restructurings.
Obviously we haven’t stopped doing any of that but I think what we have added to it are a couple of components.
Number one value engineering we have gotten much more sophisticated in terms of our use of materials.
And as a result of that we have really doubled the impact of value engineering which is essentially two things.
Number one using less of a commodity or number two substituting commodities to enable us to get better productivity out of the prettier [ph] goods that we get.
So our value engineering capability has stepped up substantially.
Number two is the distribution system.
I think typically in the past we hadn’t gotten a lot of productivity out of the distribution system.
We have clearly gotten a lot sharper on that both from the standpoint of labor management and in addition to that using technology in the warehouse.
That’s enables us to lower cost across that.
And then the last piece of course is tight G&amp;A cost controls and it’s something that as PepsiCo we are quite good at.
So if you put all of those pieces together that’s really what’s driving the solid margin improvement in the phase of what are obviously a not growing category right now.
And Bryan I’d just add one last thing for you to keep in mind.
As we said in the script the North American beverage business is big.
It’s an $85 billion category.
The velocity of this business is somewhere between 40 and 80 turns a year.
So it is the retailer who generates an enormous amount of cash because they pay us net 30.
It’s a huge traffic driver.
So it’s a very important category.
It’s very profitable across the industry to margins range from low to mid-teens.
So it’s a very profitable business.
It generates a ton of U.S.
cash.
And in today’s volatile global environment we are in the North American beverage business which actually is a pretty damn good business today in terms of generating U.S.
cash and profitability.
So I would frame that with that context.
Our next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
You highlighted the $30 million of I believe it's $30 million of extra spending in Q3 related to the gain can you give us a little bit more of an indication in terms of where those investments are going you know are you still planning on spending the full gain back as we look into the fourth quarter and you know what’s the time frame in terms of seeing pay back on that incremental spending kind of given the investments you’re making? Thanks.
Yeah I’m happy to handle that John I really the money is being spent in two areas number one is where we see a good ROI we’re spending on incremental advertising and marketing you’re going to see that more in the AMEA region then you will anywhere else so some of it clearly plays back into the developed markets as well.
The secondary where we have chosen to make investments is in the growth markets and it's largely going to be in opportunities to expand distribution leveraging cooler leveraging racks again to enable us to further accelerate our growth and to create further advantage in those markets which obviously still have lots of growth potential left in them.
Regarding your question about doing tend to fully spend back the gain the answer is absolutely yes.
We intend to fully spend back again.
So the investments are really going fundamentally to what we believe are the volume and growth and ultimately shareholder value creating drivers for the business.
We think they are good investments for shareholders for the long run and we feel quite comfortable in making them and assuring that we’re going to get a good return on them.
In terms of timing typically those types of investments have about a 1 to 2 year payback.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
I did want to focus a little bit more on PB so just mid-single digits decline okay you can there are a lot of reasons for that potential one can argue but the non-carb area declining low single digits to I’m trying to figure out that is really your internal plan giving some of the industry dynamics you’ve described as substitution into non-carbs.
And in particular where there any bright spots in non-carbs given the portfolio that you’ve and last part if you step back can you say okay look going forward sounds like pricing aggressiveness is behind us competitively on the safety front what should we think about both the non-carb and the CSD business growing going forward for you?  Regarding non-carbs I actually think they were quite a number of bright spots we have seen year-to-date the Gatorade business continued to perform very well.
It's been gaining share we certainly feel good about where Gatorade is and even more importantly feel good about the fact that we have repositioned the business very strongly for within consumers’ minds in terms of the brand being really the sports nutrition brand so that’s number one.
Number two the ready to drink tea business is certainly doing quite well in particular Lipton Pure Leaf the innovation that we have had there both in terms of the smaller and the larger packages is performing extremely well and that business is now back on track in terms of market share.
The chilled juice business as well both in terms of Tropicana as well as the innovation that we’ve with Tropicana Farmstand and Trop50 all continued to perform well.
Now you’re right as you look at the aggregate non-carb number the volume as we mentioned was a low single digit decline the real challenge therefore is in the packaged water business we look at that business as something that is scale enabler but we also look at it as a business where we’re not willing to invest to lose money in order to just hold volume.
We just don’t think that’s a good use of shareholders of money we don’t think it creates value overtime we’re obviously going to be in the space with our distribution system we will continue to sell packaged water but it's not a priority for us from an investment perspective.
So as you see the balance of the market at various times choose to invest in bottled water often times to change volume and to chase share you’re going to see our numbers swing in overall non-carbs because the water category is so big.
What it will do though is significantly impact our profitability.
So I think we certainly feel good about non-carbs from that perspective.
On the CSD front I think the biggest thing that we feel very good about right now is Mountain Dew.
The Mountain Dew franchise is performing terrifically well in the United States.
We feel good about the base Dew business the Diet Dew business has been performing extremely well.
And I think one of the things we are most heartened by is Mountain Dew really travels well to international markets whether you look at India whether you look at China the Dew franchise is clearly a global franchise and we feel terrific about that.
Regarding your question on what the future of CSD growth is very hard to estimate obviously we have taken a perspective that by virtue of investing in R&amp;D around package and around products specifically sweetener we think that will benefit the category.
The important thing I think from our perspective is we have got an LRB portfolio that works really well.
We think we have an advantage set of brands.
So regardless of where the overall LRB market goes we do feel like we will be competitively well positioned by virtue of the portfolio that we built over the course of 10 or so years.
But there is no question that there has been an industry dynamic which has seen a shift away from CSDs to non-carbs and we have talked about that many times.
It’s now at 50:50 or 60:40 the other way and it could potentially settle at that number.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Good morning Dara.
So looking at the U.S.
beverage business how concerned are you about the volume pressures specifically on the diet CSD side of the business with the health and wellness concerns and what are the strategies to combat those issues going forward? You sounded optimistic that innovation could help earlier this year but we haven’t heard much since.
So I just want to get an update on the innovation side.
And then on the pricing side appreciating the focus on disciplined pricing but you did see a mid-single-digit volume decline on the CSD side in North America in the quarter.
So do you think that pricing balance has gotten out of whack at all versus competitors might you need to make some adjustments going forward? And also can you give us an update on promotional levels in the industry post the Labor Day discounting and if you are seeing any improvement?  Let me speak to the first part of the question Dara.
Couple of years ago we started to see the decline in full sugar CSDs no question about that especially in colas we started to see the decline in full sugar colas and diets were holding up.
Recently especially in the last I would say six months to nine months there has been an accelerated decline in diet drinks as people say they don’t even want artificial sweeteners they want more natural sweeteners they don’t mind some calories but they want natural sweeteners they want to go back to sugar in some cases.
So we are seeing a fundamental shift in consumer habits and behaviors.
We anticipated some of these the diet slowdown has been a little more rapid than we expected.
The good news is that our overall portfolio as Hugh mentioned is very balanced.
And our diet – I am sorry our Dew consumer likes regular Dew likes Diet Dew likes Kickstart.
So our Dew consumer is very different than the consumer for colas and consumer for lemon lime.
We are staying on the path of innovating along natural sweeteners and thinking about flavoring agents to make sugar taste more sugary and so that’s all we are focused on.
We talked about our products coming to market in 2014.
That’s really the track we are on and we are not talking about it now because we haven’t yet got a launch date.
Once we have a launch date you will hear a lot more about it.
And our goal is to bring to the market a product that tastes great.
We don’t want to rush a product to the market and then have to wonder why we launched something that wasn’t that great tasting.
So that’s our focus.
Regarding pricing and let me add to that I have mentioned this I think at one of the conferences maybe Barclays or something or Bernstein the category has been declining about 3% a year CSD category especially in the last couple of years.
And it’s important that in the next two to three years we come up with significant disruptive innovation if you want to hold people in the CSD category and that’s what we are focused on.
The best news of course is that our portfolio is so diverse not just within beverages but also between beverages snacks and good-for-you products that we feel incredibly well insulated against any sort of headwinds in this category.
Let me now turn to pricing.
Dara I’ll tell you we have – the industry not just PepsiCo the industry has seen years and years of ridiculous pricing where for the last 10th of a share you know there would be a pricing war which has impacted the whole category and this has been on for almost a decade and that is not the right way to create shareholder value in this category.
It cannot be that one company has you know almost 8 or 9 years of problems because of you know destructive pricing habits and then they take a big reset and then they start coming up and then the other company has to take a reset this kind of back and forth (inaudible) does not work in shareholder value creating mixture [ph].
So what we’re trying to do is to say given the category dynamics we have to behave in a value creating way in this category and that’s what we’re doing.
We’re going to keep doing that and hope that at some point in the overall category there is sensible behavior and all of us are focused on sustainable long term shareholder value creation that’s what we’re going to focus on.
Our next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Couple of questions internationally I was just wondering if you could talk to us introduce us a little bit to the new head of international after your sad loss and tell us about how the moves have been.
I believe that he came out of India and you know just to give us some confidence in that important market that you know your team is strong and I know that [indiscernible] also came out of Russia so your two big important markets have probably new leadership and then just secondly in your U.S.
CSD business do you think the innovation you’re working on is such that it could actually stops declines or do you think it just sort of slows declines is this something you think will come with some premium pricing will it be truly differentiated is really the question.
So let me start with our Head of AMEA it's not international it's just Head of Asia Middle-East Africa.
You know Saad was an amazing leader and we truly miss him but as you know the strength of PepsiCo is that we have very good succession plans literally every position in the company.
Sanjeev Chadha has been in PepsiCo forever almost 20 years if I recall and started his career in PepsiCo India then went on to Asia-Pacific was a Commercial Director there.
From there he came to our Middle-East business and was running the Middle-East business.
So essentially he has run every aspect of Asia Middle-East Africa knows the region very well and is a great successor to Saad and so feel very good about Sanjeev’s appointment into the Head of the Asia Middle-East Africa.
He knows snacks he knows beverages he knows franchise he knows company owned operations because he has done both in India in ASPAC and the Middle-East which is a big franchise market for beverages as well as company owned operations in Jordan and Egypt and we have a big company owned snacks business.
So Sanjeev is a very seasoned executive has done turnarounds has done big growth so I think as all of you get introduced to him we will certainly bring him around.
I think he is going to be very pleased how well the succession has worked.
He knows everybody in the region the bottlers the employees they all know him too and so I don’t think there is going to be any issue in the AMEA region.
Quite a seamless transition.
In terms of Europe Zein was the Sector Head for Europe.
The good news is Russia we have a phenomenal talent base of Russian managers you know Silviu Popovich who came to us from Wimm-Bill-Dann [indiscernible] who came to us from bottling business who was with PepsiCo before all of these are terrific leaders running our Russian business and they in turn report to Ramon Laguarta who has been in PepsiCo for decades and Ramon is running the developing markets in Europe he has got all of Russia the FSUs all the way to Turkey doing very well and replacing Zein in Europe is Enderson Guimaraes who came to us out of Electrolux again an executive who ran a big piece of Electrolux comes to us with a very different perspective and has managed businesses with enormous volatility as you know hard goods the white goods rather go through bigger volatility and economic downturn than any of our staples businesses.
So Enderson is a seasoned executive in that dimension and is adding a lot to our overall management team and don’t forget Zein hasn’t gone anywhere.
He is right here down the corridor so he is always there looking at all of these businesses.
The good news is that we have a great team in PepsiCo and we take a lot of pain to make sure our succession planning is done well.
Turning to CSD innovation especially in North America because that’s really what we are talking about.
In most of the international markets especially in Asia there is still lots of room for growth.
Will our innovations stop the decline? That’s anybody’s guess Caroline I think in today’s world we have to keep betting on innovation both for creating breakthrough products and also innovation to reduce costs through creative ingredients.
And I think in today’s world overall volatility in consumer shopping habits and the way they are spending the money retail dynamics etcetera etcetera the best insulation is to have a diversified portfolio relatively diverse not too diverse but relatively diverse have a great brand portfolio that covers all eating and drinking occasions and not be overly dependent on a category like CSDs.
And that’s really why we feel very very good about PepsiCo today.
And as we mentioned earlier in the notes in our script our brand portfolio is diverse geographic portfolio is diverse but most importantly our product portfolio is diverse and CSDs per se in North America is not a gigantic driver of our profits.
So we feel pretty good about where we stand today.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Judy good morning.
So first on the emerging markets Indra so obviously many companies have talked about the slowdown that they are seeing in the emerging markets and you have talked about the AMEA markets a little bit but as you think about the next 6 to 12 months some of the markets like Russia China Brazil can you just give us your assessment of how you see those markets playing out and whether the differences that you are seeing in snacks versus beverages is something to really call out here?  And then secondly I just wanted to clarify the comment you have made about the North American market and how you think about the structural solutions to that market.
It sounded to me like on this call given some of volatility that you are seeing in markets outside the U.S.
and the increased scale that’s really needed in North America with a lot of the retailers perhaps the sense of urgency in terms of making some of the structural solutions may not be there as it was a year or so ago when you made that announcement.
So I wanted to just clarify if that assessment is appropriate or we should still be thinking about sometime early next year you are coming up with a decision on that issue?   Well Judy let me speak to the second one very quickly.
As we said we will tell you in early next year what we are going to do.
And we have told you all the structural solutions we are looking at.
And that’s what we are doing.
We are looking at structural solutions but I want to underline sensible value creating structural solutions.
So keep that in mind.
Let me now come to emerging markets.
Emerging markets emerging and developing markets by definition are going to be volatile.
In today’s world where you have got turmoil in the developed markets I think that tends to hail on to emerging markets and that creates more sort of variance around the mean if you want to call it that.
Very quick walkthrough I think because we are on the staples business the swings in our business are probably going to be less than swings you might see in hard goods or white goods or durables.
The thing to be very very careful about if you just focus on market share especially against local competitors B brands in those markets and start doing crazy things with pricing what you lose exacerbate the volatility into your business.
So again what we have told so I have told all of the sector heads is to make sure that you manage share across the narrow corridor.
Don’t try to chase pricing down with B brands local brands don’t try to hit the pricing so much just to drive volume because in these volatile times buying volume is like renting volume.
So we have been directing our people to manage the business sensibly balanced volume pricing revenue profitability and build frequency and penetration deliberately and carefully.
Do not rent volume build it carefully build the brand equity build the consumption occasion very very carefully and that’s what we have told everybody to do.
Is there volatility? Yes.
But I think for companies like PepsiCo given our broad geographic and product portfolio and brand portfolio that company becomes a natural hedge against all of these variabilities.
So again we feel pretty good.
Our final question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
I just wanted to focus on Frito-Lay I mean the business is positioned to post the strongest volume growth that you have seen in at least the last five years and you have talked about some of the innovation coming through.
Can you provide us a little bit more color of sustainability of the current volume trend and what should we expect in the next 6 to 12 months?  You know Frito-Lay North America is a terrific franchise.
The business is well run and I think the incredible way that our snacks business and beverage business works together to really bring solutions to customers is what makes that business so successful.
And the virtuous circle of driving top line growth focusing on productivity taking the benefit from that investing some back into the company to keep the virtuous circle going putting the rest to the bottom line is what has kept Frito-Lay business going.
What Frito-Lay has been known for is every 3 or 5 years looking at breakthrough productivity to drive another 3 to 5 years of profit growth.
And that thinking continues at Frito-Lay.
But Amit I tell you the most important thing is we have segmented the Frito-Lay business in a very interesting way where we look more at demand spaces rather than just cohorts or day-parts.
And looking at demand spaces now we can see how we can expand the Frito-Lay eating occasions.
So as you look at the overall macro-snack environment we know how to push salty snacks into taking away cookie occasions cracker occasions chocolate occasions by looking at various demand spaces and looking to see what consumers consume for each of those demand spaces.
So we look at macro-snacks as our feeding ground.
Salty snacks is just a sub-segment of that.
And as long as there is lot of space with all macro-snacks and we have a very strong distribution and great innovation capabilities we feel good about the fact that we can go after some of those occasions and that's the growth story of Frito-Lay.
Thank you all for your questions and in closing our performance to-date in 2013 is a good indicator of how a well-constructed and developed portfolio coupled with disciplined execution and reinvestment can drive high quality top and bottom line results on a sustainable long term basis and this is the purpose of PepsiCo.
I thank you for your time this morning and for the confidence you have placed in us with your investment.
Have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thanks Jackie.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
We'll lead off today's call with a review of our first quarter 2014 performance and outlook and then we'll move on to Q&amp;A.
In an effort to get to as many analyst questions as possible within the hour we're going to have a one-question limit so we should be able to get through the full queue of analysts when we get to the Q&amp;A.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2014 guidance and our long-term targets based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and operating profit growth are on a core basis.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures structural changes and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results you should refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning's earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo's website under the Events &amp; Presentations tab.
As we discuss today's results please keep in mind that our first quarter comprises the 12 weeks ended March 22 for our North American operations and the months of January and February for the vast majority of our operations outside of North America.
Now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We are very pleased with our first quarter results.
Organic revenue grew 4% overall with global snacks up 5% and global beverages up 3%.
Core gross margins improved by 40 basis points and core operating margins improved by 50 basis points.
Core constant currency operating profit grew 7% and core constant currency EPS grew 10%.
We achieved our targeted productivity savings in the quarter and remain on track to achieve our full year target of $1 billion.
On a rolling four-quarter basis our core net ROIC improved by 110 basis points and now stands at 16.5% and we returned $2.1 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases a 47% increase versus last year.
And as we previously announced we expect to return $8.7 billion to shareholders in 2014 in the form of dividends and share repurchases which represents a 35% increase over our 2013 cash return to shareholders.
Now we all know that the world continues to be a volatile and uncertain place and we certainly saw indications of this in the first quarter.
The heavy lifting we've done to transform our portfolio and capability is yielding results.
I believe our results reflect the power of our portfolios of products and brands and the strength of our geographic footprint.
Additionally the investments we made to strengthen our brand innovate more effectively drive better execution and operate more efficiently by leveraging our global scale and portfolio complementarity are all beginning to pay off.
As a consequence we've been consistently meeting or exceeding our financial goals and more importantly we have increased confidence in the future prospects for our business.
Today we believe our business is well-positioned to deliver top-tier return in the current volatile environment as a result of the very deliberate steps we've taken and the investments we've made over the years.
First the balance and diversity of our product portfolio ranging from fun-for-you to good-for-you products across snacks and beverages gives us the ability to manage through issues in any individual business.
Together these businesses have an attractive growth rate in the mid-single digits.
Second investments we made to enhance the equity of our $22 billion brand are all translating to success in the marketplace.
These powerful brands account for more than 70% of our annual retail sales in fact our brands hold the number one or number two position in many of our markets and several of our brands like Mountain Dew Doritos Gatorade Lays and Quaker Oats virtually define their categories.
Looking across our largest markets we have the leading position among top brands with nine of the top 40 packaged food and beverage trademarks in the U.S.
which is most of any CPG company.
We have nine of the top 50 packaged food and soft drink brands in Russia which is again most of any CPG company.
We have seven of the top 50 in Mexico and six of the top 50 in the U.K.
and again in both countries we are leaders.
The strength of our brands is clear in our ability to achieve consistent net price utilization.
In 2013 beverages and snacks each achieved 4 points of net pricing.
In the first quarter of 2014 beverages and snacks achieved 2 points and 4 points of net pricing respectively.
Third we stepped up our focus on differentiated innovation.
Our annual R&amp;D investment is up more than 25% since 2011.
We have also created unique linkages between consumer and shopper insights and product development using the signs of our demand space as framework.
As a result 2013 was one of PepsiCo's best years ever for innovation with PepsiCo products accounting for nine of the top 15 new food and beverage introductions across all measured U.S.
retail channels.
In the first quarter of 2014 products launched over the past three years made up 8% of our total net revenues.
The good news is that our innovation is becoming more incremental and is contributing to positive price mix.
Fourth the investments we made to expand our footprint in developing and emerging market are fueling our growth.
As a group D&amp;E markets grew organic revenue 9% in the first quarter following 10% growth for the full year in 2013.
In the first quarter Russia and Brazil led the way with double-digit organic revenue growth followed by India which delivered high-single digit organic revenue growth.
Our broad array of food and beverage products range from value to premium-priced products and enabling us to earn sales from consumers across the economic spectrum.
Fifth we are delivering on all our productivity targets and significantly lowering the cost base of the company.
By leveraging our global scale eliminating duplication and deploying new technologies we are driving the highest level of productivity in our company's history.
We are on track to achieve our three-year $3 billion productivity program in 2014 and we are poised to begin executing on our next major productivity program targeting $5 billion over five years beginning in 2015 focused on increasing automation deploying more shared services model optimizing our manufacturing footprint and optimizing our go-to-market systems.
Since 2011 we've increased our core net revenue per employee by 9% increased our core EBIT per employee by 5% reduced net capital spending as a percentage of net revenue by 80 basis points from 4.9% for full year 2011 to 4.1% over the past four quarters and improved our average cash conversion cycle by 33% to 24 days in 2013 from 36 days in 2011 and we continue to look in every area of our business for sensible ways to do even more.
And finally we are executing better faster and more efficiently within our operating segments and then further benefiting through increased coordination across our product and geographic portfolios.
And let me just give you a few recent examples of our complementary portfolio and our execution capabilities at work.
Our Super Bowl execution demonstrated outstanding delivery of print outdoor mobile digital and in-store programming.
PepsiCo delivered a united effort to leverage our NFL partnership and drove unprecedented national and local impact with both consumers and customers.
Each business executed the property very effectively and PepsiCo's combined activation was one of our most compelling expressions of better together with coordinated advertising promotions and merchandizing across our snacks and beverage portfolios which helps drive incremental sales and share gains.
Second building on the growing consumer appetite for ridged cut chips and the strong performance of Lay's Deep Ridged chips in the U.S.
U.K.
and Spain in 2013 we'll offer versions of Lay's Deep Ridged potato chips in over 20 markets around the globe in 2014 with additional markets planned for 2015.
Our global execution leverage is common product specifications branding hedged graphics and ad copy.
At the same time we've built on our beverage partnership with Buffalo Wild Wings by introducing Ruffles Deep Ridged Classic Hot Wings flavored potato chips inspired by Buffalo Wild Wings.
So what we are doing is leveraging our global category structure and getting new products to market faster across more geographies more cost effectively and in more channels.
Third during the quarter we kicked off the 2014 Pepsi soccer campaign our largest global football marketing effort to date.
Over 100 markets will be executing and locally adapting the campaign around the world.
Our global superstar football squad brings together an unprecedented wealth of international talent that spans five continents and includes 19 of the world's greatest players including the great Lionel Messi.
The campaign unites the worlds of football music and art reaching fans with distinctive packaging point of sale out-of-home communication and engaging content.
This program drives higher consumer awareness and regard allows us to leverage our global scale of product complementarity and gives us the flexibility for targeted local execution.
Next our highly successful Lay's Do Us A Flavor campaign represents a great blend of global brand building elements.
This campaign now expands more than 15 countries and is an excellent example of how we lived and shift best practices around the world.
Breakthrough digital and mobile engagement is embedded in every single touchpoint all the way to shelf.
This year in the U.S.
we've increased consumer engagement by inviting consumer to choose both flavor and type of chip.
As part of this year's contest a judging panel will narrow down the contest submissions to four finalist flavors and then these four finalist flavors will be fully developed at Frito-Lay culinary experts and unveil this summer.
The winning flavor is determined by fan votes will be revealed in November with a grand prize winner taking home $1 million.
This program has driven high levels of consumer engagement and is an extremely efficient marketing tool because of the massive earned media benefit that begun on each of the markets where we launched it.
And finally we have accelerated productivity best practices across the organization.
For example as our global enterprise system or GES continues to rollout across Frito-Lay North America we are beginning to apply the same concepts and tools to our North American beverage business and in some international markets.
And these initiatives will maximize asset utilization by reducing distribution centers leveraging automation deploying fleet and route trucks more efficiently and reducing inventory while improving service and product freshness.
So with all this as a backdrop let's take a look at how the business has performed starting with our North American businesses.
Frito-Lay North America delivered another quarter of very strong results.
Organic revenue grew 4% and core constant currency operating profit grew 6%.
The U.S.
salty snacks category continues to grow retail sales at a mid-single digit rate and Frito-Lay's delivering a good balance between volume growth and price realization.
Revenue growth in the quarter was led by good performance across our five largest brands Lay's Tostitos Doritos Cheetos and Ruffles and each grew between low and mid-single digits.
We continue to execute product and packaging innovation targeted incremental macro snack occasions including the launches of Rold Gold Pretzel Thins Twistos Snack Bites Lay's Air Pops Lay's Kettle Cooked Lattice Cut Chips and our ready-to-go market pack that offers a broad assortment of macro snacks.
Quaker Foods North America delivered positive organic topline in the quarter and gained value share at retail in each of its core categories hot cereals ready-to-eat cereals and snack bars.
Turning to North American Beverages.
We are really encouraged with the continued progress we are making.
In the quarter we held U.S.
liquid refreshment beverage value share and achieved positive net price realization at retail ahead of the category and our primary competitor.
Notably PepsiCo has held or gained relative U.S.
LRB value share in measured channel versus our closest competitor in each of the last four quarters.
And we continue to manage the business responsibly with consistent pricing across carbonated and non-carbonated beverages.
Within the LRB category we held or gained value share across a number of important subcategories including CSD sports drinks and ready-to-drink tea and coffee.
And we grew retail sales in measured channels in the U.S.
for regular colas and Mountain Dew both within CSD and for Gatorade Lipton Tea Starbucks Coffee and Naked Juice within our non-carb portfolio.
We are investing in R&amp;D to drive sustainable innovation and we are off to a good start beginning with the first quarter launches of Brisk Half and Half Gatorade Fierce Blue Cherry and Kickstart Black Cherry and Limeade to name a few.
In addition we continue to expand our package offerings and we are seeing good success with strong double-digit growth in mini cans and we have more than doubled the sales of our 12 ounce glass bottles in Q1.
These practices enable us to realize new price-packed revenue benefits while providing flexibility to maintain price competitiveness.
So that's the North American story.
Our other developed markets in Western Europe also performed well but organic revenue for these markets are up 3.5% in the first quarter.
Let me now turn to developing and emerging markets.
In Mexico we are managing through the new taxes on certain foods and beverages that were enacted recently.
We've taken pricing in snacks and our bottle has taken pricing in beverages to pass the taxes through to the consumer.
In the quarter the elasticities and volume declines in Mexico was in line with what we expected.
And we have been dealing with the situation throughout the year and expected to continue to depress consumer demands but results so far are consistent with our planned assumptions.
In Venezuela we are managing through high inflation political unrest supply chain disruptions and continued uncertainty regarding the applicable exchange rate.
But given all these challenges our businesses in Venezuela performed well in the quarter with organic revenue up strong double-digits across both snacks and beverages.
Brazil delivered double-digit organic growth revenue growth led by organic revenue growth in snacks.
In Russia organic revenue rose double digits and double-digit growth in snacks and high-single digit growth in beverages.
And we saw strong organic growth in a number of other East European markets including double-digit organic revenue growth in Poland high-single digit organic revenue growth in Turkey.
Moving across to our Asia Middle East Africa businesses.
Organic revenue growth was led by Pakistan a strong double-digit organic revenue growth followed by Egypt and the Philippines which also grew double-digits and India which grew high-single digits.
China organic revenue declined low-single digits in line with our expectations.
Performance was muted given strong high-single digit comparisons from Q1 of 2013 and some business disruption related to our bottlers restructuring in Q1 of 2014 to drive increase efficiency through greater integration.
We expect the business to return to its normal trajectory as we enter Q3.
We remain committed to the developing and emerging markets as they have a long runway for growth driven by increasing demand for a convenient on trend affordable products supported by a rapidly growing middle-class and we are well-positioned to capitalize on these opportunities.
Let me conclude my comments by saying we are off to a good start in 2014 with the pieces of our portfolio working together to generate healthy topline and bottomline performance.
Clearly there are a number of challenges around the globe but the shape and resilience of our portfolio combined with strong execution and aggressive productivity should enable us to navigate successfully through the current environment.
So with this let me turn the call over to Hugh Johnston.
Thank you Indra and good morning everyone.
Let me spend a few minutes discussing the quarter and our outlook for 2014 which is in line with the full year guidance issued in mid-February.
Overall the quarter came in largely as expected with pricing actions commodity inflation and productivity all in line with our expectations.
For Q1 organic volume grew 2% in snacks and was even versus the prior-year quarter in beverages.
Organic revenue grew 4%.
On a reported basis net revenue was even versus year ago reflecting 3 points of unfavorable foreign exchange translation and nearly 0.5 point negative impact primarily from the franchising of our Vietnam bottling operation.
Commodity inflation was up low-single digits.
Our core gross margins improved about 40 basis points and core operating margins increased 50 basis points.
Core constant currency operating profit grew 7% in the quarter.
Our core effective tax rate was 23.7% approximately 80 basis points below Q1 2013.
Our fully diluted share count declined 1.5% reflecting the benefits of our ongoing share repurchase program and core constant currency EPS grew 10%.
So between the core constant currency operating profit growth of 7% and core constant currency EPS growth of 10% we achieved about 3 points of leverage driven by lower interest expense or lower tax rate and share repurchases.
And we returned $2.1 billion to shareholders year-to-date in the form of dividends and share repurchases during the quarter which is 47% above year ago levels and reflective of our commitment to return cash to shareholders.
Turning to guidance.
The world does remain a volatile place as evidenced in places like Mexico Venezuela and Eastern Europe.
So even with the strength that we saw in the first quarter our full year guidance remains unchanged.
Consistent with what we said back in February for the full year 2014 we expect mid-single digit organic revenue growth and core constant currency EPS growth of 7% and we expect low-single digit commodity inflation and productivity savings of approximately $1 billion.
Below the division operating profit line we expect corporate cost efficiency driven by our productivity initiatives a core tax rate of approximately 25% and a reduced share count from our share repurchase program.
Foreign exchange is expected to negatively impact net revenue and core earnings per share for the full year 2014 by approximately 3% and 4% respectively based on current market consensus rates.
Taking our 2013 core EPS of $4.37 and applying our guidance implies 2014 core EPS of approximately $4.50 consistent with our prior guidance.
As many of you know the foreign exchange picture in Venezuela is very dynamic at the moment.
Our first quarter results were translated to U.S.
dollars at 6.3 bolivars to the U.S.
dollar.
Our current FX forecast which is based on current market consensus rates assumes a blended rate of approximately 9 bolivars to the U.S.
dollar for the balance of the year.
To help you with the FX sensitivities on Venezuela for the full year 2013 Venezuela generated approximately 1% of our net revenues and 2% of our operating profit.
In addition as of the end of our international Q1 which includes January and February we have approximately $380 million of net monetary assets in Venezuela valued at 6.3 bolivars to the U.S.
dollar which would be subject to revaluation if there is a change in the exchange rate we use.
As we did in 2013 we would expect to treat any revaluation of the net monetary assets as a non-core charge.
As you model out the second quarter I'd ask you to consider the following.
First our EMEA division will face very difficult operating profit comparison due to the following: A a $137 million gain recorded in Q2 2013 related to the re-franchising of the company's bottling operation in Vietnam; and B 27% year-over-year core constant currency operating profit growth in Q2 2013 when excluding the above mentioned gain.
Second foreign exchange translation should have an approximate 4 point unfavorable impact in the second quarter revenue and approximate 5 point unfavorable impact on second quarter EPS based on current market consensus rates.
Revenue in the second quarter will have an estimated 15 basis point of negative impact from structural changes due to the Vietnam re-franchising.
Below the net operating profit line net interest expense is expected to increase in the second quarter versus last year primarily reflecting higher debt balances and higher rates.
And our tax rate is expected to be higher in the second quarter of 2014 versus both the second quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014.
Finally our stepped up share repurchase activity will occur throughout the year but is expected to have a more pronounced impact in the second half of 2014 and into 2013.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect full year free cash flow excluding certain items of more than $7 billion.
We'll continue to drive cash flow-through efficient working capital management and continued tight controls over capital spending.
Net capital spending should approximate $3 billion which is well within our long-term target of less than or equal to 5% of net revenue.
We expect to return approximately $8.7 billion for shareholders in 2014 a 35% increase over 2013 through a combination of $3.7 billion in dividends and a $5 billion share repurchase program.
And as a reminder our previously announced 15% dividend per share increase will commence with the June payment.
This represents the 42 consecutive year of an annual dividend increase and an approximate 60% payout ratio based on 2013 core EPS.
At yesterday's closing stock price it represents a 3.1% yield and will bring our 10-year annualized dividend per share compound annual growth to 11%.
So to summarize our 2014 outlook is unchanged from our last call.
We expect to drive improved full year margins and net ROIC and discipline capital allocation and returning cash to shareholders remain top priorities for the company.
With that operator we'll take the first question.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Just wanted to talk a little bit further about Russia and maybe just the way we should think about modeling it going forward.
So if you could maybe parse out for us on the double-digit growth how much was pricing? And then maybe how the performance was snacks versus dairy? And then finally just as we're looking forward given the exchange rate volatility the increase in input cost there just how we should think about modeling profitability in Russia kind of over the next couple of quarters? Bryan I'm going to provide some overall comments on Russia and then I'll transfer to Hugh to provide you more detail.
Let me just say our business in Russia is a good one.
Both in Russia and Ukraine businesses are doing well.
The climate there has been very friendly to business and we have great relationships with the government the local retailers.
So the business is a very good business.
Clearly the current geopolitical issues are impacting more the ruble and the Russian [indiscernible] as opposed to basic consumer demand because they've devalued input cost have gone up and therefore consumer prices have had to go up.
The consumer is extremely resilient in both countries at this point so we have to watch and wait and see how things evolve.
But those as overall comment let me just toss it to Hugh to give you some more color in details.
For Russia in the first quarter we had 10% revenue growth.
Volume did grow across the businesses.
You are calling out one of the questions that we wrestle with which is the dairy inflation we faced in the business.
The good news from that perspective is because we have such strong brands across the dairy category and as a leader there in many of those brands we do have the ability to take pricing successful and that's where the consumer has been quite resilient against that pricing.
So I would expect to see some level of volume growth and then we will continue to take pricing to cover the vast majority of our inflation in the country.
And we expect that we're going to see continued profit growth coming out of Russia.
And that's true across all of the businesses snacks and beverages.
Our next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Just want to talk a little bit about the pricing environment in North America in CSDs.
You guys are reporting solid pricing.
Coke mean to say Cokes had the pricing for carbonated soft drinks was up.
We're not really seeing that in the market in terms of looking at the syndicated data.
So could you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in the category? Whether some of the discounting we've seen has been able to stabilize demand a little bit? And then how you see the pricing going as we look into the summer selling season.
I think at this point I'd say we have been extremely disciplined in pricing across all parts of the LRB portfolio in all channels.
Now and then we see some interesting pricing behavior in one retail channel or in one category but as far as PepsiCo is concerned John we have as we've communicated with you decided to be extremely responsible and take pricing up both in carbs and non-carbs and that's what we've been doing in all channels.
Going to the summer selling season that's going to be our strategy going forward I think especially in the category like CSDs taking down pricing is not going to drive up demand too much.
So I think we have to play the overall LRB portfolio very very carefully and balance pricing between CSDs and non-carbs and figure out a way to grow the whole pie very very carefully.
That's what we are doing and that's what we hope to see in the marketplace going into the year but we can only talk about ourselves.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
I was hoping to just get a little bit more color on Mexico.
You talked about the elasticity being pretty in line with your expectation.
Can you talk about how much volume was down in beverages and snacks? Any major differences you're seeing from a consumer reaction perspective across both categories? And then a key be is it profit decline that we saw in the first quarter can you just talk about how much that was with Mexico? Judi I mean the details on the volume decline in Mexico things like that we're not going to give you that level of detail but overall I'll tell you we've modeled out a trend that have elasticity.
And interestingly it's coming in exactly as we modeled out.
But let's be careful here.
It's only about three months into the year after the taxes have gone into effect and it's going to effect on multiple multiple multiple categories but the Mexican consumer is trying to figure out how to rebalance their basket.
So I think we're going to let this thing play out another month or two because our first quarter was just two month so let's wait and see how this plays out in the next three or four months.
And I think we'll get a much better read as to what this taxation is going to do in Mexico and also what strategies we can deploy in terms of revenue management to really address price points for the consumer -- that would attract the consumer.
So I'll tell you as an economy Mexico remains robust and we still believe enormously in the Mexican economy.
I think we have to give it time to allow this taxation to play through.
Our next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Hugh the international profit results were very strong even against the tough comp and excluding the gain and better than expected FX.
From a margin perspective should we view the Q1 strength as an aberration in a light seasonal quarter? Do you think the strong performance can continue in the balance of the year? And then also can you give us update on the potential for emerging markets margins to expand longer-term as you gain scale and if we should expect an inflection point in emerging markets margins any time soon? Go ahead Hugh.
A couple of things on that.
Yes you're right.
The emerging or the international margins expanded probably more than you're going to consistently see across the board in the first quarter.
The productivity programs are kicking into the place and obviously that's helping us.
In addition to that some of the new pricing that we putted in is helping as well but Q1 was probably a bit better than what you would expect over the course of the year.
The balancing act of course in developing and emerging markets as we have talked about before is one of how rapidly do you increase margins versus pricing a bit below your commodity inflation in order to increase consumer adoption of our products and our categories and also frankly to build competitive strength for ourselves through scaling and gaining market share across the businesses.
I do think that by virtue of the scale gains we will see natural margin accretion over time.
To some degree given the investments that we've made in brands we can control how quickly we increase the margins in those businesses.
But frankly what we're trying to do is build great competitive fortresses around the rest of the world in places like Brazil and places like Russia and in places like India and China in order to frankly generate lots of long-term value for shareholders.
So the strategy we're following is to capture sufficient short-term financial gains in those markets yet at the same time build great fortresses like we have here in North America for the long haul in both the snacks and the beverage business.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Couple of quick ones.
Just in terms of cash flow in the quarter I mean it looked like there were some working capital anomalies and I know you've maintained your cash flow guidance for the year.
So could you just explain kind of what happened there? And then I just have a really quick follow-up.
Yes Bill you're right.
This is Hugh.
We had some timing on payments and a few timing items on inventory as well.
Those are correct.
In fact they're already correcting through margin.
And as we get to the full year you will see the cash flow come in exactly as we expected.
As you try to manage cash flow managing on a quarterly basis our cash flow is a little bit trickier than earnings on a quarterly basis.
You're going to see some more bumps and it will be a bit more inconsistent but I would expect the cash flow to come in as we expected for the year.
And working capital will improve strongly during the year.
And then just maybe it's too early but can you just give us some early reads on the Pepsi next launch in Canada and kind of what you guys are thinking so far? I think it's hardly a couple of weeks since the launch so let's wait and see.
It's too early to call any results from that because typically it takes about three to four months before you can get a first read.
So let's wait and see how it evolves.
Our next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Just wondering there is a huge disconnect between the results topline that Coke put up in Europe and you.
And obviously Russia is a huge part of your Europe business but in Western Europe and the U.K.
in particular which is a big business for you could you talk about how your European beverage business performed? And what you're seeing in that market please? I just think our European business again investments in brands investments in stepped-up execution is all beginning to payoff.
And our bottling partners are also performing very well.
And I'd say across the board pretty much in every country in Western Europe and parts of Eastern Europe whether it's a company-own bottling operation or a franchise operation first our bottlers are healthy which helps.
And on top of that they are executing exceeding well.
And I think the portfolio plays in our favor too.
Pepsi MAX for example is a wonderful wonderful product and is doing very well in the U.K.
in the Nordic countries.
So the choice of the portfolio works.
The fact that we have financially strong bottlers helps.
And third I think businesses like Tropicana doing exceedingly well in France and the U.K.
So we have on target products healthy bottlers and great execution and together they're all beginning to work in Europe.
So we're feeling good about the shape of the portfolio.
And what I'd say is what we can control we're doing well.
When it comes to geopolitics or macroeconomic turmoil we try to navigate through it.
But what we can control we are doing a very job with it.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Indra I thought maybe we could just talk a little bit about the productivity programs $8 billion effectively over eight years is clearly impressive and about a $1 billion per year run rate its about 10% less to EBITDA or is equal.
Obviously that's not the expected flow-through so can you give us just a little bit more sense of where the productivity is going from in terms of reinvestments And how you're measuring return on that investment and then also in terms of where the productivity is being sourced from? It sounded like from some of your comments that there is a shift going on changes of focus perhaps between Frito-Lay in North America to beverages but is that correct and perhaps maybe some quantification around the productivity opportunities there? Hugh wants to take it and then I'll add to it.
First in order to understand all these numbers it maybe helpful to give a bit of context on the overall environment they're operating within.
The cost base that we're drawing productivity from is what we refer to is operating expense.
What's important is what that excludes.
That excludes A&amp;M that excludes any financing cost below the line and tax and things like that that also excludes commodity.
So it's really kind of the operating expense of the company including corporate expenses.
So that's point number one.
It's about $28 billion $29 billion in terms of the overall size of that bucket.
So when you're talking about $1 billion a year of productivity you're talking about somewhere between 3.5% and 4% productivity out of that bucket.
For a company that's a growth company that's really quite strong productivity.
We benchmark that against other companies that grow the revenues in mid single-digits and we do feel quite confident about that strong productivity.
Now to your question around where does it go? That question is really a margin question which is a bit more complex.
But let me share a few thoughts that may help you bottle it and also just give you a little bit of an understanding of how it works.
Number one based on our mix of countries of course there is operating expense inflation inside of those operating cost.
The operating expense inflation inside of that bucket is also going to run in the 3% to 4% range depending on the particular year.
Drivers of that obviously are labor increases.
That bucket is about half labor cost and obviously that's naturally inflationary.
In addition to that as the business grows it is somewhat volume variable.
So you're going to get a better growth in those expenses based on volume increases as well.
So that's a bit of an offset as you think about the margin flow-through.
The second margin flow-through question is around geographic mix.
Obviously we're growing more quickly in developing and emerging markets.
As Dara asked about earlier margins in those markets are lower.
The natural drag out of those markets is probably about 30 basis points per year.
Now that's something that if we were to take our prices more aggressively we could chose to mitigate but frankly for shareholder value creation over a five-year timeframe we think that's the wrong decision.
So we're willing to live with that 30 basis point margin drag.
And then the third piece is how we manage pricing in individual markets is both an outcome of what our pricing strategy is vis-à-vis commodities and in addition to that what the competitive situation is in that particular market.
So that tends to be a bit of a margin drag as well.
So when you put all of those pieces together I think what you can expect from us is is that margin improvement overall of about 30 basis points or so per year.
We ought to be able to do that on a reasonably consistent basis and combined that with the mid single-digit revenue growth and below the line leverage I think our long-term guidance have high single-digit is what you'd be thinking about.
So hopefully that gives you some sense as to taking the productivity and mapping it all the way through to the guidance.
If you'd like to spend more time on that obviously Jamie and the team can spend more time with you.
And the productivity in Frito-Lay and North American beverages it's across every part of the company.
And as Hugh said it's in G&amp;A it's literally corporate costs everything.
What we don't talk to is A&amp;M and R&amp;D.
Those are the two that we've said are protected.
We'll focus on ROI on those two investments but we're not going to cut that to make the numbers.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel.
Two questions.
I'm hoping to try to better understand from the thinking that you and your board have on TSR and CEO transition.
On TSR the 35% increase that you're announcing again so to speak or is a repeat of what we heard from the fourth quarter is a very healthy nice good number.
Can you give us some sense about the philosophy driving that? I think one thing I'm really trying to better understand is you're putting optimal leverage target out there do you do something to help us think beyond '14 how we should be thinking about how much cash shareholders get back from the company again from a beyond '14 perspective? So looking for some color on TSR? And then simply any update on Indra how you are thinking and the larger Board is thinking on the subject of CEO transition? You want to take this up and I will talk about CEO transition.
Mark from the perspective of TSR I guess in terms of going beyond 2014 we haven't provided any specific guidance around share repurchase.
We'll do that as we get into the next year.
We've got a long history of share repurchase.
We've been repurchasing our shares since 2001.
So there is certainly a reasonable expectation that the share repurchase will continue to be relatively high.
I don't want to get into 2015 guidance on share repo until we get closer to that timeframe.
In terms of TSR though perhaps from a different perspective I would think about it from the standpoint of our long-term guidance is high single-digit EPS.
So let's take the midpoint of that over time and call it 8%.
That's probably a reasonable proxy for share price increase assuming the market holds relatively stable.
Add to that the dividend yield right now that yield is as I mentioned earlier 3.1%.
It's probably going to wind up hovering around the 3% range over time.
So I would think of an 11 TSR is probably being a reasonable range to expect out of PepsiCo.
We think with that combination of high-single digit EPS and a 3% or so yield that's probably going to be near the top of the class in terms of TSR within the CPG space and within the F&amp;B space.
So that's the way I would think about it more focusing on the TSR rather than the short-term cash return forecast.
And in terms of succession Mark we start talking about CEO succession and all C-suite succession the day after you appoint anybody into that job because we have a very very orderly succession process.
The Board reviews it every other board meeting.
We look at emergency succession long-term succession.
We have very deliberate talent development models within the company.
And PepsiCo is known for that.
We have an outstanding group of leaders within the company who can assume bigger and bigger jobs but let me assure you at this point I'm still on the Chair.
Our final question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
I just have a quick question on the double-digit increase in your advertising and marketing expense for Frito-Lay and if we should expect that level of investment to continue? And then you've reported flat organic beverage volume growth in North America this quarter which is quite positive.
So could you drill down a little further and maybe give us an idea where some of this strength came from in terms of channels and brands? I will take the beverage question and then Hugh you can take the question on the A&amp;M and Frito-Lay.
As I mentioned on my prepared remarks Bonnie I tell you we had a very very good first quarter in North American beverages.
I think we had growth across the board in all parts of the portfolio.
We gained or held value share in CSDs sports drink ready-to-drink tea coffee.
We grew retail sales in measured channels in the U.S.
for regular cola's and Mountain Dew within CSDs.
Gatorade Lipton Tea Starbucks Coffee Naked Juice and non-carbs this is one of those quarters in spite of the fact that we had bad weather for some of the days of the first quarter which caused some routes not to service accounts this is the quarter where innovation stuck our execution was terrific and we just performed well.
But let's also make sure we recognize that now for several quarters we have held or gained value share in U.S.
LRB in measured channels.
So I think all the investments the focus on execution brand building in North American Beverages is beginning to payoff.
We're feeling good about the prospects in this business.
And Bonnie I will talk about the advertising and marketing spending in Frito-Lay.
Obviously when we increase A&amp;M across the company a couple of years ago Frito-Lay certainly got their share of that increase.
And it's worked is the great news.
We've seen the brand equity score has increased.
And we've seen our ability to price successfully increase because the brands are stronger.
Regarding go-forward what we've said is we do not expect A&amp;M as a percent of revenue to go down.
So that will line in the centers as Indra mentioned regarding where we sit as a company.
Beyond that it really comes down to not a strategic move anymore.
We need to increase A&amp;M for the competitive reasons because we think we're underspending.
But frankly we'll base it on the opportunities that we see in the demand spaces that we're working within and within the innovation ideas that we have.
So you might see a growth faster than revenue in a year or two because we have some great products that we're putting out there.
You might see it because we have a great combination idea of something we want to advertise between the beverage business and the snack food business and we'll always take advantages of those opportunities when we have that kind of an insight.
But there is no strategy to increase A&amp;M faster than revenue with Frito-Lay.
I would expect to see them grow basically in line.
That's a big idea.
So let me just bring this to a close.
Thank you all for your questions.
In closing I think we have taken the necessary steps to position ourselves for sustainable long-term growth.
We're off to a good start in 2014 and we've done a good job navigating through an uncertain and volatile environment.
And I believe the first quarter of 2014 is a good example of how well-constructive portfolio appropriate investment and disciplined execution can drive high quality top and bottomline results.
Our first quarter results give me confidence that our plans are working and that we are on track to deliver our financial goals in 2014.
So let me thank you for your time this morning and for the confidence you've placed in us with your investment.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you operator.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
We'll lead off today's call with a review of our second quarter 2014 performance and outlook and then we'll move on to Q&amp;A.
We have kept our comments brief this morning and intend to conclude the call by 08:45 to be respectful of your time during a busy earnings week and we’ll do our best to get to as many of your questions as we can.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2014 guidance and our long-term targets based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today's earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and operating profit growth are on a core basis.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures structural changes and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing PepsiCo's financial results you should refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning's earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo's website under the Events &amp; Presentations tab.
As we discuss today's results please keep in mind that our second quarter comprises the 12 weeks ended June 14 for our North American operations in the months of March April and May for most of our operations outside of North America.
As we have mentioned in our earnings release this morning core operating profit growth rates are impacted by lapping a $137 million gain from the re-franchising of our Vietnam beverage operations in the second quarter of 2013 partially offset by incremental investments of $46 million made in the prior year quarter Now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
We are pleased with our second quarter and our first half results.
Despite operating and what continues to be a challenging and volatile macro environment we have been consistently meeting or exceeding our financial goals over the last two and half years.
I believe our results reflect the hard work we have done over the last several years to position our business for sustainable success; specifically our investments to strengthen our brands innovate more effectively expand our geographic footprint with strategic acquisitions drive better execution and operate more efficiently by leveraging our global scale and complementary product portfolio.
Today these actions and investments are producing consistent tangible results.
Based on the strength of our first half results in our outlook for the remainder of the year we are increasing our full year core constant currency 2014 EPS growth outlook to 8%.
So let me share with you some of the performance highlights of the second quarter.
Organic revenue grew approximately 4% with global snacks up 5% and global beverages up 2%.
We managed the business responsibly achieving three points of effective net pricing to effective price packed revenue management.
Each of our four business units delivered organic revenue growth led by high single-digit growth in EMEA and mid-single digit growth in Europe and PepsiCo Americas Foods.
Developing and emerging markets posted solid 8% organic revenue growth led by low double-digit growth in China high single-digit growth in Brazil and mid single-digit growth in Russia.
Innovation continue to play an important role in our topline growth and accounted for 9% of our net revenue.
Core gross margins improved by 60 basis points.
Excluding the Vietnam gain that is incremental investment from the second quarter of 2013 our core constant currency operating profit rose 6% core operating margin improved by 65 basis points and core constant currency EPS grew 9%.
On a rolling four-quarter basis our core net ROIC improved by 30 basis points and now stands at 16.5%.
In the first half of 2014 we returned $4 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases a 46% increase versus last year.
As we previously announced we expect to return $8.7 billion to shareholders in 2014 in the form of dividends and share repurchases a 35% increase over our 2013 cash return to shareholders.
Importantly we achieved our targeted productivity savings in the quarter and remain on track to achieve our full-year target of $1 billion which represents approximately 3.5% of our operating cost base excluding commodities and A&amp;M expense.
This year we successfully complete the three-year $3 billion productivity program we launched in 2012 and we are now focused on our next generation’s five-year 5 billion productivity programs for 2019 announced earlier this year which is really centered on four key areas.
First embedding more automation in our operations replace labor with capital.
Second expanding shared services including global financial shared services for the handling of routine back office transaction processing.
Third restructuring manufacturing to optimize our global manufacturing footprint.
And fourth restructuring our go-to-market systems to optimize our distribution network.
As a result of these initiatives we expect to see continued improvement in net revenue and core earnings before interest and tax as per employee as well as margin expansion and returns on invested capital.
So with all this as a backdrop let's take a look at how the business has performed starting in North American.
The North American consumer picture continues to be weak with retail sales among the top the food and beverage manufactures roughly flat in the quarter a slight deceleration from the first quarter.
In this challenging environment PepsiCo grew sales at retail across each of its North American snacks and beverage businesses and was a largest contributed to retail sales growth among the top 30 manufactures.
Frito-Lay North America performed well with organic growth of 2% and core constant currency operating profit growth of 5%.
Net price utilization was somewhat mutual in the quarter as we benefitted from commodity cost deflation.
Core operating margins expanded 80 basis points despite an increase in advertising and marketing and affected savings from our productivity efforts.
Our top-line growth is driven by strength across most of our largest trademarks with Lays Doritos and Cheetos each posting revenue growth in the low to high single digits.
Our broader macro-snack offering were also doing well with strong performance in shelf stable dips crackers our line of Smartfood snack and the Sabra line of refrigerated hummus dips and spread.
As we look to the second half we are encouraged by the strength of our innovation and consumer engagement program leveraging some of our biggest brands.
In April we launched Doritos Jack mystery flavors with nationwide distribution.
Consumers voted for their favorite mystery flavor online.
Earlier this month we revealed the three flavors Spicy Street Taco Chocolate Chipotle Bacon and Caribbean Citrus Jerk.
Spicy Street Taco was a consumer voted favorite and we launched it this fall as a permanent Jack flavor.
We also brought back the U.S.
the highly successfully Lay’s Doritos flavor campaign.
We’ve received more than 14 million consumer submissions nearly four times a submissions we received for last year’s campaign.
On July 17 we announced the four finalist among consumer submitted flavors Cappuccino Cheddar Bacon Mac &amp; Cheese Mango Salsa and Wasabi Ginger.
And these products are now hitting store shelves.
Our consumers will now have the opportunity to vote for their favorite new Lay’s flavor.
And we are especially excited about the progress we’re making in food service innovation.
On July 2 we launched Doritos Loaded exclusively at more than 5500 7-Eleven stores nationwide.
Doritos Loaded is a delicious hot snack served with melted Nacho Cheese and encrusted with Doritos.
Our launch of loaded created a great deal of tradition and social media buzz generating more than 750 million impressions to-date.
And it has also featured on Jimmy Kimmel live.
Each of these programs has a strong demonstration of how we are leveraging our Culinary center to create unique great tasting new products and driving excitement in the vendors to create a consumer engagement.
Turning now to Quaker Foods North America despite continued challenges across most central store food categories we gained value share at retail in each of Quaker’s key categories hot cereals ready-to-eat cereals and snack bars both in the quarter and year-to-date.
Core constant currency operating profit growth rose 5% of the quarter with operating profit margins expanding 155 basis points.
We are pleased with the performance of our recent innovation in 2014.
We launched Quaker Express Cups which provides Quaker Instant Oatmeal in the convenient on-the-go cup.
We also introduced the first of its kind hot cereal; Quaker Warm &amp; Crunchy Granola which delivers both the wholesale goodness of Quaker Oatmeal and the satisfying crunch of market grain granola.
And finally we are continuing to build in the success of our Real Medleys platform this time in a ready to eat cereal form.
In North American beverages we’re encouraged for the continued progress we’re making.
In the second quarter and in the first half we gained U.S.
LRB value share and achieved positive net price realization at retail.
Notably PepsiCo has held or gained relative U.S.
LRB value share in major channel versus our closest competitor in each of the last five quarter.
In the quarter we also achieved greater net price realization retail and our primary competitor and the category overall.
Within the LRB category we held or gained value share across a number of important sub-categories including CSDs sports drinks ready to drink tea and chilled juice and we grew retail sales in major channels in the U.S.
for regular CSDs led by trademark Mountain Dew just up mid-single digits and with our non-carb portfolio for Gatorade Lipton Tea Starbucks Coffee and Naked Juice.
In the quarter PAB grew both organic revenue in core constant currency operating profit with core operating profit margin expanding by 25 basis points.
We’re also excited about the progress we’re making on the innovation front.
In the second quarter we introduced PEPSI SPIRE our state-of-the-art beverage dispensers which allows consumers to create more than 1 000 customized beverages with a touch of screen while providing our food service partners flexible cost effective reliable equipment that best fits their needs.
PEPSI SPIRE is currently available in select U.S.
locations and will continue to roll out for the rest of the year.
On May 5 we also brought Mountain Dew Baja Blast to the shelves for a limited time leveraging on the success of the fountain brand ahead of Taco Bell.
Mountain Dew Baja Blast is a second largest and fastest growing fountain beverage sold at Taco Bell and may now expand the reach of the fan favorite brand.
And concurrent with the launch of the Doritos Loaded we introduced Solar Flare our tropical punch take on Mountain Dew exclusively at 7-Eleven.
We are leveraging of the high purchase coincidence of Dew and Doritos with joint advertising point-of-sale communication and promotion.
And we are pleased with the performance of our expanded package offerings with strong double-digit growth in mini cans as well as 12 ounce glass bottle from the second quarter.
These new packages have enabled us to realize new price packed revenue benefits while maintaining flexibility for price competitiveness.
So that’s another American story.
Western Europe performed well with organic revenue 3% in the second quarter in a difficult retail and competitive environment.
Turning now to developing and emerging markets.
In Mexico we continue to navigate for the new the new taxes on certain foods and beverages.
And as a reminder we've taken pricing in snacks and our bottler has taken pricing in beverages to pass the taxes through to the consumer.
In the quarter in Mexico our volume decline in snacks moderated sequentially while beverage volume returned to growth as consumers began to adjust to the higher prices and our systems drove beverage share gains through improved market sales execution.
We’d dealing with the tax driven price increase throughout the year and expect some quarterly volatility to continue our results so far are in line with our expectations.
In Venezuela we are managing through high inflation political unrest supply chain disruptions and continued uncertainty regarding the applicable exchange rate.
Despite all the challenges our businesses in Venezuela performed very well in the quarter with revenue up strong double-digits across both snacks and beverages.
Brazil delivered high single-digit organic revenue growth led by double-digit organic revenue growth in beverages and high-single-digit organic revenue growth in snacks.
We did a particularly effective job leveraging our global soccer properties in this market during the time when soccer was very much top of mind.
Our integrated campaign featured an impressive roster of the world’s premium soccer players and included television advertising as well as digital out-of-home in-store and point-of-sale marketing.
In Russia organic revenue rose mid-single digits with double-digit growth in snacks and low-single digit growth in beverages.
And we saw strong organic revenue growth in a number of other East European markets including high single-digit growth in Turkey and low double-digit growth in Poland.
Moving across EMEA.
Organic revenue growth was led by Thailand which pronged double-digit organic revenue growth followed by Egypt and the Philippines which also grew double-digits.
China organic revenue grew low double-digits driven by strong growth in our snacks business.
The productivity restructuring program initiated by our bottling partner in the first quarter has achieved solid progress.
Our partner has taken a well-planned deliberate approach to execute the program to ensure that our entire system is positioned to capture its full long-term efficiency and effectiveness benefits.
We remain committed to the developing and emerging markets as we believe they have a long runway for growth driven by increasing demand for our convenient on trend affordable products supported by rapidly growing middle class.
We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on these opportunities.
So to conclude we are off to a terrific start in 2014 with the pieces of our complementary portfolio working together to generate healthy top line and bottom line performance as we also step up the terms on investments and cash returns to shareholders.
Clearly there are number of challenges around the globe but the shape and resilience of our portfolio combined with strong execution and aggressive productivity should enable us to navigate successfully to the current environment.
Let me now turn the call over to Hugh.
Hugh? Thank you Indra and good morning everyone.
Let me spend a few minutes discussing the quarter and our upwardly revised core constant currency earnings per share outlook for 2014.
First for Q2 organic revenue grew 3.6%.
On a reported basis net revenue was up 0.5 point versus a year ago reflecting 3 points of unfavorable foreign exchange translation and a slight negative structural impact primarily from the refranchising of our Vietnam bottling operation.
Commodity cost had low single-digit inflation.
Our core gross margins improved about 60 basis points and core operating margins rose 10 basis points.
Core operating margin rose 65 basis points when excluding the gain from refranchising Vietnam net of incremental investments from last year.
Core constant currency operating profit grew 3% and approximately 6% excluding the Vietnam gain and investments from last year.
Our quarter effective tax rate was 26.3 2 percentage points above Q2 2013.
Our fully diluted share count declined 2% reflecting the benefits of our ongoing share repurchase program.
And core constant currency EPS grew 3% and 9% when excluding the Vietnam gain and investments from last year.
And we returned $4 billion to shareholders in the first half in the form of dividends and share repurchases which was 46% above year ago levels and reflective of our commitment to return cash for shareholders.
Now turning to guidance.
As Indra mentioned based on the strength of our first half results and our outlook for the balance of year we’ve increased our full year core constant currency EPS growth target to 8% up from 7% previously.
Our other targets remain unchanged.
We expect mid single-digit organic revenue growth low single-digit commodity inflation and productivity savings of approximately $1 billion.
Below the division operating profit line we expect corporate cost efficiency driven by our productivity initiatives a core effective tax rate of approximately 25% and a reduced share count from our share repurchase program.
Foreign exchange is expected to negatively impact net revenue by 3 percentage points and core earnings per share by 4 percentage points for the full year 2014 based on current market consensus rates.
Taking our 2013 core EPS of $4.37 and applying our guidance implies 2014 core EPS of approximately $4.54.
As many of you know the foreign exchange picture in Venezuela is very dynamic at the moment with three different exchange rates and the possibility for a converged mechanism.
Our second quarter results were translated to U.S.
dollars at VEB6.3 to the U.S.
dollar.
Our current FX forecast which is based on current market consensus rates assumes a blended rate of approximately VEB9 to the U.S.
dollar for the balance of the year.
As you model out for third quarter I’d ask you to consider the following.
We expect foreign exchange translation to have an approximate 2 point unfavorable impact on both third quarter revenue and third quarter EPS based on current market consensus rates.
We do expect to ramp up advertising and marketing expense in the quarter and below the division operating profit line net interest expense is expected to increase in the third quarter versus last year primarily reflecting higher debt balances and higher rates.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect full-year free cash flow excluding certain items of more than $7 billion.
We will continue to drive cash flow through efficient working capital management and continued tight controls over capital spending.
Net capital spending should approximate $3 billion which is well within our long-term target of less than or equal to 5% of net revenue.
We expect to return approximately $8.7 billion to shareholders in 2014 a 35% increase over 2013 through a combination of $3.7 billion in dividends and $5 billion in share repurchases.
So to summarize we’ve increased our core constant currency EPS growth outlook for the full-year 2014 to 8% from 7%.
We expect to drive improved full-year margins and net ROIC and discipline capital allocation and returning cash to our shareholders remain top priorities for the company.
With that operator we will take the first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Wanted to follow up on the Frito results.
From an organic revenue standpoint it is the weakest quarter you guys have put up in a while.
You had some promotional activity or give us the flavor in the year-ago period.
So I guess can you talk a little bit about what you are seeing in the general environment out there? How much the weakness for the quarter was what you saw generally in FDM in Q2? And then as we look to the back half back half of the year and you talked about maybe a little bit more new product activity etc.
what is the confidence level in terms of Frito volumes and/or organic revenue improving in the back half of the year? And as part of that is the promotional environment getting any worse given some of the weakness in volumes we have seen across the food industry? Thanks.
Thank you John and thank you for your question.
We are not particularly considered about the Frito-Lay performance.
Clearly the North American retail environment saw an abrupt slowdown in period five and we were very careful to manage this business responsibly and not hit the promotional lever in order to just drive revenue or volume growth.
We also delayed one marketing activity from Q2 to Q3.
We’re already beginning to see a ramp up in performance.
So at this point based on all the trends we are seeing the strength of the marketing calendar in the second half our A&amp;M spending that we’re expecting in the second half the productivity programs we feel pretty good about Frito-Lay.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
As we looked at the gross margins for the quarter can you just parse out for us how much benefit you have gotten from gross margins from just pure pricing? And how much of it was maybe just from commodity cost inflation coming down? Just trying to get I guess an understanding as we are pacing forward if there is more momentum here on gross margins.
Yes good morning Bryan.
Obviously it was a combination of a couple of things Bryan.
Number one the commodity inflation environment right now is relatively muted.
It was in line with our expectations because of the previously discussed forward buying program that we have for commodities and at this point in the year we’re about 85% bought for 2014.
So we are comfortable with what our outlook is on the front.
Number two without that particularly in more inflationary countries we are getting some pricing and we expect to continue to do that.
In businesses where we don’t see a lot of inflation we’re not taking a whole lot of pricing we’re taking a bit but where we have commodity deflation we don’t feel forced to do that.
And number three I’d point out is the fact that innovation continues to ramp up.
It’s about 9% of sales.
Innovation does allow us to realize net effective pricing.
So with that parsing all of the individual pieces they’re all contributors and I think we expect them all to continue.
So I think we’re going to continue to see could gross margin improvement.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
I wanted to ask a little bit about the sustainability of these clearly good results that we have seen so far.
And in particular when you look at each of the segments Europe is the only segment out of the six where you call out advertising and marketing being up.
In fact a couple times you see lapping of incremental investments.
So this is now the second quarter in a row where we see kind of a similar narrative.
So I'm trying to get a sense from you guys of what is overall happening to advertising and marketing in the first half of the year.
Because it seems like it is going down as a percent of sales.
And do you view that as sustainable going forward or do you expect there to be a ramp up on advertising? And as you talk about that which is the core question on sustainability if you could throw in a comment about Russia.
I think there are some concerns about that we have heard that from some other companies for sure in your sector and the sustainability there as well as your Latin America growth being driven by Venezuela and Argentina where there is a question mark.
But advertising was the main question and the other two add-ons if you could please.
So Ali it is a big question.
One of the things you said and we have been very-very clear in this even within our company is that whatever we’ve set out as an A&amp;M goal for the year we will not cut it.
We will spend it based on the marketing calendar and to make sure that it’s spent properly during the year.
But we’re not going to cut A&amp;M budgets for any year.
When we took the big A&amp;M step up in 2012 we made a commitment to us also then to you that A&amp;M is something that we will hold as a percentage of sales.
And we are going to keep that number through the year.
So you should feel very-very comfortable that across the company the number is going to remain at 5.9%.
I thought that I had to say that number.
It will rise with sales and it will stay that way.
And that’s true for every segment.
Let’s talk about Russia and Latin America all of the questions.
You know in Russia clearly there are some geopolitical issues.
Our businesses is doing just fine at this moment but you know we are basic food and beverage and the Russian consumers still need to eat and drink.
And so except for the FX issues the business; yes we’re doing okay.
And Hugh I don’t know if you want to comment about Venezuela.
Yes.
I mean it’s certainly the Latin American environment it’s an inflationary environment.
The good news from our perspective is that we do have strong market positions in the snack-food business and our beverage business is doing actually quite well down there right now.
As a result we are but able to get the pricing to cover the inflation that we’re facing down in that market and as a result we feel compatible with the trajectory at the Latin American business.
So to tie all of that together Ali your question around the sustainability of the results obviously we contemplate the volatile realm that we live in.
We contemplate what’s happening inside of the company.
We’ve made commitments around R&amp;D and A&amp;M and I’m not cutting those things.
And as a result we feel comfortable raising the guidance in spite of all those volatile factors and that’s why we did raise the guidance for the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche bank.
Can you guys just take a stab at why you think the categories especially in the US have been so weak recently and then maybe what you think it is going to take to kind of get them accelerating again? Because obviously they are trending way below trend.
Well I think overall food and beverage has decelerated from years ago.
People are consuming differently I think there’s been a trend towards fresh produce fresh grocery products more making your food as home as suppose to buying package food and beverages.
And I think people have also been eating out so food away from home is doing just a little bit.
And I think from PepsiCo’s perspective the strength of our brand the strength of our innovation strength of the complementarity of the portfolio and that fact that we have very popular distribution systems into the retail stores this launch is enabling us to be the largest contributor to growth among the 30 largest manufactures in the U.S.
retail environment.
So I think as long as we keep innovating and leveraging our distribution system and really helping the retailers offset some of their labor cost through our DLT systems in high velocity category we should be able to drive growth.
And then on the food service side they are now with the Culinary centers both in beverages and snacks and all the work we are doing on complementary offerings between snacks and beverages has been to drive a lot of excitement in food services whether it be Buffalo Wild Wings or 7-Eleven food service or Taco Bell.
I think more and more food services customers are coming to us and saying what can you do for us to drive traffic and to drive tickets.
So it doesn’t matter if somebody comes into buy a product from the sea store and they also be attracted to stop by the food service side and pick up something for immediate consumption.
So that’s really what they are working on taking a relatively low growth North American retail environment and positioning ourselves to be the highest growth food and beverage company and that’s really our strategy.
And I think our portfolio as a fact that we have high velocity categories is making us a very valuable partner to retailers all across the country.
Our next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Clearly at the corporate level you realized significant pricing in Q2 it drove mostly organic sales growth.
So I just wondering how comfortable you are going forward that that strong pricing can continue given the moderate commodity environment as well as the challenged consumer.
And then secondly Hugh we have really started to see a turn in the operating margin performance for the Company the last couple of quarters here if one strips out the Vietnam gain.
So I was hoping you could also give us an update on the key drivers behind that year-to-date performance and sustainability going forward as we look to the back half.
Yes.
In terms of pricing remember pricing as Hugh mentioned earlier it’s not an across the board pricing we just implement it’s done very surgically innovation helps us drive pricing in countries where we believe that inflation is high we take pricing to cover the inflation to the extent we can.
We do a lot of revenue management in order to get pricing.
So pricing is something we realized through surgical management of innovation in market pricing revenue management and very careful execution based on the different channels.
And the balance of the year we feel comfortable that we can sustain pricing and our goal is to focus on value share always because I think in categories that are slowing down in particular focused just on volume is an unhealthy trend.
So we are very very careful to make sure that we carefully balance pricing with volume growth and not try to go for volume at all costs.
And that’s what really allowed us to get good revenue growth and get good pricing realization.
Let me turn to Hugh to talk about the operating margin.
Sure Dara obviously we saw very good operating margin accretion in Q1 and then Q2 the number was 65 basis point I think you will continue to see good operating and more improvement year-over-year as we progress through the coming quarters I don’t know that it’s going to stay quite at the levels that we’ve seen in the first two quarters of year.
But I do think we’re going to continue to see good operating margin improvement.
And the big driver behind that of course is the $1 billion productivity program that we’ve put out there that productivity program directly attacks the $28 billion operating cost structure that we have and as we work through the productivity program you are seeing and in fact flow through the bottom line which is why you’re seeing good leverage from revenue down to EPS.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
I guess maybe on the margins a little bit more.
Overseas and really outside of the Americas you have made good progress on the profit growth and margin expansion this year in Europe especially.
A bit less so though in EMEA even adjusting for that Vietnam gain.
Can you talk about the puts and takes there in each region perhaps if you could differentiating between progress in snacks versus beverages in each region? And maybe as you do given that we have seen you re-franchise beverage businesses in China Mexico and Vietnam recently what is the likelihood that you might pursue similar efforts in other geographies whether Western Europe Russia or India where you still hold the bottlers? Thanks.
Thanks you for the question Steve.
Again we don’t get into the puts and takes by region but broadly speaking Europe has been relatively stable.
Even those retail environment is difficult geo-politically it’s been stable year-over-year.
And we put through productivity programs we’ve become more efficient in terms of how we run the whole region and that’s why you saw improving margin trends.
We have been one of the strong performers from a top line basis in Europe and again the complementarity of our categories is really helping drive traffic and top line growth at many retailers.
I just had a series of talks with many European retailers and I must say looking at the numbers we’ve outperformed same store sales of many of those retailers by a significant factor.
So I feel pretty good about the European trends.
In the case of EMEA parts of EMEA that are going to significant geopolitical issues.
The Middle-East has got significant issues we’ve had the IQAMA issue in Saudi Arabia.
So the reason you’re seeing a little bit muted margin trends in EMEA is because we’ve had to power through those geopolitical issues.
Coupled with the facts that as we mentioned in our script in China we’re going through the transition of our system into Tingyi and we want to make sure we don’t rush it we want to make sure we do it responsibly we want to make sure we do it right because at the end of the day we are trying to build a very efficient and effective system.
And we are making sure that we work constructively with our bottling partner Tingyi to end up with a system that really plays at its strength which is in almost 1.6 times the size of the next competitor.
So that’s really why you saw better margin expansion in Europe.
In terms of refranchising our business where we think it makes sense where we think our partner is stronger and where we think we have a partner where we refranchise the business to ensure the continued health of the business we will look at it.
But if we believe that refranchising could jeopardize the business we will not refranchise it.
So we look at it on a case-by-case basis.
In Vietnam you saw that we did refranchise the business; in Mexico where the business is performing very well.
I mean countries where it makes sense we do it.
So stay tuned as we find interesting opportunities we will be back to talk to you.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
So I just wanted to go back to maybe North America beverages and talk about the pricing environment.
Clearly I think some of the industry participants have become a little bit more rational in terms of the pricing strategy.
We are going to be -- start to lap the pretty heavy promotional period you saw a year ago around Labor Day.
So just your thoughts on the competitive environment and the pricing outlook in North America CSD.
And then secondarily just thinking about the diet trends and we are lapping a big decline that you started to see in a year ago period.
So what are you seeing just in terms of now more consumer perception around the diet portfolio and your efforts to perhaps address that issue?  Pricing environment is just fine.
I think that we have rational pricing and we’ve always said we were going to price responsibly and we’ve continued doing that and we’re glad the industry is being responsible too.
On the diet trends I mean you’ve seen the numbers Judy.
We continue to see declines in diet and this is something that seems to continue.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Indra just wanted to quickly talk about Mexico especially the beverage performance pretty encouraging.
Is that in-line with expectations that you will see year-over-year growth so soon after the higher tax implementation there? And also does this reduce the threat of similar taxation efforts in the US or what you will model if some similar tax is adopted here?  On the Mexico beverage performance I think when we refranchised our business to the combination of Polar and GEUSA and created GEPP that company is performing very well.
In market execution is excellent and they are doing a very good job.
So I think the reason we are growing the business is because of superior execution.
In the case of taxes in North America the good news Amit is we have a total portfolio of carbonated non-carbonated full sugar low sugar all kinds of products.
So from a consumer perspective if they shift from one category to another there is always a PepsiCo product they can have for any need state for any sugar level for any taste for any flavor.
So I think that that is the advantage of the PepsiCo portfolio.
And incidentally they can also pair it with a great snack.
So we feel good about the complementarity of the portfolio the breadth of the portfolio in North America and our goal is to make sure there are no discriminatory taxes but to work constructively with state governments and other organizations to make sure of whatever is done is done responsibly.
Our final question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Obviously you are not going to change the Company's view on a breakup in this call but there are two data items I wanted to ask you about.
One is on the corporate unallocated and how it is built up.
Do you intend to share that build up? And then the second one is on the subject of dis-synergies it's been a couple years now since you put a number out there you put the $800 million to $1 billion number out there talking about separation related dis-synergies.
Is that still in number you abide by? And do you have any plans if it is a number you abide by to share that build up?  Mark I was hoping you talked about the good quarter but having said that hoping unallocated we have given you the numbers we have said that if you look at the total corporate cost about half of it is compliance cost which is about the lowest of any company.
The other half is either the vision cost we carry at corporate because we want to manage the volatility; for example like pension costs or commodity mark-to-market.
The others you know smaller bucket which is centrally driven capability cost because we want to make sure that we protect those costs and build the capability.
So the numbers we put out remain unchanged.
In terms of this synergy there’s no reason for those numbers to change.
I mean we spent an incredible amount of time checking the ties on this and this is the conservative estimate.
And this company is engineered as one and we feel very comfortable about the vigor with which we analyzed the proposals and we stand by our 800 million to a billion-dollar number.
So thank you for the question.
So let me close by reiterating that we’re pleased with our results for the first half.
We’re confident that our plans are working and believe we are on track to deliver our financial targets for 2014.
I want to thank you all for your time and questions this morning and more importantly for the confidence you have placed in us with your investments.
Have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's PepsiCo’s second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you operator.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo’s Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo’s CFO.
We will lead off today’s call with a review of our third quarter 2014 performance and outlook and then we will move on to Q&amp;A.
We have kept our comments brief this morning and intend to conclude the call by 08:45 and we will do our best to get to as many of your questions as we can.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2014 guidance and our long-term targets based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today’s earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and operating profit growth are on a core basis.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures structural changes and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing PepsiCo’s financial results you should refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning’s earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo’s website under the Events &amp; Presentations tab.
As we discuss today’s results please keep in mind that our third quarter comprises the 12 weeks ended September 6 for our North American operations in the months of June July and August for most of our operations outside North America.
As you saw in the release we are no longer reporting PepsiCo Americas Foods as a business unit.
Consistent with our prior practice we continue to report results for the divisions that had comprised PAF namely Frito-Lay North America Quaker Foods North America and Latin America Foods.
This change does not have any impact on the overall results of PepsiCo or these divisions.
Also reflected in our Q3 2014 core earnings results are aggregate gains associated with the divestitures of approximately $34 million and a $23 million impairment of a brand in Greece.
Now it’s my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
We are pleased with our results for the quarter and year-to-date particularly given the continued macro challenges we see across the globe.
Specifically in developed markets the consumer category demand continues to be sluggish and in developing and emerging markets there is continued macro and political volatility most notably in Eastern Europe the Middle East and a number of markets in Latin America.
In other key emerging markets China India and Brazil even though the political environments are relatively stable GDP and consumer spending growth remains mixed.
Despite these challenges our businesses performed well in the third quarter and year-to-date.
Global volume grew in both snacks and beverages in the quarter and year-to-date.
Organic net revenue grew at a rate ahead of volume in the quarter and year-to-date reflecting execution of effective revenue management strategies and successful introduction of innovative new products.
In the quarter organic revenue grew 3.1% with developing and emerging markets up high single-digits led by key contributions from the BRIC markets.
And notably our developing and emerging markets business has proven to be resilient with high single-digit organic revenue growth year-to-date including double-digit growth in Egypt and India high single-digit growth in China Brazil and Turkey and mid single-digit growth in Russia.
In North America Frito-Lay led performance with 3% organic revenue growth in the quarter and year-to-date.
And core gross and operating margins both expanded by 45 basis points in the quarter aided by the benefits of our global productivity initiatives.
Year-to-date core gross margin expanded 50 basis points and core operating margin expanded 35 basis points.
Overall core constant currency EPS grew 11% in the quarter driven by the solid operating performance supplemented by responsible financial management.
Importantly these results have translated to strong cash generation and consequently strong cash returns to shareholders.
Returning capital to shareholders is a top priority and we are pleased to report that year-to-date we have returned $6 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases and we remain on track to return a total of $8.7 billion to shareholders in 2014 which is a 35% increase over our 2013 shareholder cash returns.
Based on the strength of our year-to-date results and our outlook for the fourth quarter we raised our full year core constant currency EPS growth target to 9% from 8% previously.
We believe our year-to-date performance is a good reflection of the strength of our business.
In today’s difficult environment retailers value the benefits of partners with strong brands and high velocity products that drive traffic build basket size and generate attractive cash flow.
And that’s exactly why our retail partners like to do business with PepsiCo.
And as a company we continue to strengthen our business to position it for continued successful performance well into the future.
And we are encouraged by the progress we are making in three areas in particular: first leveraging our complementary product portfolio and global scale; second product and packaging innovation; and third productivity.
So let me give you a quick update on each of these areas and share some of the tangible evidence we are seeing as proof of our progress starting with how we are increasingly leveraging the complementary nature of our products and brands.
A case in point is Mountain Dew and Doritos.
Dew and Doritos have extremely high co-purchase incidence.
In the U.S.
over 60% of Mountain Dew households buy Doritos.
Both brands are deeply rooted in gaming with legacies of high engagement partnerships and activations around Blockbuster video games.
In the U.S.
this fall Dew and Doritos are giving consumers access to Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare.
They are going to give them exclusive in-game gear double XP and rapid supply rewards.
And all of this is to dial up their gaming experience.
Only Mountain Dew and Doritos consumers will be able to unlock these coveted advantages and customize their gaming experience through the Fuel Up for Battle promotion.
A number of our largest customers will run better together programs linked to this promotion and we are concurrently reintroducing on a limited time basis a true gamer favorite Mountain Dew Game Fuel in original citrus cherry and a new lemonade flavor.
Across many of our international markets we are focused on driving greater co-purchase incidence of Lays and Pepsi with joint packaging graphics sports properties point-of-sale material ad copy and promotions.
These cross branding activations are now taking place in many of our key markets across the globe.
For example Poland we created excitement for the Lays brand by hiding coupons for 100 000 free Pepsi’s in bags.
The promotion was supported by ads and point-of-sale material featuring the soccer great Lionel Messi.
Similarly in Colombia we ran joint Lays Pepsi and Tropicana Quaker soccer team promotions offering discounts and prized for joint purchases in the organized way.
And across the Middle East we had great success of our joint Lays Pepsi promotions during the Ramadan season.
In addition to the commercial benefits afforded by these cross category promotions we continued to yield cost synergies through continued integration.
For example integrating our snack and beverage media sourcing in China fully consolidating and integrating our administrative functions under one roof in Russia and consolidating common carriers for snacks and beverages in the more rural regions of India so that’s the better together story.
The second area is product and package innovation.
We continued to make very good progress.
As evidenced on a rolling four quarter basis our innovation as a percentage of sales is steadily increasing and is up 90 basis points versus the comparable year ago period.
And in our biggest markets the United States we were the largest contributor to retail sales food and beverage growth both in the third quarter and year-to-date which really benefited from the strength of our innovation.
And we are seeing innovation success across brands and geographies.
For example at Frito-Lay North America we launched our 2014 Lays Do Us a Flavor campaign.
And this followed its past success in the U.S.
and 12 other markets around the globe.
This year’s consumer submitted finalists are Cappuccino Cheddar Bacon Mac &amp; Cheese Mango Salsa and Wasabi Ginger hot bite.
This program helped to drive strong mid-single digit Lays net revenue growth in the third quarter.
At Quaker Foods North America we have launched Quaker Express Cups to capitalize on the ever growing demand for greater on-the-go convenience.
And Quaker Warm &amp; Crunchy Granola which delivers both the wholesome goodness of Quaker oatmeal and the satisfying crunch of multigrain Granola.
So while center of the store category growth remains challenged the success of these and other new products launched by Quaker have contributed to value share gains in each of Quaker’s key categories Hot Cereal Ready-To-Eat Cereal and Snack Bars both in the quarter and year-to-date.
Our North American beverage business has strong innovation in both product and packaging.
Over the past several years we have significantly increased the variety of primary and secondary package configurations.
With greater packaging flexibility we now have more tools in our kit to drive price utilization and higher margins through the price back management.
The case in point is our 12 ounce glass bottle which sells at more than 100% premium with 12 ounce can.
And our innovation has become increasingly more durable.
For example a number of 2012 and 2013 introductions Tostitos Cantina Mountain Dew Kickstart Lipton Pure Leaf have all achieved more than $100 million in retail sales in their launch year and have generated double-digit retail sales growth in their second year.
Our beverage product and packaging innovation in the U.S.
has led to improved sales improved net price utilization and improved market share performance.
We held LRB value share in measured channels in the third quarter and year-to-date held CSDs at retail in the third quarter led by trademark Mountain Dew and gained or held value share in a number of important sub-categories including CSDs sports drinks ready-to-drink tea and unflavored water.
And in our international markets we are both leveraging our global scale and capitalizing on local insights to fuel innovation.
For example within snacks since its initial U.S.
introduction in 2012 Doritos Jacked has launched in 10 international markets.
We also lifted and shifted a larger and thicker cut chip with deep ridges which originated from our Ruffles brand and lunched it into several key countries such as Russia Brazil the Middle East and India under the Lays Max brand.
And in the UK we launched a new range of premium potato tortilla and pita chips under the Market Deli brand.
The Market Deli brand really caters to local taste preferences with flavors such as balsamic vinegar of Modena and Wiltshire cured ham mature cheddar and farmhouse chutney.
Within beverages the SPIRE family of digital fountain dispensers continues to build momentum.
Currently SPIRE is in the United States Canada France Turkey Ireland and Switzerland.
The equipment capabilities range from pouring 8 brands and 4 flavor shots to a maximum of 16 brands and 8 flavor shots resulting in over 1 000 flavor combinations.
And the global expansion of our highly successful Mountain Dew franchise continues.
The brand has expanded to two new markets in 2014 and it is now available in over 40 countries around the world.
And we have built terrific brand recognition with the continued expansion of our DEWmocracy and Dew Tour support programs.
And finally turning to productivity we achieved our targeted productivity savings for the third quarter and year-to-date and we are on track to achieve a full year target of $1 billion in savings.
This year we expect to successfully complete the 3-year $3 billion productivity program we launched in 2012 and we are now focused on our next generation’s 5-year $5 billion productivity program announced earlier this year which we expect will extend annual savings of $1 billion through 2019.
Our next generation productivity will focus on four areas: first embedding more automation in our operations to replace labor with capital and at the same time removing bottlenecks from our operations which will increase capacity utilization; second expanding shared services including global financial shared services for the handling of routine back office transaction processing; third restructuring manufacturing to optimize our global manufacturing footprint; and fourth restructuring our go-to-market systems to optimize our distribution network.
As a result of these initiatives we expect to see continued improvement in net revenue and core earnings before interest and taxes per employee as well as margin expansions and increase returns in invested capital.
So to conclude we feel pretty good about our results for the quarter and year-to-date.
We remain focused on generating cash and providing attractive cash returns to our shareholders and we are encouraged by the continued progress we have made to strengthen our business which we expect will make our performance all the more durable and reliable looking to the future.
With that let me turn the call over to Hugh Johnston.
Hugh? Great thank you Indra and good morning everyone.
Let me spend a few minutes discussing the quarter and our upwardly revised core constant currency earnings per share outlook for 2014.
For Q3 organic revenue grew 3%.
On a reported basis net revenue was 2% versus year ago reflecting 1 point of unfavorable foreign exchange translation.
Commodity costs had low single-digit inflation.
Our core gross margin and core operating margin each rose 45 basis points.
Core constant currency operating profit grew 5.5%.
Our core effective tax rate was 24.2%.
Our diluted share count declined 2% reflecting the benefits of our ongoing share repurchase program and core constant currency EPS grew 11%.
On a rolling four quarter basis our net capital spending is 4.1% of sales which is well within our long-term target of less than or equal to 5% of net revenue and our core net return on invested capital improved by approximately 40 basis points and now stands at 16.9%.
And we returned $6 billion to shareholders in the first three quarters in the form of dividends and share repurchases which is almost 30% above year ago levels and reflective of our commitment to return cash to shareholders.
Turning to guidance as Indra mentioned we have increased our full year core constant currency EPS growth target to 9% up from 8% previously.
In addition for the full year we expect mid single-digit organic revenue growth low single-digit commodity inflation and productivity savings of approximately $1 billion.
Below the division operating profit line we expect corporate cost efficiencies driven by productivity initiatives a core effective tax rate of approximately 25% and a reduced share count from our share repurchase program.
Foreign exchange is expected to negatively impact net revenue by 3 percentage points and core earnings per share by 4 percentage points for the full year 2014 based on current market consensus rates.
Taking our 2013 core EPS of $4.37 and applying our guidance implies a 2014 core EPS of approximately $4.57.
As you model out the fourth quarter I would ask you to consider the following.
We expect advertising and marketing expense to grow at a rate ahead of net revenue growth.
And below the operating profit line net interest expense is expected to increase in the fourth quarter primarily reflecting higher debt balances and higher rates.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect full year free cash flow excluding certain items of more than $7 billion.
We will continue to drive cash flow through efficient working capital management and continued tight controls over capital spending.
Net capital spending is expected to be approximately $3 billion which is well within our long-term target of less than or equal to 5% of net revenue.
And we expect to return approximately $8.7 billion to shareholders in 2014 a 35% increase over 2013 through $3.7 billion in dividends and $5 billion in share repurchases.
So to summarize we have increased our core constant currency EPS growth outlook for the full year 2014 to 9% from 8% previously.
We expect to drive improved full year margins and net ROIC and disciplined capital allocation and returning cash to shareholders remain top priorities for the company.
With that operator we will take the first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Bryan.
A question just about the balance between reinvestment in the business and the focus on productivity and dropping it to the bottom line if you look at this quarter’s results the results over the course of the year and really beginning last year it’s been a pretty good balance of maintaining a good relative organic sales growth relative to lot of your competitors and peers with also driving some margin improvement? And I guess as you move into this next productivity program and also just some of the challenges you are facing I guess in some key markets developing markets at least in the next year macro challenges.
Can you just sort of give us a sense for how you feel about that current balance of investment in A&amp;M in R&amp;D in selling effectiveness or selling systems versus dropping some of that to the bottom line? Do you feel like you have the right balance and especially as things maybe get a little bit more challenging in some of these markets do you feel like you might have to tweak that balance into next year? Bryan it’s a great question.
And at this point I’d say we feel good about the balance.
We increased A&amp;M spending.
We are running at about 5.9% of sales.
We increased R&amp;D spending significantly over the past 3 to 4 years because we really believe that investing in R&amp;D in particular is critical to the future success of the company and we invested in that.
We invested in foodservice equipment.
That’s why the SPIRE equipments come out and is very successful today.
So at this point we feel good about the investments we are making in product line transformation media spending advertising spending against our brands and most importantly long-term investment in R&amp;D platforms.
I agree with you that there is volatility in the world.
And as we sort of model out 2015 and beyond we will come back and talk about what the outlook is for the financials but at this point we feel comfortable with what we have articulated in terms of the long-term algorithm for the company and we feel comfortable about our productivity programs.
So I think we have to watch and wait.
Our next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
I wanted to follow-up on – good morning Indra.
I want to follow-up on some of the comments about raw materials but also sort of start off with pricing in that context which is getting a lot of pricing in Latin America which is helping the organic revenue number.
And I guess can you talk a little bit about what you have seen from a real pricing standpoint in Latin America not just related to the FX.
And then as you look out over the next sort of 12 to 18 months on raw materials have you – we have seen some favorable movements in things like corn or are you guys still sort of continuing that process of trying to capture some of that benefits through the hedging can you talk about how we should look at that going forward? Thanks.
Go ahead Hugh.
Yes happy to.
Hey John it’s Hugh.
In terms of the Latin America numbers we are obviously as is everyone else in this space benefiting from the relatively high overall inflationary environment there what I can tell you is we are getting positive real pricing there and it is in line with what you would see the commodities basket cost growing in those markets.
So if you look at it more from a global perspective and think about commodities inflation from a global perspective we are getting pricing in line with that on a more real basis.
Regarding your broader question on commodities without a doubt the commodities numbers overall are coming down.
The couple of facts I would remind you on that.
Number one we have a very very broad basket not one commodity accounts for even 10% of our overall commodities basket.
Number two we do continue to follow the forward buying strategy that we have had in the past so we tend to be about six to nine months out.
So as those prices come down we will tend to see them reflected in our basket over time.
We do that again because we want to give the businesses and our customers pricing predictability I mean it’s been an effective strategy for us over the last few years.
And number three people tend to focus on a few market traded commodities those market traded commodities represents somewhere between 30% or 40% of our overall basket.
So I am not sure often times that the market focused commodities give a full picture of it.
In terms of 2015 as it’s been our practice in the past we will comment on that in February timeframe because we think that’s the right time to give guidance to investors overall and we won’t try to parse out the pieces right now because it tends to create more confusion than benefit.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Hey guys.
Good morning Ali.
So your organic sales growth was about 3% which translated to the core constant currency operating profit of about 5.5% and an EPS growth of about 11% and if you look at the gaps between top line operating profit and EPS growth rates seems to be widening more and more as the quarters progress here.
So can you please give us a quantification of first how much of the operating profit to sales gap was negative commodities and negative mix versus cost cutting positive and acquisition divesture is positive which for some reason you guys keep considering core.
And second how sustainable is the operating profit to EPS growth gap driven by lower net interest expense even though there is a little bit of higher debt it looks like the lower net interest expense and buyback and the spirit of the question to understand sustainability of these gaps? Thanks.
Thanks Ali.
I am going to have Hugh walk you through the details and I presume the first thing you are saying is it’s good that PepsiCo is delivering good results.
So with that let me turn it to you Hugh.
Yes absolutely Indra.
So if you look over the last three quarters we have seen operating profit growth on a core constant currency basis of 7% 3% and 5.5%.
We have seen EPS growth of 10% 3% and 11%.
So I think that gap has been actually relatively constant over the course of the timeframe.
What are the drivers between operating profit growth and EPS you really have three things going on? Interest cost without a doubt we are getting some leverage on that.
The only thing that I would want to share on that front is we are operating right now in a zero net floating debt environment.
We do have some floating debt but that is offset by floating cash held outside the U.S.
So I think from the standpoint of rising interest rates we are relatively well protected compared to most of our peer companies in that regard.
Obviously like everyone else we would have some refinancing over time but I think we have adopted a relatively conservative posture on the way that we are managing fixed float within the balance sheet.
Number two taxes are really coming in for the year right as we expected and that’s been a bit of a benefit for this year.
And then number three our share repurchase is obviously lowering the share count and that’s driving some of the gap from operating profit to EPS.
We won’t talk about 2015 right now but obviously as a company we have a long history of share repurchase and I would certainly expect we would continue that going forward.
In terms of sustainability Hugh I mean our long-term guidance has been mid single-digit operating profit and high single-digit EPS.
And that’s really the envelope in which we are operating.
Absolutely.
Our next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning Dara.
Hey good morning guys.
So Frito-Lay organic revenue growth improved a bit sequentially in the quarter but the 3% result is still below the 4% to 5% levels we were seeing over the prior year and a half before Q2’s result.
Is – do you think this level is kind of more like a new normal here in your mind given the difficult consumer environment or do you think you can accelerate that business going forward? And can you discuss Frito-Lay market share performance in North America it looks like you are still losing slight share in track channels and your expectations going forward from a market share standpoint? Yes.
Dara I think overall in Q3 food industry sales in retail was challenging.
And within that Frito-Lay performed well in fact was the best performer in that group.
And sequentially from the first quarter of the year to the third quarter the share loss has narrowed.
Now let me be clear the share loss is really to premium players who don’t last for long time in the market people come in and out of the market.
And Frito has been very careful not to react to players who are not long-term players in the marketplace.
So Frito has been playing a very very responsible game.
What we have been trying to do at Frito is to say let’s make the core very solid deliver on the core and start expanding the shoulders of the business in a profitable way.
And I think Frito in this very difficult environment has done a very good job balancing pound growth revenue growth and profit growth and that’s why you have seen relatively steady performance from Frito in what I would consider is a very challenging overall retail environment for all kinds of food.
I mean center of the store is particularly challenged but I would say overall food industry sales are challenged but Frito has been a shining star.
So I think overall whether this is a new normal or not I don’t know it really depends on the overall environment but within this environment Frito has been performing quite well and the share losses have been coming down.
And we don’t like any share losses I will be honest with you but we have to make sure the business behaves very responsibly and that’s what they have been doing.
And in terms of addressing those premium innovation opportunities we have been building more capability.
You see products like Stacy’s Pretzel Crisps you see products like Smartfood Selects all of which are entering that premium space and to-date we have been quite successful with them.
So we would certainly expect to see that aspect improving over time.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Hey the first one is just sort of like a curiosity question because currencies obviously moved a ton over the last couple of months but you kept your currency outlook on the EPS line.
So I am just trying to figure out if it was conservative before and now it’s more realistic or how you kept that currency item? And then the second question is just – and maybe it’s a tough one to answer but do you guys have a view on some of these contemplated consumption taxes in California? I mean they sound pretty significant some of them are couple of cents an ounce and it looks like there is a decent probability they are going to go through so how do you kind of operate the business in that kind of environment? I will speak to the second point and then Hugh will speak to the first one.
I believe discriminatory taxes on certain categories are just wrong.
I think we have to understand what the issue is we are trying to address and address it in a holistic way.
We will make our case and hope that the voters are sensible enough to look at the right answer to address whatever issue they are addressing.
With that let me turn it over to Hugh.
Yes.
Bill happy to answer the currency question we take a basket of market currency rates and we follow the same methodology every quarter.
And we have been consistent in taking that approach for quite a number of years.
So I don’t think we will change that approach.
You are right in the last couple of quarters it’s come in a little bit lighter than the original forecast but it’s the best way I know of to do it.
In addition to that as you all likely know we do hedge some transactional effects of foreign exchange we do not hedge translation.
We don’t think that’s a good use of investors’ money so we don’t hedge accounting at all we just take the market consensus rates.
And then as the currencies flow we report them to you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning Indra.
Good morning Hugh.
A question on the – it’s also a curiosity question but with the core earnings you are including gains and they are not large this quarter but can you just speak to the principle behind including these gains on asset sales? Yes why don’t I handle that one Mark? You are right in the overall scheme of things there are three items.
There is a small gain in the Quaker business related to the sale of a small cereal brand.
There is a small gain from a bottling perspective in EMEA.
And then there is the write-down of a small brand in Greece from an asset impairment perspective.
If you net all of those three factors the grand total was a benefit to earnings of $11 million so basically less than a penny of impact overall.
More broadly we do have a consistent set of principles we apply in terms of what is core versus non-core in the overall scheme of things it really is not a substantive impact to earnings.
But what’s the principle behind having them in there because again it’s not large in the quarter but it could become something we are all talking about if it – because of the principle being there if there is a large gain at some point in the future or for that matter a large loss? Yes.
Mark most importantly we publicly disclosed exactly what the gains are and if there are any charges against it so you can model out the impact on earnings from our disclosures.
Yes.
So and Mark to your point that there is obviously in a company the size of PepsiCo with $66 billion in revenue 275 000 employees and operating in almost 200 countries there are lots of things that you would consider to be perhaps one-time in nature.
The approach that we have taken on this is we have said in terms of a test of core versus non-core is a transaction one-time and then is it of a certain size.
If we called everything above $1 million one-time we would be excluding an enormous number of items.
So we have drawn a line in terms of the specific number that it equates to core versus non-core that number has been the same for years and we applied consistently in all of these transactions to your point are small but we do disclose them to allow investors to model them anyway they choose.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
So I guess a lot of just volatility around Europe in terms of the macro and political standpoint so wanted to just get a little bit more color from your perspective what you are seeing in terms of underlying consumer demand in your various categories in markets like Russia and Eastern Europe.
And it looks like your market share in markets like UK despite tough competitive environments actually doing pretty well so maybe just talk about Russia and Eastern Europe and then separately in the UK in the context of the competitive and tough retail environments? Let me talk overall about Western Europe and then talk about Russia and Ukraine.
I would say when you have poor weather or when you have some macro factor we have to worry about how we perform in that environment.
So for example Western Europe volumes in beverage decelerated a bit in Q3 because the weather was poor but otherwise I would say the overall Western European markets are doing quite well.
Yes we have a retail situation that’s quite interesting in the UK but our brands are strong and we are powering through that.
When it comes to Russia and Ukraine again we sell dairy products juice as well as snacks and soft drinks.
Dairy and juice tend to be much more stable kind of products for Russian consumers.
So even though the Russian market is going through its challenges in terms of the devaluation of the ruble and the hryvnia in Ukraine and also inflation in raw materials for dairy in particular our top line growth is still mid single-digit.
So we are holding on the top line growth.
The real challenge is what’s the impact to the bottom line? A lot of the products we sell in Russia are made in Russia.
We sourced a lot of our raw materials from local suppliers.
So that part is okay but anything that’s imported clearly is impacted by the devaluation of the ruble and then any translation of Russian profit is impacted by the devaluation of the ruble.
So at this point we are watching and waiting and to see how the Russian market evolves but our growth is still in the mid single-digits and we are doing okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.
Yes good morning everyone.
Good morning Nik.
Good morning.
So couple of questions from my end.
I was just curious if maybe you can provide some context on PAB in terms of how the up and down the street channel did versus kind of the larger format? And if you could provide any perspective on foodservice since you have been investing there so heavily? And then the second question is Indra just curious on your view on execution at the company on bottling operations and if you think that that is an area of improvement for PepsiCo going forward within the U.S.? Yes.
When it comes to the performance in convenience stores the overall – we are holding share in LRB in Q3 and whether it’s in CSDs or isotonics as I mentioned in my prepared remarks what we feel good about in Q3 is that we held LRB share in this highly competitive marketplace.
I think since we bought back the bottlers we have actually been able to do a few things.
One we have invested in foodservice because we have put routes back into local foodservice.
We are able to go after national accounts without any discussion of bottlers versus the parent company.
And as a consequence we have been winning big accounts and we are beginning to actually increase our shares in colleges and universities and local foodservice accounts.
So I think our foodservice performance is improving.
Again as you know in foodservice you don’t see big improvements in a short timeframe.
You have got to build this business very very steadily so that you balance growth with profitable growth.
And so I think over the next few years you start beginning to see meaningful contributions from our foodservice business one because we are fixing the core beverage foodservice business which is a critical driver of foodservice and then we are able to leverage that beverage foodservice to sell more snacks.
So the better together really works with foodservice.
And overall execution we have – since we have bought back the bottlers we have invested so much in terms of improving our manufacturing lines to have more packaging flexibility.
We have put more routes back in the marketplace.
We have put in more tools – given more tools to the frontlines so that they can actually sell better at the point of sale.
I think overall our execution has improved substantially.
And that’s why you are seeing several quarters now where we are holding share in the LRB category and we are doing it in a very responsible way because we are also able to get pricing.
We are getting low single-digit pricing in the marketplace in North America and we are able to push through all our innovation.
I mean the market is fragmenting quite a bit and we have got to have a distribution system that’s completely aligned with the brand company so that you can get all this innovation into the marketplace.
And by removing any friction that exists in the system we are actually able to get all of our products to the marketplace.
So overall we feel pretty good about the progress we are making in North American beverages and how well North American beverages and Frito-Lay are working together to really service both retail customers and foodservice customers to help us improve the performance of North American beverages substantially.
And in terms of convenience store performance it’s ahead of overall performance by about 50 basis points.
Ladies and gentlemen we have time for one additional question.
Your final question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I guess two more questions related to PAB if I could.
First we saw a noticeable operating margin expansion in that division this quarter building on some initial progress made last quarter.
And I guess just want to get your sense for whether or not you feel this is the beginning of a trend that can continue to gain momentum and assuming so what the biggest drivers will be is kind of question number one.
Question two related to that is as you said Indra we saw again kind of 1% net realized pricing in the quarter which is in line with the year-to-date trend and I guess positive relative to muted commodities but I was wondering whether you see further upsides of that number over time maybe if the individual categories are actually better than and we are seeing some negative category or geographic mix across the division I am not sure but just further details there will be helpful as well? Thanks.
Yes.
I mean I think what the beverage business is doing is focusing on revenue management and productivity in addition to innovation.
Innovation is driving top line growth nicely and getting good price realization.
And all of our revenue management initiatives backed up by more packing flexibility is actually helping this business.
And remember all of our productivity initiatives touch the North American beverage business too.
So taken together the business is beginning to hit its stride and our net realized pricing in the quarter in North American beverages was in the low-single digits.
We actually feel very good about the pricing that we have been able to get.
Now you asked about the sustainability of this.
We will continue to do the revenue management work the productivity work the innovation.
We will continue to do everything that’s in our control.
And we will continue to play a very responsible game in this marketplace.
And then we will just see how the marketplace evolves.
But at this point we are cautiously optimistic about the outlook for North American beverages.
So let me just close by reiterating that we are pleased with our results to-date.
We are confident that our plans are working and we are on track to deliver our financial targets for 2014.
I thank you for your time and questions this morning and for the confidence you have placed in us with your investment.
Have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions).
Today’s call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you Laurie.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo’s Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo’s CFO.
We’ll lead off today’s call with a review of our fourth quarter and full year 2014 performance and 2015 outlook and then we will move on to Q&amp;A.
We’ve kept our comments brief this morning and intend to conclude the call by 08:45 and we will do our best to get to as many of your questions as we can.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2015 guidance and our long-term targets based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainty that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today’s earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and operating profit growth are on a core constant currency basis.
All references to free cash flow exclude certain items.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures structural changes and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing PepsiCo’s financial results you should refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning’s earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo’s Web site under the Events &amp; Presentations tab.
As we discuss today’s results please keep in mind that our fourth quarter comprises the 16 weeks ended December 27th for our North American operations and the months of September October November and December for most of our operations outside North America.
And now it’s my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
We are very pleased with our results for the quarter and for the full year especially in light of the significant macroeconomic volatility being experienced in so many markets around the world.
We've performed well in this challenging environment largely in the strength of our brand and product portfolios and diversity of our geographic footprint.
So while certain markets were hit with political disruptions economic downturns or significant currency devaluation other markets in our portfolio not experiencing these issues were able to offset their impact to deliver overall strong results.
We made a lot of progress in 2014 and I’d like to recap some of those achievements starting with our financial performance.
I am pleased to report that we met or exceeded each of the targets we communicated at the beginning of the year.
Organic revenue grew 4% for the full year and 5% in the fourth quarter.
Core gross and operating margins expanded for the quarter and the full year.
We delivered our productivity target for the year.
Free cash flow exceeded $8 billion.
Our focus on capital allocation discipline resulted in another year of significant core net ROIC improvements.
We increased our annual dividend for the 42nd consecutive year and we returned $8.7 billion in total to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases which is a 36% increase over 2013.
Just as importantly we strengthened the foundations of our Company.
First we continue to invest in our portfolio of iconic global brands.
In 2014 we sustained our increased A&amp;M investment and focused our spending on our biggest brands.
Additionally we increased the impact of our investment by directing of the spending to consumer facing activity.
We launched our largest ever global campaign for our two biggest brands Pepsi and Lays with coordinated package graphics use of sports and entertainment properties point of sale material ad copy and promotions.
We expanded our engagement in social and digital marketing.
For example Doritos CrashTheSuperBowl received nearly 5 000 consumer submissions from 29 countries around the world.
And our Lays Do Us A Flavor campaign garnered more than 14 million submissions.
Programs like these drive phenomenal consumer engagement are highly complementary to our broader marketing efforts and are extremely financially efficient.
Our investments are translating to tangible results with solid improvement in brand equity scores and market share performance in our priority markets for our global brands.
Second we continue to strengthen our innovation engine.
We have built a robust and sustainable innovation pipeline perhaps the strongest in our history.
Over the past two years innovation as a percentage of total net revenue has climbed by 150 basis points and now stands at 9%.
And we're innovating across our portfolio.
For example to meet the growing demand for nutritious products we introduced Naked Juice's Kale Blazer and Gatorade’s new Whey Protein Bars.
We bolstered our food service business with the introduction of Pepsi Spire fountain equipment in over 30 markets giving our customers a choice of flexible and cost effective equipment and allowing our consumers to create more than 100 000 customized beverages with just the touch of a screen.
In snacks we leveraged our global scale by lifting and shifting successful new products like Doritos Jacked and Deep Ridged chips from the United States into a number of international markets.
And as a testament to the durability of our innovation a number of our recent product introductions like Tostitos Cantina Mountain Dew Kickstart and Pure Leaf generated double-digit estimated annual retail sales growth in 2014 after achieving over a $100 million in their launch year.
So that’s innovation.
Third we stepped up our marketplace execution.
As evidenced in 2014 we were the largest contributor to U.S.
retail sales growth among all food and beverage manufacturers.
Based on IRR data in all measured channels we contributed nearly $1 billion of retail sales growth more than the combined sales growth of the next 27 largest manufacturers.
In food service we executed customized Better Together programs like the pairing of Doritos Loaded and Mountain Dew Solar Flare and we secured attractive new businesses such as a Disney Park in Shanghai leveraging the strength of our combined beverage and snack portfolio.
Fourth we have taken productivity to a new level.
We successfully completed our three year $3 billion productivity program launched in 2012 and we’re entering our next phase of productivity with a new five-year $5 billion program and we have a robust pipeline of productivity projects focused on increasing efficiency through automation optimizing our global manufacturing footprint advancing the competitiveness of our go-to-market models and utilizing shared services.
These programs collectively are geared to deliver our targeted savings of approximately $1 billion per year through 2019.
At the same time we have significantly evolved our organization structure and operating model to enable us to more fully capitalize on our scale global presence and deep capabilities.
And lastly we have driven increased capital allocation discipline throughout the organization to drive higher returns of investment and increase cash returns to our shareholders.
So that's a summary at a high level of our accomplishments.
So let me comment briefly on the performance highlights by business sector starting with the Americas.
PepsiCo Americas beverages had a terrific fourth quarter 3% organic revenue growth translated to 11% core constant currency operating profit growth.
The profit growth is especially notable given the fact we also increased A&amp;M in the quarter by high single-digits.
We have seen the business gain momentum beyond the efforts we’ve been making in marketing innovation and execution.
And this has resulted in not only improved financial results but better marketplace performance too especially in our largest market the United States.
Clearly our Latin American beverage business has had its challenges with the Mexico tax and deteriorating macros in Venezuela.
Despite these challenges our Latin American beverage business was a positive contributor to PAB's overall organic top-line and core constant currency bottom-line results.
Frito-Lay in North America delivered strong performance.
Frito delivered 3% organic revenue growth for the full year and 3.5% in the fourth quarter and 6% core constant currency operating profit growth both for the quarter and the full year.
Market share results have shown steady improvement and we gained savory snack value share in the fourth quarter.
Latin America foods performance both for the quarter and full year was solid.
For the full year Latin American food delivered 10% organic revenue growth and 9% core constant currency operating profit growth.
Quaker Food North America performed well with some challenge categories.
Despite the category challenges core constant currency operating profit was up 8% in the quarter and we gained value share for the full year in the each of our core categories Hot Cereal Ready-To-Eat Cereal and Snack Bars.
So very strong performance by our businesses based in the Americas and the U.S.
in particular.
As I mentioned earlier our portfolio collectively was a largest contributor to retail food and beverage growth in the United States both in the quarter and for the full year and this is a distinction we are very proud of.
Moving across to Europe as you know the majority of our European business is located in Eastern Europe and Russia in particular.
Clearly the currency picture and macros in Russia have made operations more challenging.
While the Russian consumer has been quite resilient at least for our business the currency situations led to significant inflation because of the transaction ForEx on the materials we source from outside of Russia resulting in significant input cost inflation.
Despite these significant headwinds Europe generated full year gains in volume organic revenue and core constant currency operating profit.
All things considered solid performance for Europe.
And lastly EMEA again good results despite some political macro volatility in many parts of the region.
For both the quarter and the year we had solid volume and organic revenue gains while full year operating profit performance was impacted by efficiency investments made in 2014 and by lapping the Vietnam refranchising gain we had in 2013.
Most of the global volatility has been concentrated in the developing and emerging markets.
However as a group even our developing and emerging markets grew organic revenue 10% in the quarter and 9% for the full year.
So they continue to be major contributors to our growth.
As I mentioned earlier we have a terrific geographic portfolio and this allows us to balance challenges and opportunities in a way that tends to produce consistently good results overall and we believe the fourth quarter and full year 2014 result are a reflection of this.
Now Hugh will take you the financial guidance in some detail in just a minute but I want to highlight just a few key points.
As an operating company we absolutely manage the things that are within our control marketing innovation marketplace execution and productivity and we expect to continue to perform well in these areas.
However we expect to face continued headwind related to macros in particular weak currencies in a number of our key market and the impact of lower oil prices in countries whose economies are highly dependent on energy.
Obviously these are outside our control but we adjust the businesses to whether through the challenges as best as we can by controlling costs adjusting our raw material sourcing and executing balanced pricing actions.
As we balance all these factors we have concluded that our outlook for 2014 will be within our long term financial goals.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Hugh.
Hugh? Thanks Indra and good morning everyone.
I'll start with the recap of the financial scorecard for 2014 and then move on to 2015 guidance.
We're pleased to report that we met or exceeded each of our financial goals for the year.
We targeted mid-single digit organic revenue growth and we delivered 4%.
We targeted core operating margin improvement and it increased by 30 basis points.
We targeted $1 billion in productivity savings and we delivered it.
We targeted 7% core constant currency EPS growth with our initial guidance and delivered 9% which is right in line with the increased target we communicated to you in October.
We targeted core net ROIC improvement and delivered 110 basis points.
Our core net ROIC now stands at 17.5%.
We targeted free cash flow of more than $7 billion and delivered $8.3 billion and we committed to return $8.7 billion of cash to shareholders which is what we did.
So overall good performance meeting or exceeding each of the targets we communicated at the beginning of 2014.
We're particularly pleased with our cash flow management.
Our free cash flow as a percent of our core net income exceeded 100% for the year and over the past three years.
So we are converting earnings to free cash flow very efficiently.
Two big contributors to this performance are first the discipline and productivity we have on capital spending where we’ve successfully held CapEx to less than 5% of net revenue since 2012.
And second the improvement we've driven in working capital where we've shortened the cash conversion cycle by 50% over the past four years and have generated cash from working capital of over $2 billion in aggregate over the past three years.
And it's this strong cash generation that is enabling us to provide attractive shareholder cash returns.
Let me spend a few minutes discussing our outlook for 2015 which is in line with our long term objectives.
We expect another year of mid-single digit organic revenue growth.
We expect core operating margin expansion as organic top line growth and productivity should offset negative geographic mix and cost inflation.
Below the division operating profit line we expect cooperate cost to be down and approximately 25% core tax rate and a reduced share account.
All in we expect core constant currency EPS growth of 7%.
Foreign exchange is expected to negatively impact revenue and core earnings per share by approximately 7 percentage points each based on current market consensus rates.
As you saw in the release during the fourth quarter of 2014 we adopted the SICAD 1 rate of 12 bolivars per U.S.
dollar and we assumed this same exchange rate for 2015.
The currency exchange picture in Venezuela continues to be quite volatile.
So I wanted to be absolutely transparent about what we have assumed in our 2015 guidance.
Putting it all together taking our core 2014 EPS of $4.63 and applying our guidance implies 2015 core EPS of approximately $4.63 as well.
Our outlook appropriately factors in both tailwinds and headwinds.
To the positive we expect to generate approximately $1 billion of productivity savings in 2015 which will offset operating cost inflation.
We feel very good about our innovation agenda which should enable to sustain our organic revenue growth rate.
Our share account will benefit from continued share repurchases although we won't recognize the full benefit of 2015 repurchases within 2015 as they'll be made throughout the year with some of the impact of the share account reduction falling into 2016.
Our core tax rate is estimated to come in for the full year at approximately 25% even with 2014 and we expect to be able to sustain this rate for the foreseeable future.
In terms of headwinds we anticipate commodity cost inflation in the low single digits.
Keep in mind that because of our forward buying strategies our commodity cost changes will lag what you see in the spot market.
I believe our expected inflation rate is a bit higher than what a number of you have modeled and this is because we are seeing more pronounced inflation in our non-market traded commodities including certain packaging and agricultural raw materials.
In addition we will see an inflation impact from transaction ForEx in many of the markets whose currencies have weakened against the dollar.
And foreign exchange translation will be a significant drag on our U.S.
dollar earnings.
Finally as you model out the quarters for 2015 please note that a number of our international market’s currencies significantly weakened in the back half of 2014 so the currency lapse are most difficult in the first two quarters.
Our long term goals remain intact mid-single digit organic revenue growth core operating margins expanding 30 to 50 basis points per year high single digit core constant currency EPS growth free cash flow growing roughly in line with earnings and core net ROIC improving 50 basis points per year.
We intend to responsibly manage the business for top line growth drive productivity and reinvest appropriately to position PepsiCo for sustainable growth for the long term and we plan to remain highly disciplined toward capital allocation with the vast majority of free cash flow after capital spending being returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
First we’re increasing our dividends per share by 7% beginning with our June 2015 payment to $2.81 on an annualized basis.
This represents the 43rd consecutive year of annual dividend increase and an approximately 60% payout ratio based on the 2014 core EPS.
At yesterday’s closing stock price it represents 2.9% yield and will bring our 10 year annualized dividend per share compound annual growth rate to 10% and we expect to return an additional $4.5 billion and $5 billion in cash to shareholders through share repurchases.
While doing so we expect to maintain tier one commercial paper access enabling us to retain low cost highly accessible financing.
So combined these actions will result in cash returns to shareholders of $8.5 billion to $9 billion and will bring our cumulative 10 year cash returns to shareholders to $65 billion.
As many of you know we have stated disciplined capital allocation as a top priority for our management and our Board and we trust these actions will again be seen by our shareholders as tangible evidence of this commitment.
Thank you Hugh.
Before we open it up to questions I want to take this opportunity to share with you how excited we are to be entering 2015 despite the challenges that we face because this year marks the 50th anniversary of the coming together of PepsiCo and Frito-Lay in 1965.
We set the foundation for what is today one of the world’s most iconic and successful companies.
This year we celebrate five decades of growing our business and creating substantial value for our shareholders customers consumers and communities.
It was a phenomenal vision of Don Kendall and Herman Lay the architects of this combination which set the stage to grow from $510 million in revenue in 1965 to almost $67 billion today.
Of the companies in the Fortune 500 in 1965 just 79 remain today and over this time frame we’ve generated extraordinary shareholder returns.
In fact $100 investment in PepsiCo in 1965 with dividends reinvested would be worth over $42 000 today.
But PepsiCo’s success over the past 50 years has not happened by chance.
It happened because throughout our history PepsiCo has repeatedly adapted and retooled all with an eye to the future.
More importantly we kept integrity at the heart of all we do running the Company responsibly to generate sustainable long term value and this is a formula for success that our current team will continue to apply.
With that let’s open it up for questions.
Our first question is coming from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I’ve got a question I guess about reinvestment rates.
If you look at 2014 you really balanced a pretty good [indiscernible] you generate a 4% organic sales growth rate in this environment is a pretty big achievement.
And my sense is at least partially related to just your choice; choices you are making in terms of reinvestment dropping the bottom line.
When you look at 2015 is there anything you're thinking differently about how much you want to reinvest especially in sales growth in ’15 just given some of the volatility you have in developing and emerging markets.
And I guess related to that given kind of the wide range of outcomes that could happen just because of the macros are you looking for any more flexibility as you're planning in ’15 in terms of reinvestment rate? So just trying to get your sense for the choices between top line and bottom line in ’15 as you’re looking into it.
Bryan 2014 was a tough year too.
The market was quite volatile and as the year went on we got to the second half of the year we started to look -- really experience all the volatility.
So I think between geopolitical issues the oil price impact other macroeconomic factors we have actually had a volatility and I think we now have a playbook where we appropriately balance top-line growth share and profit performance because the challenge in these sorts of volatile environment is not to over invest and not to get the return or to under invest and lose too much share.
So we are constantly balancing top-line growth market-share and profit performance and I think over the year we have developed a fairly good playbook which we’re really going to put into action through 2015.
Hugh did you want to add something on this issue? Yes I completely agree Indra.
And Bryan I guess I'd approach it from two perspectives.
From a P&amp;L perspective we do feel like we’ve found the right balance now between the productivity that we’re driving and the investments that we’re making in R&amp;D the investments we’re making in innovation the investments we’re making in providing growth capacity through the P&amp;L into the business.
Then from a capital perspective each of the last couple of years we’ve started with a budget of somewhere between 4% and 5% and each of those years we’ve landed at a little bit over 4%.
The reason for that is we really do apply quite a bit of rigor to the investments that we’re making.
We’re not afraid to invest in long-term growth quite the opposite.
I would argue both in R&amp;D and in capital we have been investing in long-term growth.
The focus here is sustainable value creation and I think with the reinvestment rates we have right now we will be able to deliver that sustainably.
And Bryan if I can add to what Hugh said in things like R&amp;D spending we cannot cut because that’s real spending on innovation and it doesn’t matter what the volatility in the market is these are long-term projects and we have to make sure we keep investing to get this innovation engine moving.
In terms of A&amp;M again we want to make sure we put the appropriate A&amp;M in the market but we also watch to make sure that we’re getting a return on investment on A&amp;M in volatile environments.
But our goal is to hold those relatively sacred and then work the other levels in the P&amp;L.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma of BMO Capital Markets.
Indra just given the recent resolution of really a very public disagreement with a shareholder should we expect that the Company will probably focus a little bit more on some of the strategic other initiatives which might have been not neglected but probably not in front focus? So in terms of perhaps M&amp;A into market or looking at your emerging market portfolio where some of the things can be realigned? Amit I'll tell you something.
There was never a time that we did not focus on running the Company for all shareholders.
I think between the senior management and the Board we have constructive conversations with all our shareholders as we did with certain particularly outspoken shareholders.
But there was never a time I’d say over the last few years that we’ve ever taken our eye off long-term investments to make our portfolio stronger.
And if we see an opportunity that creates tremendous shareholder value we’ll certainly look at it.
We’ve looked at lot of things but given the price expectations and given our assessment of what kind of value we can derive from these properties we haven’t seen the need to make any major investments in new M&amp;A activities.
But if something comes up that creates spectacular value we’ll be back to talk with you.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Just a couple of questions.
I noticed there is news out of Venezuela and how do you assess the risk of having to go to the 52 exchange rate? That would be the first one.
And the second one is in Europe you had spectacular volume growth in both snack and beverage in the fourth quarter considering the environment.
I am trying to understand if that is sustainable if you think that the underlying business is healthy enough that that’s a real number we can look forward to going into’15? I’ll talk to Europe and then Hugh you've lived in Venezuela.
So you talk about this.
The Europe team is executing well.
There is good innovation.
Our portfolio is a bit more skewed towards products that the consumers want.
For example a lot of what we sell in beverages in Europe is lower zero calorie beverages.
We have a lot of baked product offerings in Europe and even the Tropicana line-up we sell in France and the UK is a very different line-up than we sell here in the U.S.
because the juice business evolved very very differently there.
On top of that in a country like Russia because our categories are in juice and dairy stuff that the Russian consumer really needs the businesses have been quite resilient.
Now we have to wait and see how 2015 shapes up but I’d say for our categories and the nature of the products that we offer them the portfolio has remained quite resilient even going into 2015.
But let's watch and see what happens.
The other thing too is in Western Europe the countries that we’re in -- I think we have a slightly better skew to countries that are not in deep deep troubles and I think that’s helped us too in Europe.
So -- and the team is very good lot of depth of talent there and Europe is a good performer for us especially given the incredibly difficult environment they're all operating under.
Hugh what about Venezuela? Yes.
Regarding Venezuela Caroline just a couple of comments.
First as you know we spend the better part of the year at 6.3 last year and then moved to 12 in November.
So the average for the year was 6.84.
Our planning assumption right now is to be at SICAD 1 which is 12.
Obviously there was news based on yesterday press conference out of Venezuela from the government talking about exchange rates.
There was a lot of information mentioned there.
It still isn’t really clear because the details haven’t been published as to what it all means yet.
In general the fact that they seem to be going to a more market based supply and demand currency environment those suggest I think long term positives for us.
In terms of the implications in the short term we did hear that SICAD 1 would continue to exist.
We will wait till we see more details on that and then we'll come back to investors with details as they emerge.
But in the long run it seems to me it is probably encouraging based on what we heard yesterday in terms of being able to move currency and cash around more freely.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
I guess maybe just a little bit of color just in terms of how you're thinking about your ability to price particularly in markets like Russia or Latin America where it is hyper inflationary.
Indra you've talked about Russia being resilient.
But as you think about 2015 how much pricing have you taken already? Hugh you've talked about some other commodity headwinds.
Can you just talk about how you're looking for sort of the profit impact as the inflation comes up in those markets in the context of your ability and your flexibility to take price? Both Russia and Venezuela oil dependent countries.
Russia has its own set of additional issues.
I think what the local teams do they look to take as much pricing as they can to cover inflation really assess the consumer demand and then they judiciously balance pricing and demand to make sure that we have a business that’s in balance and we're not losing too much share or trying to gain too much share and destroy the P&amp;L.
On top of that Judy we don’t stop there.
The Russian team is restructuring its business to make sure they tighten the belt restructure our footprint there so that we can become more productive in the middle of the P&amp;L so that we can actually deliver profit in this difficult environment.
And the Venezuela team has been doing this now for five or six years.
And in a way you can take the playbook from Venezuela.
In fact the playbook moved from Mexico from a few years ago to Venezuela today or Brazil from a few years ago to Venezuela now to Russia.
So this playbook is now becoming quite important as we navigate through currency volatility and economic volatility.
So each country it's the team that has to balance pricing the elasticity in that marketplace and how much cost controls they can put in place so that taken together you deliver whatever we have agreed with them is the right financial profile for that market.
Anything else you wanted to add Hugh? Yes.
I think that’s exactly right.
The only thing I would add as a rule of thumb is in most markets when we run into these issues we've sort of been able to price through somewhere between two thirds and three quarters of the inflation impact and as Indra said the rest of it we tend to handle through restructuring and productivity initiatives and things like that.
Russia's obviously a more profound example of that but I think the rules of thumb will generally apply in that regard.
But what it leads you to more broadly is the power of the PepsiCo integrated food and beverage portfolio and the size of geographic portfolio.
As a few developing and emerging markets run into challenges such as Russia such as Venezuela we also have markets like India markets like Turkey that are performing very well.
And as a result the PepsiCo portfolio and the scale that food and beverage brings in each of those countries actually works quite well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Sort of a follow up question on that we've seen a lot of Latin American pricing across the consumer stable complex over the past couple of quarters.
It's mostly FX driven.
So as you look out to 2015 the mid-single digit organic revenue growth targets can you talk about sort of what you built in there for Latin American pricing and in sort of kind of talked about this to Caroline's question but that sort of what's your view of the efficacy of that as sort of true organic revenue growth.
And then a second question would be on the COGS guidance.
Can you talk a little bit about sort of including transactional -- ex-transactional in terms of what you're seeing on a general raw material basis? Thanks.
Hugh will take this.
Yes sure.
John in terms of both of those questions regarding Latin America you'll see us take a fairly significant pricing again.
Inflation is obviously running in the high single to low double digits down there.
And as I mentioned earlier we'll probably wind up pricing through somewhere in the neighborhood of three quarters of that.
The rest we'll drive through restructuring and productivity.
Regarding the transaction impact on commodities inflation we talked about the fact that we're at low single digits for commodities inflation.
About 40% to 50% of that is driven by transaction FX.
I think the other thing that helps too if I may add across Latin America many of our businesses have a wide range of the portfolio from value to premium products.
So you can actually price the portfolio differently.
And that helps too because sometimes in the premium products you can take more pricing and it can stick while the value products you want to make sure that you don’t get that pricing equation too much out of whack.
So the teams have gotten pretty good at playing this revenue management game in a very careful way as they navigate through Brazil or Argentina or Venezuela or Mexico.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
A couple of questions.
One is around marketing spend and where you are on that.
I only seen the quarter it listed up for LAF and PAB.
So I just wanted to get a sense of where you are overall as a percentage for the year and how do we think about that going forward.
As well as how we should think about the shift you mentioned from kind of pure marketing spend to gross to net I guess to consumer facing? So that’s one entity of a question.
The other one is….
Ali just one second may I stop you.
What is the first question again what’s the word you used? The marketing spend.
No the previous one you said on LAF and PAB.
What did you ask me specifically? So LAF and PAB are the only places in the report in the release where we see marketing spend as mentioned as going higher.
So overall wanted to get a sense of marketing spend on the quarter and for the year.
And then the other question is actually around currencies.
You guys have always had a very much more aligned impact of currencies on your top line and your bottom line.
So sort of no multiplier for you guys.
And I want to better understand the mechanics there.
A lot of your peers have a bigger impact on the bottom line and the top line.
And trying to understand where there are hedges? Are there natural hedges? How that flows through? So thanks very much on both of those if that's clear.
Thank you Ali.
I’ll let Hugh answer the currencies.
I think on the marketing spend overall if you look at our A&amp;M as a percentage of sales we said we’re going to hold it at 5.9% of sales and we’re staying with that number.
What happens is that in certain regions of the world we shift the A&amp;M depending on what kind of return we’re getting for A&amp;M spending.
But more importantly we've been focused a lot Ali on working versus non-working spending.
We’re shifting a lot more to consumer facing programs and that’s really what we were talking about because we believe that the more we focus on shifting the spending to working A&amp;M away from sort of G&amp;A type A&amp;M the more bang for the buck we get.
So in every part of the world we’re trying to put in place playbooks and best practices to increase the A&amp;M that’s consumer facing.
So overall for the Company again as we have said many times we are holding to the A&amp;M as a percentage of sales.
But where we see an opportunity to increase it we look for ways to reallocate it and at every moment we measure the return on investment on our marketing spend.
With that let me turn to Hugh to talk about the currencies in the top and the bottom line.
Absolutely and Indra just to add one more point around marketing spend to Ali’s question.
For the year we had marketing spend equal to the rate of sales growth.
So we held as committed to at the beginning of the year.
For the quarter A&amp;M grew faster than sales.
So A&amp;M as a percent of sales went up in the quarter and obviously that was a bit of a margin drag in the quarter.
Regarding your question comparing us to other companies in terms of our ability to equalize revenue and -- revenue and earnings FX impacts I can’t speak to what other companies are or aren’t doing.
What I can tell you is number one we do hedge transaction out several months.
It varies from country to country based on what’s economic.
As you know in developing and emerging markets the hedges tend to get expensive when you go out more than a couple of months.
So make good economic decisions in that regard.
Number two I suspect the difference between us and most of our peer set is more of our costs are likely localized because we do produce in so many countries.
Our products don’t ship as well as in particular HPC type companies.
So I suspect that maybe the difference.
But I don’t know that for a fact because I haven’t studied their cost structures that closely.
I think it is also where we have our revenues and our margins.
Latin America higher margins and Russia for example a lower margin.
So the revenues gets hit more.
So overall I think we have an aligned top and bottom line impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
I'm going to try to pull a fast one sneak two or three questions in here if I could.
Could you say what Russia was up in the quarter and I was wondering if there was any sort of pre-buy ahead of like big looming price increases which are probably coming this year or early this year? And then just on the Frito front I think it was an outcome this quarter.
This is the first quarter in the last 12 where you've actually seen share gain.
So do you think this is an inflection for Frito in terms of market share? And then maybe are you surprised that the category isn’t accelerating faster given what’s going on with gas prices at the pump and obviously a much better employment outlook and maybe even some nascent wage growth in the U.S.? Hugh on pre-buys.
Yes pre-buys.
Yes we don’t see a lot of evidence of that.
Two things obviously work in our favor in that regard.
One is just the fact that our products don’t tend to last as long as perhaps other packaged goods companies products.
The stale off factor matters.
So it’s difficult for people to pre-buy very far in advance for a lot of our products.
That combined with the DSP system enables us to manage that.
So we didn’t see we don’t think a big impact from that perspective.
Frito-Lay obviously we did see good performance in the quarter.
We expect continued momentum out of Frito-Lay.
In terms of the impact of gas prices I think what we see happening is consistent with what we’ve seen in the past which is -- it takes a number of months before the consumer fully spends back the so called benefit from lower gas prices.
I think you're going to see that over the course of six months to eight months rather than an immediate change in consumer behavior.
It just sort of assimilates over time.
I am optimistic from the perspective that consumers right now their personal balance sheets are pretty healthy.
Most consumers have de-levered pretty well.
So as a result of that I do think that money will make its way back into the marketplace and as a Company that sells of more than a small amount of product through G stores and C stores I think we’ll benefit from it.
And if the category keeps growing at this current rate it's pretty good for us.
Let me close by reiterating that we are pleased with our results for the quarter and for the full year.
We are confident that our plans are working and as a result our outlook for 2015 is within our long-term financial goals.
We want to thank you all for your time and questions this morning and more importantly for the confidence you’ve placed in us with your investments.
Have a wonderful day.
Thank you for participating PepsiCo’s fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Today’s call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you Laurie.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo’s Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo’s CFO.
We’ll lead off today’s call with a review of our first quarter 2015 performance and full year outlook and then we will move on to Q&amp;A.
We recognize today is a busy earnings day with a number of other consumer and mega-cap companies reporting.
So we’ve kept our comments brief this morning and intend to conclude the call by 08:45.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2015 guidance and our long-term targets based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today’s earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and operating profit growth are on a core constant currency basis.
All references to free cash flow exclude certain items.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures structural changes and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing PepsiCo’s financial results you should refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning’s earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo’s Web site under the Events &amp; Presentations tab.
As we discuss today’s results please keep in mind that our first quarter comprises the 12 weeks ended March 21 for our North American operations and it is a short quarter for our international business reflecting the two months of January and February for most of our operations outside North America.
And finally our core Q1 2015 earnings results include a $39 million pre-tax gain related to the refranchise of a portion of our India bottling operations.
We also reported a pre-tax impairment charge of $65 million associated with our dairy joint venture during the quarter.
And as you may recall our Q1 2014 core earnings results included a $31 million pre-tax gain from the sale of certain agricultural assets in Europe.
And now it’s my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
I am pleased with our performance in the first quarter of 2015.
Our focus on innovation brand building and marketplace execution funded in part by productivity initiatives continued to drive fundamental business performance.
In the first quarter organic revenue grew 4.4% with Global Snacks up 7% and Global Beverages up 1.5%.
And core gross margins improved by 150 basis points.
Excluding the impairment charge and gains Jamie mentioned core operating margin improved by 65 basis points.
Core constant currency operating profit grew 11% and core constant currency EPS grew 16%.
However foreign exchange headwinds persist.
We have and will continue to take actions to manage through the current volatile macroeconomic environment by taking responsible pricing actions tightly controlling costs and optimizing our global sourcing to minimize and mitigate the impacts of the current foreign exchange challenges.
I am particularly pleased with the level of effective pricing we’re achieving especially in Global Beverages where we realized 3 points of effective net pricing.
At the same time we will not let cyclical macroeconomic issues divert us from our focus to drive sustainable shareholder value creation.
We intend to continue to invest across our markets and brands to generate organic revenue growth drive greater efficiency and productivity deliver attractive free cash flow and cash returns to shareholders and enhance our returns on invested capital.
The power of our the portfolio of products and brands and the strength of our geographic footprint have enabled us to consistently meet or exceed our financial goals and more importantly give us confidence in the future prospects of our business.
As you know in June this year we celebrate the 50<sup>th</sup> anniversary of PepsiCo which is the coming together of PepsiCo and Frito-Lay.
As we celebrate this milestone we look back on our journey with price.
In 1965 our annual revenue was $510 million.
Today it stands over $66 billion.
A $100 investment in PepsiCo stock in 1965 was worth nearly $43 000 at the end of 2014 a compound annual total shareholder return of over 13% far outpacing the S&amp;P 500.
And the reason we performed so well is that throughout our history we have delivered short term performance with a keen eye on the long term sustainability of our results.
We’ve done this because throughout the past half century PepsiCo has made bold move to reshape our portfolio build new capabilities and broaden our geographic footprint.
So today our portfolio is positioned well.
Our annual net revenue is nearly split evenly between the US and countries outside the US.
And just over half of our global revenue is derived from snacks with the remainder from beverages.
In aggregate carbonated soft drinks comprised less than 25% of our 2014 total global revenue.
And while we are proud to have the Pepsi name on the door coolers represented less than 15% of our total revenue mix and this speaks exactly to how we’ve transformed and will continue to transform our portfolio to address ever changing consumer needs and preferences.
And as you know we’ve also developed new capabilities to compete in a rapidly evolving global business environment.
For example we transformed our operating model to blend global scale leverage with locally focused execution and this has increased our ability to capture efficiencies live and shift the best ideas and capabilities from PepsiCo teams around the world and win us a point of sale.
We embrace design as a core building block of our new product pipeline with innovation representing over 9% of our net revenue in 2014.
We’re very proud to report that three PepsiCo products have received the 2015 Nielsen Breakthrough Innovation Award.
This award recognizes the most successful and enduring new CPG products launched in the US in 2013 and PepsiCo is also the only company to receive multiple awards this year.
Lastly productivity is now part of our DNA with $1 billion in annual savings projected through 2019.
These savings enable us to maintain or increase necessary investments in the business to drive strong organic revenue growth.
And we’re always looking to reconceptualize our business to unlock even more productivity.
We are proud of the legacy results we are building this company on.
So with that backdrop let’s take a look at how our business has performed.
Starting with North America which again delivered strong results in an otherwise sluggish packaged food and beverage environment.
In fact in Q1 2015 PepsiCo was the largest contributor to US retail sales growth among all food and beverage manufacturers with over $300 million of retail sales growth in all major channels.
This was nearly three times the next largest contributor to growth and represented more growth than the next 19 largest manufacturers combined.
Notably North American beverages was the key driver of US retail sales growth within PepsiCo and the largest contributor to US retail sales growth on a standalone basis.
Turning now to PepsiCo Americas beverages.
We delivered organic revenue and core constant currency operating profit growth while holding US LRB value share.
Our strategy has not wavered as we continue to manage the business responsibly with consistent positive price realization across the portfolio.
Within the US we gained value share across important sub-categories including sports drinks and ready to drink tea.
And we grew retail sales in measured channels in the US for regular colas and Mountain Dew in CSDs and for Gatorade Lipton Tea and Naked Juice within our non-carbonated footprint.
We were proud of PepsiCo’s execution at this year’s Super Bowl.
We had over 60 000 integrated food and beverage displays merchandised at retail up nearly 70% from the prior year.
We also continue to invest in R&amp;D to drive sustainable innovation.
For example we rolled out a newly designed Gatorade 20-ounce bottle which is a sleek contemporary design bottle that is built with improved ergonomics informed by athletes’ insights.
Early results are promising with this package of innovation contributing to double-digit retail sales growth in regions that have converted with the new packaging.
We’re also focused on health and wellness innovation.
We recently introduced new Naked Juice flavors including Chia Cherry Lime Chia Sweet Peach and Bright Beat [ph] which offer delicious food and vegetables movies that pack a nutritional punch.
And we launched Tropicana Farmstand Tropical Green which is a great tasting green juice that has a full serving of fruits and vegetables in each 8-ounce glass with no added sugar.
Additionally we recently launched Mountain Dew Dewshine a craft premium soda inspired by the brand’s roots in the backwoods of Tennessee.
It is a clear citrus juice made with real cane sugar and packaged in clear glass bottles.
We’re also excited to report the new food service partnership with Umami Burger which was a Pepsi-Cola Mountain Dew and Sierra Mist all made with real sugar at its 24 locations.
In addition we entered into a new multi-year deal with Live Nation.
We are the music company’s official carbonated soft drink and bottled water partner and have exclusive pouring rights at 75 of Live Nation’s US event spaces.
And we’re also pleased about our new multi-year food and beverage partnership with the National Basketball Association Women's National Basketball Association NBA Development League and USA Basketball beginning next season.
As part of this expansive food and beverage partnership with the League PepsiCo will leverage its Mountain Dew Aquafina Brisk Doritos &amp; Ruffles brands to engage NBA fans through PepsiCo’s world class sports marketing and high-profile activation.
The partnership between the NBA and PepsiCo builds upon the League’s relationship with Gatorade which is the NBA’s longest standing partner.
Turning now to Frito-Lay North America delivered another quarter of very strong results.
Organic revenue grew 4% and core constant currency operating profit rose 7%.
The US salty snacks category continued to show solid growth and Frito market share again posted steady sequential improvement supported by both volume growth and price realization.
Our key brands had revenue growth including particularly good performance from Lays Doritos and Cheetos.
And we continue to innovate.
We launched Cheetos Sweetos the first ever sweet Cheetos in the US as well as Cheetos appetizers Doritos Jacked 3D and [indiscernible].
Additionally our Lays Do Us A Flavor win in 2014 Lays Kettle Wasabi Ginger return to the shelves.
We’re also excited about the return of a highly successful Lays Do Us A Flavor consumer contest.
Fans nationwide have submitted their ideas for the next great potato chip flavor for a chance to win $1 million grand prize and we will announce the four delicious finalist flavors this summer.
Quaker Food North America delivered commendable results despite continued challenges across central store food categories.
During the quarter we gained or held value share in the US in all three of our key categories Hot Ready-To-Eat Cereal and Snack Bars while expanding gross margin at the same time.
These value share gains are driven by innovation which includes the launch of Quaker 3 minutes Steel Cut Oats in the quarter.
This product has the same hottie texture and nutty flavor as traditional steel cut oats but caters to the consumers’ needs for convenient products as the cook time is cut from 30 minutes to just 3 minutes.
We also launched gluten free varieties of Quaker Popped Rice Crisps.
And then turning to developing and emerging markets.
Our business has delivered 10% organic revenue growth in the quarter despite all of the ongoing volatility in many regions of the world.
Looking across some of our key DNA [ph] markets our business continued to proved resilient with double-digit organic revenue growth in China and Turkey and mid single digit organic revenue growth in Mexico Egypt and India.
So before I turn it over to Hugh I want to highlight a few key points.
As an operating company we absolutely manage the things that are within our control: marketing innovation marketplace execution and productivity and we expect to continue to perform well in these areas.
However we expect to face continued headwinds related to macros in particular weak currencies in a number of our key markets and the impact of low oil prices in countries whose economies are highly dependent on energy.
Obviously these are all products and sold but we adjust the business to weather through the challenges as best as we can by controlling costs adjusting our raw material sourcing and executing pricing actions and these steps contributed to our strong fundamental performance in Q1.
So with that let me turn the call over to Hugh.
Hugh? Thank you Indra and good morning everyone.
Turning to guidance.
For the full year 2015 we expect mid-single-digit organic revenue growth core operating margin expansion as organic topline growth and productivity should offset negative geographic mix and commodity inflation which incorporates the impact of higher than previously expected transaction related foreign-exchange headwinds and approximately $1 billion of productivity servings.
Below the division operating profit line we continue to expect corporate cost to be lower a core tax rate of approximately 25% and to reduce share count.
As a result we continue to expect 7% core constant currency earnings-per-share growth in 2015.
However given the continued strength in the US dollar we now expect foreign-exchange translation to negatively impact net revenue and core earnings-per-share growth by approximately 10 and 11 percentage points respectively based on current consensus market rates.
That compares to our initial outlook of 7 percentage points for each back in February.
Keep in mind that while spot rates have shown improvement we use consensus rates in calculating our expected foreign-exchange impact and consensus rates have worsened for all of our key foreign currencies including the Russian ruble the Brazilian real the Canadian dollar the Mexican peso and the British pound.
Our outlook for the year assumes continued translation of our Venezuela results at the SICAD rate of 12 Bolivars per US dollar.
Should circumstances dictate use of a higher rate this would also negatively impact our US dollar results.
Taking our 2014 core EPS of $4.63 and applying our guidance and current market consensus of foreign-exchange impact implies 2015 core EPS of approximately $4.44.
As you model out the second quarter I’d ask you to consider the following: Foreign-exchange translation should have an approximate 11 point unfavorable impact on the second quarter net revenue and approximate 12 point unfavorable impact on second-quarter core EPS based on current market consensus rates and we expect a profit decline in Europe driven by the volatility associated with transaction and translation currency related headwinds.
Below the division operating profit line net interest expense is expected to increase in the second quarter versus last year primarily reflecting increased debt balances.
And our tax rate in the second quarter is expected to be sequentially higher than the first quarter of 2015.
Finally our stepped-up share repurchase activity will occur throughout the year but it’s expected to have a more pronounced impact in the second half of 2015.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect full year free cash flow of more than $7 billion.
I want to emphasize that despite the expected incremental foreign-exchange headwinds this year our original $7 billion free cash flow target remains intact.
This is the result of stringent working capital management and capital spending discipline.
We’ve shortened our cash conversion cycle by over 50% since Q1 2012 and continue to manage capital spending with great efficiency holding capital spending below 5% of sales.
We expect our capital allocation discipline to continue to drive core ROIC improvement.
This is building on the steady progress we've made in ROIC over the past two years with core net ROIC up 220 basis points to 17.5% from 2012 to 2014.
And we expect to return between approximately $8.5 billion and $9 billion to shareholders in 2015 through both dividends and share repurchases again consistent with our original target.
As a reminder our previously announced 7% dividend per share increase will commence with the June payment.
This represents the 43rd consecutive year of annual dividend increases and an approximate 60% payout ratio based on 2014 core EPS.
And our annualized dividends per share grew at low double-digit compound annual growth rate over the past 10 years.
To summarize our core constant currency outlook for 2015 is unchanged from our last call and free cash flow disciplined capital allocation and returning cash to our shareholders remain top priorities for the company.
With that operator we will take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Can you discuss demand elasticity so far from the higher pricing you've taken? It looks like it's been pretty muted with the solid organic sales growth.
So I am just wondering where demand elasticities are coming in versus your expectations particularly in Latin America and Russia given some of the macro difficulties there.
And then as we look going forward as FX pressure continues to worsen do you plan to take incremental pricing internationally because I imagine at some point you don't want to push too far from a consumer standpoint? And then last just a detail question the pricing number was very strong in Latin American foods and I suspect in the Latin piece of PAB how much of that was driven by Venezuela versus other geographies? Dara overall I tell you demand elasticity in these times when you’ve got high inflation and you’ve got translation FX in countries which required us to take pricing.
The challenge is to balance volume and revenue and what we do in most cases is that we try to push through as much of the inflation as we can and raw material inflation as we can through pricing.
In many cases we cannot cover all of it but we try to price through about 75% of the inflation and then we manage very judiciously the revenue output and make sure that our volume decline is not significant.
For example let me take Russia.
In Russia we have pushed through a lot of pricing and we’ve managed it up with a lot of productivity also.
And so our results in Russia and our business is doing very well.
The real issue is yes there is some volume drop-off but I think in these times we have to judiciously manage revenue and volume and then as the economies recover go back to volume growth.
If we don't push pricing through now it will be very hard to push it all through later on to cover all of these costs.
So at every point in time in each of these countries that’s what we do.
And in terms of ongoing FX spots rates are slightly better than consensus.
We have to watch and see how this thing evolves but in every country -- again every country is not moving exactly the same way but country by country as FX moves especially transactional FX impacts country performance we do take pricing at least to cover 75% of that and the rest of it we try to cover through productivity.
And as far as Venezuela is concerned I mean the footnotes in the Q will indicate exactly the impact of Venezuela and I think it will speak for itself.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
First just a comment a lot of companies reporting this morning you put out a pretty efficient press release that was easy to read.
So thank you for that.
I guess my question is and somewhat related to Dara’s question is if we kind of look out over the balance of the year there’s certainly some volatility still I guess we could expect in Russia and potentially Venezuela.
And so if you could just talk to – you’ve maintained your currency neutral guidance and you’ve also maintained your free cash flow guidance in the context still of having that type of volatility.
So could you talk just about what some of the factors that you’re watching for that might drive some variances to those forecasts and even specifically on free cash flow what other actions can you take if you still have – you’re still compromised on foreign exchange moving against you? Yes I am going to let Hugh talk about cash flow but I will just make an overall comment.
Russia the business is doing very well Bryan.
Retail dairy products juice products basic snacks the business is doing very well.
We have an excellent team in Russia great productivity programs putting the pricing through in very judicious ways doing very good revenue management.
I am very proud of the Russia team.
And so they are managing through this volatility very well.
And Venezuela the business is doing exceedingly well in Venezuela.
The issue is the currency.
So let’s hear Huge now talk about what he is doing on the free cash flow to make sure that as a company we deliver on our commitment on free cash flow.
Go ahead Hugh.
Yes happy to.
Morning Bryan.
Real a couple things.
Number one we do continue to localize this even more aggressively than we have in the past and obviously that helps us manage from a currency perspective which helps us manage from a free cash flow perspective.
Number two we are managing CapEx very tightly.
You’ve seen us over the last few years come down from the mid-fives in terms of CapEx a percent of revenue to we’ve been operating in the low fours.
And then third we’ve managed working capital from what had previously been about 21 days down to about three days.
In all condor I still think we have more opportunity in that regard particularly on inventory and we’re going to continue to work that as quickly as we can in order to mitigate if there are further downsides.
Right now we’ve given you market consensus it’s our best guess.
So definitionally that's 50:50 as to which way it’s going to do.
But I do think we can continue to do more from an inventory perspective in order to continue to cover if we have further downsides from an FX perspective.
And our new operating model is also allowing us to come up with more productivity ideas across the company.
That we will be working as the company against.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Hey I know it’s something like a random question but are you guys going to close down Muller as far as big impairment charge in the quarter? So is that just a write-down at the fair value now and is that still going to be in the midst that they’re going to work through? We’re not closing down Muller.
The business is still running and doing well but I think it just didn’t meet our expectations and we have to go through some retooling.
I know that business is alive and kicking.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
So I guess my question is more on the PAB margin performance in the quarter Hugh.
I guess it’s the first quarter in the last few quarters that margin did decline year-over-year.
I know in the press release you did cite lapping some of the one-time items.
So can you just walk through the margin performance in PAB and how much is timing versus just really some of the spending that you’re doing to drive the business to grow up from a top line perspective? Yes couple of elements there Judy.
First of all the pricing environment is quite healthy.
We felt terrific about pricing in the quarter and we expect that to continue going forward.
Two other drivers obviously advertising and marketing was up a bit in that for the quarter and that’s timing of the curve.
That's one of the elements.
The other elements are some of the timing on spending with our Latin American bottlers that drove that number.
So – but we certainly expect PAB margins to continue to grow over time as they have been.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Just one quick one.
Why did you leave the charge in the Quaker operating income? Is there a good reason for that? And then it would be great if you could just tell us what it's like on the ground in Russia and Brazil right now possibly even Mexico because there is a sense that things are deteriorating in Brazil for example.
So it’d just be great to hear from you.
We left the charge in the Quaker operating income because it’s managed as Quaker Muller.
Yes that’s the accounting on the line of business.
On the ground in Russia as Hugh just mentioned we were localizing costs and we have a very very good team that’s doing all the right things productivity taking pricing adjusting the product lines to make sure it’s suited for Russian consumer they’re shopping differently now.
And so I’d say that on the ground in Russia the business is doing well.
And I think it’s also giving an opportunity for all companies operating in Russia to look and see how to tighten their belts and work with each other to lower each other’s cost.
So except for the overall macro geopolitical issues in Russia on the ground the business in Russia looks okay.
In terms of Mexico again we’ve operated in Mexico for decades and we’ve operated through massive volatility.
At this point we’re not seeing the kind of volatility at all in Mexico we have pockets of security issues but overall Mexico is just fine.
Brazil did see a slowdown coming off the real weakening and then on top of that the graft issues happening in Brazil.
Yes we did see some turmoil in Brazil and our business is still holding Caroline but I’d say of the three countries that you mentioned probably in the last quarter Brazil is where we saw some on the ground action that we’re watching very carefully at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
I actually had two questions.
One is just assuming on cost a little bit please.
I want to understand a little bit more what’s driving on the commodity inflation being higher for the year why for FLNA and PAB you had an operating cost inflation.
Is that wages? And then importantly also just continue to cut the billion dollars of cost a few years of that but what happens after that? So that’s the cost question.
And the other one is I know it’s early days but you’re seeing Coca-Cola refranchise more and more of its US bottling operations.
Are you seeing anything that shows the change in pattern of their activity in the marketplace? I am going to answer two parts and I am going to turn it to Hugh on commodity inflation.
And as I mentioned in my script Ali we talked about the billion-dollar per year for the next five years.
But when we announced the billion-dollar a year for the next five years we started working on the next round of ideas to think about even more productivity opportunities.
And we will come back and talk to you about it when we are ready to talk about it but believe me once we change the operating model of the company to really look across the company as opposed to allowing each country and regions just operate independently.
There are more opportunities for efficiency.
So that’s what we are working on.
And in terms of the Coke refranchising its bottling operations let’s not forget why we bought back the bottling access.
We bought it back because we wanted to improve efficiency in the system and most importantly we wanted to serve our customers in a seamless way and be able to put in a lot of innovation through a bottling system which had to move from huge monolithic products to a highly segmented set of products.
That original proposition has not changed.
What we are seeing today is disciplined pricing in the market and from our perspective the integrated operating system is very valuable and we intend to continue to operate that way.
So on commodity inflation Hugh quickly.
Yes very briefly it’s almost entirely driven by foreign-exchange ex foreign exchange their commodity inflation is almost flattish.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Marshall of Barclays.
I actually have a high level kind of strategic question for you.
Indra in your prepared remarks you mentioned the challenges in center of the store food recently.
And I think a couple of years ago you labeled these businesses as not necessarily core to the mission even though nice cash flow generating assets.
I am kind of wondering how you are thinking about those businesses in the current environment especially with everything we’ve seen going on with food and the interest rate environment that we are seeing now.
I think there's two kinds of businesses I said were not core to the mission.
Quaker is very core to the mission.
What we were talking about is sort of the peripheral businesses we got as part of the Quaker Oaks acquisition the Golden Grain and the Aunt Jemima.
Those businesses are center of the store.
They are not core to our portfolio but today they are doing fine.
They are holding their ground sometimes even gaining share.
They are generating very valuable US cash flow and these are businesses with fantastic margins.
So at this point it’s more dilutive to get rid of them than to keep them.
And so what we are going to do is just manage those businesses steadily as long as they don't distract us from our core mission of growing the rest of the portfolio.
That’s what we are focused on.
And lastly they also provide scale to our warehouse sales operation.
So at this point just steady management of those businesses don't distract ourselves from the core enjoy the US cash the good margins and that’s all we are doing.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Indra I wanted to talk about sort of your old sort of buckets that the business has had in terms of Fun for You Better for You and Good for You.
It seems as though we are seeing a change in the consumer dynamic particularly in the Better for You bucket if you look at something like diet soft drinks what have you.
So I guess as we look at this what do you think has changed in terms of those buckets and what are you doing differently to respond as the consumers maybe seem less interested in what you guys had traditionally discussed is Better for You? That’s a wonderful question John and I tell you something.
We’ve never seen the consumer as confused as they are today.
And I use the word confused in a neutral way not a negative way.
If you had asked me a few years ago people were moving to diet sodas.
Now they view real sugar as Good for You.
They are willing to go to organic non-GMO products even if it has high salt high sugar high-fat.
So I think we have a challenge these days to really think about what is the definition of Good for You from a consumer perspective.
And this is unprecedented and the old definition of Good for You is being challenged right now.
So I think the best way to think about this is to think about the fruit and vegetable corridor a protein corridor a grains corridor and then sort of a predominantly carb corridor.
And then within that just vary our strategy based on what the consumer is thinking about.
Because especially millennials today have got very different definitions of Good for You versus Fun for You.
They don't really make the definition in the difference that they’re looking much more to ingredients.
So we are also going through a little change in our thinking.
The good news is whatever the segmentation is our portfolio is still balanced and we can actually flex to either definition.
So we are managing the business by watching both.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg of Stifel Financial.
Indra Hugh a question about FX from a transactional standpoint.
Obviously you have some major productivity programs underway and we are a couple of years into this.
But when you look at specifically the countries of Mexico and China are these higher transactional costs that are dollar-related -- are they impacting you to the scope or the phasing of some of your productivity programs in those particular countries? Mark I would say no.
It really doesn't affect us a great deal.
We obviously have got to be cognizant of what’s happening with transactional ForEx.
To the degree that we are experiencing that in a particular market as Indra mentioned earlier we are tending to price through about 75% of it.
But in terms of if transactional ForEx is affecting capital that we would put in to drive productivity it really isn't impacting us a great deal.
It's not slowing down the rate because the returns on those initiatives tend to be pretty solid and we can overcome the FX impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma of BMO Capital Markets.
Just a quick clarification first.
The 75% rule that you're talking about is that just to cover underlying inflation or should we expect that to cover the transactional FX as well? I mean transactional FX is what drives some of the inflation.
And so they are all related.
I have given you 75% of what we're doing today it varies around that number.
Sometimes we can do more sometimes we can do less but as a basket it's around 75%.
The thing Amit is that globally we have been through in some country of the world hyperinflation inflation extraordinary inflation geopolitical crises we have been through that.
And across PepsiCo exists a lot of playbooks on how to manage through these sorts of issues.
So when we have a problem like this in a country we bring the experts in we use one of these playbooks and then we use our extraordinary teams in these countries then we judiciously manage through pricing productivity revenue management to see how best to insulate the portfolio.
And I think the good news about the portfolio is that the portfolio serves as a good hedge when you have a mix of countries mix of businesses.
That’s what allows us to deliver the 7% constant currency growth reiterate that guidance and the free cash flow guidance.
To be clear on that I would think of the 75% as a rough modeling guideline not an internal principle as to how we execute market by market.
We vary market by market based on the opportunities in front of us.
Your final question comes from the line of Steve Powers of UBS.
Maybe just a couple of final clarifications.
First on pricing specifically in Europe.
Clearly it’s difficult to realize in Western Europe but the 6% price this quarter is falling well short of sort of the currency headwinds.
So was there additional pricing that maybe you took after the quarter in Eastern Europe and Russia or do you still expect to take to catch up with currency? And if so what type of elasticity should we kind of think about around that incremental pricing? That's first.
And then second maybe Hugh just some clarification and sensitivities around that updated FX guidance understanding you use consensus rates.
If we benchmark to today's spot rates can you give us some sense of what that outlook would look like at spot rates and how it might improve? And then conversely if you did move to the latest rates in Venezuela some sensitivities around the magnitude of that impact in the other direction? Okay Steve.
That’s multiple questions but let me try to address it efficiently.
Number one you will see more pricing in Eastern Europe that will come through.
To date the elasticities in Russia have been less than one.
So as we put incremental pricing we will see how it looks going forward.
But to date the elasticity has been less than one.
So obviously that's been favorable to us.
Number two in terms of the overall FX spot numbers are moving around so much I actually don't pay as much attention to spot as I do to market consensus.
So not clear to me it might be a little bit favorable at this point.
But I would just stay focused on the guidance that we have given you rather than trying to anticipate it it’s awfully complex.
And then the last question was around – I think that was it.
Anyway Steve if you have another question you can give Jamie and the team a call.
End of Q&amp;A Yes.
Thank you all for your questions.
And in closing I just want to say that we have taken the necessary steps to position ourselves for sustainable long-term growth.
I believe we are off to a good start in 2015 and we are navigating well through an uncertain and volatile environment.
And I believe the first quarter of 2015 is a good example of how a well constructed portfolio appropriate investment and disciplined execution can drive strong constant currency top- and bottom-line results.
Our first quarter results give me confidence that our plans are working and that we are on track to deliver on our financial goals in 2015.
I thank you for your time this very busy morning and for the confidence you have placed in us with your investments.
Have a great day.
Thank you for participating in PepsiCo's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me on the call today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
We'll lead off the call this morning with prepared remarks and then turn to Q&amp;A.
As we begin the call it's important to note the following.
We will make forward-looking statements on this call.
Any forward-looking statement inherently involves risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from current predictions and expectations.
Information on such risks can be found in today's earnings release and our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings.
In addition we will discuss results using non-GAAP measures and you can find the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations on our web site under the Investors section in the Events and Presentations tab.
Beginning with the third quarter of 2015 PepsiCo will realign certain of its reportable segments as you saw in this morning's press release.
And within the next 30 days PepsiCo expects to provide reclassified summary segment reporting for 2013 and 2014 and the first two quarters of 2015 to reflect the company's new structure.
And now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
We are very pleased with our performance in the quarter.
Organic revenue grew 5.1% with Global Snacks up 8% and Global Beverages up 2%.
Core gross margin improved 115 basis points.
Core constant currency operating profit grew 8% and core constant currency EPS grew 11%.
Based on the strength of the quarter our overall first half results and our outlook for the remainder of the year we are increasing our full year of core constant currency 2015 EPS growth outlook to 8%.
Our businesses are performing well both in the top line and bottom line.
PepsiCo America's beverages had an outstanding quarter.
3% organic revenue growth translated to 10% core currency operating profit growth.
Frito-Lay North America delivered another quarter of very strong results with organic revenue up 3% and core constant currency operating profit up 7%.
And our developing and emerging markets delivered 11% organic growth in the quarter revenue growth despite the ongoing volatility in many regions of the world.
Looking across some of our key D&amp;E markets our businesses continue to prove resilient.
Turkey and Saudi Arabia achieved double digit organic revenue growth.
China Egypt and the Philippines achieved high single digit organic revenue growth and Mexico achieved mid-single digit organic revenue growth.
Now I assume you have had a chance to read the release this morning.
So rather than go through the numbers in detail by segment or country what we will do in this call and going forward is to give you an update and provide a bit more detail on each of our big initiatives to drive performance namely innovation supported by sensible brand management flawless execution self-sustaining productivity prudent capital allocation and talent renewal in management.
But today we will focus primarily on innovation and touch briefly on the others.
And on future calls we will highlight one of each of the other initiatives.
So let me begin with innovation.
Our innovation success today is the result of significant investments in and changes to our innovation research and development capabilities and processes that began about eight years ago.
At that time we were in an extremely decentralized organization operating as a loose confederation of geographic business units with each largely driving its own development agenda and establishing their own processes.
Development is focused largely on product line extension and that structure while effective in its time led to less efficient use of resources with redundant projects often being undertaken in different parts of the world and suboptimal resource allocation to the most promising ideas.
As a result much of our innovation lacked staying power.
In part this had to do with the quality of our innovation but it also had to do with our inability to appropriately incubate innovation in the marketplace.
And to address these opportunities we undertook a major transformation to improve our R&amp;D function and innovation capabilities.
Specifically we established global category groups charged with coordinating global innovation.
This resulted in a more focused innovation agenda a greater emphasis on development platforms rather than product line extensions only and more efficient allocation of development resources as we have significantly reduced redundant efforts through better coordination.
Two we globally adopted the proprietary Demand Moments framework originally developed at Frito-Lay North America.
The framework focuses on the triggers of consumption by examining consumer needs based on the context of the occasion.
This created much stronger linkage between consumer and shopper insights in the R&amp;D functions and has led to our innovation being more incremental to top line growth.
Three we implemented a common discipline-staged gear process to gain better visibility into multiyear pipeline of R&amp;D projects to allocate resources to the most promising ideas and new platforms and to ensure a better balance of refresh reframe and breakthrough innovation.
Four to facilitate more rapid lift and shift of our more successful innovation launches from one market to another.
We provided our businesses with better visibility into new products and their performance around the globe.
Five we increased our investment in R&amp;D starting in 2008.
In fact from 2011 to 2014 alone our investment in R&amp;D has increased almost 40%.
Next more recently we established a design capability capped at world class design talent.
Increasingly they are involving design in the early stages of innovation taking into account the entire purchase to consumption cycle to create truly memorable experiences for our consumers.
And lastly we are using reverse engineering leveraging our learnings and developing in emerging markets to yield the benefits of thinking more holistically about low cost design of new products packaging and equipment without sacrificing quality.
We are pleased with the progress we have made across all these fronts and the tangible results we see.
Innovation as a percentage of total revenue reached 9% in 2014 an improvement of over 150 basis points compared to two years ago.
Three PepsiCo products received the 2015 Nielsen Breakthrough Innovation Awards.
This award recognizes the most successful and enduring new CPG products launched in the U.S.
in 2013.
PepsiCo was the only company to receive multiple awards this year.
And over the past three years we have introduced a number of new products that have achieved or are on pace to achieve more than $100 million each in annual retail sales including Tostitos Cantina Mountain Dew Kickstart Doritos-Cheetos fun multipack mix and Gatorade Fierce Blue Cherry and Frost Glacier Cherry.
More recently we are successfully using premium innovation within key categories to capture more price realization to relaunch Caleb's Kola and launched DEWshine a craft premium soda inspired by Mountain Dew's brand roots in the backwoods of Tennessee.
We are also innovating in packaging capitalizing on the success of our consumer engaging Lay's Do Us A Flavor campaign.
We launched Lay's Summer Days campaign encouraging fans to create custom digital packs of Lay's potato chips featuring photos of your favorite summer moments to share with friends and family on social media.
Adding excitement to this experience 10 000 lucky fans will receive a real life customized bag of Lay's Classic Potato Chips featuring the photo they digitally submitted offering consumers personalized packaging for the first time in the brand's history.
We are also capitalizing on consumer health and wellness demand.
As consumers are embracing almond milk and other plant-based proteins as an alternative to traditional dairy milk Naked Juice has launched two new nut milks Berry Almond Nut Milk and Peachy Almond Nut Milk.
And in Quaker Foods North America our new Quick Cook Steel Cut innovation has propelled us to the number one market position in the on-trend and growing Steel Cut Oatmeal segment by making preparation much more convenient.
Channel focus innovation is advancing our food service business.
We are launching a new line of craft soft drinks called Stubborn Soda in fountain this summer.
The Stubborn lineup includes unique and contemporary takes on traditional craft flavors.
Flavors include Black Cherry Tarragon Lemon Berry Acai Agave Vanilla Cream and Pineapple Cream.
They contain no high fructose corn syrup and are made with fair trade certified cane sugar and natural flavors.
And of course we have continued to refresh and reframe our key brands to maintain a high level of consumer engagement and excitement.
Now innovation has also contributed to good market share performance in the second quarter in the United States and I believe our results are impressive.
We held LRB value share while delivering strong net price realizations.
We gained value share across important subcategories including sports drinks and ready-to-drink tea.
Gatorade share of sports drinks surpassed 80%.
Mountain Dew gained 40 basis points of value share within the CSD category in Q2.
in fact if you add Kickstart DEWshine and Baja and Sangrita Blast together it represents more than two points of CSD value share in the most recent four week period placing our recent Mountain Dew innovation by itself as a fourth largest flavored CSD behind base Mountain Dew Dr.
Pepper and Sprite.
In Q2 we grew retail sales in measured channels in the U.S.
For regular colas and Mountain Dew within CSD for Gatorade Lipton Tea and Naked Juice within our non-carb portfolio.
And at Frito-Lay we have a value share in savory snacks and in Quaker Foods we gained value share in key categories hot and ready-to-eat cereals while expanding gross margin and stepping up advertising and marketing at the same time.
And our innovation is driving growth for our retail partners as well.
In the second quarter PepsiCo was once again the largest contributor to U.S.
retail sales growth among all food and beverage manufacturers with over $400 million of retail sales growth in all major channels.
This was more than two times the next largest contributor to growth and represented more growth than the next 14 largest manufacturers combined.
Notably North American beverages was a key driver of U.S.
retail sales growth within PepsiCo and the largest contributor to U.S.
retail sales growth on a standalone basis.
Our intention is to continue to invest in innovation build upon our already strong capability base and further sharpen our holistic innovation process to drive greater growth for our customers create compelling products for our consumers and ultimately increase the contribution of new products to our total revenue.
So that's the story on innovation.
Turning now to execution; we have ramped up our execution focus across the value chain from seed to shelf.
We have established clear consistent performance metrics to track and benchmark the effectiveness and efficiency of every one of our core value driving activities from safety to manufacturing utilization to transport efficiency to promotional display execution.
You know execution is a never ending journey as there will always be an opportunity to raise the game of the below average performance be it at manufacturing lines [ph] or DSD routes.
But we are seeing solid execution and steady improvement across the enterprise and this is translating to good market based performance and financial results.
Turning now to productivity and disciplined capital allocation.
As you know we have a goal of delivering $5 billion in productivity savings over five years from 2015 to 2019 which is approximately $1 billion per year.
Our current program follows a similarly aggressive three-year $3 billion program that we successfully concluded in 2014 and overall our productivity initiatives are driving meaningful results.
Over the three years ending in 2014 despite adverse ForEx we've realized a $1 billion of annual productivity savings net revenue per employee is up 10% and EBIT per employee is up 9%.
And since 2012 gross margins have consistently expanded.
Similarly our capital allocation discipline is yielding meaningful results.
From year end 2011 to the second quarter of 2015 net CapEx as a percentage of net revenue has improved from 4.9% to 4.1% on a rolling four quarter basis and this 80 basis point reduction equates to approximately $500 million in incremental annual free cash flow.
And since 2012 through the second quarter of 2015 core net ROIC has improved by 310 basis points to 18.4% on a rolling four quarter basis.
And finally people renewal and development; this is an area that I and the board spend a lot of time on.
Our focus is twofold here; making sure we have the right leaders in place today and that we are developing the next two generations of leadership for the company.
And as all of you know good talent management does not happen in short burst.
It requires taking a long term view and very detailed analytical planning.
As a core of our people renewal and management plan we have to focus on the 200 critical leadership roles in our company.
These are the roles that are most important to our success and that provides the greatest experiential development for our executives.
For each of these roles we have developed a pipeline that ensures that we have at least one immediate successive candidate; two people in a one to three year timeframe; and then another three people ready four to six years out.
As a result of this process we are deliberately developing top talent by giving them multiple category geography and job experiences and ensuring we have well developed succession plan.
The other priority we have is ensuring that we have the right balance of home grown talent that we augment our talent pool from time to time with exceptional executives that we recruit from outside the company and I believe our plans are working.
When we have had executive transitions both planned and unplanned they have been smooth and well coordinated.
And as we look at our current leadership you will find that executive have had very broad critical experiences within PepsiCo over many years across functions geographies and categories people like Tom Greco Al Carey Sanjeev Chadha Ramon Laguarta and Hugh Johnston.
And folks that we brought into PepsiCo later in their careers to augment our skill base and stretch our thinking.
People like Mehmood Khan Laxman Narsimhan and Tony West.
And we are grooming our next generation of leadership by giving them critical experiences.
People like Mike Spano who runs our China operations; or Eugene Willemsen and Brian Newman whose promotions we announced last night.
So to conclude we are pleased with our financial performance for the first half of 2015 and with the progress we have made across our valued driving initiatives.
Clearly there are a number of macro challenges around the world but we believe we have the right strategies and programs in place to enable us to continue to navigate successfully through the current environment.
The construction of our product and geographic portfolios enable us to continue to deliver strong results.
In part because our balanced portfolio creates a natural hedge against the global macro and political volatility that has become the new normal.
And all of this bolsters our confidence in our ability to continue to achieve our financial target.
So with that let me turn the call over to Hugh.
Great thank you Indra and good morning everyone.
Turning directly to guidance; as Indra mentioned based on the strength of our first half results and our outlook for the remainder of the year we have increased our full year core constant currency EPS growth target to 8% from 7% previously.
Our other targets remain unchanged.
For the full year 2015 we continue to expect mid-single digit organic revenue growth core operating margin expansion as organic top line growth and productivity should offset negative geographic mix and commodity inflation which incorporates the impact of transaction related foreign exchange headwinds and approximately $1 billion of productivity settings.
Below the division operating line we continue to expect corporate costs to be lower a core tax rate of approximately 25% and a reduced share count.
We expect foreign exchange translation to negatively impact net revenue and core earnings per share growth by approximately nine and 11 percentage points respectively based on current market consensus rates.
Our outlook for the year assumes translation of our VIM [ph] as well the results at the SICAD rate of 12.8 bolivars per U.S.
dollar.
Should circumstances dictate use of a higher rate this would also negatively impact our U.S.
dollar results.
Taking our 2014 core EPS of $4.63 and applying our guidance in current market consensus of foreign exchange impact implies 2015 core EPS of approximately $4.49.
As you model up the third quarter I'd ask you to consider the following; foreign exchange translation should have an approximate 11 point unfavorable impact on the third quarter net revenue growth and approximately 12 point unfavorable impact on third quarter core EPS growth based on current market consensus rates.
And we expect the profit decline in QFNA as we left last year's gain on the sale of the cereal business.
Below the division Operating Profit line net interest expense is expected to continue to increase in the third quarter versus last year driven by higher interest rates and net debt balances and our tax rate in the third quarter is expected to be higher than the third quarter of 2014.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect full year free cash flow of more than $7 billion.
We expect our capital allocation discipline to continue to drive core ROIC improvement.
This is building on the steady progress we have made in ROIC with core net ROIC up 310 basis points from 2012 to 18.4% through the second quarter of 2015 on a rolling four quarter basis.
And consistent with prior outlook we expect to return between approximately $8.5 billion and $9 billion to shareholders in 2015 through both dividends and share repurchases.
As a reminder our previously announced 7% dividend per share increase commenced with the June payment.
Our annualized dividend is now $2.81 an approximate 60% payout ratio based on 2014 core EPS.
This represents the 43rd consecutive year of annual dividend increases and our annualized dividends per share have grown at 10% compound annual rate over the past 10 years.
So to summarize; our core constant currency earnings per share outlook for 2015 has improved from our last call and free cash flow disciplined capital allocation and returning cash to our shareholders remain top priorities for the company.
With that operator we will take the first question.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of John Faucher of JP Morgan.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Good morning Indra.
Two quick questions here; one can you just give us a little bit of the rationale in terms of the merger at the Latin American Food and Beverage businesses? I just sort of -- the regions -- need to manage the regions? And then secondly can you talk a little bit about the Frito volume which was a little bit light relative to trends? Anything in particular going on there? Thanks.
Let me talk a bit about the Latin American merger.
We have seen success in Europe and AMEA with all of the power of one management of those regions.
We are able to get more productivity takeout costs and especially with volatile economies we have to get more and more agile and more creative about how to take out costs.
And its not just costs within our system John; I think even with our bottling partners there is an opportunity to cooperate and figure out how not to duplicate efforts between the two companies.
And we are seeing those initiatives pay off in AMEA and Europe and we decided now is the time to do it in Latin America.
We are in the middle of a major productivity program in Latin American Foods and integrating Latin American beverages with foods gives us that much more of a cost base to work with.
Lastly given the volatility of those economies there I think it's very important to really become a lean mean machine there in order to take the sales and reinvest it to grow the top line.
So that's Latin America.
Second is on the Frito volume.
Again we watched the Frito performance very carefully as does Tom Greco and the Frito team.
In our potato chip business we were going through a revenue management program and that revenue management program is actually yielding good revenue growth and improving topline growth and profitability for our retailers.
And one of the results of the revenue management program is that it is going to impact volume because the price-backed [ph] architecture shifts some of the volume to certain bag sizes which impacts volume in the short term.
But over the long term it’s the right thing for the business.
So I'd let it play out through the balance of the year then look at our results in 2016.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Bryan.
Just two quick ones; first in terms of exchange rate Hugh you mentioned Venezuela; and if you were to move to the SIMADI rate what would the impact for that be on the year and how will that affect the guidance that you have given for currencies? I mean Hugh is going to take that.
Yeah.
Happy to do that Bryan.
As you all know we have provided pretty extensive disclosures in our 10-Qs and 10-K on the question.
In the Q that we intend to file after today's market close and consistent with past Qs you will see that Venezuela represents approximately 2% of our revenue and operating profit.
We also have net monetary assets of approximately $335 million and non-monetary assets of approximately $725 million.
Now if we were to take all of that and go to SIMADI Venezuela would then represent 0% or very slightly above 0% of our revenue and operating profits.
So it's roughly a 2% hit on both revenue and operating profit.
We have a charge of approximately $325 million related to the net monetary assets.
It will also likely lead to an impairment of our non-monetary assets.
Now the one thing for investors to consider on this is from an economic standpoint this really would not represent a big impact on PepsiCo given that Venezuela is largely a self-sufficient self-funding operation.
We are not putting any capital to speak of in the country and we have not been able to redeploy any of our Venezuela cash outside of Venezuela.
So from the perspective of cash flow and cash management it would not have a meaningful impact on cash returns.
So that 2% effect on operating income though would be above and beyond the guidance that you have given this morning in terms of the 11% currency hit to EPS for the year is that right? That's correct.
Right now what we are assuming for the balance of year on Venezuela is 12.8 because that was the recent SICAD option which was a pretty robust option.
But if we did make the move to SIMADI the impact would be that much more significant.
Okay.
And then just one other question I guess thinking about the back half of the year.
Just seems like the first half has come in better than expected and with organic sales at mid-single digits it seems like there has just been a better operating leverage here or again the currency neutral operating profit has been better.
So in the second half why -- just some higher level thoughts in terms of why that doesn't continue in the second half? Is there something you are seeing on the commodity cost front? Is the flow of productivity savings? Just something that sort of raises that flag for the back half of the year that you won't continue to kind of see the current growth? Thank you.
I think there is three things I'd remind you of in that regard Bryan.
Number one the back half lapse particularly Q4 -- both Q3 and Q4 are more challenging than the first half overlap.
So we are certainly facing more of an uphill for growth in the back half of the growth.
Number two you are correct commodities are more of a headwind in the back half of the year than they were in the first half of the year.
And number three again recall certainly based on what we are seeing in the news these days the world remains a very volatile place.
We have big businesses in the Middle East; we have big businesses in Russia.
And as we model things out we obviously try to ensure that we give investors appropriate guidance at least incorporating some of that volatility.
So we are not assuming the perfect sunny day going forward as well.
So that's what goes into our thinking as you look at the so-called squeeze chart between the first half and the second half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Couple of questions.
The first one is is there a price war going on in snacks especially in the U.K.? because I look at some of the market share trends it seems like the categories are in a lot of pressure and Pringles and Kelloggs are getting pretty aggressive.
I know it's not a huge business but I just wonder how far that travels across Europe and what the competitive response has been? And I have a follow-up.
I wouldn't call it a price war.
I just think that the retail environment in the U.K.
remains interesting.
There is -- the high street retailers are going through their own set of challenges.
You have got the entry of the discounters.
All of that is closing.
The entire competitive situation in the U.K.
to be reset.
And being one of the major food and beverage companies in the U.K.
and the largest salty snack company in the U.K.
I think we have to be careful how we make our transition with the high street retailers and the discounters.
And so in the short term we did lose some share.
But we have plans in place to recover that share and somehow navigate through these retail environment changes.
Again Bill I tell you around the world as we see major changes in the retail environment always in the short term there will be some dislocation because we have to make changes in the business model very-very carefully.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Marshall of Barclays.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
I am just curious.
So the syndicated data in June across a lot of categories looked a little tough.
I think most have come to the conclusion that may be that was a little bit weather related.
I am curious if you could update us on what you are seeing in the market and then specifically if you had any comments kind of into the July 4th Holiday how both of your beverage and snacks portfolio as we are doing on a volume and price perspective? I think from our perspective our numbers look fine.
I mean we have got good price utilization.
There were some weather related issues in some parts of the country.
But I think overall we are feeling pretty good about our results.
Absolutely Bill.
To some degree I think there is some bifurcation between what's happening in the center of the store and what's happening on the perimeter.
But from the perspective of the categories we participate in with the exception of center of the store where we saw Quaker category slow down a little bit; most of our categories are robust and saw pretty good growth across the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy of Jefferies.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Kevin.
So two quick ones for you.
First with respect to North American carbonated soft drinks and broadly in the industry.
And given the recent pricing discipline which has taken hold my question is given this dynamic how materially does this change your view with respect to North American carbonated soft drink profit pool and do you see mid-single digit growth now as sort of more sustainable here looking out not just this year but longer term? And then as sort of a follow-up speaking with North American beverages can you give us an update Indra on Diet Pepsi and the change to the formulation there your competitors are not following? And how you're thinking about that how you're defining success there with that product? Thank you.
In terms of the North American CSD pricing -- look we have been talking about disciplined pricing for a long time; I'd say couple of years.
I am glad that there is disciplined pricing in the marketplace right now.
And there is lot more innovations in the market basically from our end.
And look we are going to keep playing our game; we are going to focus on disciplined pricing good revenue management put CSD innovation out in the marketplace.
And ultimately it depends on the competitive situation what the profit pool is in this whole CSD business or the North American beverage business in totality.
But we believe this is the right way to participate and play in this very-very important and large segment.
In terms of Diet Pepsi; big business.
And I think for some reason which we cannot really explain as with the Enchilada [ph] flavor with some consumers.
And from our perspective we just want to make sure we have an offering for all of the consumers who want to switch out of aspartame.
And we have formulated a very-very good product which is aspartame free and will be available in the market starting in late August.
So for all of those consumers who are looking for an alternative to an aspartame sweetened diet product we will have a product.
And for those consumers who still love Diet Pepsi with aspartame we will figure out how to make it available online.
So I think this is a consumer driven strategy to offer all of the Diet lovers a diet cola that's aspartame free.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Ottenstein of Evercore.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Very impressive introductions on the innovation front and progress there.
So wondering if you could give us a little bit more granularity on the impact to the topline both in terms of volume and price mix that you're getting from innovation? I'd say that innovation has allowed us to get lot more price mix -- pricing realization in particular.
Something that's very-very important in today's environment.
And its -- product packaging process innovation but we are also spending a lot of time on revenue management.
I mean really thinking through portion sizes pack sizes and I think this combination of interesting products coming to the marketplace and interesting packages in interesting combinations of packages it's what's resulting in incrementality on the revenue side and actually resulting in higher profit flowthrough.
And we are seeing it across carbonated soft drinks I mean whether its DEWshine or Baja Blast or any of those products and we are seeing it even in Europe and Russia and Latin America and AMEA where I'd say creative revenue management tactics coupled with innovation that cuts through the clutter is resulting in flow-through to the bottom line.
Again I think in these environments the focus should be on revenue and profit not necessarily on volume growth.
We focus more on unit growth revenue and profit in these environments because a change for volume results in the whole business hurting.
So I think the revenue management unit growth value growth and profit is what we focus on and that's what our innovation efforts are yielding today the almost 10% I think the high 9s are innovation performances.
Something that is a significant step-up and we keep watching that metric very-very carefully.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning Caroline.
Good morning Indra.
Question on the -- it is actually talk of Russia putting an advertising ban I guess on sugar drinks and fatty foods and things like that.
And in the context of that I am just wondering if you see increased regulatory risk to your food or beverage business around the globe and what you think the impact might be for example in Russia and how you would handle that? Caroline we were among the first people to recognize this risk and we have been retooling our portfolio to make sure that first of all we have a diverse portfolio that can weather any sort of action on any part of our portfolio.
But we are also in constructive conversations with governments to make sure there aren't any discriminatory taxes or discriminatory action on any of our categories.
Having said that on Russia in particular it is perhaps the most diverse portfolio of any part of our company between berry and juices and ranks ranging from fun-for-you to good-for-you and beverages.
This is actually a small portion of our business in Russia.
And so if you want to use an example of the most diverse portfolio of doing fun-for-you better-for-you and good-for-you is skewing towards good-for-you I think it's our Russia portfolio.
So we feel good about Russia so far and we all wish there weren't any geopolitical issues to deal with from a Russian perspective but our business is doing well and the economy has been good to us and the Russian business environment has been good for us.
So we like it.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg of Stifel.
Morning Indra Morning Hugh.
I was wondering if we could talk a little bit more about procurement specifically in that larger $5 billion productivity aim.
Can you give us a bit of an update on -- to what extent that number is included in the $5 billion and how you're leveraging your global scale.
And whether if at all these changes in the reporting structure particularly Latin America have any influence on how you go after procurement savings of the global entity? Hugh go ahead.
Yeah I am happy to take that one Mark.
The entity question is actually quite straightforward.
We don't include procurement savings as a part of productivity.
Productivity is focused on the operating cost structure not on the commodity and procurement cost structure.
The way we report procurement savings is we share with you all a net commodity inflation number so that includes gross commodity inflation less whatever we can do in terms of managing what we call value engineering so managing our commodities to a lower cost through more efficient packaging trading different types of juices and things like that.
So the $5 billion number does not include any savings from procurement at all.
That's all captured in net commodity inflation.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers of UBS.
Yes hi good morning.
I was actually hoping you could just talk us through personnel and segmentation decisions that you announced alongside today's results.
Obviously congrats to you Hugh but could you maybe also provide a little more color on the other people movements that were highlighted and then also a bit broader window into your thinking on the resegmentation? I think it makes sense to bring Latin America in line with Europe and Asia as you have mentioned an increased visibility into North American beverages is welcome at least from my perspective.
But I love your broader perspective on it as well.
Thanks.
Steve I will tell you one of the things we did some time ago is really sit back from the world and say how should we think about groups of countries and clusters of operations that make sense? And based on all the work we did basically the world broke out into eight clusters\; North America is cluster one Western Europe is the next developed market with cluster two; three was Latin America; four was Russia and East Europe; five is Middle East and North Africa; cluster six was the Indian subcontinent; seven was China and the whole Pacific Rim; and cluster 8 was Sub-Sahara Africa.
So those were the eight clusters.
And North America is so big that grouping it together and not providing visibility into the pieces didn't make sense.
So we have kept North America separate in terms of North American beverages and Frito-Lay and Quaker being so different.
But all other clusters we just cleaned it up.
Cluster three is Latin America we put it together and Sub-Sahara Africa we had the snacks business of South Africa and Simba reporting into Europe and beverages reporting to our Asia and Middle East sector we just cleaned it up.
So the segment changes that we reported were a clean-up of these clusters so that we can think of cluster strategies.
So that's the first one and more and more strategic thinking and designs of the future are based on how do we establish and grow our positions in each of these clusters.
And more importantly how do we get more productive working across our partners within each of the clusters.
That's what we have been focused on.
So the last two got cleaned up.
In terms of personnel changes as I talked to you earlier in my strips talent management is something that the board and I are focused on a lot.
I mean our phenomenal board spends a lot of time thinking through succession for the top couple of hundred jobs.
And one of the things we always looked at is where is that bright talent across the company that should be lifted up so that they can be part of a succession process in the company.
And every time we get an opportunity we figure out ways to lift them up in order to stretch people in order to really build exciting talent for the future and that's what the most recent changes enabled us to do.
And just to give you an idea let me start with Brian Newman and I have worked with Brian now for 20 years off and on.
Brian started in corporate strategy but then went to China he went to Russia he went to Spain worked in European headquarters.
Went to Canada was the Treasurer of the Pepsi Bottling Group and both Hugh and I have been mentoring him now for 20 years Hugh? And now giving him this job with operations coupled with corporate strategy allows him to get a whole perspective of the company across snacks and beverages even though he has worked in it for a while.
And here is a person that speaks Mandarin Chinese speaks multiple other languages and just a very great executive to lift up.
And we are looking for opportunities to do that and with the departure of Anderson gave us that opportunity.
And Eugene likewise he has been running the key partnership but again a Dutch national who has worked in multiple countries and truly global executive.
Travels 60% 70% of his time in every part of the world.
I remember when he was running Turkey he started to learn Turkish.
Everywhere he goes he becomes a national.
And again a very exciting executive; and you will all get a chance to see these people in action as we move along.
And all of the people we are elevating whether it's Laxman who is now going to be running Latin America.
Ramon has got additional responsibilities in Europe.
Sanjeev was running a gigantic geography.
You will see all of them over the next few quarters.
And of course you all know Al Carey and Tom Greco and Hugh very-very well.
So I think that you will find that what PepsiCo is doing is just reinforcing the fact that they are a talent academy.
And any company that's looking for talent always relates PepsiCo.
So we have to constantly make sure that our best and brightest move up and we keep them engaged and excited about the company.
And that's my job and the job of the board and that's what we are doing.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
So I had two questions.
One Indra its just really more of a longer term kind of strategy questions as you think about your global snack business.
You obviously have a very good business there but in a world where skill is becoming increasingly important and you have got other macro-snacking categories that perhaps you may not be participating as actively how do you think about accelerating really top line as well as the profit growth as you think about the global snack platform? It's really looking at integrated beverage and snack nationally is the answer or can you really do something more with the platform? And then second question is just really talking about your global e-commerce effort.
It's not an easy opportunity for CPG companies so can you just give us some perspectives on what efforts you have made already and what are some of the opportunities as you think about over the next few years? Sure Judy.
Interesting question because I think in global snacks we are in an interesting position; because our base is savory snacks and we are a very-very strong player in savory snacks.
First of all globally we still have a lot of growth within savory snacks.
We came from a salty crisp snack background and we are expanding more and more into other savory snacks be it crackers be it nuts and seeds we are expanding into those areas there is lot of opportunity there.
I see growth in global snacks along two dimensions.
Dimension one is a compliment to our snack and that's what made us go into dips because many of our snacks are consumed by themselves.
Other times your snacks serve as sort of a substrate upon which you can put on meal like products like our Sabra hummus or our Tostitos dips.
So that's one vector to grow and we still haven't scratched the surface and we have got lots of growth.
The other area is taking away eating occasions from other macro-snacks category.
Its interesting unlike beverages in the case of snacks we can go off and take eating occasions from other macro-snacks be it cookies or confectionery or chocolate.
And our goal is to focus on what we are doing but looking at our signs of demand spaces which I talked about briefly look at each eating occasion by cohort group and figure out how we can leverage our salty snack platform to go after other macro snacks be it -- replace it with a salty occasion or do some sort of a salty-sweet combination for example Stacy's with cinnamon sugar.
It's based on a pita chip but it's certainly sweet when you taste it and has a much better mouth feel and experience than if you eat something totally sweet by itself.
At least that's my perspective.
So I think that our growth is all about growing the core and then leveraging all of the other eating occasions taking share away from other macro snacks and other savory snacks.
In addition I think it's leveraging the beverage occasion to really figure out how to go into all retail outlets that beverages are in already; because beverages retail outlet our penetration is much higher than snacks.
And so if you leverage that retail base it gives you lot more opportunities for growth.
And internationally we are leveraging in-store promotional displays a lot more.
I mean I was in the Middle East a few months ago and I was just amazed to see the in-store display of Lay's and Pepsi; and again with the shares of Pepsi that we have there it is really a powerful in-store promotion that results in tremendous lifts.
So the opportunities for growth by itself and in combination with beverages are pretty significant.
So with that let me turn to Hugh to talk about global e-commerce because he is the leader of the global e-commerce activity.
Hugh? Okay.
Thank you Indra.
I mean global e-commerce to talk about in two minutes is a bit of a challenge to say the least.
I guess I'd make just a couple of quick comments to start the dialog on that.
Number one global e-commerce can mean so many things anywhere from just changing the way the product is ordered and picked the so-called click-and-collect model where people order online and then go pick up products at their local retail outlet all the way through to in China where the product is delivered significantly to door and in more and more proportions of the overall spend.
Clearly one of the leading areas to the U.K.
where you see retailers also doing a lot more delivery to the store all the way through to new emerging players like the Blue Aprons of the world who are actually sort of designing meal solutions in effect filling demand moments for consumers by giving them an entire pre-packaged meal which you see in some urban markets in the U.S.
and starting to expand outside the U.S.
as well.
From the perspective of PepsiCo we are looking at it two ways.
Number one is the existing products going through the existing channels either current retailers or the traditional online retailers.
And then second really looking hard at demand moments and designing products that fit the e-commerce types of distribution channels and e-commerce types of consumers in a more tailored way.
So that's sort of a very brief view towards what's happening in the e-commerce world.
The biggest opportunity obviously is to be able to have more of a one-on-one relationship with those consumers than we have ever had in the past through traditional linear TV advertising.
I expect you will see a lot more from us in this regard but that's probably the best two minutes that I can give in terms of what it is that we are doing right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Hey guys.
Hey Ali.
Hi.
Wanted a thought on volume versus price question that we heard about FLNA about but wanted to hear more about Europe and what really was driving that and if we are seeing any end in sight in terms of slower volumes there is the first question in Europe specifically? And then the second one is if you could help us I guess give some quantification for the buckets where the remaining cost cutting will be coming from? What the buckets are how much? And if we were to talk to your employees at this point would we hear any concerns that you are cutting too deeply into the organization from a cost perspective? Let me take the first one Ali.
The thing I'd tell you is Europe is a difficult economy between east and the west there is some sort of volatility there all the time.
I think today year-to-date we are the best performing European CPG company based on all the numbers we have looked at.
If you combine east and west or whether you look at them individually both on the top line and the profit performance we are performing the best.
The challenge in Europe is especially with Russia there the high street battle in U.K.
going on I think it's very important we play a very judicious game between revenue and profits.
And we have been playing that game very-very carefully and if you look at our year-to-date numbers I won't look at it on a quarterly basis I'd look at it on a year-to-date basis.
I think on a year-to-date basis we are performing at or above our expectations in Europe and we feel comfortable with what the team is doing and that's what we intend to keep doing for the balance of the year.
And in terms of cost cutting opportunity Hugh well you can talk about what other opportunities exist but in terms of employees look nobody likes cost cutting everybody likes growth.
I think we are one of those companies that are doing a wonderful balance of growing the top line and delivering productivity and that's what we want to focus on.
Swinging the pendulum too much to cost cutting I don't think is a good idea at all because it just jeopardizes the future of the company.
So we look at opportunities to shrink the cost base and get more lean and mean but without sacrificing our ability to innovate and grow; and that's really all I have to [indiscernible].
Do you want to add anything Hugh? No.
I think you captured it well.
The areas for cost cutting I think remain inside the manufacturing facilities we are using automation where it makes more sense.
Inside of the selling system we are using technology to make our [indiscernible] system more productive and inside of the G&amp;A buckets we are doing more combinations of shared services to create more efficiency in the way we delivered shared services to the organization.
And Indra to reiterate what you said which is finding the right balance of driving productivity reinvesting some in growth and delivering some to the bottom line is yielding results at brand building and innovation and taking some of that growth.
Investing it back and driving more productivity and delivering some of that to the bottom line is working well.
I think we are in the sweet spot right now in terms of being able to deliver performance and it is a careful balance to manage.
We have time for one more question.
Your final question comes from the line of Nik Modi of RBC Capital Markets.
Yes good morning everyone and congrats Hugh.
I guess the question is on cost savings so clearly you have this $1 billion three year program over the next few years.
But every meeting I go in with an investor or an industry conference the word zero based budgeting comes up or the terms of a zero-based budgeting comes up.
So I just wanted to get your perspective on that particular cost saving initiatives and if you're thinking about zero base budgeting at all within the business in addition to the $1 billion program? We look at every opportunity to tighten our belts and become more efficient.
As I said earlier and as Hugh reiterated Nick we are balancing top line and bottom line growth very-very judiciously.
When you embark on a zero base budgeting program that costs to the bone and jeopardizes your ability to grow the top line.
I think that's a formula for disaster.
We believe into the smart spending initiatives where we look across all of our cost structure and see where we can selectively reduce costs intelligently not for the short term but find a way to make sure it does not affect top line growth initiatives.
So rest assured that we look at every possible way to make our company more efficient and I think we are -- as Hugh said in the sweet spot of balancing investments against top line growth and figuring out ways through automation shared services taking out work that's not needed simplifying our processes coordinating across the company reducing our cost.
And that's what we are focused on.
And with that let me reiterate that we are pleased with our results for the first half.
We are confident that our plans are working and believe we are on the track to deliver our financial targets for 2015.
I want to thank you all for your time and questions this morning and more importantly for the confidence you have placed in us.
Have a wonderful day.
Thank you for participating in PepsiCo's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at <a href="http://www.pepsico.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.pepsico.com</u></a>.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you.
Joining me on the call today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's CFO.
We'll lead off with prepared comments and then turn to Q&amp;A.
As we begin the call it's important to note the following.
We will make forward-looking statements on this call.
Any forward-looking statement inherently involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current predictions and expectations.
Information on such risks can be found in today's earnings release and our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings.
In addition we will discuss results using non-GAAP measures and you can find the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations on our website under the Investors section under Events and Presentations tab.
As a reminder beginning this quarter PepsiCo reported its realigned segments.
We provided retrospectively revised summary segment results reflecting the company’s new organization structure in early August.
As we covered in this morning’s release we have changed the accounting for Venezuela operations and consequently will no longer consolidate their operating results beginning in the fourth quarter.
Further details on this can be found in today’s earnings release and the soon to be released third quarter Form 10-Q filing.
And now it is my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
Despite a continued choppy global macro environment we are happy to report another great quarter at PepsiCo.
In the third quarter organic revenue grew 7.4% with Global Snacks up 10% and Global Beverages up 5%.
Core gross margin improved by 120 basis points.
Core constant currency operating profit increased 12% and core constant currency EPS increased 14%.
Based on our year-to-date performance and our outlook for the balance of the year we are increasing our full year 2015 core constant currency EPS growth outlook to 9%.
Also we now plan to return approximately $9 billion to shareholders through dividends and buybacks with share buybacks at the high-end of the range we had guided to.
Hugh will go into additional details of our guidance later.
But let me now comment briefly on our results.
We again had very strong results in North America and this comprises over 60% of our net revenue and approximately two-thirds of our core division operating profit year-to-date.
North America Beverage had a terrific quarter in which we grew our organic volume by 3% organic revenue by 5% and core constant currency operating profit by 10%.
During the quarter we held value shares in liquid refreshment beverages and gained value share across important sub-categories including ready-to-drink tea and water.
Frito-Lay North America delivered another quarter of solid results with organic revenue growth of 2% and core constant currency operating profit growth of 7%.
Core operating margins increased by 155 basis points reflecting execution of price-pack architecture management and ongoing productivity initiatives across the value chain.
In Quaker Foods North America organic revenue increased 2% and core constant currency operating profit increased 1.5% and operating profit performance is noteworthy given the fact that they are lapping a divestiture gain in the prior year.
Quaker has gained value share in both hot and read-to-eat cereal both in the quarter and year-to-date.
And we are proud to report that during the third quarter PepsiCo was the largest contributor to US retail sales growth among all food and beverage manufacturers with over $400 million of retail sales growth in all major channels.
This was double the next largest contributor to growth.
Notably North American beverages was the key driver of US retail sales growth within PepsiCo and the largest contributor to US retail sales growth on a standalone basis.
On a year-to-date basis PepsiCo has contributed over $1.1 billion of retail sales growth in all major channels which again was the largest contributor to US retail sales growth among all food and beverage manufacturers and this is really 2.5 times the next largest contributor to growth.
Now turning to our international market.
In our developing and emerging markets although we continue to face volatile and challenging macros in a number of these markets we’re managing what we can control to stay competitive in this market – in this marketplace and we continue to see good growth in a number of these markets.
For example our business in Turkey achieved double-digit organic revenue growth Mexico achieved high-single-digit organic revenue growth and Egypt achieved mid-single-digit organic revenue growth.
And as we mentioned last quarter in each of our earnings calls we will provide an update on our big initiatives to drive our operating and financial performance brand building innovation execution productivity and cash returns to shareholders.
On our Q2 earnings call we talked about innovation.
Today we are focused on productivity which is critical to succeed in today’s challenging environment.
With volatile macros globally and increasingly competitive landscape with digital technologies disrupting many aspects of our business productivity has never been more important.
And as all of you know well productivity enables current financial performance and provides investment funding to sustain growth into the future.
When we think of productivity we think both in terms of efficiency which is getting the same result using fewer resources and effectiveness getting a greater result using the same resources.
Our productivity initiatives to-date have been largely focused on efficiency and we have had pretty good results.
We delivered $3 billion in productivity between 2012 and 2014 and we’re on track to deliver the first year of our current five-year $5 billion program that we started in 2015 and this productivity has been supported in large part by investments we made in technology starting with our implementation of SAP in the early 2000s and this allowed us to establish a common operating language and to standardize operating metrics across the globe.
We also adopted an operating model that has reduced plans and layers in the organization and has promoted the sharing of best practices around the world.
We also established truly global functions in operations procurement IT HR and finance as well as very lean category horizontals that are driving greater capability building harmonization and efficiency in new product development and global brand management.
Together our technology investments and operating model are allowing us to leverage our global scale to a much greater extent.
With these foundational elements in place we have made progress in multiple areas.
First increased automation.
We have installed packaging automation across approximately a third of our snacks plant worldwide enabling us to reduce packaging label costs in these facilities by at least 50%.
In Frito-Lay North America for example approximately 65% of all production utilizes fully automated packaging.
In Mexico we updated the majority of our packaging tubes with high speed equipment over the last few years enabling us to increase throughput by approximately 40%.
Across the Middle East we installed automated palletizing and warehousing technologies in many key markets resulting in improvement in labor productivities since 2013.
Second we are restructuring our go-to-market systems.
Since the success of our Perry Georgia pilots in 2009 we have expanded our geographic enterprise solutions or GES as we call them at Frito-Lay North America to a total of 11 projects which are now at various stages of deployment across locations in both the US and Canada.
The consolidation of these plants and distribution networks will result in scale that enables economic implementation of automated order picking the reduction of distribution centers and a highly efficient direct-to-store delivery system directly from our plant.
This model is also being applied to the North American beverages business where they are combining large format and small format routes on the same trucks.
The plan is to eliminate geographic overlap resulting in 15% fewer routes.
Third we are optimizing our global manufacturing footprint.
Since 2010 we have reduced the number of company-owned beverage plants in North America by 23%.
At the same time we’ve increased our capacity utilization by 20%.
In Europe in the past three years we closed six plants across our beverage and dairy businesses decreasing our footprint by 7% and generating more than $20 million of annual savings and further increasing our capacity utilization.
Finally in shared services.
We’re increasingly leveraging share service centers and selectively outsourcing financial transaction processing accounting reporting and other back office tasks.
To-date the program has been executed in 18 countries reducing costs while improving analytical capabilities and service levels and streamlining IT infrastructure.
Our efficiency journey is in no way done.
In addition to the major supply chain productivity initiatives we have also embarked on our version of zero-based budgeting something we call smart spending.
You know we studied ZBB in great detail and we realized that implementing it as currently designed ran the risk of starting resources to drive topline growth initiatives.
Our version of ZBB or smart spending as we call it focuses on rightsizing our operating expenses now that we are beginning to see benefits from our technology investments and global coordination while ring-fencing top line driving resources to focus more on deriving additional effectiveness from them.
And this is a balanced approach one that focuses both on a relentless drive for efficiency but preserves investments to drive top line growth which brings me to our focus on increasing the effectiveness of our spent.
We have expanded our view of productivity to ensure greater effectiveness across every element of spending.
Just to give you a few examples we’re sharpening our capabilities in revenue management to drive greater effectiveness of promotion and other trade spending.
We’re building the required tools and training to realize a greater return on our advertising and marketing investments.
And we are developing new product platforms that can scale across multiple countries rapidly.
And all of this is being enabled and accelerated by our lean global category structures.
We believe our approach is working and driving meaningful tangible results.
Over the past three years ending in 2014 we have realized an average of $1 billion of annual productivity savings.
Net revenue per employee is up 10% operating profit per employee is up 9%.
This quarter marks our 13th consecutive quarter of gross margin expansion.
And from year-end 2011 Capex as a percent of net revenues went down from 4.9% to 4.1% on a rolling four quarter basis.
Importantly these achievements have contributed to strong free cash productivity and core net ROIC improvement.
Since the beginning of 2013 to the third quarter of 2015 we have generated cumulative core free cash flow excluding certain items of more than $22 billion which represents 115% of core net income over the same time period.
And core net ROIC has increased by 380 basis points to 19.1% at the end of the third quarter 2015 compared to 15.3% at end year 2012.
Ultimately we believe our approach creates a virtual cycle with productivity fueling the reinvestment and transformation necessary for sustainable top and bottom line growth and shareholder value creation.
With this let me turn the call over to Hugh Johnston.
Hugh? Thank you Indra and good morning everyone.
First let’s discuss guidance.
As Indra mentioned based on the strength of our year-to-date performance and our outlook for the remainder of the year we’ve increased our full-year core constant currency EPS growth target to 9% from 8% previously which includes the expected fourth quarter impact of the Venezuela accounting change.
Additional details regarding the change in accounting for Venezuela can be found in our third quarter earnings release and in the soon to be released 10-Q.
Our other targets remain unchanged.
For the full-year 2015 we continue to expect mid-single digit organic revenue growth core operating margin expansion as organic top line growth and productivity should offset negative geographic mix and commodity inflation which incorporates the impact of transaction-related foreign exchange headwinds and approximately $1 billion in productivity savings.
Below the division operating line we continue to expect corporate cost to be lower a core tax rate of approximately 25% and a reduced share count.
We now expect foreign exchange translation to negatively impact net revenue and core earnings per share growth by approximately 10 and 11 percentage points respectively based on current market consensus rates.
Taking our 2014 core EPS of $4.63 and applying our guidance and current market consensus of foreign exchange impact implies 2015 core EPS of approximately $4.54.
As you model out the fourth quarter I’d ask you to consider the following.
First we expect foreign exchange translation to have an approximate 8 point unfavorable impact on fourth quarter net revenue growth and an approximate 8 point unfavorable impact on fourth quarter core EPS growth based on current market consensus rates.
Venezuelan operations contributed $0.03 to core EPS in the prior year quarter.
Second the North American beverages business will face a difficult core constant currency operating profit growth comparison.
Below the division operating profit line net interest expense is expected to increase in the fourth quarter versus last year driven by higher interest rates and higher debt balances.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect full-year free cash flow excluding certain items of more than $7 billion.
We expect our capital allocation discipline to continue to drive core ROIC improvement.
This is building on the steady progress we’ve made in ROIC with core net ROIC up 380 basis points from 2012 to 19.1% through the third quarter of 2015 on rolling a four quarter basis.
We expect shareholder cash returns to be very strong.
We now expect to return approximately $9 billion to shareholders in 2015 approximately $4 billon in dividends and $5 billion in share repurchases.
Our current repurchase outlook is at the high end of the range we provided last quarter.
Our annualized dividend is now $2.81 and approximate 60% payout ratio based on 2014 core EPS.
This represents the 43rd consecutive year of annual dividend increases and our annualized dividends per share have grown at a 10% compound annual rate over the past ten years.
So to summarize our core constant currency earnings per share outlook for 2015 has improved from our last call and free cash flow disciplined capital allocation and returning cash to our shareholders remain top priorities for the Company.
With that operator we’ll take the first question.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Faucher of JP Morgan.
Good morning John Good morning Indra.
You talked about some of the markets that are doing well and you know I think the more -- where the street is really concerned here is in terms of some of the markets where you know Russia Brazil where we think there is potentially a little more macro impact and given the fact that you guys are about four weeks into the quarter can you talk about whether or not you’ve seen some of these macro shifts have an impact on the consumer and how should we think about those markets going forward? And then a quick question for Hugh which is if we look at this it seems as though Venezuela is about 3% this year on a run rate basis of earnings you’re covering about 50 basis points in Q4 so should we think about the balance coming out through the first three quarters of next year? Thanks.
John global macros are volatile as I mentioned in my prepared comments.
And whenever there is volatility in the marketplace the consumer behavior does reflect some of this volatility.
The good news is that we’re not luxury items or high ticket items; we are basic food and beverage items.
So we see a slowdown but not significant.
Having said that I think the most important thing is we have a portfolio that we can play between developed and developing and emerging markets and somehow we balance the portfolio to deliver the results but the macro volatility is here to stay.
And then John to answer your question regarding Venezuela as you mentioned it’s worth $0.03 in that we’re lapping right now going into the fourth quarter and we are covering that as a part of our 9% guidance.
For 2016 we will get to guidance in February; we won’t discuss that on this call.
What I will share with investors is in 2015 Venezuela is worth about $0.10 so that’s what we will be lapping as we get into 2016 but rather than get into one-off guidance in 2016 we’ll provide comprehensive guidance on the February call.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
So first just a detailed question for Hugh do you guys have an extra week in 2016? And if you do how much will that add to EPS? And then the real question is hoping for an update on the potato chip revenue management program at FLNA.
How is it trending so far versus expectations how is it being received by consumers and your retail partners? And going forward from here should we expect volume growth to improve sequentially or will it really take another couple of quarters before we cycle the program to see sustained volume improvement? Thanks.
So Dara on the 53rd week the answer is yes.
We do have a 53rd week ever fifth or sixth year depending on how the days fall.
And 2016 will be a 53-week year.
As I mentioned on John’s question as well in terms of guidance and impact on that we’ll get to that on the February call it’s not time to handle that right now.
And on the PC revenue management Dara we’re beginning to see all of the work we did on that revenue management program beginning to take root.
It’s clearly helped the profitability because it’s really price pack architecture to manage the SKUs on the shelves which were really getting much too complex.
And we’re beginning to see the positive impact of all of the work we did over the last three quarters.
Volume growth is beginning to come back and clearly profitability has been helped by the whole revenue management program.
In addition to that there -- one of the goals of the program was to increase the number of households that are buying Lays by virtue of recognizing the smaller households in the United States and in fact that impact is happening.
So we feel good about the strategy as well as the revenue management implications.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Hey good morning everyone.
Hey Bryan.
I guess just two questions related to the comments on productivity.
I think first if I look at currency or constant currency operating profit growth it’s about $700 million of profit this year.
So could you just give us some context in terms of how much of that profit growth has come from productivity dropping how much of it is just the natural leverage in the business and maybe some context in terms of rate of reinvestment this year? Yeah Bryan as always this is a challenging question to answer because in a company with PepsiCo’s complexity both geographically and from a channel and product perspective isolating one of the variables is a little bit tricky.
What I would say is this the combination of the higher productivity in addition to that the benefits that we are relatively getting on commodities and then comparing that to the natural rate of inflation for PepsiCo’s portfolio of 4% and comparing that to the level of fixed cost leverage we get through P&amp;L 60 basis points for the quarter we think is a good number for the year.
We’ve been delivering good leverage and the balancing act of much are we reinvesting back in R&amp;D and reinvesting back in A&amp;M again it’s a bit difficult to isolate the variable.
Suffice it to say we are investing meaningful amounts in R&amp;D and A&amp;M in order to drive the top line growth that you are seeing.
And we have new tools and technologies as we get more digital tools that are disrupting many parts of our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
I wonder if you could just take us through the US beverage environment in a little bit more detail talking about how carbonated soft drinks are doing particularly diets versus specifics you mentioned how strong tea is but -- and how that shift in categories affect margins going forward? Good morning Caroline.
The US beverage environment is pretty good actually.
There is good portfolio management happening in the industry and I would say that the CSD market continues to be under pressure from a volume perspective.
From a value perspective because of good revenue management and good pricing in the industry the value numbers are way better than the volume numbers.
But clearly the big story here is non-carbs and the non-carbs are really what’s driving all of the growth in the whole industry.
And again in non-carbs profitability varies.
I mean it ranges all the way from bottled water to other products that have higher profitability.
So I think the challenge at every point in the North American beverage business is really two-fold if you want to think about it.
How do you play the game across the portfolio between CSDs and non-carbs and within CSDs how do you alternate between a Mountain Dew versus a Pepsi versus a Kickstart so that’s one balancing game that we have to go through.
But the second part is also channel-wise how much emphasis you play on single serves and driving single-serve sales which have got a different profit profile than large pack or multi-serve products.
So the challenge in this industry it’s a very complex very big industry.
It’s how do you play this whole game intelligently.
Now I will tell you one thing the fact that we own the bulk of our bottling systems and the fact that most of our bottlers are very aligned we have very good set of bottling partners actually allows us to be a lot more nimble and effect in the market the right pricing strategies revenue management strategies and get the right innovation into the marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Judy.
So Indra you talked about the focus on increasing the promotion of spending effectiveness as part of the productivity indicatives.
I was hoping to get a little bit more color just in terms of where do you think PepsiCo is in the context of what the industry is doing.
We’ve been hearing this trade spend effectiveness programs for a while so how is it different this time? Is it more evolutionary versus revolutionary and then some of the categories that you think are kind of life for this to continue within your portfolio.
And then Hugh just a follow up on Venezuela.
So it seems like Venezuela probably added about 1 to 2 points to revenue growth so can you just clarify or quantify the revenue impact and then in the fourth quarter as you deconsolidate Venezuela how much of the organic revenue growth is that risk in terms of taking that out of your P&amp;L.
Yeah Judy again I don’t want to get into too much details because now you are asking us to get into what really drives PepsiCo but I will just roughly tell you that you have to look at trade spending management and revenue management together because in a way the two of them are how we manage the shelf.
And as the digital tools get better and better and more tools are available to get more visibility into consumer interaction of different packages the way we do revenue management improves.
So if we look at Frito-Lay’s recent program on Project Drive that was a trade spending and revenue management program because in a way the way we manage the packaging there improves the profitability of the retailers in addition to improving the whole spending effectiveness.
So I think the pace at which we move in this area is a function of the tools available for us to have more visibility into consumer buying decisions and how we do self-assortment.
It’s a journey.
We are investing more and more in tools training capabilities and we are making sure everybody gets trained in these tools developing market tools emerging market tools developed market tools what we do with modern trade what do we do with traditional trade it is all about the training.
It’s a journey Judy and it’s going to take a few years before we are fully done.
But as these tools roll out we’ll start to see the benefits roll into the P&amp;L and that’s what you saw in Frito-Lay.
The Project Drive was a great example of it.
And even our North American beverage profitability in a way is a function of how they are intelligently managing both their product portfolio and trade spending.
So with that let me turn to Hugh to talk about your second question about Venezuela.
Yeah Judy in terms of year-to-date Venezuela is worth about 2 points in our numbers.
And in terms of going forward into the fourth quarter when we talk about organic revenue growth we are treating the deconsolidation as a structural change so we will basically talk organic ex-Venezuela.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Vivian.
My question has to do with your European segment and specifically your beverage volumes.
I recognize that you are lapping a slightly easier compare.
But it does look like your volumes inflected nicely so I was hoping you could offer some color on the drivers of that.
Thank you.
We have a largely zero-calorie portfolio in Europe and parts of the country parts of the region did well and there were parts where places like Russia we focused more on value than we did on volume because in those markets we’ve got extraordinary inflation and we’ve got to make sure your price through to get the value up.
In France Germany Turkey we had very good beverage strength.
And in countries like Russia because of inflation the market was tough.
But those are all again I come back to this notion of the portfolio management.
In today’s volatile environment the biggest capability we as a company have to develop and we have is how we manage the portfolio intelligently to deliver a set of numbers for the company overall.
And again managing the company for value share within a volume corridor and that’s what we’ve been doing globally at this point.
Your next question comes from the line Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Hey guys.
Good morning Ali.
Hi.
So I have two basic questions for you.
One is when you look at your organic sales numbers there seems to be two things that are a little unexpected or weird.
One is obviously that 33% Latin America pricing number and the second is the strong 3% volumes in NAB.
So on the former can you just give us a little bit more detail about where that comes from? Was that really all Venezuela how much was Argentina and when you deconsolidate Venezuela what does that pricing specifically number look like if Venezuela isn't in there? On the NAB good volume numbers it sounds like a lot of that was stills.
Can you give us a breakdown on volume growth between stills and CSDs so that's question one? The second question is -- Let's get the question one answered.
Go ahead.
So Ali two things on that.
Ex-Venezuela Latin America was up 9% and number two regarding your question on breakdown on volumes the 3% of overall volume growth CSDs were down 1.9 non-carbs or stills as you call them were up almost 10%.
And then within CSDs regulars were down 1 and diets were down 6.5.
Okay.
So super helpful on that one.
In terms of the second question love to hear how you guys are thinking about the potential implications of ABI/SAB to the PepsiCo business.
So PepsiCo obviously including the Brazil bottling what might happen there how are you guys thinking about that because you’re joint purchasing with ABI.
This is no longer kind of rumors or speculations.
You guys have clearly done you usually do good analytics good math on thinking through the implications here for you guys? Great question but we don't comment or speculate on these matters as it relates to specific bottlers customers and suppliers.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.
A couple of questions on the US just to sort of drill a little deeper on some previous questions.
So do you still think the US bottling assets are strategic long-term assets and how far are you from having them fully optimized? Bill as I mentioned earlier on my comments regarding North American beverages today more than ever the portfolio is shifting to non-carbs.
Innovation is becoming more fragmented and the life cycle of innovation is being shorter and the trade becoming more and more complex.
Having control of the manufacturing and distribution systems becomes critical.
And when we have independent bottlers having them aligned is even more critical and I'll tell you based on our recent North American bottling meeting Al Carey and the team did a brilliant job and the system is more aligned than I've ever seen before.
So I think these bottling assets are strategic and as I said earlier this is a journey.
As the marketplace evolves we have to keep evolving and optimizing our bottling assets.
We've done a lot with the manufacturing assets.
As we mentioned the capacity – we’ve taken out 23% of the capacity utilization is up.
We’re looking at consolidating large format and small format routes and reducing the number of routes by 15%.
As equivalent of GES or Geo Box as our beverage guys call it get implemented.
We too start thinking about different ways to leverage the distribution system.
So it’s a journey and it’s a very very good team and they are doing the right things to focus on revenue management trade spending segments marketing innovation training the portfolio intelligent pricing.
So I think we are in a good place in North American beverages.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy of Jefferies.
Indra so my question to come back to North American beverages specifically carbonated soft drinks.
So profit growth in NAB has been outstanding this year.
From a market share perspective Indra you’ve often spoken in the past about managing that market share within a corridor.
And as I look at the Nielsen data it looks like you guys have been losing share within CSDs not just on a four-week 12-week but over the past year and I'm just curious number one if you're comfortable with the share position now or if at some point more investment is needed here whether that's innovation whether this is trade spend et cetera.
So any comments there with respect to your carbonated soft drink trends here will be helpful? Thank you.
We're happy with where we are right now and the portfolio is working Kevin.
That's the most important thing.
When the marketplace starts shifting more towards non-carbs we’ve got to make sure that we step up our investment in non-carbs our innovation in non-carbs which is really what we've been doing.
And in case of CSDs there has been a small share loss but if you look across the portfolio margin is doing exceedingly well.
We are doing very well in small format.
Anyway to the question I think that we've really been working the portfolio to make sure that talent management price back management trade management innovation management and overall portfolio management work to deliver overall LRB share increase.
And that's really what we are focused on.
I think focusing just on CSDs is actually a thing of the past and I would strongly suggest everybody looks at total LRB because that's the right way to look at the market going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Marshall of Barclays.
Now your last comment notwithstanding I do have a question on carbonated soft drinks just from a qualitative perspective obviously you’ve made the switch to aspartame-free on diet Pepsi.
So I’m just curious what the consumer reaction has been to the move? And then broadening that out into other sweetener technology and you’ve used Stevia in some cases just where we should look at how this is developing and how the consumer is reacting to these new products? Thank you Bill it's too early to tell you exactly how the consumer is reacting because our belief is that you’ve got to wait a few cycles to see what the purchase repeat adoption cycle is.
So at the end of Q4 when we go into next year we might be able to give you some more information but at this point it's way too early to talk about how aspartame-free is performing in the marketplace.
And in terms of new sweetness all the information is out there in the marketplace.
We've been talking about it.
I don't see a zero calorie naturally sweetened CSD on the horizon in the next few years but if you want to talk about low-calorie naturally sweetener beverages I think combination of sweeteners tools techniques we have probably the best portfolio of development tools to enable that to happen.
It may not always be in CSDs but it will be a part of it in non-carbs part in CSDs and you’ll start seeing these innovations roll out as we speak.
I mean we’ve rolled out a couple of products this year in Manzanita Sol and Mug with somebody’s tools.
You’ll start seeing more of that as next year rolls by.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers of UBS.
So Frito-Lay volumes were a bit better and I think some investors fear they might be just based on the standard data trends.
So is there any light you can shine on that related to maybe sell-in versus sellout timing or strength in outside the track channels for example foodservice that's my first question.
And then Indra longer term picking up on your commentary surrounding productivity as you look forward over the next four years of your current program how do you see that balance between efficiency and effectiveness contributing to the next 4 billion? Is it split is it skewed one way or another and then within the efficiency bucket do the drivers remains supply chain restructuring and smart spending or are there other initiatives on the horizon that we should be thinking about? Thanks.
In fact I'm going to take the productivity question.
I am going to have Hugh talk about the Frito-Lay volume issue.
I think on productivity going forward the next four years again year-by-year it varies.
As all of these programs you can measure the efficiency program more directly on productivity and the effectiveness you see it more on the top line and you see it in pricing.
That's how you get the pricing is a function of how we implement all of the effectiveness programs.
So it’s much harder to isolate the effectiveness part of productivity but I will tell you the way we measure it is in top line growth and the kind of pricing we get so that's where it should manifest itself and now the algorithm is talking about mid-single-digit revenue growth and given today’s extremely turbulent environment I think effectiveness oriented productivity program is what’s going to allow us to deliver that mid-single digit growth.
Let's talk about Frito-Lay volumes.
Hugh if you want to take that one? Yes.
Steve happy to.
Absolutely we did see volumes in Frito-Lay a little bit stronger than I think what analysts were generally expecting and what they were interpreting based off of the scan data.
I think the reason for that is convenient source.
We’re particularly strong in Frito-Lay.
We saw volume growth in C stores for the quarter of 4.5% and that channel tends to be tracked a little bit less closely.
It's about 20% of Frito’s business.
So I think that probably accounts for the data difference.
More broadly I think the important point here is project drive which has obviously suppressed volumes to some degree is going on very successfully.
As Indra mentioned earlier from a revenue management perspective it's yielding the results we expected and in addition to that and strategically more importantly the household penetration on Lays is going up and frankly that was the goal of project drive and it is working for us quite successfully.
Obviously we've got a couple of more quarters of overlaps to work through in terms of the volume impacts but we feel very very good about project drive right now.
So with that thank you all for your questions.
In closing let me reiterate that we are pleased with our year-to-date results.
We are confident that our plans are working and that we will deliver on our financial targets for 2015.
I want to thank you all for your time and questions this morning and more importantly for the confidence you’ve placed in us.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
That does conclude PepsiCo’s third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Today's call is being recorded and will be archived at www.pepsico.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thank you.
Joining me on the call today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO; and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo's Vice Chairman and CFO.
We'll lead off with prepared comments and then we'll turn to Q&amp;A.
And recognizing it's a busy earnings day we'll end the call at about 8:45.
As we begin the call it's important to note the following.
We will make forward-looking statements on this call.
Any forward-looking statement inherently involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the current predictions and expectations.
Information on such risks can be found in today's earnings release and our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings.
In addition we will discuss results using non-GAAP measures.
You can find GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations on our website in the Investors section under the Events and Presentations tab.
As we discuss today's results keep in mind that our fourth quarter comprises the 16 weeks ended December 26 for our North American operations and the months of September through December for most of our operations outside North America.
And now it's my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone.
And if I sound funny this morning it's because I'm nursing a very bad cold.
I'm pleased to announce that PepsiCo has delivered to shareholders a terrific year in 2015 with strong organic revenue growth and 10% core constant currency EPS growth.
We simultaneously enhanced our competitiveness and prospects for future growth while meeting or exceeding each of the 2015 financial goals that we shared with you this time last year.
From a strategic perspective we held or gained market share across most of our key markets.
We built the strength of our brands evidenced by both our strong organic top-line growth and 40 basis point increase in A&amp;M as a percentage of sales.
We continued to extend our innovation advantage growing new platforms such as MTN DEW Kickstart Stacy's Pita snacks and Inner Smile dairy drinks in China and simultaneously invested for the future by increasing our R&amp;D spending.
We continued to win in foodservice by adding Disney in China SUBWAY across several countries and renewing Yum! in China due primarily to our broad product portfolio and superior customer service.
And we enhanced our offerings to our foodservice partners in 2015 through the establishment of exciting new platforms like Stubborn Soda MTN DEW BLACK LABEL and Hello Goodness vending.
We added major new marketing properties with the NBA and the UEFA Champions League.
And we expect to derive value from them through our rapidly-expanding global marketing and design capabilities.
And we delivered a record-setting year for productivity as our outstanding operating teams leveraged our global supply chain Center of Excellence to execute best practices and new ideas with great precision across all of our businesses.
While delivering strong strategic results we delivered financially.
We targeted mid-single-digit organic revenue growth and delivered 5% growth.
We targeted core operating margin expansion and delivered a 30 basis point improvement.
We delivered 10% core constant currency EPS growth against our initial target of 7% and converted 120% of core net income to free cash flow excluding certain items through strong capital management.
This strong cash generation enabled us to provide attractive cash returns to our shareholders a total of $9 billion in 2015.
And our core net return on invested capital stands at 19.6% at the end of 2015 up 430 basis points over the past three years.
I am particularly pleased to note that we achieved these results in the face of a challenging macro and external environment.
Over my several decades in business I have never seen this combination of sustained headwinds across most economies combined with high volatility across global financial markets.
From my meetings and observations traveling around the world I have noted slow economic growth or recession across all but the U.S.
– across the U.S.
and a few other countries as a combination of geopolitics and oil have created many challenging economic outcomes.
The slower economic growth has resulted in lower demand for commodities which has put extreme pressure on previously-booming economies like Russia Canada and Brazil just to name a few.
In order to address slowing demand central banks have few tools to kick-start their economies as these tools have largely been fully exploited over the past several years.
In addition increased government regulation including increased taxation labeling requirements and limitations on social programs are placing further pressure on consumer demand.
These macro issues have created three broad risks for the consumer and for CPG companies.
First the widespread economic malaise has created a strong U.S.
dollar which has the effect of creating local inflation in international markets and threatens to derail the U.S.
economic recovery.
Second volatile financial markets may cause a pullback in corporate investment and consumer spending.
And finally the continued weak economic performance is causing widespread political and social turmoil across the globe which may create even greater economic harm.
In the face of these challenges our geographic sectors managed very well during 2015 exploiting the more positive environments for superior results while carefully navigating weak environments to balance tight cost management with judicious investment to surgically capture growth.
In a relatively positive macro environment our performance in North America was particularly strong with both Frito-Lay North America and North American Beverages turning in very good operating and financial performances.
Each posted 3% organic revenue growth and 7% core constant currency operating profit growth for the year.
Frito-Lay North America once again delivered consistent results while continuing to transform its package architecture in potato chips and its go-to-market system through further expansion of the GES program.
North American Beverages had its best financial performance in recent memory benefiting from the continuation of improved industry pricing dynamics a broad product portfolio and continued positive innovation performance.
And Quaker Foods North America began a turnaround in 2015 delivering positive organic revenue results for the first time in several years and gaining value share across its breakfast categories of hot and ready-to-eat cereal and Aunt Jemima syrup and mix.
And I'm pleased to report that PepsiCo once again was the single largest contributor to U.S.
retail food and beverage growth for our customers.
For the full year we provided more growth in U.S.
retail sales than the next 15 largest food and beverage manufacturers combined.
And it's this success that uniquely positions us as our customers' go-to partner to drive growth.
When we look beyond North America our international divisions clearly dealt with the lion's share of the macro challenges that I mentioned earlier.
And yet despite these challenges we were able to grow organic revenue 8% and core constant currency operating profit 6% for the year by executing effective pricing strategies launching exciting innovative products localizing sourcing to address FX transaction headwinds and driving productivity that provided investment funding that will propel future growth.
So overall a very good performance for the year and we believe we are well-positioned as we enter 2016.
Now you may recall that we focused on one of our big performance-driving initiatives on each of the last three earnings calls.
On our prior calls we covered innovation supported by sensible brand management then we talked about flawless execution.
And last time we talked about self-sustaining productivity.
Today I want to focus on the fourth of these initiatives cash generation and food and capital allocation.
Now a substantial portion of our earnings converts to free cash flow and we generate a lot of cash.
In fact over the past three years we've converted more than 100% of our core earnings to free cash flow and we generated more than $24 billion in free cash flow excluding certain items including $8 billion generated in 2015 alone.
More broadly we are highly disciplined in how we allocate this cash with a particular focus on returning cash to shareholders.
Our first capital allocation priority is to invest in the business not only in the form of CapEx and working capital but also within the P&amp;L in A&amp;M R&amp;D and marketplace investment in routes and racks.
In fact since 2011 we've increased A&amp;M as a percentage of sales by 110 basis points and R&amp;D spending is up 40%.
We have rigorous capital planning and review processes.
Our CapEx investments have very attractive returns on investment.
And we continually find ways to drive returns even higher by driving greater fixed asset utilization and by reducing the cost of adding capacity.
Over the past four years we have reduced CapEx as a percentage of sales to 4.4% on a rolling four quarter basis which is an improvement of 60 basis points.
On a revenue base of $63 billion this equates to an annual cash savings of approximately $380 million.
Similarly our efforts to improve our working capital have yielded positive results.
Over the past three years we have improved our working capital cash conversion cycle by more than 30 days which contributed $2.5 billion to cash flow improvement.
So both our CapEx and working capital productivity have been significant contributors to our very favorable free cash flow performance.
Our second priority is to pay dividends to our shareholders.
We have raised our dividend for 44 consecutive years effective with the June 2016 payment.
And this is through both consistent earnings growth and by raising our payout ratio over time.
With this morning's announced dividend increase we expect to pay out approximately 60% of our core 2015 earnings.
And our dividend yield at yesterday's closing stock price is an attractive 3%.
And our ten-year compound annual growth in dividend per share is 10%.
Continuity of dividends and growth in annual dividend per share are a point of great pride for PepsiCo and we view them as a vitally important element to the total shareholder return equation.
Our third priority is to strengthen our market positions and create value through responsible tuck-in acquisitions generally less than $500 million a year in total which equates to a relatively small percentage of annual free cash flow.
We've built a lot of capability in evaluating and integrating tuck-in acquisitions.
And we have very disciplined strategic and financial guidelines to ensure that they are value creating.
Our acquisition evaluation is comprehensive and includes assessment of geographic considerations category growth and attractiveness scalability competitive dynamics people and business systems integration cultural fit and transaction complexity.
And our fourth capital allocation priority is to return residual cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and we plan to do so within the confines of maintaining a capital structure that provides us ready access to the debt capital markets at attractive rates.
Over the past three and 10 years we returned more than $13 billion and $35 billion respectively to shareholders in the form of share repurchases.
Net our focus on capital allocation discipline has yielded impressive results.
We've returned more than $65 billion to shareholders over the past 10 years in combined dividends and share repurchases.
Before Hugh covers guidance in detail I'll just make a few broader points about the landscape going forward.
We expect a continuation of the many macro challenges we face this year: a strong U.S.
dollar; sluggish growth or recession in most developing and emerging markets; political and social unrest in a number of regions; and increased government regulation.
And as I mentioned while the U.S.
economy is experiencing a recovery it's delicate.
And there is a risk that it will not sustain itself if the rest of the globe continues to experience such massive pressures.
But even in the face of this rather challenging global landscape I'm optimistic about PepsiCo's future.
We have made a prudent appraisal of those factors outside of our control and we are controlling those factors we can control.
Our teams around the globe are executing well.
Our innovation pipeline is full and promising.
And the sustained investments we've made in strengthening marketing and developing cutting-edge capabilities will serve us well as we move through the year.
We believe we have the plans in place for 2016 to continue to deliver strong financial results.
And there is something that's equally important as the right plans.
We have the right people.
The fact that we've achieved so much in what has been a protracted and extremely challenging and volatile environment is a testament to the strength and experience of our management team.
We benefit greatly from a senior management team distinguished by continuity experience and skill.
Our sector heads and CFO Al Tom Laxman Ramon Sanjeev and Hugh have 140 years of combined PepsiCo experience across multiple categories markets and functions.
And at the same time we are developing and advancing PepsiCo's next generation of leadership.
The appointments over just the past 24 months of Laxman and Ramon to their respective sector leadership roles and the appointments of Brian Newman to run Global Operations and Eugene Willemsen to run our global category groups are a few key examples of such next-generation leaders who have gained tremendous experience already and have much runway ahead of them at PepsiCo.
So with these comments let me turn the call over to Hugh.
Hugh? Great and good morning everyone.
Moving on to our outlook for 2016 as we set out in the release we expect organic revenue growth of approximately 4% with the top-line continuing to benefit from the investments we've made in our brands and innovation as well as our revenue management capabilities driving organic revenue growth and positive net price realization.
And taking our core 2015 EPS of $4.57 and applying our guidance and current foreign exchange market consensus rates implies a 2016 core EPS of approximately $4.66.
Let me touch on the key considerations and assumptions embedded in our outlook.
First we will have a 53rd week in 2016 as we do every five or six years which principally impacts our North American businesses given that our international businesses report on a monthly calendar.
Our organic revenue growth outlook excludes the impact of this extra week.
And our intention is to reinvest the benefit from the extra week in growth and productivity initiatives.
Second we will be lapping the deconsolidation of our Venezuela business which occurred at the end of Q3 in 2015.
Venezuela contributed approximately $0.10 per share to core earnings in the first three quarters of 2015.
And third foreign exchange translation will continue to be a headwind with most of our key international markets' currencies expected to decline versus the U.S.
dollar in 2016.
Based on current foreign exchange market consensus rates this is expected to be a four point drag on both net revenue and core EPS.
Additionally to the positive we expect to generate approximately $1 billion of productivity savings in 2016 which is in line with our overall objective of achieving $5 billion of productivity over the five years through 2019.
We anticipate continued reduction in corporate expenses and we expect our share count to benefit from a targeted $3 billion in share repurchases.
In terms of headwinds we anticipate continued volatile macros especially in the developing and emerging markets.
And commodity inflation is deflationary in the low single digits excluding foreign exchange and low single digit inflationary including the impact of transaction-related foreign exchange in many of the markets whose currencies have and are expected to continue to weaken against the U.S.
dollar.
Also keep in mind that because of our forward buying approach our commodity costs tend to lag what you see in the spot markets.
As you model out the quarters we ask you to consider the following.
We deconsolidated our Venezuela operations at the end of Q3 in 2015 so our EPS comparisons will be impacted by lapping the elimination of earnings from Venezuela during the first three quarters of 2016.
The AMENA division will face a difficult operating profit comparison during Q1 2016 as the business laps a gain related to re-franchising a portion of India bottling operations and the benefit of the 53rd week will fall in the fourth quarter of the year while our reinvestment of the benefit of the 53rd week will be made throughout the year.
We will maintain a high level of discipline toward capital allocation with the vast majority of free cash flow after capital spending being returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
We expect to return $4 billion in cash to shareholders through dividends and we expect to return an additional $3 billion in cash to shareholders through share repurchases.
So combined we expect these actions will result in cash returns to shareholders of $7 billion in 2016.
Capital allocation is a top priority for our management and our board and we trust these actions will again be seen by shareholders as tangible evidence of this commitment.
With that we are ready to take the first question.
Thanks Hugh.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Hey.
Good morning.
Morning Dara.
So first can you give us your organic sales growth in emerging markets in Q4? And as we look out to 2016 Indra it sounded like you were very cautious on the macro environment so any impact in terms of macros on your business in emerging markets in Q4 if you could provide some more detail there and also so far what you're seeing in Q1 given we're well into the quarter and any thoughts just in general on the level of risk and your visibility on the 4% organic sales growth guidance.
And then also on the macro side can you just review trends in gas and convenience in the U.S.
in both snacks and beverages and your thoughts on consumer spending in that channel for 2016? Thanks.
So let me start with the macro numbers.
Go ahead.
Yeah Dara this is Hugh.
To answer your question on developing and emerging markets the growth rate would've been about 6% for the quarter.
So Dara let me talk about the world and what we're seeing around the world.
And it's not just emerging markets.
We travel around the world and let me just take a quick walk around the world.
As you look at Latin America Brazil Argentina if you look at Colombia between a combination of the economic issues in the country and the currency devaluation it's causing tremendous strain on anybody who is operating in that country leave alone American companies have to report in U.S.
dollars because you have both a transaction and a translation problem to deal with.
Transaction because a lot of the commodities we buy are denominated in dollars so we have to figure out how to price that through.
If you go over to Europe the Western European market I would say did show some signs of recovery but not to the level that we would like to see it.
Interestingly our businesses in East Europe are doing well with respect to the local market but again the currency is really taking a bite out of the profit streams that come out of that market.
I was in the Middle East about three weeks ago.
The teams there are very resilient but they have to cope every day with the issues in the Middle East whether it's countries going through attacks or the refugee crisis.
It is pretty severe what's going on there.
And many routes have to get off the market at times.
And our teams are all local so they figure out a way to operate but it is tough.
And I think we are one of the few companies that keeps an operation going because the routes can come on quickly when there's a lull in the activity there.
So I would say it's difficult to watch that region going through the problems it's going through.
And as you move further east India's holding up.
The Pacific Rim is holding up nicely don't see too many issues.
And China going into the Chinese New Year last year I think the market was very sluggish but this year it started off moderately okay.
And if you ask me about how the year has started off look one period or one month a year does not make but the year has started off okay.
And again I want to be very clear.
What we can control we are doing very well: execution; productivity; innovation now on the shelf.
We are doing a very good job.
And that's giving us some tailwinds.
What we cannot control which is the geopolitical issues this incredible currency turmoil we just have to accept it for the moment.
And so I'd say the teams are executing very well in the marketplace.
And that's why we feel cautiously optimistic on the one hand while feeling despondent about the macros on the other hand.
As far as the convenience store is concerned in the past we used to say when gas prices came down there used to be a perceptible increase in convenience store traffic.
Yes we did see an increase in convenience store traffic and convenience stores were up what 6% Hugh? About 6% yeah.
About 6%.
But you know I think that game has played out.
Now it's going to be how much innovation you put on the shelves and how you execute.
And this is where again our DSD systems our Power of One and the fact that we have the right products for the convenience stores is going to stand us in great stead.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Morning Ali.
How are you? Hopefully you'll feel better soon.
So I wanted to get a better sense of your 2015 to 2016 EPS bridge because if you're still actually getting this $1 billion of cost savings you're buying back kind of this $3 billion similar level of stock purchase that together would be kind of 11% or 12% EPS growth.
And ex-Venezuela ex-currencies you're only saying you're going to get something like 8%.
And I'm having trouble figuring out what that gap is.
It makes me feel that all else equal so if you're not cutting costs you're not doing anything the core business is actually shrinking which clearly can't be with a 4% top-line growth number organically for next year.
So I'm just trying to figure out the bridge if you can more quantitatively between 2015 and 2016 than what you've already offered particularly on the core piece please.
Absolutely Ali.
Let me toss this to Hugh who'll give you a complete answer on this.
Sure happy to.
Good morning Ali.
If you add up the numbers you're right.
Revenue growth as we've said is to be about 4%.
Productivity will be about a $1 billion benefit.
Commodities of course are inflationary low single digits.
The other factors built into our numbers are number one we will see operating expense inflation.
Recall our bucket of OpEx is about $28 billion.
A little over half of that is labor and labor will inflate somewhere around 4% for the year.
In addition to that you'll see continued investments in advertising and marketing as you have over the last couple of years.
And the reason we continue to invest in that is we continue to get good returns on it hence the 4% to 5% revenue growth you've seen over the last couple of years.
You will see higher investment in research and development as well same answer on that.
We're continuing to see good returns on that.
And then of course with the revenue growth that we've seen over the last couple of years we do need to invest in manufacturing lines.
We need to invest in routes.
We need to invest in racks to place the products on.
So when you add all of those factors up and then add into that geographic mix which is a slight drag you wind up with a total of 8% on earnings per share growth.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Morning John.
Good morning Indra.
Wanted to talk a little bit about sort of the longer-term outlook for the pricing environment; and so it makes sense given all the inflationary pressures that we're seeing in terms of pricing in emerging markets I guess the question really becomes can you sustain pricing in developed markets particularly given – I know your raw materials are up slightly but there are some deflationary raw materials.
And there seems to be some concern about downward pressure on pricing maybe in the U.S.
So as we look at the 2015 results low single-digit volume a little bit more pricing do you see that changing over time? And can you continue to get the pricing in developed markets that would allow you to sort of sustain that sort of let's say 3% to 4% pricing number going forward? Thanks.
John that's a great question because we talk about that and worry about that all the time.
I think there are two or three things to think about.
One is in categories which are not growing robustly like carbonated soft drinks there you should manage pricing very carefully because there's no point trying to drop the pricing because it's not going to drive additional demand.
So in that particular category through a combination of revenue management through a combination of intelligent price pack architecture you just figure out how to get some pricing from the marketplace.
So let's hold that on the side.
Second the area where we really look for pricing is through innovation.
Because if there's one place where the consumer likes the news and is willing to pay up for it's for innovation.
And we've been really ramping up our innovation machine to be able to get price realization through innovation.
The third is through channel mix.
And if you sell more single-serve if you sell to the channels where the consumer is willing to pay a little bit more that clearly is a help.
And lastly even if you don't get the pricing in some places we want to take our costs down.
So we've been looking at how to reengineer our supply chain end-to-end how to work with customers to re-think our supply chain.
So there's a lot of work going on in our company in terms of rethinking our end-to-end costs to align our supply chains with customers so we can mutually take out costs and then figure out a way to pass some of it to the consumer.
So that's really our strategy on pricing.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers of UBS Investment.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So on the marketing step-up which you obviously increased a lot this year and in the fourth quarter especially can you talk a little bit more about where that investment is focused? Is it broad-based? Is it more food versus beverages domestic versus international? Any skew would be helpful.
And then more broadly I'm just wondering if there's anything you're seeing out there that gives you more confidence on the margin in that spending because I'm struck now by how many CPG companies that have emphasized a return to A&amp;P investment in the last few weeks.
But it's interesting against the backdrop – the macro backdrop as you pointed out is not getting easier.
So is the increase that you're making is it PepsiCo-specific against proactive opportunities? Is it against things that may be sort of deceptively encouraging for the broader industry? Or is any of your increase simply driven by a need to kind of keep pace and maintain share of voice versus peers that are also stepping up their investments? Any clarity there would be helpful.
Thank you.
Hugh why don't you talk to the where we're putting the money and then I'll talk about the rest here.
Sure happy to.
A couple of comments on that Steve number one it is broad-based.
I wouldn't say it's targeted to any particular business or any particular geography.
As we cut across snacks and beverages numbers went up in both categories.
As we cut across the geographies all of our geographies saw an increase in advertising and marketing spend.
Number two in terms of where is the money going I would say that more of it is going to digital over time.
The big constraint on moving more to digital is identifying high-quality properties to advertise on.
So it's not just a matter of going for pop-up ads anymore.
It's really more sophisticated digital advertising.
And that is probably – more than anything the rate-limiting factor is finding high-quality assets to invest in.
Third as you've seen as recently as the Super Bowl this past weekend we are investing in big properties because these big properties do enable breakthrough types of messaging.
And I think we over the last several years as well as for a longer period of time have been quite successful in investing in those big properties.
And then fourth from a returns perspective obviously measuring advertising and a marketing return is a little bit trickier than measuring return on price reductions and things like that.
That said with the advent of big data we actually are getting more sophisticated in terms of our ability to measure those returns.
Without getting into all of the details of it the things I'd point to on a macro level are we've been able to sustain 4% to 5% revenue growth in what's been a challenging environment.
So when you add all of it up we'll continue to invest more in advertising and marketing as we see good payback on it.
As a management team we are acutely focused on shareholder value creation as the meta-metric for all that we do around here.
And advertising and marketing is giving us good payback for the shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Morning Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Hey can we just go back to North America a second and just talk about the impact on Frito from the pack down (34:00) changes and the go-to-market changes? So can you just quantify what you guys think that did to sales over the last year and when it gets lapped? And then maybe the sustainability of growth at Gatorade which has been phenomenal and a lot of it's been driven by category growth.
So is that broadly just sort of like the fitness health and wellness trend in the U.S.
or do you think it's driven by something more dynamic? I'll talk about Gatorade and then you can get your thoughts straight...
Sure.
On what detail you can provide on Frito.
I think Gatorade benefited in 2015 from three factors.
One is it was a hot year and it was hotter for a longer period of time.
And Gatorade does well when the temperature is above normal especially for as long as it was during the year.
So we shouldn't underestimate the impact of that.
Second is the Gatorade innovation has been very good.
Fierce and Frost alone I think contributed significantly to sales growth.
And all the new stuff that Gatorade is doing with the smart bottle with the pods that are tailored for the athlete the Gatorade Prime and Recover all of that is giving more legitimacy to the brand.
And I think that it's driving more of the Gatorade sales.
And third I think on a competitive basis relatively speaking the fact that so many athletes are choosing Gatorade now is allowing Gatorade to far outdistance any emerging competitors in the space who tried to attack Gatorade just on price.
And Gatorade has managed to hold its own and in fact extend its advantage.
And so a combination of these three have served us well.
Going into 2016 I think we'll keep the pedal to the metal on innovation on execution and hope that the weather holds up.
That's the best we can do.
So Frito Hugh? Yeah so from a Frito perspective Bill I assume your question is around the potato chip promotional package moving from the XXL to the XL bag.
That probably cost us from a volume perspective about a point.
Recall that the reason for the strategy as we talked during last year was to increase household penetration with smaller household sizes.
The objective was to get a package that smaller households would find attractive as the primary promotional package.
In that regard the strategy has actually been quite successful and I think gotten our volume re-based in a good spot from the standpoint of how we're managing the Lay's business.
More broadly in terms of Frito-Lay performance you saw 1% 3% 7% last year in terms of volume revenue and profit.
If you look at Frito's performance over the last four or five years it's been remarkably consistent volume's been around 2%.
Revenue's been around 4% and profit's been around 6% plus or minus a point for quite a few years.
I think you can continue even as we invest and make changes in Frito you can expect to see that type of performance going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Morning Judy.
Good morning everyone.
How are you? Good.
So I guess I just wanted to go back to Frito-Lay and maybe just get your color on the broader kind of macro snacking environment in the U.S.
The confectionery category has been a little bit soft.
Salty snacks is more stable but just in terms of the context of the U.S.
consumers perhaps being a bit better off seems like maybe the category could do a little bit better.
So any color just in terms of where the consumers are going across the broader macro snacking category would be helpful.
Let me step back.
The overall macro snacking category probably growing somewhere in the 3% to 4% and the reason Frito does as well as it does is because it takes occasions from all other macro snacking categories.
And so Frito's able to go after crackers able to go after sweet occasions through interesting products that comes from a salty heritage.
So we have a frying platform.
We have a baking platform different sort of baking platforms.
And we leverage those platforms to go after all of those occasions.
And I think that's what creates an advantaged model within Frito-Lay.
We are not in a zero-sum game within macro snacks where any growth that we get has to come at the expense of another category already participating.
In the case of Frito we are in one category and reach out of the core (38:56).
Remember the old strategy of grow the core and add more? That's really what we're doing.
We're looking at the demand of consumers and wondering how we can serve that demand with a Frito-Lay option.
And whether it's Cheetos Fritos or it's the chocolate-covered Lay's that we offered or all the new products on slate for next year I think we're just going after other macro snacking occasions.
And that's why other companies are hurting and Frito-Lay is doing so well.
And you combine that with our DSD system our Power of One advantage we can really get a tremendous advantage with customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning Indra.
Good morning Hugh.
Morning Mark.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Two questions on Latin America if I could one is any detail you can give us on the "strategic investments" in the quarter to what extent they're brand and forward-facing and to what extent they were otherwise.
And then secondly it's kind of early days since you've integrated snacks and beverage in Latin America but could you give us an update on how that's going and whether 2016 is a year where we should expect benefits from that to be more significant? Just how that's going and what your outlook from that is.
Investments in Latin America.
Yeah sure happy to start with that.
Good morning Mark.
When you look at Latin America you really have to take a step back because it's such a broad and diverse geography both in terms of cultures and in terms of economic outlook for the near-term.
Obviously Brazil has got a significant number of challenges facing into 2016 as it has over the last couple of years.
At the other end of the spectrum Mexico is as an economy performing quite well.
So if you think about what we're trying to accomplish as you move south into Latin America a lot of our focus has been around making our supply chain more efficient and making our management structures more efficient.
And a number of the investments that we made in the fourth quarter there were geared towards productivity-driving initiatives.
On the other hand in Mexico where the outlook is more positive the investments we made during the course of 2015 were more growth-oriented.
And as we think about our outlook going forward we expect that mix of probably stronger performance out of Mexico more margin improving performance out of the balance of Latin America.
That said we're long-term very positive on the geography.
We think we've got great market positions and great people down there.
And we think it's one of the most important regions of the world for us going forward.
And then in terms of integrating snacks and beverages under one leader look if we didn't have economies in Latin America that were performing so poorly at this point we'd start to see results sooner.
But right now it's very hard to really point to when we will see results based on the fact that any progress we make is eaten up by macroeconomic challenges.
So we look at underlying in-process metrics if you want to call it that as opposed to tailpipe metrics.
And everything we're seeing says that we are making great progress in figuring out how to leverage a franchise bottler system with our snacks business to create advantage.
And it's going well so far.
So with that let me just thank you all for your questions.
And in closing let me reiterate that we are pleased with our 2015 results.
Looking ahead to 2016 we are confident that we have the right plans in place.
We are executing well against those plans.
And we've set appropriately aggressive targets for 2016.
We look forward to updating you on our progress as the year advances.
Thank you for your time and questions this morning and more importantly for the confidence you've placed in us with your investment.
Have a great day.
Thank you for participating in PepsiCo's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo’s year-end 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Jamie Caulfield Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Caulfield you may begin.
Thanks operator.
With me today are Indra Nooyi PepsiCo’s Chairman and CEO and Hugh Johnston PepsiCo’s CFO.
We’ll lead off today’s call with a review of our 2013 performance and 2014 outlook and then we’ll move on to Q&amp;A.
In an effort to get to as many analyst questions as possible within the hour we’re going to have a one-question limit so we should be able to get through the full queue of analysts when we get to the Q&amp;A.
Before we begin please take note of our cautionary statement.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements including statements regarding 2014 guidance and our long-term targets based on currently available information.
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements.
Statements made on this conference call should be considered together with cautionary statements and other information contained in today’s earnings release and in our most recent periodic reports filed with the SEC.
Unless otherwise indicated all references to EPS and operating profit growth are on a core basis.
In addition references to organic revenue results in this call exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures structural changes and foreign exchange translation.
To find disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we may use when discussing PepsiCo’s financial results please refer to the glossary and other attachments to this morning’s earnings release and to the Investors section of PepsiCo’s website under the Events &amp; Presentations tab.
.
Now it’s my pleasure to introduce Indra Nooyi.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone and thank you very much for joining us this morning.
As we close our 2013 and look ahead to 2014 and beyond we have a few key themes we’d like to share with you.
Through a multiyear process we’ve largely transformed PepsiCo for sustained performance.
We are executing on our plan to deliver on our stated goals.
This execution has enabled us to deliver and in many cases exceed all of our financial goals in 2013.
Our portfolio is complementary and our geographic and product portfolio positions us well for sustainable growth.
We believe that our portfolio as currently constructed positions us to maximize value creation.
As a result we are not making significant structural changes including to North American Beverages.
We are extending our $1 billion annual productivity savings target through 2019.
Our 2014 guidance is in line with our long term financial targets and the actions that we’re taking to execute our strategy provide us further confidence in the long term durability of these targets.
Consistent with our commitment to disciplined capital allocation we’re increasing our cash returns to shareholders by 35% in 2014 significantly stepping up both our dividends and share repurchases to a total of $8.7 billion while maintaining appropriate capital investment in the business.
Finally and most importantly our recently completed [all health] survey tells us that our associates are motivated engaged and positive about being part of and the future of PepsiCo.
So let me walk you through each of these themes.
As you know over the past few years we’ve had to address a number of macro trends that have reshaped and will continue to shape our industry.
We made the required investments and changes to preemptively transform ourselves to capitalize on the opportunities these shifts presented and to position the company for long term growth and value creation.
First we expanded our presence and plans to grow in developing and emerging markets in response to a shift in the [unintelligible] of global growth.
Second we continue to balance our portfolio of offerings to include more nutrition and healthy offerings while increasing the [permissibility] of our social snacks and beverages by reducing calories and sodium in key products to address consumers’ growing concern with health and wellness.
Third we’ve stepped up investment in R&amp;D digital capabilities and food quality and safety in acknowledgement that social media is an ever-increasing powerful force with greater availability of more sophisticated tools and product formulations and food safety and security are now greatly enhanced by more tools providing ingredient traceability.
Fourth we invested to enhance the equity of our $22 billion brand which together accounts for more than 70% of our total revenue.
We also upgraded our revenue management skills to give us the ability to take pricing.
Fifth we built a cultural productivity into the company to deal with the reality of a volatile and inflationary commodity environment.
Sixth we designed sustainability into our operations in response to growing environmental consciousness.
And lastly on the talent front we upgraded our skills through selective hiring in several new and emerging areas and we completely revamped our talent management processes and training curriculum with a view to equipping our people with the skills needed to perform better in a volatile environment.
<sub></sub> Through these transformative actions we have fundamentally changed the profile of the company.
Our product profile has grown from fun for you to a more balanced offering of good for you better for you and fun for you products.
Geographically we’ve shifted PepsiCo to a company with a more balanced global footprint and our culture has shifted to a decentralized one with businesses operating completely independently through what we refer to as “connected autonomy ” a model that combines the best of an entrepreneurial ownership culture with the benefits of global scale and coordination.
As a result PepsiCo today is positioned to deliver over the long term top-tier financial performance and value creation for our shareholders.
Our 2013 results demonstrate our portfolio strength and execution capabilities.
Despite a challenging macro-environment we delivered strong and well-balanced operating performance in 2013.
Organic revenue grew mid-single digits both gross and operating margins expanded cash flow is very strong and we managed our portfolio of businesses effectively.
Let me comment briefly on each of our businesses beginning with North American beverages.
We are encouraged with the progress we’ve made in North American beverages but the category remains challenged.
We have managed the business responsibly achieving 2.5 points of price realization at retail while stabilizing our share performance in measured channels and generating profit growth.
We were especially pleased with the successful innovation in North American beverages with four products Mountain Dew Kickstart Gatorade Frost Glacier Cherry Starbucks Iced Coffee and Lipton Pure Leaf on track to achieve $100 million in annual retail sales.
This success was realized with strict execution against initiatives and the stepped up investment levels we made in 2012.
We feel good about North American beverages.
Frito Lay in North America delivered consistent solid performance throughout 2013.
Organic revenue growth of 4% in the quarter and for the full year was well-balanced between volume and price.
Our innovation was also very strong at Frito Lay including Tostitos Cantina Lays Do Us A Flavor Cheetos Mix Ups and the new flavors of Doritos Jack and Tostitos Artisan.
And the business delivered solid operating leverage and margin expansion with core constant currency operating profit growth of 7% for the quarter and 6% for the full year.
We have good momentum and we’re seeing returns from all of the investments we’ve made to strengthen our inside capabilities brand and go-to-market systems.
So again we feel very good about the outlook for this business.
Our other developed markets also showed solid performance during 2013 with organic revenue growth in our overall Western Europe business.
While macroeconomic data shows signs of improvement developed world economies outside the United States remain sluggish.
We have relatively limited exposure to slow growth areas such as Southern Europe and Japan so the shape of our portfolio shields us from these challenges to a degree.
Turning now to our developing and emerging markets these continue to perform well despite some volatility in key regions.
As a group our D&amp;E markets posted 10% organic revenue growth for the year with double-digit growth in China in both snacks and beverages double-digit growth in Pakistan high single-digit growth in Saudi Arabia Brazil Mexico and Turkey just to name a few.
These markets have a long run rate for growth driven by increasing demand for our convenient on-trend affordable products supported by rapidly growing middle class.
The investments that we’ve made in these markets place us in an advantaged position.
The shape and resilience of our portfolio combined with strong execution across the value chain enables us to meet and in many instances exceed our 2013 financial goals.
Organic revenue grew 4% in line with our mid-single digit target.
Core operating margin expanded 40 basis points in line with our goal of 30 to 50 basis point expansion.
We delivered over $900 million of productivity savings slightly ahead of our target.
Core constant currency EPS grew 9% ahead of our 2013 guidance and at the high end of our long term high single-digit goal.
Free cash flow excluding certain items was $8.2 billion well ahead of our 2013 goal driven by exceptional working capital management and disciplined capital spending.
Core net return on invested capital improved 110 basis points 60 points ahead of our target and cash returns to shareholders were $6.4 billion right in line with our target.
So we feel very good about the financial performance of the business.
Just as importantly we’ve continued to invest in the business to ensure the sustainability of our performance well into the future.
[A&amp;M] as a percentage of sales was up 70 basis points compared to 2011 and we continue to invest in innovation.
Our R&amp;D spending has increased over 25% since 2011.
We improved our capabilities in food quality and safety invested in multiple process technologies both to reduce cost and deliver new capabilities and we invested in product innovation.
In 2013 we had one of our most successful years ever in new product launches with six new products in the United States on track to achieve $100 million in annual retail sales.
And this is a first for PepsiCo.
So we feel good about our 2013.
Turning now to our portfolio it’s evenly distributed across snacks and beverages both of which are attractive global categories.
And within these categories there’s a highly attractive portfolio of nutritious products including brands like Quaker in grain Tropicana in naked fruits and vegetables and Gatorade in sports nutrition.
Our geographic footprint is very well balanced with 35% of our net revenue in high-growth developing and emerging markets and about two-thirds in stable highly profitable developed markets.
Our portfolio is also truly better together or what we refer to as “the power of one.” Our entire portfolio is focused on taste and convenience.
Our products are purchased together and consumed together.
Our presence in beverages supports our snacks growth and the heft of our portfolio positions us as the largest food and beverage business in many of our key markets and this makes us a key partner to retailers and food service customers.
We realize $800 million to $1 billion in annual savings by operating our business as one.
Our priorities for managing the portfolio are very clear.
In developed markets snacks where we have an incredibly strong business that combines high market share and high margins we intend to defend and grow our share of salty snacks.
We want to grow organically into the broader macro snacks space and this will leverage our core salty snacks foundation capabilities to capture a broader range of day parts and locations.
And we want to leverage our beverage business to increase our snack trends in the large profitable food service business.
In developed market beverages a huge category where we have good competitive positions in many markets here we intend to sensibly defend our LRB share and improve margins and returns with an intense focus on unlocking productivity especially in North America.
And we are focused on achieving product disruption and differentiation through science-based R&amp;D especially in the area of sweetener innovation.
In our developing and emerging markets where we have strong salty snack shares in most markets and leadership of [parity] system beverage positions in many key markets we intend to continue to build our share positions capture our fair share of growing beverage locations and selectively pursue tuck-in acquisitions to build out our scale and our geographic footprint.
And in the nutrition arena where we are one of the leading [unintelligible] globally in everyday nutrition we intend to benefit from the high growth of this category leveraging the presence and scale of our existing businesses.
Now these category country combinations with their demographic tailwinds and related product diversity give us line of sight to our mid-single digit organic revenue growth goal.
From a category perspective we expect our global beverage business to grow revenue in the low to mid-single digits and global snacks and nutrition to grow revenue in the mid-single digits.
From a market perspective we expect developed markets to grow revenue low to mid-single digits and our developing and emerging markets to grow revenue high single to low double-digits.
Based on this growth profile and because we have full operating businesses in snacks we expect about two-thirds of our revenue growth to come from snacks and from a geographic perspective about two-thirds of our revenue growth to come from developing and emerging markets.
As a result over time our business mix will gradually shift to be more heavily weighted toward snacks and more heavily weighted towards developing and emerging markets than we are today.
This revenue growth profile is the foundation of PepsiCo’s reliable long term growth model.
So how does this all translate to future results? From a geographic perspective each market type plays an important role in our portfolio.
Emerging markets have primarily top line growth drivers with some potential for margin improvement in the short term.
Developing markets drive balanced top line growth and margin and ROIC improvement and developed markets contribute relatively less to top line growth but at very attractive margins and returns and are prodigious cash flow generators and this is true of both snacks and beverages.
So holistically this portfolio provides a platform for balanced growth margin and return improvement for sustainable future growth opportunities cementing the durability of our long term core constant currency EPS algorithm and superior cash returns to shareholders all of which leads to top tier total shareholder return.
But as many of you know we did commit to reexamine our North American beverage business’s role in our portfolio especially given some of the recent challenges in the category.
So let me start off by saying that our highly integrated food and beverage portfolio positions us as a vital supplier to our retail trade customers where we are the single largest supplier in many instances.
Decoupling our beverage and snack business in North America would significantly reduce our relevance to our customers.
Within most of our largest grocery channel customers we would fall from being the top supplier to a top four or below supplier and in the mass merchant drug channels we would drop below the top 10.
In addition we would forfeit a number of synergies within North America including shared procurement consumer and customer insights organizations joint advertising and use of major properties like the NFL and Major League Baseball and joint promotional and display activity and coordinated national account activity.
So with all of this as a background we undertook our evaluation of the overall category and our competitive position within it.
Let me provide you with some facts.
First liquid refreshment beverages in North America continue to be the largest food and beverage category by a wide margin.
It drives tremendous traffic and cash flow for retailers.
It also plays a very important role in food away from home where food service customers are increasingly using beverage offerings to drive excitement and profitability.
And PepsiCo is relatively well-positioned within the LRB category.
We are the LRB leader in measured channels.
We are the clear share leader in non-carbs with leading positions in many segments.
Our CSD portfolio has a 0.8x relative market share with Mountain Dew the fastest-growing CSD trademark.
We are making slow and steady progress growing our share in food away from home.
We believe the opportunities are many.
There’s no question that the growth of the LRB category in North America has slowed and within this overall industry the cola segment is particularly challenged as consumers look for alternative beverage offerings.
PepsiCo’s exposure to colas is less than 25% of our total North American beverage portfolio and less than 15% of our total North American business.
We believe that the cola category is still relevant to consumers but is going through a secular change as consumers look to address the twin issues of calories and artificial sweeteners.
We have several great tasting cola product variations using zero calorie natural sweeteners blended with sugar that we’re testing in various markets in the world.
And so far these test results are promising.
However our U.S.
launches of these sweeteners will begin this year primarily with non-cola products to build and test consumer acceptance before we launch low-calorie naturally sweetened cola products.
Additionally we are encouraged by the progress we made in 2013 in our North American beverage performance.
Our objective was to hold or grow LRB value share relative to our primary competitor.
And as you can see our LRB value share performance for the full year 2013 was even with primary competition based on IRI all measured channel data.
What’s notable there is that we also achieved very strong net price realization at retail across virtually every major subcategory while holding our value share position.
Net-net we feel cautiously optimistic about our prospects in the North American LRB market.
So when we reevaluated structural alternatives for the North American beverage business we established very clear principles to guide our decision.
First we would not return to the contracted franchisee/franchiser model of the past.
We needed a structure that ensures rapid decision making with low coordination costs and friction.
We needed to limit value chain decoupling and operating redundancies.
We did not want to competitively disadvantage our North American beverage business and we wanted to maintain control over core strategic activities of our global beverage business such as marketing innovation and R&amp;D.
We knew we had to maintain or advance our alignment with national accounts and it didn’t make sense to sacrifice meaningful scale advantages of the PepsiCo system.
So our assessment was driven by a highly objective consideration of what structure would create the greatest most sustainable shareholder value.
And we studied numerous structures from a full separation of North American beverages from PepsiCo to a separate of some elements of the traditional bottling operations and everything else in between.
We used the best bankers and consultants to think about structural alternatives all with an eye to creating long term shareholder value.
And after an exhaustive analysis and review with our board of directors we’ve concluded that North American beverages creates value and is optimized within PepsiCo’s structure today.
Any structural separation would among other things result in loss of significant synergies both between snacks and beverages in North America and between North American beverages and the balance of our international beverage operations.
It would significantly decrease our relevance to U.S.
retailers and jeopardize our ability to grow in food service.
It would make our remaining international beverage business less competitive and finally it would forfeit the potential value creation of investments we’ve made in sweetener technologies the full benefits realization of our A&amp;M investment and year-end productivity savings.
So we’ve concluded that ownership by PepsiCo of the North American beverage business in its current form maximizes shareholder value because our current ownership structure allows for optimally aligned objectives and execution allows us to capture potential upside from innovation and productivity enables us to continue to benefit from scale advantages and finally it continues to provide access to the U.S.
cash flow that is so important to our shareholder cash return model.
That’s North American beverages.
Let me now turn to productivity.
You know back in 2012 we announced a major three-year $3 billion program enabled in part by our SAP investments which began in 2002 and our new operating model which we put in place in 2011 that allows us to lift and shift best practices across the company to improve both the efficiency and effectiveness of our enterprise.
Last year we also told you that we had begun work on the next tranche of productivity mostly enabled by our operating model which is gaining traction in the company and the availability of new technology and tools.
So today we are pleased to announce this next productivity program $5 billion over five years beginning in 2015 and also to tell you that we are on track to achieve the $3 billion three-year program we announced in 2012.
So as we enter our next phase of productivity let me provide some color to the areas we’re focused on.
The first is embedding more automation in our operations to replace labor with capital.
An example here would be further automating packaging in our snack plant where secondary packaging hot of products remains a highly manual process.
The second area is expanding shared services including global financial shared services for the handling of routine back office transaction processing.
The third area is restructuring manufacturing to optimize our global manufacturing footprint.
Examples here would be evolving from local to regional manufacturing networks and adopting more third-party manufacturing.
And the fourth area is restructuring our go-to-market systems to optimize our distribution network.
Let me give you a couple of examples under the go-to-market systems.
The first is our global enterprise system or GES at Frito Lay North America.
GES is significantly reducing the amount of manual handling of our products up and down the supply chain.
Because we have such a high transaction rate every touch of a case or a bag drives a lot of labor cost.
GES minimizes product touches between the plant and customer location through streamlined distribution center networks in some cases delivering direct from the plant to the store.
The benefits extend to capital labor inventory and fleet fuel reductions.
This model continues to roll out across Frito Lay North America and is now being applied to the North American beverage business where we are maximizing asset utilization by reducing distribution centers leveraging automation deploying fleet and route trucks more efficiently and reducing inventory while improving service and product freshness.
We’re encouraged with the progress being made and have a long runway of savings opportunities ahead of us.
Another initiative is implementation across PepsiCo of the global transportation management system a leading example of global IT systems driving productivity at PepsiCo.
GTMS enables the data analytics and processes to effectively manage our consolidated transportation network.
We can model different asset choices consider inbound freight to optimize traffic lanes and maximize every load and we can do this regardless of whether it’s a common carrier or company owned fleet.
And leveraging this North America systems foundation we’ve now developed a global template and our GTMS is live in Mexico Brazil and Russia.
It’s now being expanded to Egypt Saudi Australia and other parts of South America.
So these are some of the examples of initiatives that enable the five-year $5 billion productivity program.
A portion of these savings will be generated from labor cost efficiency.
As you can understand such initiatives have people implications globally at all levels.
In addition to providing transition support PepsiCo is establishing a fund for eligible front line employees to provide job training to assist them in their pursuit of employment opportunities outside the company.
Over the next 60 days we will finalize the details of how this fund will be administered.
The cost of this fund is captured within the economics of our productivity program.
So let me sum up before I hand off to Hugh for the 2014 guidance.
First execution of our strategy enabled us to meet and exceed our 2013 financial goals.
Second we are confident that our continued execution will enable us to do so again in 2014.
Our geographic and product portfolio positions us well for future growth and at the same time provides an attractive shareholder cash return model.
We’re announcing a new five-year $5 billion productivity program through 2019 strengthening the durability and duration of our expected financial performance.
And finally we are substantially increasing our cash returns up 35% versus 2013 consistent with our commitment to disciplined capital allocation.
So let me now turn it to Hugh Johnston.
Hugh? Thank you Indra and good morning everyone.
Let me spend a few minutes discussing our outlook for 2014 which is in line with our long term objectives.
We expect another year of mid-single digit organic revenue growth.
We expect operating margin expansion as top line growth and productivity should offset negative geographic mix and cost inflation.
Below the division operating profit line we expect corporate cost efficiency and approximately 25% core tax rate and a reduced share count.
All-in we expect core constant currency EPS growth of 7%.
Foreign exchange is expected to impact revenue and core earnings per share by approximately 3% and 4% respectively based on current market consensus rates.
Taking our 2013 core EPS of $4.37 and applying our guidance implies a 2014 core EPS of approximately $4.50.
Our outlook appropriately factors in both tailwinds and headwinds.
To the positive we expect to generate over $1 billion of productivity savings in 2014 which will offset operating cost inflation.
We feel very good about our innovation agenda which should enable us to sustain our organic revenue growth rate.
Our share count will benefit from stepped up share repurchases although we won’t recognize the full benefit of the 2014 purchases within 2014 as they’ll be made throughout the year with some of the share count reduction falling into 2015.
Our tax rate will be lower and is estimated to come in for the full year at approximately 25% which we expect to be able to sustain for the foreseeable future.
And we will realize a modest benefit from pension expense due to a higher discount rate.
In terms of headwinds the food and beverage taxes enacted in Mexico will impact both top line growth and profitability.
The rate of our commodity cost inflation will be higher in 2014 than in 2015.
Foreign exchange translation and to a lesser extent transaction will be a significant drag on our U.S.
dollar results and we expect continued challenges in demand for colas.
Finally as you model out the quarters for 2014 please note the following.
For the first quarter of 2014 we expect foreign exchange translation to have an approximately 4% impact on net revenue and 6% impact on core earnings per share based on current market consensus rates.
In addition we expect structural changes primarily the refranchising of beverage operations in Vietnam to impact first quarter revenue by approximately half a percentage point.
The second quarter of 2013 included a $137 million gain from the refranchising of our Vietnam operations the majority of which was invested back into the business during Q2 through Q4.
The phasing of this gain versus reinvestment will impact core EPS growth during Q2 through Q4.
Finally our stepped up share repurchase activity will occur throughout the year but should have a more pronounced impact in the back half of 2014 and into 2015.
Our long term goals remain intact: mid-single digit organic revenue growth core operating margins expanding 30 to 50 basis points per year high single-digit core constant currency EPS growth free cash flow excluding certain items growing roughly in line with earnings and core net ROIC improving 50 basis points per year.
We intend to responsibly manage the business for top line growth drive productivity and reinvest appropriately to position PepsiCo for sustainable growth for the long term.
And we plan to remain highly disciplined toward capital allocation with the vast majority of free cash flow after capital spending being returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
So based on our assessment of the strong and sustainable cash flow generation capacity of the portfolio driven by our expectation of mid-single digit organic revenue growth robust productivity programs and efficient capital investment we’re pleased to announce today that we’ll substantially increase our cash returns to shareholders in 2014.
This decision is consistent with our commitment to disciplined capital allocation and our strong bias to returning cash to our investors.
First we’re increasing our dividend per share by 15% beginning with our 2014 June payment to $2.62 on an annualized basis.
This represents the 42nd consecutive year of annual dividend increase and approximately 60% payout ratio based on 2013 core EPS.
At today’s stock price it represents a 3.2% yield and will bring our 10-year annualized dividend per share compound annual growth to 11%.
And we’re further increasing expected shareholder cash returns with a targeted $5 billion share repurchase target.
This represents a 67% increase over our 2013 repurchase and is approximately 4% of our market capitalization.
While doing so we expect to maintain tier one commercial paper access enabling us to retain low cost highly accessible financing.
Taken together these actions reflect a 35% increase in total shareholder cash returns compared to 2013 and will bring our cumulative 10-year cash returns to shareholders to over $60 billion.
As many of you know we have stated disciplined capital allocation as a top priority for our management and our board and we trust these actions will be seen by our shareholders as tangible evidence of this commitment.
With that we’ll take the first question.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question is coming from Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
On the NA beverage side it sounds like the decision to not pursue structural options is more of a permanent one as opposed to a decision just for now given the current environment.
That could change down the road.
Is that the right way to think about the decision? And then also can you give us more insight on how you expect to turn around trends in NA beverages going forward in its current state given you’re not making structural changes and we’re still seeing weakness here in the market share trends and profitability? Let’s start off with the performance in 2013.
It’s very important to put NAB in context.
If you look at measured channel performance because that’s where we are not disadvantaged because in the past clearly in food service we were disadvantaged.
In [unintelligible] which is measured channels we actually held value share versus our primary competitor in 2013.
So we feel very good about that.
This is focus on value share.
We’ve got price realization.
We’ve played the game very responsibly which is what you do when categories are going through the volatility that LRB was going through.
And importantly in many subsegments of the LRB business we gained share.
And even within CSDs products like Mountain Dew did exceedingly well.
So I’d say that the core metrics on LRB performance are trending upwards.
On food service which is as you know a good size of the market these are long term contracts and you’ve got to enter those markets very very carefully.
And where we did bid on food service accounts we did win them.
And so we feel good about the fact that our integrated portfolio of snacks and beverages is now giving us some wins and I think this has term run rate for growth and we feel good about that too.
So park that core performance aside.
Let me now talk about our decision.
We studied North American beverages and beverages in total in our portfolio exhaustively.
We spent a whole year looking at this and there isn’t a stone that we didn’t turn over.
And I’ll tell you at the end of the day we concluded that long term value is maximized with NAB staying in PepsiCo’s portfolio.
I think it’s very very important we return to focusing on running the business minimizing the disruption but more importantly I think it would help hugely if we could just let our North American beverage business employees focus on running the business as opposed to worrying about what the future is going to be.
I think the study we’ve done was exhaustive.
There isn’t a bank or consultant that we didn’t use that had an idea.
And at the end of the day we have to go off and run the business.
It’s a great business big profitable.
It generates a lot of cash.
Yet there are segments of that business large segments of the business going through a secular change.
We have to reinvent it with technology.
We will start launching products this year with the Stevia/sugar combination non-cola products while we test the cola products with these combinations in some markets of the world.
So I think we have to allow this transformation to play out because it’s too big a business and too profitable a business not to allow the transformation to play out.
So the long answer to your question is yes the decision has been made.
We’re going to go back to operating it.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Just a follow up to Dara’s question I guess I would be interested to know as you went through the analysis on North American beverages you know the market’s changed a lot right? The channels are changing and blurring.
Potential to sell product over the internet.
Coke is going to experiment with more single serve product or potential for single serve product at home.
So that plus the potential to use technology to change the production in manufacturing make it more efficient.
How do you fit your franchise bottlers into that changing market? Is the next step here or an important step to really improve NAB to make some changes with the way you interact with the franchisees to get the franchisees to sort of come along as you kind of bring them into a different world a more modern world? Do the franchisees become an impediment or in some way how are you going to change the way you interact with them? It’s a great question and in a way you explained why it’s critically important that you own the system because with the amount of disruptive change coming you’ve got to reduce the friction in the system so that you can actually go with the flow.
Having said that on the online shipping things through various fulfillment companies we are looking at all of that and in fact doing tests with all of them.
In terms of single serve products at home we are participating with multiple single serve home delivery product tests and I think it’s very important that we ultimately commit and play with people where we know the technology is working.
I think it’s too premature to commit without having a technology that actually works.
And finally you know our franchise bottlers are also seeing all the changes.
We have a good relationship with our franchise bottlers.
I think [unintelligible] has done a terrific job building the relationships with the franchise bottlers.
And they’re seeing the changing environment too.
And they want to work with us to make sure that together we grow the overall franchise.
So I think this is not about conflict.
This is about how we work together to solve a market disruption and that’s what we’re going through right now.
The good news is that 75% of the system we own.
So we have far fewer bottlers to deal with and they’re all smaller bottlers.
We don’t have the overhang of a big independent bottler to deal with anymore.
Our next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Hugh could you talk a little bit about your earnings target? Instead of giving a range you gave sort of a 7% number here.
So can you talk about this? Is this sort of 7% plus or minus? And then to sort of keep on the North American beverage bandwagon here but a little more micro can you talk a little bit about how you guys are perceiving the pricing environment less so in terms of what we’re seeing in the market right now but more so what you guys are building in heading into the summer selling season? On the North American beverage pricing we’ve said very clearly that we intend to play a very responsible game.
We’ve got a couple of points of price [unintelligible] last year and our goal is to make sure that we take the price increases that we have to because in categories that are going through the kind of change that the cola category and CSDs is going through particularly it’s very important that we don’t take down pricing.
Because a lot of the research is showing that just taking down pricing is not going to drive consumption.
So it’s very important that we execute responsible pricing and that’s what we’re doing.
A couple of points of pricing going forward is really what we’re looking for in North American beverages.
And with that Obviously we give long term guidance of high single-digits in order to be as transparent as we can in terms of what we think the portfolio is capable of generating.
And then as we get to the beginning of the year we really try to give you a four quarter target as best we can estimate in this volatile uncertain world of what we think is a likely delivery.
This year as we looked at that we pinned 7% as the likely number and I know it sounds specific but I think our investors appreciate the specificity in terms of what we do.
As we go through the year we’ll update on that as the year progresses and as the world evolves.
But when we say 7% we’re saying 7%.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
The first is just if you could quantify the Mexico tax effects? Because if we look for 2014 better taxes better buybacks better cost cutting you can kind of model commodity to currencies but Mexico quantification we have trouble with.
But the second question is a broader one.
You guys today Dr.
Pepper [unintelligible] yesterday both with guidance that was really tough on top line but very significant cost cutting to get to kind of mid-single digit type FX growth rates.
Do you think that this kind of running very fast on cost cutting more return to shareholders is going to become essentially the new norm in this industry especially to your earlier comment that where pricing is not up as much as it probably should be? And if that’s the case and I kind of think it is but if that’s the case can you give us a sense of what you think your ongoing not just EPS growth target is but kind of almost a TSR so EPS plus dividend that investors should think about in this new industry norm? I’m going to let Hugh give you some information on the details of the question that you asked about and then I’m going to give you some overall observations.
First regarding your question on Mexico obviously this is a difficult one for us even with all the information that we have to ascertain because what it’s created is a substantial price increase to consumers in the Mexican marketplace regarding our products.
Further obviously Mexican consumers are facing significant price increases across a broad variety of their baskets.
So our traditional elasticity models just don’t extend out to the size of the price increases that people are seeing.
We’ve obviously put a number in as a part of the guidance.
I think what we’ll do instead of sharing specific numbers right now is as the situation evolves as consumers get through the sticker shock of what they’re facing and we settle into what is a new demand level I think we’ll probably just update you quarter to quarter on what’s happening inside of Mexico.
So I think that’s probably the most efficient way to communicate this because it is a challenge right now for everyone to sort out what the likely impact is in Mexico.
Regarding your broader question I don’t think we’ve entered a new era of cost cutting alone.
I think it’s always going to be a balancing act in our space.
Certainly our geographic and product portfolio provide us with the opportunity to grow the top line in a pretty reasonable way hence the mid-single digit long term guidance.
That said we will certainly always look to be more efficient with the resources that we have some of which we’ll deliver to the bottom line some of which we will invest in capability and invest in innovation and brand building in order to fuel that top line growth to continue the virtuous cycle.
Regarding TSR we’ve talked about high single-digit as our long term earnings per share growth target.
Obviously we’ve taken the dividend up and those tend to be pretty permanent and that’s north of 3% right now in terms of the yield.
So I think that’s reasonable math for you to be working with.
That’s certainly our best estimation as a management team.
And I think just in terms of overall observation I would say now’s the time that we have to keep growing in emerging and developing markets.
You can’t back off that growth because all the competitive positions are being established.
So as you grow rapidly in emerging and developing markets the margin profile is different and cost inflation is very different than it is in developed markets.
You have a slowdown in developed markets and you have continued [unintelligible] growth in emerging and developing markets.
In terms of the overall portfolio you’ve got to make sure that you look at the dilutive effect of the emerging and developing market growth and offset that with increased productivity so overall the portfolio works.
And that’s the whole portfolio play that we’re focused on but it’s very important that you don’t talk about it as cost cutting.
Because if you cut costs for the sake of cost cutting it’s very different than meaningful productivity programs to fundamentally change the cost basis of the company.
So when we talk about a productivity program we think okay we put in the SAP system starting in 2002 we now have more visibility we can harmonize processes so we can do shared services or we can ensure compliance when we lift and shift ideas.
So it’s got to be a very deliberate program to fundamentally take the cost structure to a new level not just cut costs to deliver one year of earnings growth.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Obviously 2013 was a terrific year for Frito both in terms of growth and market share.
So could you just give us some indication as to what’s coming in 2014? And then obviously a lot of that growth was driven by a terrific step up especially North America in marketing spending.
So do you still intend to obviously increase that [unintelligible] in 2014? And then one very quick one after that.
Do you have any interest in home carbonation? Obviously the Green Mountain Coke partnership was announced and I know Bryan asked about it briefly but I didn’t hear a response.
We’ll try to answer both your questions.
The first on Frito Lay North America you’re absolutely right.
Frito Lay North America had a terrific year but let’s just talk about the Frito journey.
From about 2011 to 2012 those years we revamped Frito Lay.
We re-looked at the insights model.
We tried to understand what was going on in the consumer landscape.
How should we think about our product positioning our brands which composition to go after this was a fundamental relook at everything we did at Frito Lay.
We re-looked at the costs [unintelligible] really took root during that time.
And in 2012 we stepped up investment behind this whole model on demand spaces and insight that we had worked on.
So we’re beginning to see the benefits of that in 2013.
And you’ll see more of that going into 2014 2015 and 2016 because we have the entire macro snacks space that we can go after with our strong salty snack base.
And that’s our plan to selectively go after certain demand moments with the salty snack base that we have.
The good news is that a lot of that insight work the demand spaces work that was done at Frito Lay we are now taking to beverages.
And since 2013 we’ve been working at fine tuning the beverages insights engine so it can get to the Frito Lay North America level.
So we have great optimism for how this whole North American business is going to think about consumers brand innovation demand growth.
I think the future looks good.
Let’s now talk about in-home carbonation.
The way you should think about this is another distribution channel for carbonated beverages or sparkling beverages.
GMCR is one option.
Interestingly there are multiple multiple multiple technologies out there.
What we’ve been sorting through I’d say for at least 12 months is making sure that we don’t lock and load with any technology until the technology has proven out.
There’s going to be one technology today that’s functioning but it’s based on a system that’s very different than what GMCR is thinking about launching.
But we have to make sure that we align with partners who we are sure will commercialize the product.
So we are working with multiple people.
Stay tuned.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
When I look at your revenue target for 2014 it’s mid-single digits so that’s in line with your long term target which is different than your EPS target that’s at the low end of your long term target.
So I just want to get an understanding of within your revenue growth target you have confidence in high single to low double-digit growth that you expect to see in your emerging markets.
And just maybe a little bit more color around your key markets.
What are you expecting from markets like Russia China etc.? And Hugh just on the currency guidance I just wanted to understand what you’re baking in for Venezuela? I’ll just talk to you about overall emerging and developing markets rather than individual countries.
I’ll tell you taken together and it’s very important that we look at emerging and developing markets as a portfolio because in any one year you’re going to see some markets go through volatility and other markets perform well.
If you look over the last 10 years that’s been the case.
And so I don’t think we should pick out any individual country.
When something goes up something else goes down.
So as a portfolio in emerging and developing markets we’ll deliver the kind of numbers that we talked about.
We feel fairly confident.
Barring any major crisis which we do not anticipate we think our emerging and developing markets will deliver the numbers that we talked about.
On Venezuela? Judy as you know Venezuela is certainly an interesting and challenging environment right now.
You know there are two rates out there.
There’s the 6.3 rate and then the 11 rate.
We haven’t seen any “official” devaluation yet out of Venezuela.
The planning assumption that we’re using based on the blend of the two rates is 10.
So that’s our operating assumption right now.
Obviously until the valuation comes if it comes we haven’t run it through the balance sheet yet but that’s our planning assumption right now.
And our final question comes from the line of Mark Schwartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Question about how you’re thinking about the balance sheet and the leverage.
Nice to see the return of cash exceeding the free cash flow.
What do you think of having some sort of EBITDA target a 2.5 or even a 3x target? Or how are you thinking beyond ’14 treating the leverage given the more aggressive approach to returning cash? What we talked about rather than getting into specific leverage targets and specific long term ratings targets is maintaining access to tier one commercial paper.
I think that’s the best way for us to think about it because for a company that generates a lot of cash for a company that has an excellent business rating from the various rating agencies tier one CP access is really the thing we’ll probably manage to more than anything else.
So that’s the way we’re thinking about it on a go-forward basis rather than getting into specific leverage targets or long term ratings targets.
We have time for one additional question.
Our final question comes from Caroline Levy from CLSA.
Just a question which I think I know the answer to but I have to ask it again.
Given that you’ve got this valuable distribution system and the fastest growing carbonated drink out there right now is still in the energy category do you still rule out the idea of acquisitions? Yes.
Can you explain why? Because you’re not participating in this business that appears to have legs.
Do you think you can go after it in another way? Mountain Dew Kickstart is our version of the energy drink that’s right for the masses.
And we distribute other energy drinks.
Caroline I’ll tell you something we’ve looked at this category long and hard and we look at what we can do with those businesses and whether it’s value creating for shareholders if we were to make any acquisition and all our analysis says it will not.
And so we’ve chosen not to do an acquisition here.
And Caroline if I can add to that as well.
From the standpoint of the energy category I think you’re aware that we do have a distribution arrangement with Rock Star.
That is a distribution arrangement that’s worked very well for them and it’s worked very well for us.
And that is our play in the energy category in North America.
Mountain Dew Kickstart plays around the energy space but it’s not in the energy space in a similar way that Starbucks Frappuccino and iced coffee and other potential innovations go down that path as well.
So I think we have a full complement of products to meet the energy need space for consumers and I think we’re positioned well.
Thank you all for your questions.
In closing we delivered on our financial goals for 2013.
We have confidence in our ability to meet our goals for 2014.
Our portfolio positions us well for future growth and at the same time provides attractive shareholder cash returns.
I thank you for your time this morning and for the confidence you’ve placed in us with your investments.
Have a good day.