Good day everyone.
And welcome to Pfizer's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's first quarter 2011 performance.
I'm here with our CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Primary Care; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for Nutritionals; and David Simmons President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance First Quarter 2011 which is located in the Investor Presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause the actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Also the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today May 3 2011.
These reports are also available on our website at pfizer.com in the Investors SEC Filings section.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck.
Good morning everyone.
During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter speak to the perimeters we are making in executing on our R&amp;D strategy provide updates regarding our late-stage product portfolio and capital allocation initiatives.
And I will close with an update on the business portfolio review work we have underway.
Our year is off to a good start our results were favorably impacted by revenue growth from several key products growth in Emerging Markets the addition of legacy King products and the benefits from cost reduction initiatives among other things.
At the same time revenues were also negatively impacted by the loss of exclusivity of several products in the U.S.
and other geographies.
Frank will take you through the details of the quarter but here are a few of the noteworthy highlights.
We saw strong growth in the Prevnar franchise Enbrel Zyvox notably in the U.S.
and Japan.
We saw growth from several other products including Lyrica Spiriva and Celebrex in key international markets.
We had 8% operational growth in the Biopharmaceutical Emerging Markets business including 10% operational growth in the BRIC-MT countries.
This was highlighted by a strong growth in China India and Turkey.
Sales were impacted by a large vaccine sales in the first quarter of 2010.
Our overall global innovative core of patent-protected Biopharmaceutical products had operational growth in the mid-single digits.
Within our Established Products business if we exclude revenue additions to the business unit from off-patent Wyeth and King products as well as LOE transfers from the other business units since beginning of 2009 we saw 7% growth.
This performance was driven by both the legacy Pfizer Established Products from the unit as of 2009  and those products added to the portfolio expansion strategy.
This is a good measure of the progress we've made since creating this business unit in 2008.
With the goal of transforming what was a shrinking revenue base to a growth opportunity.
We continue to remain focused on efforts to reduce costs with a more disciplined and deeply-rooted cost management effort.
Operating savings were realized during the quarter due to the Wyeth integration workforce reductions actions taken with the R&amp;D portfolio as well as savings from our smaller physical footprint.
So far this year through April 30 we've returned approximately $3.8 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
And in early April  we announced an agreement to sell Capsugel business for $2.375 billion in cash to KKR.
Looking ahead through the rest of the year I believe our performance during the first quarter firmly positions us for executing our 2011 plan in achieving our financial guidance.
Now I'll turn to an update on the progress we're making with our R&amp;D strategy.
I will begin by reiterating that improving the performance of our innovative core remains my top priority.
Since sharing with you our R&amp;D strategy during the February earnings call we have moved quickly to set in motion the actions needed to execute on our plans.
Over the past 3 months we have spent time successfully aligning colleagues across the business with our strategy.
We are taking important steps forward provide greater budget authority and accountability to our disease area chief scientific officers.
Based on my interaction with our R&amp;D team I remain confident that we have chief scientific officers who will deliver scientific excellence with an ROI mentality.
We have completed a review of our pre-proof-of-concept portfolio.
As a result of this review we have elected to terminate 39 projects.
We did this to create a greater focus on high potential projects in our areas of go-forward investment which include neuroscience cardiovascular/metabolic oncology inflammation and vaccines.
We believe these and other changes will lead to more effective prioritization of portfolio based on key value and cross criteria.
We said we would establish dedicated unit focused on pain and sensory disorders to that end we recently opened a new biotech research unit in Cambridge U.K.
focused in this area.
We have also started the preparations for shifting resources to strengthen our key biomedical hubs including the Cambridge Massachusetts and New York City academic hub and have begun recruiting key talent.
Clearly our work here is not going to be completed in one year.
It is a multiyear endeavor and I'm working closely with Mikael Dolsten and the R&amp;D organization to accelerate our efforts.
As this work continues we are also seeing progress in our late-stage clinical portfolio that we anticipate will lead to new product opportunities.
During this year we expect to present clinical data on assets from each of our innovative Biopharmaceutical businesses: Primary Care Specialty Care and Oncology.
Specifically during 2011 we expect to report on several important programs in Phase III and some potential regulatory submissions and actions.
For Phase III we now have reported top line results for all 5 of the Tofacitinib Phase III registrational studies which we believe are forming a very encouraging clinical profile and expect to present detailed data at medical conferences during this year.
We expect additional clinical data to be presented for axitinib for renal cell carcinoma Prevnar 13 for the prevention of pneumococcal disease in adults age 50 and older and Eliquis which is a new name for apixaban re-data for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation.
And we continue to collect clinical data for crizotinib in non-small cell lung cancer patients and for Tofacitinib in psoriasis.
Regarding regulatory submissions the crizotinib will remain on track with our rolling U.S.
submission which began in January.
We look forward to acceptance of our application in the first half of this year.
We continue to anticipate filings in the U.S.
and the EU by the end of 2011 for certain other oncology compounds as well as for Tofacitinib and Eliquis.
In terms of anticipated regulatory decisions later this year the PDUFA date for REMOXY is currently set for June 23 2011.
At this point we are working to address the specific issue in the manufacturing section of the application as well as to understanding any potential implications for FDA'S recent class-wide REMS announcement for extended-release opioids.
These issues could delay the timing of approval or the launch of REMOXY.
We expect to receive actions later this year on our U.S.
and EU filings for Prevnar 13 in adults.
In summary each of these assets or compounds is truly innovative and demonstrate our capabilities.
Next I'll discuss our ongoing efforts around how we are allocating our capital to directly enhance shareholder value.
Specifically as of April 30 we repurchased approximately 2.2 billion of Pfizer shares this year.
With our recent agreement to sell Capsugel to KKR for approximately $2.4 billion in cash we now expect to repurchase at least 5 billion and up to 7 billion of shares during 2011.
This compares to our previously announced plan to repurchase approximately 5 billion of shares in 2011.
We may also consider using a portion of the proceeds from selling Capsugel to fund other opportunistic business development transactions that are expected to meet or exceed the return on investment to share repurchases.
Regarding business development we will continue to identify and pursue those bolt-on opportunities that leverage our core capabilities and then build on our portfolio strengths.
We will seek and pursue the opportunities that we believe will return the highest value to our shareholders.
On our February earnings call I shared with you that we are looking at the long-term value creation potential of all of our businesses.
As part of the evaluation we will consider synergies between businesses the opportunity costs associated with continued or increase investment in each business as well as the potential returns from pursuing other strategic alternatives.
As I previously shared with you we're undertaking a rigorous process which we expect to complete during the second half of 2011.
Following the completion of this process we'll be in a position to make a set of decisions and determine the appropriate next steps based on those decisions.
In summary with a solid quarter behind us I believe we're making good progress in executing in our R&amp;D strategy to improve the performance of our innovative core building a strong pipeline with good scientific and commercial potential continuing to take steps that will enhance shareholder return in the near-term and we are being diligent in how we make the decisions that we believe will result in long-term value creation that maximizes  shareholder return.
Now I'll turn it over to Frank to take you through the numbers.
Thanks Ian.
Good day everyone.
As always the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast.
It's important to note that because of our decision to sell the Capsugel business all revenues and expenses related to Capsugel for both the first quarter 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 are included in a single line item discontinued operations net of tax in our consolidated income statement for the first quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2010.
In addition as a result of the completion of the King acquisition legacy King operations are included in the first quarter 2011 results beginning January 31 2011 but are not included in the results for the first quarter of 2010.
Now let's move on to the results.
First quarter 2011 reported revenues were $16.5 billion essentially flat year-over-year and favorably impacted by $224 million or 1% due to the addition of legacy King products $97 million or 1% due to foreign exchange.
First quarter 2011 revenues were decreased by $166 million or 1% due to U.S.
healthcare reform.
The 12% year-over-year increase in reported diluted EPS was driven by growth for certain products lower purchase accounting adjustments and acquisition-related costs associated with the Wyeth acquisition lower first quarter effective tax rate on reported income primarily reflecting the extension of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit the change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings during the quarter and the tax impact of charges related to certain legal matters these were partially offset by the lowest of exclusivity of certain products legal charges and cost incurred to improve overall R&amp;D productivity.
First quarter 2011 adjusted cost of sales increased 9% or $261 million versus the prior year quarter.
It's important to note that adjusted cost of sales was negatively impacted by $64 million due to foreign exchange; $30 million due to the Puerto Rico excise tax as well as healthcare reform which resulted in decreased revenues but did not correspondingly decrease cost of sales and a shift in product and business mix.
Consequently adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue increased year-over-year from 17.1% to 18.7%.
However excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange to Puerto Rico excise tax and healthcare reform adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 18.1%.
Adjusted total cost increased 3% to $9.6 billion driven by a shift in product and business mix the addition of legacy King operations which had an impact of $160 million the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $101 million the quarterly component of the annual fee required under U.S.
healthcare reform legislation which had a negative impact of $69 million and the previously mentioned impact of the Puerto Rico excise tax.
These were partially offset by savings from our cost reduction initiatives.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange adjusted total cost increased only 2% year-over-year.
Finally adjusted diluted EPS was $0.60 per share flat year-over-year and driven primarily by growth in certain products a lower effective tax rate on adjusted income and lower R&amp;D expenses offset by a shift in product and business mix the loss of exclusivity of certain products and the impact of U.S.
healthcare reform.
In the first quarter 2011 foreign exchange positively impacted revenues by $97 million and negatively impacted adjusted total cost by $101 million.
Remember our Q1 international results include the months of December January and February and over this timeframe the euro to the dollar actually worked against us on a year-over-year basis.
All in foreign exchange had essentially no impact on first quarter adjusted diluted EPS.
Primary Care unit revenues of $5.4 billion decreased 7% year-over-year driven by growth in Lyrica Spiriva Pristiq and Celebrex and certain other patent-protected products in key international markets as well as the addition of legacy King products.
These were more than offset by the loss of exclusivity of Lipitor in Spain and Canada and Aricept in the U.S.
all in 2010 which decreased Primary Care revenues by $590 million or 10% this quarter.
The 12% increase in Specialty Care unit revenues was driven by the strong growth in the Prevnar franchise Enbrel and Zyvox notably in the U.S.
and Japan.
Established Products unit revenues of $2.4 billion decreased year-over-year by 16% operationally primarily due to the loss of exclusivity of Effexor Protonix and Zosyn/Tazocin and the resulting increased competition facing these brands which was partially offset by the addition of legacy King products.
The 8% operational growth in Biopharmaceutical Emerging Markets revenue was due to both innovative products including Enbrel Lyrica Sutent and Vfend as well as Established Products.
Oncology unit revenues decreased 13% operationally primarily due to the transfer of Aromasin U.S.
business to Established Products in 2011 as a result of its loss of exclusivity in April 2011.
Animal Health grew 15% operationally of which 6% or $50 million was due to legacy King products and the remainder due to strong global performance.
And Consumer Healthcare grew 11% operationally driven primarily by higher sales of Robitussin and Advil Cough and Sinus (sic) [Advil Cold and Sinus] because of a more severe cold and flu season particularly in the U.S.
market.
First quarter 2011 revenues generated from both Biopharmaceutical and other businesses in Emerging Markets increased 11% year-over-year and Biopharmaceutical revenues grew 8% operationally.
It's important to note that over the same period Brazil Russia India China Mexico and Turkey contributed a combined 58% to the overall growth in Emerging Markets.
Revenues from the Biopharmaceutical businesses grew 10% operationally in these BRIC-MT markets to approximately $1 billion.
Revenues from Established Products and Emerging Markets increased 6% operationally to approximately $900 million.
And Established Products revenues in the BRIC-MT markets increased 13% to $450 million.
Finally worldwide revenues generated by sales in Established Products which include revenues from the Established Products business unit and revenues from Established Products generated in Emerging Markets totaled $3.3 billion in the first quarter.
We are reaffirming all elements of our 2011 financial guidance.
As a reminder on April 4 we updated our previous 2011 reported revenue guidance to $65.2 billion to $67.2 billion from $66 billion to $68 billion to reflect the pending sale of Capsugel.
We're also reaffirming our 2012 financial targets given our continued confidence in the business.
Again we updated our previous 2012 reported revenue target range to $62.2 billion to $64.7 billion from $63 billion to $65.5 billion due to the pending sale of Capsugel.
So moving on to key takeaways.
We continue to deliver strong operational performance.
We're reaffirming all elements of our 2011 financial guidance and 2012 financial targets.
We expect to complete our business portfolio review during the second half of 2011.
We anticipate presenting data and submitting regulatory submissions for several of our late-stage pipeline compounds during 2011.
And we continue to expect to repurchase $5 billion to $7 billion of common stock during 2011.
And we anticipate using approximately $2 billion of the after-tax proceeds from the pending sale of Capsugel for these repurchases and/or for business development.
To date in 2011 we repurchased approximately $2.2 billion or 110.5 million shares of our common stock including repurchases made in the second quarter.
Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.
Thanks Frank.
And at this point operator if you could please poll for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Ian a couple of questions for you.
Specifically if you could outline for us what you're -- how you're thinking about strategic alternative for Emerging Markets and Established Products.
And secondly if you could also share with us if you have narrowed your options regarding strategic alternatives for your diversified businesses? And then thirdly just so that you could clarify what your plans will be if assuming you do spend or sell some of these businesses what you will do with the cash proceeds? So let's take perhaps in reverse order.
I think we've said that proceeds if we do spend proceeds the case to be would be share repurchase.
So I think that's -- we've firmly drawn the line in the sand there.
You ask then for the look at the -- how I see or looking at the EP in the Emerging Markets strategic alternatives.
The EP business is made up of mature markets in the United States and in Europe and then the Emerging Markets.
In a mature markets it's really a low-cost and to a certain extent a price game.
And in the Emerging Markets it continues to be promotion and field force and traditional marketing.
So I think if we look at the strategic intersections the most interesting question is in the Emerging Markets and to the extent that the Established Products are part of the core are they linked to the infrastructure are they linked to overall presence in the marketplace and how would those businesses be operated separately or do they require different capabilities? So those are the first strategic questions we are looking at as we look at those 2 options.
And then you go ask me if I've narrowed my alternatives.
We are still reviewing all of our alternatives on the businesses outside of the core.
And we intend to take the first second half to go through that in a thorough way and as I say in my opening remarks we expect to start making some announcements during the second half.
I don't think see it as a big bang.
I don't foresee at some point second half suddenly coming out with a detailed master plan but certainly we'll lay out decisions we've taken and decisions we haven't and the wise and analysis and give a clearer path forward.
Your next question is from Catherine Arnold from Credit Suisse.
I wanted to ask Ian a big picture question and then I have a question on Nutritionals business.
If you step back Ian and I know that you've talked a lot about how you're evaluating each particular business on its own and what to do with it but clearly in the bigger picture I wonder if you can directionally just address what type of growth profile that you're trying to create for the Pfizer business ultimately? And thinking about the strategic exercise that you're going through are we talking about a company that's going to be growing mid-single digits mid to high single digits? Anything you can directionally say kind of as to your aspirations longer term would be helpful.
And then on the Nutritionals business it seems like the growth was a little weaker this quarter.
I wondered if you could give us some color on that.
Okay I'll address the first question and then ask perhaps Frank and Amy to add something on the second.
So when we look at post-'12 we'll continue to see a series of LOEs that will affect our growth rate yet we will be launching some really innovative products into that marketplace post-'12.
So I conceptualize the company if you put to one side the diversified businesses just in the way you described what's happening as a Pharmaceutical business it has an exciting inner core of launching new innovative products and then a set of more established assets that would -- some of those will be suffering LOEs.
I think the key question for the investors is how exciting is the innovative core how exciting once the penetration of those newly launched products and what will we do with the cash flows from those more mature products and to what extent can those cash flows be used to produce earnings growth? And without getting into any decisions about how we see the final shape of the company or how we see it being structured or managed I think those are the 2 big strategic themes in the company going forward.
Frank do you want to take the Nutrionals? Yes.
So Catherine let me just run the numbers and then I'll answer what took place.
Nutri sales for the quarter are about $470 million.
On a reported basis they were up low-single digits on an operational basis they were flat when you remove foreign exchange.
What's happening is last quarter's results so Q1 2010 actually had some favorable items onetime items that impacted revenue that did not take place this year.
So that's kind of major point 1.
Major point 2 is we'll add new products for the Nutri business this year and that weren't available yet in Q1 so we didn't get the benefit of those new products.
So when you look at kind of the numbers and then what happened those 2 reasons are really the driver of the Q1 revenue being essentially flat on an operational basis year-over-year.
The next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays.
Two questions.
First is 2 parts it's on Prevnar.
Prevnar 13 sequential growth remains extraordinarily strong in the U.S.
Can you comment as to the number of previously vaccinated Prevnar 7 and since we're coming back for a 13 boost relative to the overall de novo vaccines that has instance that did not have a vaccination and then therefore getting 13.
And part B of that question is can you comment internationally on maybe new tenders that you want in the quarter or those that may be coming up? And then the second question involves manufacturing.
As the LOE for Lipitor the Lipitor or Torisel looms in the near future question is do you continue to operate the manufacturing process at full capacity given you will be supplying Cobalt or Watson product for volume sale? Or do you actually ratch that back? Any color you would provide will be very helpful.
Geno do you want to take the Prevnar question? Yes sure.
Let me talk about first the catch up for Prevnar 13 in the U.S.
The catch-up program has been a strong contributor to our growth both in 2010 and continuing into 2011.
In the first quarter about $90 million of our revenues were associated with catch-up sales.
As time goes by the additional revenues from catch-up will diminish as we continue to complete that program but it should be a continued strong contributor for the remainder of this year.
And then in terms of new tenders we're  in a pretty solid position with most of our major developed markets right now.
We're seeing strong growth of actually the 7-valent in Japan with now new funding government funding available there and that's driving some significant growth in that country.
We signed a 2-year contract in Mexico recently and a number of other smaller markets in the Emerging Markets.
And then on the manufacturing question I think I'll start by saying clearly once Lipitor loses LOE in the U.S.
we will be competing vigorously for those volumes not only in the U.S.
but globally as it loses LOE in different countries.
And from a manufacturing perspective we clearly made assumptions around demand forecast and factor those into the manufacturing load.
So that's the way we think about it.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
A year and a half into the merger with Wyeth SG&amp;A isn't exactly going down I know you've talked about a couple things keeping trends higher but in 2011 it looks like it's probably going to be flat.
If I look at the midpoint of your 2012 SG&amp;A guidance versus the midpoint of the 2011 guidance you're saying SG&amp;A would be about $1.5 billion lower next year.
And I'm wondering if you can categorize where that $1.5 billion in cost savings is going to come from exactly? And then second question is if you decide that Established Products is not really part of the core or the future for Pfizer going forward can that business really be carved out from the parent? I'm just trying to figure out what that would look like and how it would work.
Is there a potential buyer for that business? Is it capable of standing on its own as a separate publicly traded company or what exactly? Tim it's Frank.
I'll hit the SI&amp;A question.
Let me just start with the numbers for the quarter.
So SI&amp;A for the quarter was give or take about $4.5 billion up about 4% year-over-year from $43.50 or so in the year-ago quarter.
Three things really driving that.
So you've got the addition of King you've got foreign exchange and then you've got healthcare reform.
So that's the annual fee.
The RX fee on the annual sales which is a charge to SG&amp;A.
All those 3 items all in are give or take about $170 million which more than basically offset what the increase was.
The slight difference is really from cost savings.
Now to run the numbers for the year our guidance for the year on SG&amp;A is about $19 billion to $20.2 billion is the range and then the 2012 target is $17.5 billion to $18 billion and then to your point if you take the midpoints you're seeing a number that's coming down give or take about $1.5 billion from '11 to onto '12.
The major categories there and let me frame this there is no one big ticket item.
Let me just start this it's not like some one big ticket item.
It's really multiple areas of opportunity.
And one of the things we'll have is we'll have some products that are going to be losing exclusivity.
There'll be some marketing and sales and savings as a result of some this products that are losing exclusivity.
Then there's lots of opportunities in the discretionary spend areas whether it'd be things like consulting non-employees how we travel so there's different buckets for each of those.
We continue to generate savings from our integration efforts that will be generating part of those savings.
So it's no one big ticket item.
It's a bunch of different opportunity areas all of which are being worked very aggressively inside the company.
So Tim on your question on Established Products.
All good questions all really good strategic questions that we're in fact dealing with and thinking through as we go through this year.
Certainly we have the critical mass and the size of our Established Products in the Emerging Markets for the business to be a stand-alone if we want it to be or if we wanted to try and look at some sort of way of improving the capabilities of that organization to be more effective.
I mean our thinking on this is clearly how do we create more value for shareholders what are the core capabilities needed to drive that business.
If you actually look at our performance in Emerging Markets we do very well on our legacy variance.
We do very well on our Specialty.
I would say that area that perhaps we struggle to compete against local companies is in the pure established brand products.
In there we're trying to step back and say "We have a strategy that's based on multi-sourcing from partners throughout the Emerging Markets." Is that strategy scalable? What is the best way of running that business? And so all the questions you asked are the questions we're trying to answer in the second half of the year.
Your next question comes from John Boris from Citi.
I just have a couple of questions.
Ian I think you'd indicated on the last conference call that you're going to be spending a fair amount of time with the R&amp;D organization.
What have you learned over the last quarter as you spent time with R&amp;D? And as you look at R&amp;D spend going forward is there any additional room for firming of the R&amp;D budget? Second question on Oncology I think you're about to file certain Oncology assets.
Can you maybe articulate whether axitinib and bosutinib are part of the those filings? And then the third question especially in light Ian of your comments on bolt-on opportunities with the highest return for shareholders can you help us understand whether you have the right business development process in place especially in light of the some of the things that we see with the King transaction most notably the withdrawal of EMBEDA REMOXY filing et cetera to ensure that these things can be hired out before a transaction is actually hit on.
On the R&amp;D organization I am very optimistic and enthusiastic about the organization.
I think under Mikael's leadership we're getting an entrepreneurial sense into the organization with empowered committed scientists that are focused on what I would call making unstoppable products shots in goal not shots on goal very acutely aware of the resources being used and the payback necessary to continue getting those resources.
On the spend I think we did this R&amp;D review that we did is part and parcel of the total strategic what we're doing of the other businesses.
It's not different in any sense.
So we arrived at an amount about funds we thought was appropriate to generate a return on investment of that innovative core.
So I think the spend is right and we'll see as the performance comes through what the appropriate spend level is.
Geno do you want to answer the Oncology? And I'll come back to the bolt-on thing.
Sure.
Yes.
It's an exciting time with the Oncology portfolio now.
We're continuing to proceed with the rolling filing for crizotinib in the U.S.
And we have plans to file axitinib in the U.S.
as well and are discussing bosutinib filings in both Europe and the United States.
And John on bolt-on acquisitions I think we have a rigorous process that goes through identifies opportunities and we have been very selective in where we chose to play and we have stepped back when necessary and we've been very disciplined in the use of our funds.
So I am pleased with the King acquisition.
We were pleased when we acquired it.
We remain pleased.
It provides significant immediate value creation.
It's accretive.
It adds to our scale of both PC business Primary Care business in the epiphan reflector patch and when EMBEDA and REMOXY are launched it will add to those capabilities it adds to our Animal Health business and to our E&amp;P business.
So I feel that we looked at the opportunities out there this was a prudent acquisition it was good value for money.
We saw the risks in our due diligence on EMBEDA and potentially on REMOXY.
And we took the decision based on the value we are acquiring at.
So I feel that we have a very solid process.
Your next question comes from Greg Gilbert from Merrill Lynch.
A follow-up on the King assets.
Can you give us some color on when or whether EMBEDA will come back? And what's the manufacturing issue on REMOXY that you mentioned and perhaps you could share your enthusiasm for that product and term of market.
My second question Ian is bigger picture do you think having a large portfolio of brands and generics including some very mature ones can help your new innovative product launches from a contracting point of view? Or do you not really subscribe to the product breadth and contracting muscle sort of playbook.
So on EMBEDA I can't give you an exact date.
We're  still working through the manufacturing issues on that and on REMOXY and that cause in general I'm very encouraged by the opportunities given the REMS that just come out in the government's recognition of this how important this area as in abuse deterrent and safety.
So I think as a strategic play it's very important for us and medium to long-term will work out very well.
And in regards the broad back portfolio I'm a lot more inclined to look at it asset by asset and look at the clinical value that the asset delivers to the society to the payer to governments around the world.
And I am really subscribed in today's marketplace to a breadth of portfolios being argument to get listings.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
I have 2 questions for you Ian.
The first is if you could provide some more color on your comment about no big bang in terms of your strategic review outcome do you mean to say that you're going to be making decisions one by one on the non-core assets and so that's why you said no big bang or are you backing off at all from your recent discussions that you're interested in significantly downsizing Pfizer? And then separately with respect to the innovative core I'm hoping that you could provide a little bit more color on how you plan to boost Pfizer's productivity in the face of a variety of headwinds including size working against innovation.
I know that you're  doing some small partnerships with academic institutions but that seems to be a small fraction of the spending and time of your R&amp;D organization.
It doesn't seems to be that there is a large effort on individual academic partnerships.
And then one follow-up on that is just maybe you could comment on improving your culture and being able to do so in the face of stepping down the R&amp;D spending.
Okay David.
So read the big bang.
We remain committed to looking at all our businesses and I think we used the expression no safety cows and we remain intent upon that.
What I was trying to convey there is that I don't expect in the second half to come forward with a fully mapped out announcement of dispositions and models that will direct the company for the next 5 to 10 years.
That is the intent to get to that and I think we will expect that over the rest of this year and some part of the beginning of '12 but certainly we will take decisions in the second half of '11 as regard to how we want to freight additional value for shareholders vis-à-vis what we do and how we treat the non-core businesses.
And we will get back to you in the second half on that.
But you should not interpret my comments in any way as being a reluctance to take the decisions necessary to drive the innovative core.
Vis-à-vis the culture and how we're going to return productivity in R&amp;D I think it comes down to a lot of work we've discussed on creating the chief scientific officers for disease areas empowering them giving them the right incentive structure giving them control over their budgets it comes down to the quality of leadership that Mikael Dolsten will exercise over research.
The quality of the leaders that we will hire and also utilize the leaders we already have inside the organization.
We intend to look at a very strong incentive to the system to motivate entrepreneurial behavior in R&amp;D.
And we're focusing on key disease areas where we believe we have capabilities and the depth of science to be successful.
So fundamentally we think we've sized our research sized the effort sized the resources and focused it so it will be productive.
And we will continue to work on that.
And while I think the model we have is going to be successful we will continue to review it and until we have metrics internally that will measure that on a sort of 6 monthly yearly basis.
And we're very very focused on getting this model right and getting productivity.
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JP Morgan.
My first question is on the strategic review.
It seems like several of the actions you could potentially consider if you were to break up pieces of your Pharma division could be associated with incremental near-term cost or dis-synergies.
At the same time it can lock a lot of shareholder value.
I guess how do you think of the trade-offs as you consider opportunities to reshape the company? The second question on business development obviously during your strategic review are your various business units free to pursue transactions particularly the larger bolt-on deals the multi-billion dollar type of acquisitions? Or should we think about Pfizer pursuing a lower amount of activity as we go through this year? Chris so yes I mean your characterization of the way we are looking at the innovative business and the diversified businesses are that we will look to see where there are natural synergies.
Are there reasons why this work well together and improve our market presence or are they really stand-alone where there are no dis-synergies.
We look at what we need to invest to maintain or improve market position.
I'm trying to assess what is the competitive set against where we're competing and what is the probabilities of continued success in those businesses.
All that comes down to our view of what is the net present value of the cash flows of those businesses.
And what is their value inside Pfizer and what is their value outside Pfizer and that will drive our decision-making on that.
As regard to business development each business unit is working in partnership with central business development resources to identify opportunities and bring them forward.
A key component is I want to have accountability I want to have BU leaders feeling responsible accountable for the deals that they propose.
They will then take on those deals and manage them much in the way that the King deal is a good deal and the business units that proposed it are responsible for the results of that acquisition.
The next question comes from Marc Goodman of UBS.
First question is on Tofa [Tofacitinib] can you just make sure we understand has there been any more deaths in any of the other studies that you just reported out on.
I think we're all pretty clear based on the press release you put out on the prior study but there was 2 additional studies that were put out.
So if you can comment on that and maybe just overall how you view the response out there and what's happening with Tofa? Second question is just specifically can you talk about Russia did it bounce back this quarter I know it was a tough quarter last quarter.
And then in China how are things looking specifically there what kind of growth did you see in the quarter? And are you still actively investing as fast as you can there? So Geno would you want to take the Tofa? Yes let me just talk about...
Then I'll ask between Frank and David to answer it.
Sure.
Yes.
On Tofa let me start by saying that the mortality rates that we've seen for Tofa across all trials are within expected range the expected range for therapies biologic therapies used in this patient population.
So these are very large trials with patients with severe moderate to severe disease and mortality does occur in these trials.
So we'll be reporting full results of all the trials at upcoming meetings but you won't find anything that's unusual with regard to the mortality rates.
David? Regarding the question for Brazil -- for Russia and China.
For Russia we did have a bounce-back this quarter from what we had last year and then the fourth quarter in particular.
And it was underlying demand was very good specifically in China things are going very very well in China.
we're currently the #1 ranked pharmaceutical company in the Chinese market and our evolution index is greater than 100.
We continue to have targeted investments in this area.
And we're very very pleased with our progress and optimistic for future growth in China.
Your next question comes from David Maris from CLSA Credit Agricole.
I'd like to ask what an evolution index is but I'm not going to waste my valuable questions...
We'll answer it anyhow right? Okay.
So separately Ian and Frank your discussions maybe you could tell us with your discussions with teams and payers what are their biggest challenges right now that have implications on Pfizer in other words what are your customers telling you? And then separately legislatively is there anything in recent months that you're concerned about or less concerned about the pricing environment in the U.S.? And what do you think of the implications are for the legislation to de-fund the state health insurance exchanges.
Are there any implications for the drug industry or for Pfizer? So evolution index that is a measure of are you growing faster or slower than the market so 100 would mean you're growing at the market rate 500 is you're growing faster than the market below 100 you're growing less than the market.
So David's comment about China that we have a positive evolution index means we're growing faster than the market rate to date.
The next question was on...
What the customers are telling us? Our customers remain focused in sort of broad terms.
They remain focused on ensuring that they have a competitive offering to their customers in regards to the quality of their healthcare and the cost of price of their healthcare.
So to the extent that we participate in doing that where we add value to their offerings then we're going to be successful.
And on the environment really I think it's very much in flux.
We're working along the assumptions of the law that we have in place today.
And we'll see how it develops as it develops.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
LLC</strong> The recent EULAR Tofa abstract said it's 4 opportunistic infections.
I'm wondering if you could tell us what the causative organisms were? And secondly regarding Pfizer's relationship with Codexis for Lipitor intermediates do you have an exclusive supply of ATS-5 from Codexis? And can you explain or would you explain the difference between the 2 intermediates ATS 5 and ATS-8 given the latter is not exclusive to Pfizer? Okay so on the Lipitor supply I have to confess I do not have those details Steve.
We would try if we can get back to you on a separate information on those details around the Lipitor and the Codexis relationship I really don't have any information on that.
And the first question was ...
Yes.
Related to the 4 opportunistic infections I cannot quote the pathogens we'll be presenting that data at EULAR in a very short term so.
To reiterate we've seen nothing.
Yes we didn't see anything unusual but I can't name the pathogens.
Our final question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.
I'm just wondering can you -- on the strategic review Ian when we kind of think about the difficulties of sort of breaking up the company and the way that the debt was structured.
Is there anything that we should think about with regard to covenants for the debt and the ability to kind of restructure the debt associated with some of the potential movements going forward.
I'll ask Frank to answer that.
Yes.
So I think Seamus the short answer is no.
Given how the debt is structured we don't see that handcuffing our ability to make the right operational and shareholder value decisions relative to the business portfolio.
Thank you everybody for your time this morning.
I appreciate it.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Pfizer's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us today to review Pfizer's second quarter 2011 performance.
I'm here with our CEO Ian Read; Frank D’Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Primary Care; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for Nutritionals; and David Simmons President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage at pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2011 located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Also the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today August 2 2011.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck.
Good morning everyone.
During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter touch on the announcement we made last month concerning our strategic portfolio review highlight some of the progress we're making in our late-stage product portfolio and growing mid-stage pipeline and speak to some example to the progress and positive changes we are making and executing our R&amp;D strategy.
Our results for the quarter are in line with our expectations and demonstrate that our business can remain resilient despite current macroeconomic challenges and the impact of loss of exclusivity of several products.
While revenues were down slightly year-over-year I would note that during the quarter we absorbed a revenue impact of approximately $1.7 billion mainly due to LOEs in the U.S.
Europe and Canada and several emerging markets in addition to U.S.
healthcare reform.
Without these downward pressures revenue would have been slightly up for the quarter.
Although these losses of exclusivity have a dampening impact on the year-over-year growth comparisons our prospects to launch innovative products and the earnings per share growth remains strong.
Frank will take you through the details of the quarter but here are a few of the noteworthy highlights.
Core patent-protected growth drivers such as Lyrica Enbrel the Prevenar franchise and Sutent continue to perform well in many geographies.
Emerging Markets business experienced losses of exclusivity of Lipitor in Brazil and Mexico and Viagra in Brazil and still delivered revenue growth both overall and operationally.
We saw growth in key innovative brands primarily Enbrel Prevenar franchise Lyrica and Vfend and strong overall performance in key countries such as China Turkey and India.
Volume overall within our Emerging Markets business increased 12% if you remove the impact from the LOEs.
Despite quarter-to-quarter volatility we continue to expect improving performance in Emerging Markets reflecting strong performance from our core innovative products as well as improvement within the Established Products portfolio as partnerships such as the ones we have with Teuto in Brazil result in new product launches.
For the first time our Animal Health business achieved a significant milestone delivering $1 billion in quarterly revenues.
The Consumer Healthcare business reported solid revenue growth primarily driven by Robitussin Advil Congestion Relief and a strong cough and cold season.
We also just completed the sale of Capsugel.
We continue to improve the efficiency of the business through existing and newly identified process improvements and cost reduction initiatives particularly in the work we're doing to improve R&amp;D productivity and we remain focused on taking actions to increase shareholder value.
So far this year through August 1 we have returned approximately $7.5 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Early last month we shared with you the results of the portfolio review process we undertook that will shape and focus the direction of the company over the next 1 to 2 years.
We determined that the best path to maximizing shareholder value is to explore strategic alternatives for our Animal Health and Nutritional business.
We will do this by assessing several options in pursuing the pathways to each of these business that delivers the greatest after-tax return to shareholders.
Given the types of alternatives we are considering we anticipate determining the path we will pursue for Animal Health and Nutritional sometime in 2012 and continue to expect that it will take 12 to 24 months from when we announced our decision to fully complete the potential separation of these businesses.
Based on this review we'll also determine that we can enhance the value of our Established Products and Consumer Healthcare businesses by having them remain within Pfizer.
Established Products is an important pillar of our growth strategy and is well positioned to capture the opportunities being created by the demographic trends and rising economic power within the emerging markets.
For the Consumer Health business we see an opportunity to potentially extend the value of some pharmaceutical assets and are currently evaluating the possibility of RX-to-OTC switches of some products in our portfolio.
This is an area where we currently allocate resources and believe we can generate attractive returns on investment capital.
While our portfolio review has been a focal point for the company we have made some important strides in the work we have underway to strengthen our innovative core.
I anticipate that over the next 12 to 24 months we will have the potential to launch several new products from among assets currently in our late-stage portfolio: axitinib bosutinib crizotinib Eliquis Prevnar 13 and tofacitinib.
During the second quarter we achieved several milestones.
I'll start with the momentum during the quarter within our Oncology pipeline.
Our new drug application for crizotinib whose trade name will be Raucuri [ph] has been filed and accepted and it's now under priority review with the FDA.
This medicine is an example of a new era of precision medicine.
The EMA and FDA accepted our filing for crizotinib for previously treated patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma.
Sutent received FDA approval as a treatment for individuals with advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.
We began Phase III study enrollments for dacomitinib our oral pan-HER inhibitor being investigated for advanced non-small cell lung cancer and inotuzumab our antibody drug conjugate being investigated for aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
A few words about tofacitinib.
During the second quarter we presented detailed results of the ORAL Sync study at EULAR in London.
This study evaluating tofacitinib with background DMARD therapy met all primary efficacy endpoints by showing statistically significant changes versus placebo in reducing signs and symptoms and improving physical function in patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis with results seen as early as 2 weeks.
These findings are consistent with previously reported results for ORAL Solo that showed tofacitinib monotherapy provided significant and clinically meaningful improvement in signs and symptoms of RA and physical function also within 2 weeks of treatment.
We have now completed the Phase III program for tofacitinib in rheumatoid arthritis and we hope to present information from the other 3 pivotal Phase III studies ORAL Step ORAL Stand and ORAL Scan at the American College of Rheumatology Annual Conference in November.
We remain encouraged with the results we've seen in the profile of the drug and continue to expect to file in both the U.S.
and the EU by end of this year.
Also by end of this year in EU and by early next year in the U.S.
we expect to receive regulatory action on our filings of Prevnar 13 for the prevention of pneumococcal disease in adults aged 50 and older.
Regarding Eliquis we are very excited about the initial results for Phase III ARISTOTLE study in patients with atrial fibrillation which indicates that Eliquis met its primary endpoints and key secondary endpoints.
We believe these results can support a strong competitive profile for the drug.
With our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb we expect to submit regulatory filings in atrial fibrillation in the U.S.
and EU in the third or fourth quarter of this year.
The European Commission already approved Eliquis within the EU for the prevention of venous thromboembolic events in adult patients who have undergone selective hip or knee replacement surgery.
Pain remains an important strategic disease area for Pfizer.
During the quarter we announced with Acura Pharmaceutical that Oxecta received marketing approval from the FDA for the management of acute and chronic moderate to severe pain with the use of an opioid analgesic as appropriate.
Regarding REMOXY On last quarter's call I told you we were working for a specific issue in the manufacturing section of the NDA.
In June we announced that we and Pain Therapeutics received a complete response letter from the FDA indicating there are still unresolved issues primarily related to manufacturing.
We remain engaged in working through these issues and have been generating additional manufacturing data that will serve as a basis to engage in several discussions with the FDA.
We are working diligently towards the satisfactory resolution.
Overall I believe our late-stage pipeline is stronger than it has been for several years and I'm encouraged by some of the developments in our mid-stage pipeline.
During this quarter we have seen positive movements with the advancement of compounds in Phase II for diabetes hypocholesterolemia and we are encouraged with an expanding portfolio of anti-inflammatory drugs including novel biologic programs in inflammatory bowel disease.
We also initiated a Phase I/II study to staph aureus vaccine which is a prophylactic vaccine containing 4 distinct antigens.
You have heard me say that I fundamentally believe in the power of innovation of pharmaceuticals.
To be successful over time and to deliver on the promise of our pipeline products we must improve the rigor of our approach.
I believe we are doing just that with swift implementation of the structural changes and partnerships we announced earlier this year to help strengthen our innovative core and deliver the innovations that matter most.
Specifically during the quarter we took several steps to further focus our resources and develop additional innovative external relationships.
Notably we prioritize the pre-proof of concept portfolio terminating over 90 programs that we felt outside our priority disease area or were not scientifically or commercially attractive.
We launched a Center for Therapeutic Innovation in Boston with 8 academic medical centers.
This follows previously announced partnerships with academic medical institutions in California and New York.
We announced new strategic partnerships with Icon and Parexel for clinical trial implementation services finalized our go-forward operating model for pharmaceutical sciences and we are advancing our precision medicine strategy and we now have precision medicine approaches active in every research unit.
Over the next 5 years we expect that most of our Phase III starts will reflect the precision medicine approach that is expected to deliver a more dramatic treatment effect for patients and make the value of treatment easier to demonstrate to payers.
In summary I am pleased with the progress we've made and the direction we've set for the company.
Our colleagues are motivated and engaged in the successful execution of the initiatives we have underway to focus Pfizer and have a greater sense of ownership of these initiatives.
We are delivering on the work we have underway to improve the performance of the united core and allocate resources in a way that best maximize value for shareholders.
Now I will turn it over to Frank.
Thanks Ian.
Good day everyone.
As always the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast.
Now let's move on to the results.
Revenues of about $17 billion decreased 1% quarter-over-quarter.
However as Ian previously mentioned this quarter we absorbed approximately $1.7 billion or 10% of revenue declines due to the loss of exclusivity of certain products in the U.S.
Europe Canada and several key emerging markets which reduced revenues by about $1.5 billion or 9% and U.S.
healthcare reform legislation which reduced revenues by $158 million or 1%.
These declines were partially offset by $740 million or 4% from foreign exchange $357 million or 2% from the addition of legacy King products and growth in key in-line products such as the Prevenar franchise Lyrica Enbrel and Sutent among others.
Reported diluted EPS increased 6% year-over-year to $0.33 which was driven by growth in the key in-line products I just mentioned the addition of legacy King operations lower acquisition-related costs and purchased accounting adjustments and a lower effective tax rate which were partially offset by the LOE of certain products and expenses incurred cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
Second quarter 2011 adjusted cost of sales increased 15% or approximately $400 million versus the prior year quarter due primarily to the negative impact of foreign exchange which increased adjusted cost of sales by $460 million or 16% the addition of legacy King operations and a shift in product and business mix.
Consequently adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue increased year-over-year to 19.2% from 16.6%.
However excluding the impact of foreign exchange adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 17.2%.
Adjusted total cost increased 6% driven primarily by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $681 million or 7% and the addition of legacy King operations.
These were partially offset by the positive impact of savings from our cost reduction productivity initiatives especially in R&amp;D.
I want to point out that excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange cost and expenses associated with the addition of King operations U.S.
healthcare reform and the Puerto Rico excise tax adjusted total cost in the second quarter decreased $450 million or about 5% year-over-year.
Finally adjusted diluted EPS was $0.60 per share versus $0.61 in the year-ago quarter representing a 2% decrease.
Adjusted diluted EPS was favorably impacted by growth in certain products the addition of legacy King operations lower R&amp;D expenses and a lower effective tax rate which were more than offset by the negative impact of the loss of exclusivity of certain products a shift in product and business mix and increased SI&amp;A expenses including the impact of U.S.
healthcare reform.
In second quarter 2011 foreign exchange positively impacted revenues by $740 million or 4% and negatively impacted adjusted total cost by $681 million or 7%.
As a result foreign exchange favorably impacted adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01.
I want to point out again that in the second quarter we continue to absorb revenue declines of approximately $1.5 billion as a result of the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies.
Specifically within the Biopharmaceutical businesses the year-over-year operational performance reflects the loss of exclusivity of certain products including Lipitor in Spain and Canada and Aricept in the U.S.
all of which occurred in 2010 and negatively impacted Primary Care revenues; Vfend and Xalatan in the U.S.
in 2011 which negatively impacted Specialty Care revenues; Aromasin in the U.S.
in 2011 which negatively impacted Oncology revenues; Lipitor in Brazil and Mexico and Viagra in Brazil both of which occurred in 2010 and negatively impacted Emerging Markets revenues; and Effexor Protonix and Zosyn  which negatively impacted Established Products revenues.
The Animal Health business for the first time this quarter achieved revenues of more than $1 billion which reflected a year-over-year increase of 13% operationally driven by the addition of legacy King products and the performance of legacy Pfizer Animal Health products.
Second quarter 2011 revenues generated from both Biopharmaceutical and other businesses in Emerging Markets increased 10% year-over-year and Biopharmaceutical revenues grew 3% operationally in those markets.
It's important to note that over the same period Brazil Russia India China Mexico and Turkey contributed a combined 56% of the overall growth in Emerging Markets.
In addition Biopharma sales in China Turkey and India grew year-over-year by approximately 15% 25% and 15% respectively and revenues from the Biopharmaceutical businesses grew 5% operationally in the BRIC-MT markets to approximately $1.1 billion.
In addition year-to-date Biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets increased 8% operationally to about $2.1 billion.
Finally worldwide revenues generated by sales in Emerging Markets totaled more than $3.3 billion in the second quarter despite the flat year-over-year revenues in Established Products which reflected volume increases offset by price decreases in certain markets.
Given our continued confidence in our business we are reaffirming all elements of our 2011 financial guidance.
It's important to note that our 2011 guidance on reported results does not include the estimated gain from the sale of Capsugel to KKR given that the transaction was completed yesterday.
We continue to expect to redeploy the after-tax proceeds from the sale of Capsugel into share repurchases and to other opportunities that are expected to meet or exceed the return on investment of share repurchases.
We're also reaffirming all elements of our 2012 financial targets.
So finally moving on to key takeaways.
We continue to deliver to operational performance in line with our expectations while absorbing the impact of the loss of exclusivity of several products in both the U.S.
and other markets.
We are reaffirming all elements of 2011 financial guidance and 2012 financial targets given our continued confidence in the business.
We have completed our portfolio review and as a result of that review we are exploring strategic alternatives for Animal Health and Nutrition businesses that will deliver the greatest after-tax return for our shareholders.
We remain focused on improving the performance of our innovative core and have made significant advances in our late-stage pipeline.
We continue to anticipate repurchasing $5 billion to $7 billion of our shares in 2011.
In fact during the second quarter we repurchased $2.2 billion or 109.2 million shares and to-date we have repurchased a total of $4.3 billion or 213.7 million shares.
Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.
Thanks Frank.
And at this point operator if you could please poll for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Ian a question for you.
So we've had first half earnings.
Pfizer came in in line if not slightly better than analyst projections.
I'm just wondering why you're not taking the opportunity to raise the bottom end of your projections for the year.
I'm just wondering what you're trying to signal if anything about the second half.
And my second question relates to the strategic announcement you made a few weeks ago about spinning or selling Animal Health and Nutritional.
Just wondering what your strategic plans are for Consumer and Established Products and how you plan to unlock value of those 2 assets internally now that the decision is to keep those assets inside Pfizer versus spinning or selling those businesses as you are with the other 2 assets.
And just please if you could remind us what your plans are to do with the proceeds of Animal Health and Nutritionals.
Okay.
I'll ask Frank to take the guidance question and then answer the questions on Consumer and EP.
And so on guidance Jami to your specific question we're not trying to signal anything.
I mean from my perspective there are several factors we've incorporated.
So first obviously there's the Lipitor LOE on November 30 in the U.S.
of this year.
There are some favorable onetime items that took place in the first half of the year that we don't expect to take place in the second half of the year like the favorable legal settlement that positively impacted Q2 results.
So let me just kind of drive this home with the other income and deduct line.
If you look for the quarter other deducts was $13 million.
If you look year-to-date it's $191 million and yet our guidance says approximately $1 billion for the year.
The reason for that is we don't expect those favorable items to reoccur in the second half of the year.
If you look at our net interest expense on a quarter-to-quarter basis it's about $325 million a quarter.
So for the second half of the year that's $650 million.
And there's potentially 1 or 2 unfavorable items that could occur in the second half of the year which gets you to the $1 billion.
Then there's the seasonality of our operational expense spending.
If you look at the company over the last couple of years typically we have a kind of an increase in Q4.
And then if you just can take all that and look at last year's EPS in terms of the rhythm of the numbers last year we did $2.21 $0.60 in Q1 $0.61 in Q2 so $1.21 for the first half of the year $0.54 in Q3 $0.46 in Q4.
So it was more biased towards the first half of the year.
So when we factor all that in we think it's prudent to reiterate our guidance for the year and quite frankly we're confident in our ability to meet that guidance.
Thank you Frank.
So Jami I'll do the proceeds one first.
Well all our cash flows including the proceeds we deploy to try and maximize the return to shareholders.
And while we look at all opportunities the case to beat still remains to be share buybacks.
So we're active.
We look for bolt-ons that we compare it to share buybacks as the parameter.
Now on EP and Consumer as you say we've elected to keep them in Pfizer.
We see them as good businesses.
In fact we see all the businesses we have as good businesses including Animal Health and Nutritional but we believe that we can add incremental value to Consumer and EP staying in Pfizer.
EP is important to our cash flows.
It's important to our presence in emerging markets and our ability to participate in the rising economic power in the emerging markets.
We will continue to be focused on country-specific or regional issues.
I see us continue to do things like we did with Teuto in Brazil or the type of partnerships we're doing with Hisun in China a very focused -- as Healthcare is local our focused approach to building our portfolio in those countries.
With Consumer it's a very good business.
We have opportunities of switching some of our pharmaceutical products from RX to OTC and we'll continue to invest in those brands that are very very long-lived and generate organic growth that way.
Thank you for the question.
Your next question comes from John Boris from Citi.
First question just has to do with Lipitor and loss of exclusivity in the back half.
Just your thoughts around what your assumptions are whether Ranbaxy is in the market or not in the market and whether you might be able to retain a higher share via PBMs of your branded product.
Also in the U.K.
I think Teva launched at-risk there.
Any thoughts on what the impact could be in the upcoming quarter? And then the last question just has to do with Eliquis.
Is it just possible to get an update? I think you're doing some of the formulation work on the -- moving from a b.i.d.
to a once-daily formulation.
Can we just get an update on timing of that? Thank you John.
So I'll ask if Olivier could handle the Lipitor lost exclusivity questions and Eliquis and then Amy Schulman will answer the U.K.
Teva situation.
Olivier please? So based on everything we know we now believe we continue to plan for 2 generic atorvastatin products to be in the market following LOE on November 30.
We expect that Watson will introduce its product at that date via its authorized generic supply agreement with Pfizer and we assume Ranbaxy will be in the market as well.
With respect to the situation in the U.K.
you're absolutely correct.
And as soon as we learned that Teva had entered the market we sued immediately.
We obtained a preliminary injunction.
And right now Teva and the 3 major wholesalers have submitted to that injunction so I think we have that situation well in hand.
And Eliquis? On Eliquis John I know that we are looking into QD dosage but for now they're all packaged and we would submit this in b.i.d.
as you know.
Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.
Two questions.
The first is around Prevnar 7 and 13 both in the U.S.
and internationally.
Could you comment on wholesale inventories and buying patterns that seem to be occurring there in this particular quarter that we haven't seen in the past? And the second question for Frank.
Just housekeeping please.
Around your '11 and '12 guidance with respect to R&amp;D spend which we do know is down would that be an abrupt change Frank or is that more of a scale? Or can you give us some color or comment around pacing of that decline? Thank you Tony.
Geno could you take the Prevnar 7 and 13 question? Sure.
So for Prevenar in the second quarter particularly in the U.S.
we saw a little bit of softening in buying as a result primarily of inventory builds in the first quarter ahead of the price increase that we put in place in April.
And that build has stabilized now and normalized and we're within the range of normal inventories.
McKesson did drop their inventory a little bit in the second quarter in the public sector but again still remains within range.
And then we compare second quarter '11 to second quarter '10 the anomaly there is explained by the increase in buying in the second quarter '10 coincident with the launch of the 13-valent product.
And then on the R&amp;D question Tony just to run the numbers and we said this year $8 billion to $8.5 billion and then we said next year $6.5 billion to $7 billion in terms of the rhythm of that.
I view that as kind of steady progress.
We'll make steady progress as we work our way through that.
And obviously one of the areas we'll be getting that out of is the nonpriority disease areas or kind of the lower-productivity areas that we've had.
So that's how we'll go about doing that.
Your next question comes from David Maris from CLSA.
A few questions.
First Ian what do you think the Express Scripts-Medco deal means to Pfizer and the industry and do you think it's symptomatic of something else? Second how do you think the sales force changes over the next year with the expiry of Lipitor and then the launch of what could be Eliquis as a number of other products? And then on the pipeline I don't know if you'd have this offhand but if things go as well as you expect how many of the Phase II programs do you expect to be in Phase III next year? Thank you David.
So Express Scripts I really think it's too early to tell.
We don't have any details of the merger how it will be completed if it will be completed so I think we need to wait on that analysis.
It's clearly obviously symptomatic of consolidation in that area of healthcare.
Field force changes.
We have -- I may ask Olivier to expand on this but we structured our field force in a way that we can make changes for the LOE in the coming and the new products that are coming in so I don't expect any material disruption to our field force over this period.
And in fact I think we have good morale in our field force right now.
Olivier do you want to add anything to that? I would just add that we are planning in fact for the Lipitor LOEs.
That's a portfolio on brand level for several years.
So Pfizer field force organization in the U.S.
is now appropriately sized to support the broader Primary Care portfolio over the coming years.
We have 10 assets being promoted next year and afterwards hopefully including Eliquis.
So the attention of our representative assigned to detail Lipitor today would shift to other assets at the appropriate time.
And concerning the Phase II pipeline so we haven't given an exact number of Phase III progression but I will share with you some of the excitements we have here.
We have a novel anti-inflammatory drug such as antibodies for MAdCAM and best-in-class I have 6 antibodies for lupus or inflammatory bowel disease.
We have novel small molecules addressing glucokinase an area where we are leading with both liver-selective and pancreas-active compounds.
We have a very exciting antibodies to lower cholesterol against the PCSK9 mechanism.
We're expanding indication for several of our own Oncology products such as inotuzumab into additional hematological malignancies and also crizotinib into drug combinations.
And we are advancing very exciting PI3K/mTOR molecules that we think have very broad activity against many solid tumors.
And as you're aware we're also expanding this vaccine pipeline.
We now are in the phase of starting the staph aureus vaccine which we think have a unique profile with 4 different vaccine components.
And finally when it comes to the neuroscience pain pipeline we have taken initiatives to broaden that with the activity such as the sodium channel product NaV 1.7 in our collaboration and recent acquisition of our Icagen novel drug for treatment-resistant depression alpha4beta2 as well as antibodies for retinal diseases.
So you hear it's a rich pipeline of novel mechanism and expansion of existing drugs.
And you will hear more next year about which one deliver proof of concept and into Phase III.
Your next question is from Catherine Arnold from Credit Suisse.
A couple of specific questions.
Could you talk about Prevnar growth in the Emerging Markets? It looks strong and I'm wondering if there's a specific region or are there any change in terms of guidelines from that region that would have driven that growth.
Can you give us a specific action date for crizotinib? And then lastly assuming your filing for tofacitinib later this year as you imply what will be the scale of the safety database that will be available around the time you would expect approval with the standard review in terms of patient exposure and duration of exposure to that drug.
Thank you Catherine.
So David could you take the Prevnar and Emerging Markets question there? I'll ask Geno to answer the crizotinib and tofacitinib.
So related to Prevnar and Emerging Markets there's been a lot of good progress in the past year particularly in the past 6 months with an NIP [ph] success in Turkey which is the main driver of Turkey's growth of 25% year-to-date as well as increased volume sales through the Gobi [ph] program as well as winning some NIPs and tenders in Latin America in particular which has been a gain from a position where we were at the end of last year.
So Prevnar is doing very very well in emerging markets and we expect to continue this pace of progress.
One other comment on the specialty area overall in Emerging Markets is Enbrel has been a very strong driver of our Emerging Market success year-to-date.
Action date on crizotinib we expect to have action by the end of the year with crizotinib and with tofacitinib our plan is to file in both the U.S.
and Europe by the end of this year.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> A few questions.
If I can go back to the completion of the business review I think the impression that many had from when you reported Q1 results in May was that the review would last throughout most of 2011 and a decision would come later in the year and that seemed to come a lot earlier than most were expecting and I'm wondering what may have changed.
And can you confirm that the door has been fully and definitively shut at least over the next 3 to 5 years in trying to carve up the drug side of the business meaning split up innovative core and Established Products? And then lastly Ian there was a recent in-depth press article that's probably circulated within Pfizer chronicling the  circumstances behind Jeff's departure last year.
One of the things that was mentioned was that you were on the cusp of retirement throughout 2010.
That also lines up with what we'd heard and suddenly you get the CEO position.
And my question to you is what visibility you can give us on terms of how long we can expect you to stay in your current role versus realizing that potential goal of retirement? Thank you.
So on the review the strategic review went very well.
Pfizer's team when we get into something we normally try and beat our estimated dates.
We're pretty aggressive enthusiastic team and we manage to bring that together and do the review with the board and beating our internal targets and got the announcement out.
I felt it was a credit to us and we wanted the capital markets to know what the plans were as soon as possible.
On EP we've completed this review.
We've taken the decision to continue to grow EP inside Pfizer.
I think we need to increase our focus our managerial focus on our way forward on that product -- on that business sorry.
And it's critical to Emerging Markets.
It's important in our cash flows.
It's sort of entangled in many parts of our business and our plans.
So I think we owe it to that business and to our shareholders to maximize the value from that business.
And really on the  last question I feel very privileged to have this job.
I work with a great team.
I'm enthusiastic and I'm going to continue to give it all to improve Pfizer's performance.
Thank you for the question.
Your next question comes from Greg Gilbert from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple.
First maybe a little more meat on the bones on the last one.
How are you approaching the EP business strategy differently versus in the past? That's for Dave and/or Ian.
Secondly do you still view REMOXY as a when not an if? And can you offer any timelines around some of the comments you made on that Ian? And lastly just a little bit higher level.
I realize your stock prices are moving target day-to-day but with your stock at $18.50 versus the low 20s a few months ago should we assume that external deployment of cash is now much less likely given the return available from the buyback? Or does your mindset on capital allocation not changed that quickly? Okay.
So EP I think I sort of addressed this a little bit with Jami's question.
I think it was Jami's question.
We see EP as being important for 3 reasons: one the economic growth is occurring in the emerging markets; two the cash flows come from that business; and the potential growth in that segment as wealth increases.
So we're going to take a regional approach we believe right now to EP where we look at Brazil or Mexico or in India or China or Turkey and we craft solutions that work for that local marketplace.
We've seen that with our approach to Brazil with a buy-in to the company there and it's a stage buy-in so local management is in place.
It's doing very well.
They know the business.
They're growing it and eventually we'll acquire 100% ownership.
And in China we're looking for partnerships.
So that's our approach to EP with an aggressive focused management under David.
On REMOXY we see it as when not if.
We're talking with the FDA.
We're bringing Pfizer's manufacturing pharmacy skills to bear on that and it'll be a question of when.
And on the stock price I think the question is -- at every opportunity we look at we measure the next best alternative.
So clearly you have to be flexible on that and look at each time and each opportunity what your next best alternative is.
So Frank do you want to add anything to that? I'll add just 2 quick things.
One is we have been and will continue to be acutely focused on total shareholder return and at these levels we believe the stock represents a very good value.
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Just 2 quick ones one maybe a little more in-depth.
First Nutritionals.
Can you talk about your cost basis for that division and how we should think about the tax implications of a potential outright sale? Second and it's a topic I know was talked about at the time of the merger but can you discuss a little bit your longer-term tax trends that you're anticipating? And I'm wondering if we should be thinking about the tax rate coming down over time.
And the final question and not to focus too much on Established Products but you talked a lot about the opportunity in the emerging markets here.
Can you just flesh out a little bit more your priorities in the more traditional developed markets for this business? Should we think about M&amp;A in these business units in the developed markets as something that's likely? And I know you're committed to keeping Established Products but are there pieces of this franchise that could be selectively sold off or don't necessarily make sense given your kind of broader kind of approach to Established Products at this point? Thank you Chris.
Frank why don't you take the Nutritional and the tax trends? Sure.
So I think maybe I'll start with the tax trends over time.
Last year our tax rate was 30%.
We guided this year to 29% and for next year 29% in terms of the adjusted tax rate.
I think beyond 2012 with everything going on in the world these days I think assuming something around 29% is the right assumption currently.
So that's how I would guide relative to the tax rate on a going forward basis pretty much where it is today.
In terms of Nutri Chris you had a couple questions.
A couple parts of the question let me see if I hit them all.
One in terms of the margins of that business the operating margins of that business quite frankly the diversified businesses in general are not the same as the pharmaceutical operating margin.
So I've said that previously.
They're somewhat lower but they have lower risk as well all of which is factored into the guidance that we provide for 2011 and 2012.
In terms of the tax and the cost basis of that business the way to think about that is we will choose a structure relative to our go-forward strategy on Nutritionals that generates the greatest after-tax value for our shareholders.
And Chris your question on EP in developed markets.
Look our business unit structure allows a lot of focus on our strategies.
And David is running EP and Emerging Markets and clearly he will look at the composition of the portfolio and constantly monitor it vis-à-vis how to maximize value and is open to any and all ideas and thinking through ideas on what to do with segments of the portfolio so as to maximize value.
And regarding the developed markets it's a similar issue.
We have BU heads and Geno and Olivier who are looking at opportunities to add value to that portfolio do BD activities and we constantly review business development activities.
But we are not going to sacrifice shareholder value by chasing revenue growth so we are very disciplined in that approach.
David do you want to add anything? Yes just to build on what you're saying and give a little bit more color.
Although we classify some markets in the developed world some of the markets are characterized and their underlying market construct is similar to some key emerging markets.
Japan is a key one in this regard.
So from an EP perspective Japan would be a priority market.
Also on the developed world if we move away from a commodity solid oral dose type markets the developed world is very interesting to us and a priority in the area of biosimilars.
These markets are -- the biologic markets are growing very very rapidly.
So the biosimilar focus in developed markets is quite keen.
Your next question is from Marc Goodman from UBS.
A couple of quickies I guess.
First of all can you give us an update on tanezumab if that's still alive? Did you have your meeting with FDA? And then second of all on Biocon and deal that you have for the biosimilars insulin can you give us a flavor for when is that going to start to come out how many products are there and when is that going to start to have a meaningful impact? On tanezumab we've submitted our data package to the FDA and are awaiting action dates from them as we follow up on tanezumab.
And on Biocon David? Yes the scope of the Biocon agreement is for 3 products.
These are recombinant insulin glargine lispro and aspart.
Excuse me so that's 4 products not 3.
My mistake.
Also we have launched 2 other products glargine and recombinant insulin in India.
This is a relatively small diabetes market so while we'll have a lot of learnings there the impact is not going to be so significant.
But it is a definitive first step forward and execution of the partnership from development of the products through regulatory approval through commercialization and launch.
The meaningful impact we expect to occur when large developed markets come online specifically the U.S.
and we're looking out a few years out to 2015 and 2016 in that area.
Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.
So just a quick question.
First on the dividend Frank can you just update us on what the plans are for the dividend with regard to growth and the pace at which we'll get there and how that measure is relative to the 2012 guidance? The second question is also on Prevnar and the pace of Prevnar.
Can you just help us understand the direction? Again we've seen some vaccines kind of roll over at certain points in time after you go through a catch-up cohort.
Maybe Geno if you can just update us on where we are in terms of the catch-up cohort in the different markets and how you see the pace of uptake.
On the dividend what I said towards I guess the second half of last year was our goal was to have a dividend payout ratio that was approximate to the industry average of about 40% and roughly 3 years.
And that's the path that we're on.
If you look at what we did this past December we increased the dividend from $0.72 to $0.80 so $0.08 11% increase.
In terms of going from the $0.80 forward we have a meeting with the board again in December where we will be discussing another dividend increase.
And I think the way to think about it is we'll do it in steady chunks as we work our way through the time frame.
Okay with regard to Prevnar I mean we are pretty well penetrated in developed markets around the world now and we're still seeing some growth in the emerging markets.
The one standout exception is Japan where we're seeing very strong growth and we expect to continue to see that growth rate through the rest of the year and even into next year.
And with regard to the catch-up population I mean the strongest catch-up program is in the United States.
We got off to a very good start last year and realized some significant gains in the catch-up.
We're seeing that continue this year but that will certainly decline as we get into the third and fourth quarter of this year.
Year-on-year we'll be lower this year on catch-up in the U.S.
by about $15 million to $20 million versus last year and then of course in 2012 the catch-up population in the U.S.
will be significantly diminished.
We're seeing some catch-up opportunity in some of the European markets and it's more steady as opposed to the relatively large uptake initially with the tail.
So I think that we'll see a little bit more in 2011 and 2012 but it won't be a major factor influencing the brand.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
I have a couple of questions.
First is on strategy.
Ian in the first quarter of the year investors were pretty excited about a transformation at Pfizer and obviously Pfizer has decided to exit some relatively small businesses.
But I was hoping to hear your updated perspectives and vision on how you plan to return Pfizer to growth including boosting the R&amp;D output.
I think everybody clearly sees that you're reducing the spending which should boost the return on capital in R&amp;D but I was hoping to better understand how you plan to boost the R&amp;D output as well.
And then second with respect to the pipeline I'm hoping that someone can comment on tofacitinib's side effect profile including its impact on the kidneys and liver and your level of confidence in an FDA approval next year? Thank you David.
Geno why don't you deal with the tofacitinib question first and I'll come back to the first question.
Okay.
I mean for tofacitinib at this point now we've got 5 Phase III trials with over 5 000 patients in our database.
We've had time to take a pretty good look at the data and review it discuss it with our advisors.
And we feel confident in the safety profile and the benefit-risk ratio for the drug at both doses tested.
We're busy putting the dossiers together and anxious to discuss the profile with the FDA.
Thank you.
So we had a very open discussion I thought with the investment community about our intention to look at the different businesses and make decisions that would give the best return to Pfizer shareholders.
And I think we arrived at the right place with the decisions on Animal Health and Nutritional where we're unlocking value and on Emerging Markets or Established Products and Consumer.
So we are -- I am very focused on the fact that we need to fix the innovative core which is my first priority or my first imperative for the company.
And myself and Mikael and ELT are very well aware that our future success depends upon that.
And we are aligned in focusing on that and I do not see that the -- I agree with you that we do need to return -- increase return on capital.
We also need to improve the volume of throughput through that organization and our whole effort in R&amp;D is organized around improving the overall productivity of that portfolio.
I'm going to ask Mikael to talk to that because it's been a result of a lot of conversations at ELT and with the research organization on our overall vision of the research organization in 2015.
But broadly it's in 3 areas.
It's focusing on areas where we know we can win that we have the science we have the expertise but we see a productive research effort.
It's a cultural change where we're looking at researchers that are focused on results.
It's not shots on goal it's shots in goal.
It's a cultural change.
It's a change of where we do our research how much biology and chemistry we integrate how empowered our Chief Scientific Officers are.
It's about changing the structure of who we partner with and how we partner.
Hence our partnerships with Icon and Parexel and our partnerships with key universities and also our focus on precision medicine.
I mean those are the 3 big buckets.
And I may have stolen Mikael's thunder but I'll ask him to add a little bit to that.
David I think you're absolutely right.
We in this industry need first and foremost to drive productivity and create higher return of investment and that's our goal.
It's not simply cost-cutting.
We have eliminated a lot of inefficiencies.
We're focusing on areas with broad R&amp;D feasibility and commercial attractiveness.
We have actually closed more than 90 projects that we think are projects representing areas with not sufficient return of investment.
As Ian alluded to we're accessing external expertise in new ways.
We have announced new partnerships such as with Icon and Parexel to have a more flexible and efficient cost base.
And more recently we're taking transformative initiatives such as the Centers for Therapeutic Innovation in which we now have partnered with 17 of the leading academic medical centers in this nation.
Ian spoke to precision medicine which we think is an approach to a more targeted effective treatment more durable long-lasting use of medicines and create value for patients and payers.
And we think these investments in this change-oriented fashion will be the right approach to beat the cost of capital over time and we supplement them with focused licensing of quality opportunities and bolt-on acquisitions to enhance pipeline and capabilities.
Your final question comes from Michael Tong from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> If I recall Ian Oxecta is actually the first of a line of potential abuse-deterrent immediate-release opioids in the pipeline that you've acquired from King.
Just wanted to get a sense of your commitment towards furthering that pipeline.
I know there are a couple more products that are almost Phase III-ready so can I expect them to move into Phase III in say the next 6 to 12 months? Well I think we bought this business because we are committed to the pain area.
We've taken the portfolio we acquired and we'll continue to develop it.
We need to bring EMBEDA to market after fixing the stability issues which we had to withdraw.
We're working on REMOXY and I think that's basically the list of technologies we acquired.
Olivier do you want to add anything to that? I think it's important to realize that Oxecta is not a -- it's an immediate release so the market is very different from EMBEDA and REMOXY.
We're going to launch Oxecta before the end of the year but our focus will certainly be on the other 2 products.
The pain areas as Mikael mentioned is very important to us.
We have research in the NaV channel area and we've picked that as an area to continue to invest in.
So I think you'll continue to see us investing in research in that area.
And that will conclude our call folks.
Thank you very much for your time.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would look to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's third quarter 2011 performance.
I'm joined today by our CEO Ian Read; Frank D’Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Primary Care; Michael Dolsten President of Research and Development; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for Nutritionals; and David Simmons President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance third quarter 2011 located in the Investor Presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Also the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today November 1 2011.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck.
During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap some highlights from the quarter provide an update on our capital allocation activities including where we are with the Animal Health and Nutritional strategic reviews comment on some of the continued progress we're seeing in the productivity of our innovative core and close with a few comments about the external market and political environment we're operating within.
Overall we delivered a solid financial performance for the quarter despite a challenging global operating environment and the ongoing impact from LOEs.
And given our performance year-to-date we have increased our EPS guidance range for the full year.
In terms of highlights for the quarter our Emerging Markets business had a strong quarter delivering operational growth of 12% with solid performance in key countries such as China Russia Turkey and India.
All we know these markets will continue to be volatile going forward.
Our performance this quarter demonstrates the traction we are getting as a result of the investments we are making.
We saw strong performance this quarter from Lipitor in the U.S.
We have worked hard to maximize the value of and best position the brand ahead of the LOE.
We are well prepared as the November 30 LOE date in the U.S.
approaches.
I am pleased with the continued progress of our Established Products business to penetrate the growing generics market both in developed markets as well as within emerging markets.
Close to $1 billion of the $3.2 billion in total revenues for Established Products in both the Emerging Markets and Established Products unit came from Emerging Markets.
Overall the performance of our established product unit was strong excluding the impact of LOEs experienced this quarter.
I would also note our Established Products business has stepped in to help address recent drug shortages within the U.S.
particularly in the area of off-patent oncology products.
In Specialty Care our Prevnar franchise continues to do well.
While sales performance in the U.S.
reflected the tail end of the catch-up opportunity we saw continued growth in most international markets.
The underlying demand for Prevnar remains robust.
Animal Health Nutrition and Consumer all turned in strong quarters.
Operationally with Animal Health growing 15% Nutrition growing 24% and Consumer growing 11% over the same quarter last year.
And in Japan our second largest market we generated 19% operational growth company-wide.
And we continue to see the benefits of our process improvements and cost reduction work this quarter.
We are finding new ways of doing business that we believe will further enhance our competitiveness by using fewer resources without compromising our ability to operate.
Our recent example as we work underway to globally consolidate certain commercial operations including such activities as market research data analytics and training.
Frank will take you through the details of the quarter but I would sum it up as a quarter we performed well despite significant headwinds resulting from LOE that amounted to approximately $950 million and the uncertainties created by the economic trouble experienced most visibly in Europe.
Next I will turn to the activity we have underway to enhance shareholder value.
We started the year sharing with you the steps we would take to allocate our capital in ways that enhance shareholder value.
This quarter we took another significant step in delivering on this goal by repurchasing more than $2 billion of shares.
This brings our year-to-date total to $6.5 billion.
And today we've increased our full year share repurchase projection to between $7 billion and $9 billion.
Additionally we began the year with a projection that we would achieve a dividend payout ratio of approximately 40% in about 2 years.
We remain committed to that goal.
Regarding the decision to explore strategic alternatives for Nutritional and Animal Health businesses we are making solid progress in the initial work required to support the form of separation for each that will yield the greatest after-tax return for shareholders.
Our planning and prepared reactions remain on track and we'll be in a position to announce our strategic decision in 2012 for each business with any separations occurring between July of 2012 and July of 2013.
Following the potential separation of these businesses Pfizer will be a global biopharmaceutical company composed of innovative commercial units that are supported by an efficient R&amp;D organization.
We're going to Established Products business that is well-positioned in terms of geography and product portfolio and which generates strong operating cash flow and a Consumer Healthcare business that brings a deep knowledge of consumers and pharmacists.
Going forward the innovative core will play a significant role in Pfizer's future and I believe the steps we are taking to improve our performance here are paying off.
We are seeing good results across each of our biopharmaceutical units in terms of new products that are approved in registration or close to filing.
In oncology we launched Xalkori in the U.S.
and submitted for approval in Europe and Japan.
We also submitted axitinib in both the U.S.
and Europe.
In Specialty Care we are pleased with the results we have seen with tofacitinib in the Phase III Rheumatoid Arthritis program and continue to anticipate accepted filings in the U.S.
and Europe and a filing in Japan before the end of this year.
Just last week we received approval in Europe for Prevnar 13 in adults aged 50 and older for the prevention of Invasive Pneumococcal Disease.
And here in the U.S.
we continue to anticipate a decision early next year.
In Primary care the submission for Eliquis for stroke prevention and atrial fibrillation was validated for review in Europe last week.
And our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb expects to have an accepted filing in the U.S.
for this indication by the end of the year.
While these 6 compounds are the near-term drivers of our innovative global commercial units I am encouraged by the next wave of compounds and additional indications that is emerging behind these in our pipeline.
We have a robust combination of new molecular entities that include biologics small molecules large molecules.
If successful they will transition into our commercial units.
In oncology we have 2 Phase III compounds dacomitinib for nonsmall cell lung cancer and inotuzumab for progressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
We also see potential opportunities to further expand Xalkori within the nonsmall cell cancer segments.
We have recently started registration studies for our meningococcal B vaccine with a pivotal study expected to commence in the near future pending trial design discussions with the FDA.
In Alzheimer's we continue to progress our Phase III program for bapineuzumab.
In the area of immunology we are advancing our clinical development program for tofacitinib and plan to initiate Phase III trials in ulcerative colitis and a Phase II trial in Crohn's disease during 2012.
We also have an expanding portfolio of anti-inflammatory drugs in Phase II with novel biological programs in inflammatory bowel disease.
And we have a cholesterol reduction compound for hypocholesterolemia that is in Phase II and a combined Phase I/II vaccine for staph aureus.
Regarding the assets we've acquired from King many of the King product are doing well such as EpiPen FLECTOR Patch and Skelaxin.
For REMOXY and EMBEDA we are continuing to make progress in the pharmaceutical sciences and manufacturing characterization of those abusive opioid compounds.
Concerning EMBEDA we are committed to returning it to the market as soon as the stability issue is resolved.
We are actively progressing 3 possible pathways and we have several key decisions pointing -- sorry several key decisions during 2012 that will determine the necessary corrective action as well as the timing for reaching out to regulatory authorities.
For REMOXY there are also several key decision points over the next several months that will determine the timing and nature of our response to the FDA's complete response letter.
Overall we are making solid progress.
I am confident in our ability to further strengthen our mid-stage pipeline.
The work our R&amp;D organization is doing to increase its productivity and share risk is gaining traction.
We are spending smartly eliminating nonproductive spending and instilling a great ROI mentality driven by our Chief Scientific Officers.
Finally I want to acknowledge that there exists uncertainty around macroeconomic issues given the super committee deliberations and continuing issues in European economies.
Regarding the budget goals of the super committee we believe that the pharmaceutical industry has contributed substantially already and we anticipate this will be recognized.
In Europe pricing pressures remained consistent with what we've experienced last quarter.
We are seeing mid-single-digit reductions and are assuming this level of impact going forward.
In terms of balance sheet assets we have minimal exposure to Portugal Italy Greece and Ireland.
I believe we are positioned as best as we can be given what we know at this time.
We continue to have strong financial flexibility and we will monitor the situation closely.
In summary I remain optimistic about the opportunities we have and the pace of change I see within our R&amp;D organization.
In particular the entrepreneurial spirit the collaboration between commercial units and research and the genuine can-do attitude I observe when spending time with our colleagues.
There is a more tangible sense of urgency confidence and commitment that I believe will serve as a foundation to enable Pfizer to deliver meaningful increases in value for our shareholders overtime.
Now I will turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter Thanks Ian.
Good day everyone.
As always the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast.
Now let's move on to the results.
Revenues of about $17.2 billion increased 7% quarter-over-quarter which reflects operational growth of $247 million or 1% and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $951 million or 6%.
The 1% operational growth includes the addition of King products which favorably impacted revenues by $353 million or 2% which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of U.S.
healthcare reform of $151 million or 1%.
In addition we continue to absorb the impact of the loss of exclusivity of several products in certain geographies which in the third quarter negatively impacted revenues by approximately $950 million or 6%.
Reported net income and reported diluted EPS were favorably impacted by the $1.3 billion after-tax gain on the sale of Capsugel in Q3 of '11.
The nonrecurrence of $1.5 billion and pretax impairment charges and a $701 million pretax charge for litigation both occurring in Q3 of 2010 and increased revenue compared with Q3 of 2010.
And we're unfavorably impacted by the loss of exclusivity of certain products and increased expenses incurred for cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
Third quarter 2011 adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 19.3% compared with 17.8% in the year ago quarter due primarily to the negative impact of foreign exchange and a shift in product and business mix.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange on revenue and cost of sales adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 18.7% for the quarter.
Adjusted total cost increased 3%.
However excluding the negative impact to foreign exchange cost related to legacy King operations healthcare reform and the Puerto Rico excise tax adjusted total cost decreased by approximately 5% primarily due to our ongoing cost-reduction and productivity initiatives.
Adjusted income increased 11% year-over-year due to increased revenues which reflects the favorable impact of foreign exchange which was partially offset by a loss of exclusivity of certain products and increased cost of sales due to a shift in products -- in product and business mix.
Adjusted diluted EPS increased 15% which included a $0.02 benefit from the decline in the number of shares outstanding.
As I previously stated foreign exchange positively impacted third quarter revenues by $951 million or 6% and negatively impacted adjusted total cost by $541 million or 6%.
As a result foreign exchange favorably impacted adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.04.
As I mentioned previously in the third quarter we experienced total operational growth of 1% driven by: growth in the Emerging Markets Consumer Healthcare Animal Health care and the Nutrition businesses growth for certain key products the addition of King products and foreign exchange.
And again I want to point out that in the third quarter we continued to absorb revenue declines as a result of the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies.
The impact this quarter was approximately $950 million.
Third quarter revenues generated from both biopharmaceutical and other businesses in Emerging Markets increased 21% year-over-year and biopharmaceutical revenues grew 12% operationally in those markets.
It's important to note that over the same period Brazil Russia India China Mexico and Turkey contributed a combined 53% of the overall growth in Emerging Markets.
And revenues from the Biopharmaceutical businesses in the BRIC-MT markets grew 13% operationally to approximately $1.1 billion.
In addition year-to-date biopharmaceutical revenues in BRIC-MT markets increased 9% operationally to $3.2 billion.
Finally enterprise-wide revenues generated by sales in Emerging Markets totaled approximately $3.4 billion in the third quarter.
Based on year-to-date performance and outlook for the remainder of 2011 we are increasing our adjusted diluted EPS guidance range to $2.24 to $2.29 from $2.16 to $2.26.
In addition we are narrowing the range of the components of our 2011 financial guidance including raising the lower end of our revenue guidance.
As expected our cost of sales in the fourth quarter will reflect the impact of the seasonal uptick we typically experienced during the quarter and Lipitor's loss of U.S.
exclusivity on November 30.
In addition our expected SI&amp;A expenses for the remainder of the year will include the impact of increased spending in connection with the launch of Xalkori prelaunch expenses for anticipated new products seasonal spending patterns and the continued spending to support the Lipitor brand pre and post its loss of exclusivity to maximize its value.
Given our continued confidence in our future business performance we are reaffirming all elements of our 2012 financial targets.
I want to point out that we continue to expect our 2012 target range for adjusted operating margin to be in the high 30s to low 40s percentages.
And we expect the negative impact on our cost of sales due to shifts and product and business mix to be mitigated by the continuing benefits of our productivity and cost reduction initiatives.
Finally moving on to key takeaways.
We delivered solid quarterly financial performance despite the continuing -- the continued challenging global operating environment and the continued impact from the loss of exclusivity of several key products.
Based on our year-to-date performance and outlook for the rest of 2011 we are updating the components of our 2011 financial guidance including increasing our adjusted diluted EPS guidance.
We're continuing to improve the performance of our innovative core making significant advances in our mid- to late-stage pipeline and we now anticipate repurchasing $7 billion to $9 billion of our shares in 2011.
In fact during the third quarter we repurchased $2.1 billion or 112.9 million shares.
And to date we have repurchased approximately $6.5 billion or 331.6 million shares.
We have remaining authorization to repurchase up to $2.5 billion more of our shares under the current Board approved repurchase program and we're positioning the business to continue to deliver shareholder value overtime.
With that I'll turn it back to Chuck.
Thank you Frank.
And operator at this point if we could please poll for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on Lipitor.
Frank or Ian if you could provide a little bit more color on how you see the 180-day exclusivity period play out for you.
Specifically what your intelligence is telling you on Ranbaxy if Ranbaxy indeed will be on the market on time.
And number two Watson just told us that they expect that you would retain about 40% market share and just wondering if you could provide a little bit of color around that.
And is most of that being driven by the mail-order business or is that part retail is it a mixture of both? That would be my first question.
And my second question relates to capital allocation $7 billion to $9 billion in share repurchase is a huge number and congratulations.
Just was wondering though if that is the sort of rate of repurchases that we should now come to expect given your very strong cash flow going forward.
So thank you Jami.
On Lipitor I'm going to ask Frank to answer most of the questions.
But I'd like to point out that we have addressed the Lipitor LOE very seriously.
We've put in a lot of I believe very good programs to continue to support it to drive brand loyalty negotiating with payers in the distribution channel and we're trying to build a strong pre and post plan.
So I'd ask Frank to add some comments and perhaps Olivier.
Right.
So on the first part of the Lipitor question Jami we're assuming that Watson will enter the market upon LOE.
We're also assuming that Ranbaxy will enter the market upon LOE.
The LOE obviously being November 30 of this year.
And we assume that 180 days from when Ranbaxy enters the market there will be multiple players that enter the market as well.
So that's the assumption on what we're assuming relative to the 180-day window.
Olivier? Yes thanks.
I can add that we are continuing to promote Lipitor in order to maximize the vital opportunities as Ian said on both pre and post-LOE.
You probably have seen in the third quarter we have reported Lipitor U.S.
brought at about 13% and primarily as a result of the promotion which is based on higher risk patient targeted DTC Lipitor $4 Co-Pay Card which we have launched in December last year.
And a new program we launched recently in September called the Lipitor For You program which includes normally assisted Co-Pay but also a very targeted program in support of the patient.
So we also have partnered to your point with some customer so their patients can remain or even begin taking branded Lipitor.
And we are continuing to explore opportunities to partner with the others.
So we definitely supporting the brand again and maximizing the brand pre and post-LOE.
And then on the capital allocation question on the $7 million to $9 billion let me run some numbers Jami and then I'll answer your question.
So year-to-date now we repurchased $6.5 billion worth of our shares almost 332 million shares.
This past quarter $2.1 billion worth of our shares 112.9 million shares.
We increased our target in terms of repurchases from what was $5 billion to $7 billion from $7 billion to $9 billion.
So that's all the numbers for this year and then what you're really asking about was what about going forward? And the way I'll answer that question is buybacks have been and will continue to be one of our priorities to capital allocation but we have other priorities.
The dividend is another priority.
Bolt-on acquisitions is another priority.
Investing in the business is another priority.
And how we handle our debt and then finally how much cash we repatriate.
So I don't want to forecast what we're going to do or not do specific to buybacks going forward because I don't view that as an or it's an and relative to everything else that we do on our capital allocation.
So that being said I think we have a track record especially this year of showing that we acutely focused on shareholder value and we'll take those decisions as the situation evolve to make those decisions in the best interest of shareholders.
The next question comes from Catherine Arnold from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering just if you can give some more color on the Lipitor expectations in terms of share retention and contracting.
Did you have those expectations whenever you originally gave us the 2012 guidance? And then I wondered if you could give us a little bit more color on the tax rate and if there was repatriation activity that might have also been an explanation for the higher tax rate and how we should extrapolate that in the longer term? Can you do that Frank? Yes.
So in terms of the tax rate let's say maybe the way I'll answer that Catherine is the adjusted rate for the quarter was 30.9%.
Last year it was 30.2%.
So what caused the increase was really a change in the jurisdictional mix of our earnings which was partially offset by the extension of the R&amp;D tax credit.
So that's kind of what happened on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
In terms of going forward we forecasted for this year we reaffirmed our approximately 29% and we did that for next year as well.
So at least for the remainder of this year and for next year assume the tax rate continues to be approximately 25%.
Beyond 2012 I think it's just -- it's pretty premature to try to say given the kind of the various financial challenges that are in numerous places in the world today and then the economical challenges that go along with that.
So I think 29% for next year.
Beyond that I think too soon to tell.
And then you mentioned repatriation.
So let me comment on that not in terms of anything extraordinary that we did this quarter.
It was really mix of earnings this quarter.
But in terms of just repatriation I want to bump it up a level and really describe it as -- we think tax reform debate the debates will continue.
We have been and will continue to be proactive in those debates and Pfizer supports any comprehensive tax reform that will make U.S.
multinationals more competitive internationally.
So that's how I did the questions Ian? Thank you.
And Lipitor in the forecast?.
Yes.
In terms of the forecast.
That was all incorporated factored into our existing 2012 targets.
The next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question with -- sort of regards to crizotinib.
Can you just talk about your expected uptake of ALK testing and what's the launch trajectory you're thinking about for that product? And the second question not to focus too much on Lipitor I know we've had a bunch of questions on the U.S.
can you still discuss the erosion that you're anticipating when we think about your presubstantial developed Europe and developed rest-of-world businesses for Lipitor as we look out to 2012? Yes Chris.
This is Geno.
I'll speak to Xalkori.
[indiscernible] we just launched in August.
We're off to a good start.
While it's early in the process we're excited by the feedback we're getting from clinicians and we're seeing patients administer the drug on a pretty broad-base across cancer centers around the United States.
There's significant traffic on our website et cetera.
So the early indicators seem to be positive.
In terms of the testing NCCN guidelines were updated within 2 weeks of the launch of crizotinib recommending routine testing for ALK.
There's about 140 centers testing centers around the country that have the capability to do ALK testing and they're being converted to the now FDA-approved test methodology.
So we see the progress moving according to expectations and it's early.
We'll see how things go from here.
Olivier do you want to comment -- thank you Geno.
Do you want to comment on Lipitor x U.S.? Yes.
Sure.
So we achieved about almost $600 million in developed Europe in revenues but we're down about 16% operationally.
And the main driver of the European revenue decline is in fact the LOE in Spain which represented around $53 million which was driven by a combination of mandatory price reduction and also to your point a generic volume erosion.
So the sales erosion in Spain has been much more rapid than previous LOEs in Europe given the payer pressures in many regions of Spain.
So we have been able to increase the volume in some countries.
However the revenue decline is also being impacted by other countries in Europe due to mandatory price reductions this year.
And I'm thinking about Italy where we have faced a 20% price reduction in January and Ireland which you may know we faced an average price reduction of 35% also in January.
So again we are growing in some country by volume.
Italy despite what I just said actually grew volume but 8%.
France and Belgium by 3% and 4%.
And other smaller countries.
So that's the summary of this situation.
So overall what I think Olivier is describing is in fact we're taking some hits on Lipitor ahead of the LOE in '11.
Overall we expect the -- we do have patent -- or pediatric patent extension in the major countries in Europe.
So we're not expecting to see the LOE of Lipitor until mid-'12 in the major countries.
Japan has in fact -- the patent has expired I believe on Lipitor although there's been no generic entries.
We would expect a generic entry at the back end of '11 in Japan.
And would expect the performance in Japan on Lipitor to be similar to what we experienced with our other products in Japan when they like Norvasc when they go LOE which is certainly a decline a lot more limited than Europe or any other of the developed markets.
The next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
The $1.5 billion in SG&amp;A that you're guiding for the reduction end and going from '11 to '12 can you kind of rank order the biggest buckets of savings or is this the sort of thing where there's no big discrete buckets but instead it's just a smaller contraction across a very broad base of business functions? And then second question is when can we expect Pfizer to give guidance that extends beyond 2012? Please Frank.
All right.
So on the first question the way I'd answer it Tim is there's no one big silver bullet on the SI&amp;A.
It's really just I'm going to call it a series of numerous items lots of blocking and tackling that cover multiple areas.
Ian mentioned some in his opening remarks relative to things we're doing to streamline the organization which will improve our cost structure.
We're looking at how we spend advertising dollars and promotion dollars.
We're looking at our spend on consultants travel and living our systems environment and the various opportunities that we've been generating and that we will continue to generate on a going-forward basis.
So there is no one single item it's a host of items.
The other thing I should just mention in terms of our cost structure is headcount.
If you look at our headcount this past quarter our headcount was 106 500.
At the beginning of the year we were at 110 600.
At the end of 2009 which was the year after we closed Wyeth we were at 116 500.
So if you go from the end of '09 to where we ended up the quarter we were down over 10 000 people.
If you look at when we announced Wyeth in January of 2009 the combined companies had 130 000 people.
We said we -- well we could reduce the workforce by 15% in about 3 years.
At the end of this past quarter we're at 18% in less than 2 years just -- it will give you a feel for the rhythm of the numbers and how that drives through our core structure.
So that's how I'd answer that.
In terms of when you can expect guidance beyond 2012 obviously our next earnings call will be early February.
We'll provide an update on 2012.
Beyond 2012 quite frankly our objective is to generate consistent steady sustainable earnings growth over time which we believe will create shareholder value consistently over time and that's what we're all about doing.
Thanks Frank.
I would just add to this expense issue that we have taken steps in the U.S.
with the upcoming LOE of Lipitor to readjust our sales force.
And we are also moving to readjust our infrastructure in Europe at a fast pace as we look at Europe Primary Care scenario over the next few years.
But more to the point we are creating inside Pfizer a real ownership culture of the expense base.
And this is -- this decision to move our expenses and get them in line with our revenue is one that the whole ELT has taken on.
And I feel very confident we'll be able to manage our expenses appropriately.
Your next question comes from Greg Gilbert from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First another Lipitor-U.S.
question.
Maximizing a brand past LOE to the extent suggested by Watson and I think supported by your comments today is somewhat unprecedented.
So my question is is this a bridge to an OTC strategy or other strategy for which brand -- the brand equity matters? Or are you simply trying to maximize profits over a 6-month period? And secondly for Frank wondering why the factors that allow you to overachieve 2011 earnings per share don't flow through to a higher outlook for 2012 or should we not read too much into your simply reaffirming 2012 yet? Thanks for the question Greg.
On the Lipitor most of the focus is on ensuring the brand has a robust performance in the rest of '11 and the first 180 days of its loss of exclusivity.
Clearly there is an intent at some point to try and have an OTC version of Lipitor on the marketplace.
I think the brand Lipitor is strong.
And these actions we're taking they are not specifically directed towards strengthening any potential OTC brand in the future.
And then Greg in terms of the '11 to '12 EPS number so let me run the numbers and I'll answer the question.
So we raised the EPS guidance this quarter for the year from $2.16 to $2.26 to $2.24 to $2.29.
Next year the EPS number is $2.25 to $2.35.
So that's earnings growth despite the fact that we have the Lipitor LOE in the U.S.
on November 30 of this year.
We get the full year effect of that next year.
So to grow earnings despite that there's lots that we're going to be doing next year.
It's growth of some of our in-line products growth of new products growth in Emerging Markets growth in our diversified business significantly lower SI&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses continuing to leverage our balance sheet as appropriate.
So no I don't think you all should read anything negative into the 2012 numbers quite frankly.
I think those 2012 numbers are quite balanced given what we're -- given the LOEs that we will continue to have to address on a going-forward basis.
Thank you Frank.
The next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My questions are for Mikael Dolsten.
First Mikael if you could please discuss the meningococcal B vaccine Phase III program? Specifically there is a 7 500-patient trial in 11- to 25-year-olds that has safety as the primary endpoint.
Could you discuss the safety issues you're scrutinizing? And also what your target age population is for commercialization? And then my next question is a little bit broader just hoping to get your perspective on the key clinical trial results to focus on in 2012 for Pfizer and what you're most optimistic about seeing? Mikael you could take those questions.
Yes.
So thank you for your interest in the meningococcal B vaccine.
And we previously have reported that we have a vaccine based on 2 unique structures that we have isolated.
And we showed in the Phase II studies a very good tolerability in the adolescent population and I've previously stated that it looks like it's performing very well when it comes to immunonicity (sic) [immunogenicity] and tolerability versus competitors start using infant using mening B as a target vaccine.
We have as Ian commented in his introduction start on studies of the registration package while growing the final phase of discussing with the FDA concerning the surrogate endpoint and trial design for the larger pivotal Phase III studies.
We remain encouraged about the importance of a mening B vaccine to provide effective prevention for a fatal disease and we think we have a strong data package so far and good trends moving forward.
Research Division</strong> The second part of the question Mikael is 2012 things we're looking forward to? Yes.
Speaking about the pipeline and I think Ian shared with you our enthusiast for the late registration pipeline drugs there and the 6 kind of particular drugs moving forward in -- towards registration or to the market.
In all of our 5 core areas we have a very robust portfolio.
And I'll just give you a couple of highlights.
Oncology beyond axitinib or Xalkori we have first-in-class inotuzumab for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
We have an opportunity to expand in traditional B cell malignancies.
Dacomitinib has been reported previously for proof of concept is now in Phase III.
And we have also some very intriguing best-in-class mTORPl3k (sic) [Pl3k/mTOR] rights an area which has shown a very interesting efficacy in select breast cancer segments.
In the immuno-inflammation you've heard that we extend tofacitinib into ulcerous colitis due to encouraging data so far into Phase III studies we're moving now.
And also we'll assess optimal use of tofacitinib in Crohn's in Phase II.
We have also first-in-class MAdCAM antibody and best-in-class IL-6 antibodies for IBD and several other programs which will also open into new areas of immuno-information such as Lupus.
[indiscernible] beyond Eliquis and our excitement for A-fib and stroke we have encouraging clinical data for PCSK9 and removing that antibody forward in Phase II.
We have received also good clinical signs for unique glucokinase activators and novel PV5 inhibitors for diabetic nephropathy.
In the vaccine area you are aware of that beyond mening B we have a staph aureus program that we think is industry leading in its profile and we have a combined Phase I and II study ongoing.
And neuroscience pain inotuzumab with our partners is moving forward.
We have additional novel entries in the pipeline for [indiscernible] inhibitor for cognitive impairment and also base program.
And in the pain area we are moving a nice compound effort in the NaV 1.7 space which is a high-profile target for the industry.
So these are our 5 core areas but it's a broad pipeline.
We have exciting assets also in niche areas including wet and dry AMD.
And I hope this gave you a kind of a perspective of a balanced robust pipeline coming behind the major programs that Ian introduced you to.
Thank you Mikael.
I believe on mening B our main focus on the adolescence which are the carriers in that population.
So that's extremely important and that's a differentiation with [indiscernible] which is more in pediatric.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 3 questions all related to Alliance revenue.
First can you please tell us the months when the Spiriva co-promote ends in key EU markets during 2012 and 2013? And at what markets in 2014 -- or what months in 2014 does it does it expire in the U.S.
and Japan? Secondly what is the origin of the dispute with Merck Serono over whether Rebif co-promote terminates in 2013 or 2015? Is it simply vague language in the contract or is it something else? And then the third question is is there any chance to extend the co-promotes for either Spiriva or Enbrel or should we assume there is no chance of that? Oliver would you like to take the first question? Yes.
I'll answer the Spiriva question.
We have 10 years contract with BI.
And the termination date in fact differs country by country because it is calculated from the launch date in each country.
So what you are going to see is a graduated decline in revenue during the year 10 of the contract for all countries with no additional revenue being in year '11.
So in Europe we will begin contract exits in 2012 and 2013.
And You mentioned U.S.
and Japan and the contract exit there is actually planned for 2014.
And the last countries we exit the contract in 2016.
And to answer the second part of your question on Spiriva I think you have to assume that there is no continuation of the contract beyond 2016.
Thank you Olivier.
Amy would you like to answer the question.
With respect to Rebif as you know Serono filed a lawsuit in Philadelphia contesting the terms of the contract.
We were very pleased that the court agreed with our interpretation.
And other than that given the pendency of the litigation I don't think we should comment on the contract terms.
Thank you.
I think that was the...
LLC Research Division</strong> The Embrel question.
Yes.
Geno? Yes.
I mean the Enbrel partnership would end.
It's been a very very successful partnership and the term expires in October 2013.
We have no current plans to extend that partnership.
And we have 13 months immediately thereafter where we receive our royalty although it's obviously less than [indiscernible] 36 months.
Right.
Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> The questions are 2 and they're around Prevnar and Animal Health.
The first is on an international basis strong quarter-to-quarter growth could you comment on tenders which may have been won? And then second as we think about and try to frame the adult indication next year without the results of the CAPITA trial how should we think about that adult indication rolling out? Will it be initially slow? And moreover when CAPITA reads out even before label change would you not assume that the uptake would become very -- relatively quick because that information would clearly be unique extraordinarily unique to a pneumococcal vaccine? And then my second question on Animal Health is if you take out the King assets the U.S.
growth would actually be down.
Is there something fundamentally in the U.S.
with respect to Animal Health given the very strong demand x U.S.? Geno could you to the Prevnar please? Sure.
On the quarter strong international results actually were up 21% for the quarter and international is up even more.
Most of the gain has come from continued penetration of the Japanese market with Prevnar 7.
The Turkey NIP that began this year and we've initiated distribution in the GAVI countries.
We won back 2 key provinces in Canada.
We have the South African NIP.
And then about 3 or 4 other important NIPs but it's broadly spread across really around -- across the world.
And then I think the question on Prevnar 13 adult uptake with the approval in Europe.
First step is to secure pricing and to rollout the introduction of the adult indication throughout Europe.
We were particularly pleased to see the regulators in Europe recognize the preferable positioning of the 13 valent conjugate vaccine ahead of the use of polysaccharide vaccine.
We think that will be an important part of the labeling and the positioning of the product in European countries.
And once the CAPITA trial data are available assuming they're positive we think that they will be well-recognized in the infectious disease community and we will work quickly with regulators to incorporate that information into the labels across Europe.
And with regard to Animal Health Animal Health was up I think as you said 15% operationally.
10% was due to King and 5% was due to legacy Pfizer.
And I believe in fact the U.S.
was not down but very slightly up when you extract King.
So overall there's no particular reason for any concerns about the business in the U.S.
It continues to be strong and progressing along the lines we expect.
Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> So just 3 quick questions.
First maybe if you guys can comment on the very strong performance of the Nutritionals business anything specific to the strong third quarter versus the slower first half? Second maybe for Ian and can you just give us how we should think about the restructuring of Animal Health and Nutri? The use of proceeds as you kind of think about it historically you commented on that as the stock in sort of the right of first passage as well as the influence of tax on the strategic decisions there.
And then lastly for Mikael on bapineuzumab can you just update us on when we should expect to actually see the first data reported out from the venture with Johnson &amp; Johnson in the [indiscernible]? And if there is any chance that subgroups such as prodromal patients or early AD patients could be used to allow approval? Okay.
So the first question was on the...
Strong Nutri performance.
Strong Nutri performance.
If you'd like to answer that please.
Sure.
So thank you and this quarter's performance is indeed a demonstration of the focus and the commitment that our Nutritional colleagues have shown around the world.
And I think a few things contribute to the very strong operational growth we had.
The first is strong performance in some of our key geographies including Africa Middle East and China a greater demand in the market for some of our premium and superpremium products.
We launched ILLUMA in China and the reformulated premium Gold line.
And then throughout the Pfizer Nutrition key markets we had a number of other product launches.
So I think those 3 factors really contributed along with the focus of our workforce on the strong quarter we had.
Thank you Amy.
And certainly the management of that BU and the focus of the BU has brought to bear has been instrumental in these very good results.
Regarding the disposal and the restructuring we look at the monetization of both the Nutritional and Animal Health on an after-tax basis.
We need to maximize the after-tax value of that.
And the proceeds that we get from that as you've said and as I've said before the case to beat is share repurchase.
Clearly we would like to do and we look -- we continually look for bolt-on acquisitions of high-quality assets that would accelerate top line growth.
But those acquisitions have to beat the base case of a buyback of shares and the impact that has on the company.
Your next question comes from John Boris from Citi.
Before we go to that actually we'll answer the question about bapineuzumab.
I apologize John.
Give us a sec.
Yes.
On bapi there is actually no new news of program and [indiscernible] that is continuing.
You may remember as of last year J&amp;J announced that the 2 [indiscernible] North American study will be completed by mid-2012 and there is no change to that schedule.
And the 2 international studies which Pfizer is responsible for is the study 3 000 and 3 001 continue unroll and we'll be reporting in 2014.
Now regarding specifically the per normal aspect we are discussing that within the alliance but there is nothing to report at this point.
Thank you Olivier.
Let's go back to John.
Sorry for making you wait John.
Research Division</strong> Ian when you first had taken over you'd indicated you're going to be spending a lot of time with Mikael Dolsten on R&amp;D productivity.
We've seen quite a few press releases come across on that front.
Can you maybe just help us understand the progress that you've made to date? What additional things you have to do incrementally to improve productivity and what metrics are you using to grade yourself on whether you're improving that productivity? And then I have a follow-up question for Olivier.
Okay.
Do you want to give us the Olivier question now John? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Olivier you articulated that pricing in some of the markets like Italy Ireland down 20 down 35.
In France in particular there's certainly been some rumblings about price cuts also in the French market.
Just any thoughts on what the impact on pricing could be out of that market? I can answer that question quickly.
Given the macro economy condition and to your point Europe has been experiencing increased pricing pressures in several countries including the one I just mentioned.
In the past we have extremes about 2% to 3% of the price decline in Europe.
And we are now experiencing mid-single-digit price decline which we believe will continue throughout this year and certainly for the foreseeable future.
So we continue to monitor the situation very closely and I think that's it.
And if can just add to that.
That's the assumption that we've made not only for the remainder of 2011 in our guidance but also through 2012 financial targets which is mid-single digit pricing pressure continues in developed Europe.
So I'm going -- John thanks for the question on research.
It's one of the I believe most important things we have to focus on in the next 2 to 3 4 years.
Very happy working with Mikael Dolsten in a partnership on this.
I'm going to ask him to make some specific comments.
But yes we do have a series of metrics that are important that we're measuring with [indiscernible] team we're measuring them with the Board.
I'm excited about our ability to move some of our research into biomedical hubs like Boston Massachusetts and Cambridge in La Jolla.
I'm excited about the cultural change I see in research as we appropriately balance both the pursuit of science and the need to make unstoppable products not shots on goal but products we can consider unstoppable in the development process.
And the culture is one of ownership and we've in fact moved recently and this was part of what I was trying to do we've moved the compensation for the research community away from totally Pfizer Inc.
and half of their long-term compensation will now be tied to specific performance metrics inside that organization.
So I think it really brings about our focus inside the resource organization.
It ties their long-term compensation to their productivity in a very specific way.
Mikael do want to comment on some of the progress we've been making? Yes.
So let me add -- shed further light on this.
And I think Ian's engagement to spend some of his time with me at the sites and discuss the intersection of business and product development and science I think has been of instrumental importance in building this new ownership culture and really move Pfizer into kind of an industry-leading position in addressing the challenges of this industry to drive productivity to a new return of investment level.
So let me just give 3 samples of progress.
Increased pipeline focus.
We decided to really put 80% or more of our resources on the 5 core areas that -- where we have experienced the strength and where we see good balance between commercial and scientific opportunities.
And you heard previously I mentioned some significant advances in our pipeline here.
Differentiated approach is a second part here.
We have been moving our biomedical key expertise into leading hubs.
We are now established with real exciting pain unit in Cambridge U.K.
We acquired Icagen a leading iron channel group in North Carolina and we are bringing that together with the Cambridge U.K.
group to one really strong group as we move forward during an integration phase.
In Massachusetts Cambridge U.S.
we have now moved our CVMed group and they are -- they're growing the pipeline building the right type of new partnership and I think that's been a very fast pace of change.
Increased externalization.
We have announced relationship with Icon and Parexel to create a more flexible way of doing R&amp;D.
And we also have crossed the business units and R&amp;D expanded our pipeline reach with numerous biotech collaborations to grow the pre [indiscernible] and post [indiscernible] opportunities.
The metrics we're using are obviously some example of increasing value in pipeline the number of new [indiscernible] studies.
Stage 3 is submission and approval.
But we put also a lot of emphasis on the quality not only on the numbers.
When it comes to the clinical differentiation how it translates to a strong label and how it fulfills customer needs on the market and I think this new mix of science and business has really moved forward.
And you next question comes from Barbara Ryan from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I have 2.
I know you did run through some detail on the Emerging Markets and I'm just wondering if you could tell us what your operational and reported growth in China was in the size of the business and I have a second on Lipitor if you don't mind.
Okay David? For China for the quarter our reported growth was 31% operational growth 26% on a year-to-date basis.
Reported 23% for China growth in the third quarter 20% year-to-date.
Also adding in on China and we maintained the #1 rank in the market in China of all multinationals and local Chinese companies.
And our growth rate is outpacing the underlying growth.
So China is a big anchor point for us in emerging markets and we're doing very well there.
And those growths where actually were overpriced cuts I believe.
Yes.
we do experience a dynamic environment in Emerging Markets quarter-on-quarter as you can see our numbers this year we have experienced price decreases pretty significant price decreases in China Turkey and some other markets.
But as we see it -- consistent in these markets we see volume expansion often when these occur.
That certainly was the case in both China and Turkey.
Okay Barbara your last question on Lipitor? Did we lose her? We may have lost her.
Okay.
We can follow-up with you offline Barbara.
That will conclude the call everybody.
Thanks for your time and attention this quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in Pfizer's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth quarter 2011 performance.
I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Primary Care; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel President and General Manager of Pfizer Nutrition; and David Simmons President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage pfizer.com by clicking on the link Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Fourth Quarter 2011 located in the Investor Presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Also the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today January 31 2012.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck and good morning everyone.
During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap some highlights from the fourth quarter and for the year and I'll talk about what we are focusing on for 2012.
We finished 2011 with a solid fourth quarter and the overall financial performance for the year was strong.
Looking at the quarter losses of exclusivity continued to impact our business.
This quarter we absorbed nearly $1.3 billion revenue decline due to losses of exclusivity across our Biopharmaceutical commercial units.
We saw strong operational growth in key markets such as Japan and China.
Revenues in the Emerging Market business overall declined 2% operationally due to pricing pressures and exceptional items that Frank will review in more detail.
As we have said before the opportunity in Emerging Markets remains attractive although quarter-to-quarter performance is volatile.
I believe the best measure of our business in these markets is the yearly performance which I will speak to in a moment.
Animal Health Nutrition and Consumer all turned in strong quarters operationally.
Animal Health grew 13% Nutrition grew 20% and Consumer grew 8% over the same quarter in 2010.
And we saw the benefits of our process improvements and cost reduction work this quarter.
Adjusted total costs were down 5% operationally.
Turning now to highlights for the year.
We met or exceeded every aspect of our financial guidance.
We reduced our adjusted R&amp;D spend by nearly $1 billion compared to 2010 but we also took significant actions to strengthen our innovative core which included: narrowing our therapeutic areas of focus; sharpening our analytical tools to better prioritize investment and stop funding low-potential programs earlier in the R&amp;D cycle; advancing the most promising compounds within our pipeline; and continuing to invest in R&amp;D network and the capability design to drive biomedical innovation.
During the year the Emerging Markets business was affected by strong headwinds such as: increased pricing pressure in China and Turkey the loss of exclusivity of Lipitor in Brazil and Mexico in 2010 and devaluation of Venezuela.
That being said revenue in Emerging Markets grew 5% operationally in 2011 comprised of 10% volume growth and a 5% decline in price.
Performance was particularly strong in key markets where we increased our investment such as China which delivered 18% operational revenue growth and Turkey which delivered 17% operational growth for 2011.
We grew revenues from key assets in our branded portfolio including Prevnar 13 Lyrica Enbrel and Sutent.
We absorbed approximately $5 billion in LOE and operationally only saw a slight decline in our revenues year-over-year.
We moved quickly to complete a strategic review of the businesses which resulted in the ongoing expiration of strategic alternatives for the Animal Health and Nutrition business.
We saw a steady cadence of progress in our late-stage pipeline and the emergence of a promising mix of early- to mid-stage assets.
And we returned over $15 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
I would characterize 2011 as a year of committing the company to being a focused innovative biopharmaceutical company positioned to deliver value for shareholders.
We set a course to redefine and strengthen Pfizer.
We concentrated on 2 key priorities: improving the performance of our innovative core and making the right capital allocation decisions.
And I believe we delivered on both of these goals.
Turning to this year our focus is unchanged.
We remain intent on continuing to take the actions that will create shareholder value.
And like we did in 2011 we will continue to do so in 2 primary ways: getting our innovative core more productive and sustainable and keeping our allocation priorities in line with the best interests of shareholders.
The way we will do this is by: maximizing the value of our in-line portfolio including key in-line assets such as Lyrica Enbrel Prevnar and Celebrex; successfully launching Inlyta and Prevnar 13 for adult 50 years and older; advancing the regulatory filings for Eliquis and tofacitinib; and advancing the next wave of compounds in our pipeline including new molecular entities that are showing promise and that we hope will achieve proof of concepts over the next 2 years.
I believe the recent approval of Inlyta as well as the early performances of Xalkori in the U.S.
demonstrates how well our Oncology business is evolving.
Regarding Prevnar 13 Adult.
The ACIP pneumococcal working group plans to discuss the use of Prevnar 13 in adults with the ACIP Committee at the upcoming meeting in February.
Although a vote on recommendation of use is not currently scheduled we are in discussions with the CDC to obtain guidance about the use of Prevnar 13 and will launch the adult indication in the U.S.
in March.
The rate of uptake will depend in large part on the ACIP recommendation for use.
Also in 2012 we continue to strengthen our Emerging Markets business and maintain a leadership role as we see growth over time in key markets like China Brazil Russia India Turkey and Mexico.
We will keep examining our cost structure including all aspects of our SI&amp;A our go-to-market expenses and manufacturing so that we can maintain a lower and flexible cost base that allows us to respond to pricing pressures and additional LOEs over the coming years.
We're on track for determining the strategic alternatives and next steps for the potential separation of our Animal Health and Nutrition business.
We still plan to announce our strategic decision for each business in 2012.
And we will continue to return capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
We remain committed to meeting a target dividend payout of approximately 40% by the end of 2013.
Further our board recently approved a new $10 billion share repurchase program and we've stated our intent to purchase approximately $5 billion during this year.
This amount does not include any repurchases that could result from actions taken related to our Nutrition and Animal Health business.
To sum up in 2012 we will stay the course.
We will work to maintain the momentum we created in 2011.
Longer term after we potentially complete the separation of Animal Health and Nutritional Pfizer will be a company that has 2 primary businesses with distinct cost structures and operating approaches.
The first will be a growth business of pharmaceuticals that we expect to generate profitable revenue growth with strong cash flow and that has a sustainable innovation engine that will be evident through advances in our pipeline.
The second will look more like a value business that is also expected to generate strong cash flow and will be represented by established or post-LOE products.
We can see -- we see Consumer Products fitting nicely into either of these businesses.
I see these businesses generating consistent and steady growth in earnings per share over time.
Now I will turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter and our 2012 financial guidance.
Thanks Ian.
Good day everyone.
As always the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast.
Now let's move on to the results.
Fourth quarter 2011 revenues of $16.7 billion decreased 4% year-over-year reflecting the continued impact of LOEs of approximately $1.3 billion or 7% and the unfavorable impact of U.S.
healthcare reform of $106 million or 1% which were partially offset by the positive impact of foreign exchange of $157 million or approximately 1% the addition of King products which favorably impacted revenues by $340 million or 3% and growth in certain in-line products.
Reported net income of $1.4 billion and reported diluted EPS of $0.19 were negatively impacted by the impact of LOEs the nonrecurrence of a onetime tax benefit recorded in 2010 and higher charges associated with our cost reduction and productivity initiatives which were partially offset by lower acquisition-related cost and the nonrecurrence of current -- of certain litigation charges recorded in 2010.
Fourth quarter 2011 adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was 20.1% versus 21.1% in the year-ago quarter due primarily to the positive impact of foreign exchange and our cost reduction and productivity initiatives which were partially offset by the addition of legacy King operations the Puerto Rico excise tax and a shift in geographic and business mix.
Adjusted total cost decreased 9% reflecting the positive impact of foreign exchange.
Excluding foreign exchange adjusted total cost decreased 5% operationally which also reflects the positive impact of our ongoing cost reduction and productivity initiatives particularly in the R&amp;D organization and the negative impact of the addition of costs from legacy King operations the U.S.
healthcare reform fee and the Puerto Rico excise tax.
Adjusted income of $3.9 billion increased 3% year-over-year driven by lower adjusted total cost and foreign exchange which were partially offset by the impact of LOEs and a higher effective tax rate in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.50 increased 6% which included a $0.02 benefit from share repurchases as well as the positive items I just mentioned.
Foreign exchange positively impacted fourth quarter revenues by $157 million or 1% and lowered adjusted total cost by $481 million or 4%.
As a result foreign exchange favorably impacted fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.06.
As I mentioned earlier this quarter we continued to absorb revenue declines as a result of the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies.
The fourth quarter negative impact of LOEs was approximately $1.3 billion.
The full year negative impact was approximately $5 billion.
This quarter the impact of LOEs was partially offset by the addition of King products growth in our Animal Health Nutrition and Consumer Healthcare businesses the positive impact of foreign exchange and growth of certain in-line pharmaceutical products including Lyrica Enbrel Celebrex and Sutent Prevnar 7 in Japan and Prevnar 13 Norvasc and Viagra in Emerging Markets with overall double-digit growth in China.
Fourth quarter revenues generated from both our Biopharmaceutical and our other businesses in Emerging Markets increased to $3.3 billion.
In the fourth quarter Biopharmaceutical revenues in Emerging Markets declined 2% operationally.
Although that business experienced volume growth of 3% this was more than offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange 2% increased pricing pressures changes in institutional purchase patterns in Turkey and Brazil currency devaluation in Venezuela and Lipitor's loss of exclusivity in Brazil and Mexico 2010.
It's important to note that for the full year 2011 Biopharmaceutical revenues in all emerging markets grew 5% operationally which reflects operational growth of 10% and price reductions of 5%.
Biopharmaceutical revenues increased 6% operationally to about $4.2 billion in the BRIC-MT markets in 2011.
As you can see in 2011 we again met or exceeded all elements of our full year financial guidance including achieving our cost-reduction target associated with the Wyeth acquisition 1 year ahead of plan generating more than $4 billion of cost reductions on an operational basis compared with the 2008 combined cost of Pfizer and Wyeth.
Looking ahead to 2012.
We're updating some elements of our full year financial guidance and providing a guidance range for adjusted cost of sales for the first time.
Specifically we have reduced the guidance ranges for reported revenues and adjusted diluted EPS primarily to reflect the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against major currencies from mid-October of 2011 to mid-January 2012.
We now expect 2012 reported revenues to be in the range of $60.5 billion to $62.5 billion and we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.30.
In addition we expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.37 to $1.52.
We've lowered the guidance range for adjusted SI&amp;A to $17 billion to $18 billion and we expect adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues to be in the range of 20.5% to 21.5%.
So finally moving on to key takeaways.
I'm very pleased that this year we again met or exceeded all components of our financial guidance including achieving the cost-reduction target associated with the Wyeth acquisition ahead of schedule.
We've updated certain components of our 2012 guidance primarily to reflect the significant unfavorable changes in currency rates from mid-October of 2011 to mid-January of 2012.
We remain on track to finalize strategic decisions for our Animal Health and Nutrition businesses in 2012 and continue to expect that any separation of these businesses from Pfizer will occur between July of 2012 and July of 2013.
In 2011 we returned $15.2 billion to shareholders through $6.2 billion in dividends and $9 billion in share repurchases and we remain committed to allocating our capital in order to deliver attractive shareholder returns in 2012 and beyond.
Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.
Thanks Frank.
And at this point operator can we please poll for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Catherine Arnold from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I don't have to tell you guys that getting your share count down is going to make a big difference in the way people look at your pipeline your product story and fueling growth.
I know you know that.
But obviously there can be big swings in what people expect from you in the longer-term EPS based on what you do there.
And I guess I -- there's a lot of questions about the various scenarios of how you use the proceeds from Nutrition and Animal Health towards buying back shares.
And I guess I'm wondering are you thinking about giving us any new guidance on share repurchase once you announce these transactions? Or is this something that we're going to have to monitor? And are you thinking about the proceeds from these transactions as earmarked in any different way than the way you're sort of giving us your strategy from the year-to-year cash flow that you generate? Thank you Catherine.
Let me start and then Frank can add to it.
There's been no change in our strategy from 2011 to 2012.
We've said that the use of our cash post dividends post investment of the business will be -- stock buybacks is the first test.
And we remain aligned with that.
So once we complete -- if we complete the separation of Nutritional and Animal Health then the funds from that will be tested against the best investment with stock buyback being the baseline.
Frank do you want to add to that? I'd just punctuate what Ian said Catherine which is the proceeds from those businesses assuming we do a separation the case to beat is buybacks.
That's what we've said that's what we continue to say and that's what we will do relative to anything with those businesses.
And let me just run a couple of numbers which is if you look last year Ian and I mentioned we returned $15 billion to shareholders.
Of that $9 billion were buybacks.
We bought back 459 million shares with that $9 billion.
And we've said this year approximately $5 billion in buybacks plus another $6-plus billion in dividends $11-plus billion for the year.
In the last 2 years we have returned $26 billion what we were estimating this year plus what we did last year in capital directly to shareholders.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Ian I've got a couple of questions.
The first is is that I appreciate your providing us your vision for what Pfizer might look like post-2012 in terms of 2 different companies an innovative core and a cash generator and the commitment to grow the company on a consistent basis.
Can you provide a little bit more color behind that in terms of how we should think about the revenue outlook? I mean obviously post Lipitor there's still other patent expirations obviously divesting about $6.5 billion to $7 billion worth of companies.
And then on the bottom line what that could look like.
So if you could be just a little bit more specific on your top and bottom line growth aspirations post 2012.
And my second question is more to do with just your view of the reshaping of Pfizer's portfolio.
A lot of the discussion last year focused on what that portfolio might look like.
And your goal was to achieve a smaller more focused company.
And when I step back I'm still looking at a $60 billion company which is huge.
And I'm wondering if you have discovered through the process of being CEO other options that might now be on the table that weren't earlier in the year that could lead to a further reshaping of the portfolio.
Thank you Jami for those 2 questions.
So I think if you -- I tried to lay it out by saying I look at the company in 2 parts.
So clearly with the post Lipitor we've got through the bulk of the LOEs but still continue to have sequential LOEs through 2015.
So I tend to look on the top line in 2 companies.
One where if we take it as the innovative core and we see the growth coming from that that in my mind is a growth company that's sustainable with a research engine that's sized and will be predictable.
And then I look at a value company that will have to absorb the post-LOE impact of the transfers.
And then from that base we'll be stable or grow given it'll have Emerging Market growth et cetera et cetera.
So top line growth will be the impact of those 2 factors.
And I'm more focused on our ability to produce predictable and consistent EPS growth over time as we manage those 2 businesses.
Now to your second question I feel that while we are a $60-plus billion business that's prior to any decisions on the separation of Nutritionals and Animal Health.
And then laying out this clear vision of 2 businesses I think leads to increased visibility 2 business models different cost structures different priorities.
And I think it'll allow the Street to clearly see the value of those 2 businesses inside of Pfizer.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On your 2012 guidance you said it was lower -- revenues and earnings were lower primarily due to FX.
Were there any other contributing factors? And then second Lilly's Q4 call was dominated by questions about solanezumab.
And your product bapineuzumab is going to have important data in the current year as well yet you never seem to talk about it too much.
I'm hoping I can kind of ask you a few questions on this.
The first is what will be the timing and venue for seeing the results of the 2 U.S.
trials? The second is can you confirm that you'll likely present the results of both trials at the same time like Lilly will do? And then the third point have there been futility analyses done with the bapi Phase III trials? So Frank perhaps you can address the first question and then I would ask Olivier to answer the question on bapineuzumab.
Yes so 2012 guidance.
If you look at -- we'll start with the bottom line.
If you look at what the previous bottom line was and now with the current one is for adjusted diluted EPS it went from $2.25 to $2.35 to $2.20 to $2.30.
That $0.05 is entirely due to foreign exchange.
If you look at revenue revenue went from $62.2 billion to $64.7 billion to $60.5 billion to $62.5 billion.
So on average if you look at the bottom of the range and the top of the range we lowered the 2012 revenue number by about $2 billion.
Roughly 2/3 of that approximately 2/3 of that was due to foreign exchange.
The other 1/3 was really due to I'll call it 3 areas.
One was a more challenging environment in the EU.
Second one was more generic product offerings by ourselves in certain emerging markets.
And the third was lower-than-expected volume growth in Emerging Markets due to accelerated price cuts.
That said we still see robust growth opportunities in those markets and the volume is less than we expected.
Thank you Frank.
Yes re-emphasizing that it's just -- we -- as price cuts occur in Emerging Markets we expect volume to respond.
In '11 we saw the response slightly slower than had we expected in our original projections and we corrected for that in '12.
Olivier? All right.
In term of timing it's the same timing that we talked about in the previous calls.
And the studies are going to be read out by mid-year and we will report the results as soon as possible afterwards in a scientific meeting.
There was no futility analysis done on those studies.
And I would like to actually mention that the 2 products or the 2 compounds are targeting a different epitope on the beta and amyloid peptides.
And that may trigger 2 very different mechanism of actions.
And therefore the results of one may not be transferable to the results of the other one.
However I must say that based on what we heard this morning we heard the alliance views the decision to continue on solanezumab with interest.
And we're maintaining confidence in the amyloid pathway for our AD program.
Your next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from BoA Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First for Ian and Frank given that we're actually getting closer to seeing proceeds I want to better understand the buyback being the case to beat comment you've been making.
So buyback offers immediate accretion while good acquisitions often take a few years to generate a return.
So how are you truly comparing the 2? Is it an accretion in an out-year or something like that? And then for Dave Simmons what have been the key positives and negatives learned from your Lipitor strategy and how that might shape future strategy for generic launches? Okay.
On the buybacks I mean I -- I think it's clear that we look at the value of the share in the market today.
And we have models to look at the value of the share on a discounted cash flow basis so we look on that return on a buyback along with the impact of dividend payments being lowered by the buyback.
That gives us a certain financial return.
And we compare that to the opportunities we have of acquiring businesses and the net present value of those businesses.
So it really is an economic view of what is the best use of the shareholders' for -- of the funds of Pfizer shareholders.
Lipitor Olivier? Sorry David.
Gregg yes the question on learnings from Lipitor I'd probably break these into 2 pieces.
The first is we've done a lot of market research and learned one that in-depth the incentives that are occurring from different stakeholders in the healthcare environment during the LOE period both from day 1 to day 180 and then also post 180.
And this cuts across payers pharmacists and the patients themselves.
And through those learnings and research we've also been able to discover a significant percentage of patients who want to remain on the brand.
They don't feel that they understand how they can do that.
And we've been developing strategies of how to tap into that desire without increasing cost to the healthcare system.
So the learnings are on that front.
The second thing that I would add in is that the response to the strategies that we've put in have been very strong.
We're pleased with where we are in the Lipitor progress.
Our share of branded Lipitor is tracking some 40-plus percent higher than historic analogs so the strategies appear to be working.
And as we go into upcoming LOEs assuming we get the same type of market research reads we will be applying the learnings from Lipitor tweaking them and trying to continue with our core goal which is to make sure we maximize revenue profit and patient value from our brands.
Thank you David.
That being said the Lipitor opportunity is unique in its size.
And the 180-day period I'm not sure how many molecules going forward will have that same dynamic as I believe the law has been changed to allow same-day filing.
So you won't have one company with 180-day exclusivity.
You'll have multiple companies.
So I think that will change the dynamic of post-LOE marketplace.
Your next question comes from John Boris from Citi.
Research Division</strong> First one for Ian.
Appreciate the color Ian on the 2 separate businesses post divestitures of Nutritional Animal Health.
Can you maybe go a little bit more in detail on the description of how you return the pharma portion of that business to growth relative to the value portion and then how you resource those 2 parts of the business? And is there additional room for improvements in the efficiency of R&amp;D and what you're spending in SI&amp;A as you think about those going forward? Second question on the ACIP panel.
Just help us understand what kind of recommendation you're expecting out of that panel and how that is potentially going to facilitate the uptake of Prevnar 13 in adults.
Okay.
I'll take the first one and I'll ask Geno to talk to the second one.
So thank you for the question John.
I think fundamentally this sort of separation on my mind or in fact in the way we run the businesses will allow a sort of a focus on an innovative core and a clear understanding of the capital being deployed and the growth expectations from innovative products.
So it'll allow the marketplace and ourselves to have a lot clearer view on are we returning cost of capital on our innovative endeavors and will allow a better valuation of that business and allow management to be held to better performance standards.
And on the other side -- and your SI&amp;A spend as well which will be more tailored towards positions and investment in innovative products.
Whereas you move to the value business that becomes a business that sort of absorbs the impact of LOEs and then continues to grow post that and adds strong brands from Emerging Markets and is a sort of value cash engine with a completely different cost structure.
So in my mind it does allow a clear valuation by the marketplace or by management of 2 businesses with 2 distinct models.
So with that I would hand it over to Geno to talk to the ACIP recommendation.
Yes.
On the ACIP question John the -- it's typical for ACIP to provide recommendations to the healthcare system after the approval of a new vaccine.
And you know that Prevnar 13 was approved in December by FDA under their accelerated approval provision recognizing the significant unmet need for a serious medical condition in this case pneumococcal pneumonia.
So the ACIP needs to deliberate and discuss how this vaccine should be used or recommended to be used in light of the availability of a polysaccharide vaccine for the over 65 population.
So we're not privy to exactly how they're going to vote or how they're going to guide on the use of Prevnar 13 but we know that Prevnar 13 is certainly a different vaccine with a conjugate technology.
And the ultimate recommendations will influence the uptake of the vaccine in the U.S.
Yes.
And additional to that post their recommendation we will have the CAPITA trials that we expect by the end of '12 or early '13.
Your next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just had a couple of questions.
One can you give us a little more color on Prevnar in the quarter? It just seems a little lighter than what we would've expected.
And then second can you give us an update on the uptake of crizotinib kind of what's going on behind the scenes there and also an update on REMOXY and what's happening there? Okay thank you Marc.
So Geno can do the Prevnar and the Xalkori and then I'll ask Olivier to talk about REMOXY.
Okay so for Prevnar 13.
Prevnar 13's humming along.
Overall worldwide sales were $3.7 billion in 2011 up 50% from 2010.
So the vaccine is doing extremely well on a global basis.
As you mentioned sales in the fourth quarter in the U.S.
atypically were soft compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
And it's simply because the catch-up opportunity was strong in the fourth quarter 2010.
So comparing one quarter to the other we see a change in the growth rate.
So the fourth quarter of '11 we had much less catch-up and there was some adjustment of inventories in doctors' offices and in the supply chain as a result of that re-established demand level for Prevnar 13.
In terms of Xalkori or crizotinib this was approved last summer a new personalized medicine with a companion diagnostic.
We're happy with the progress so far.
The diagnostic is widely available now essentially in all major clinical sites and academic medical centers.
Usage is accelerating pretty dramatically.
There's been a doubling of the use of the diagnostic so far and we expect yet another doubling of the use of diagnostic in this coming year.
Growth for Xalkori or crizotinib is going to come from the accumulation of new patients and the sustained duration of therapy.
And we know from our Phase II trials that patients were sustained for a much longer period of time than on previous therapy.
So we see the development of the drug occurring over time.
And then of course we're continuing to explore utilization of crizotinib in other subtypes of patients with different mutations and in combinations with other pipeline therapies.
All right.
Marc on REMOXY we spent the last few months trying to understand the issue.
We have now a much better understanding of the formulation the manufacturing controls and what we need as analytical test in term of methods.
So in addition to that we will have to conduct 2 bioavailability study that we'll run during the second quarter this year.
And when we will have all this data we think that it will constitute the basis for our engagement with the FDA.
And we anticipate meeting with the FDA during the third quarter this year to discuss next step.
Your next question is from Barbara Ryan from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question is for you Ian.
You talked about the 2 different businesses the innovative core and the more mature established products and the different P&amp;Ls.
And the focus on that from investors I'm just wondering when and if you would provide more transparency into the difference of the P&amp;Ls of those 2 companies so we could in fact value them and model them differently.
Thanks for the question.
Yes I sort of see that developing approach to that as we go through '12.
We need to first of all complete the potential separation of Nutri and Animal Health.
And then as we do that and we look at our P&amp;Ls and we enter into late '12 or '13 I expect us to have a more clearer way of describing those 2 businesses to the shareholders.
And I think it also -- going back to a question from Jami we see our research being focused on neuroscience and CVMED oncology inflammation vaccines and pain.
And so that's a very focused portfolio where we are looking to really focus on personalized medicine and bringing forward products that have a differentiation both in clinically and from a genetic standpoint.
So I think that's the transformation we're talking about in our science.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 3 questions.
First historically Pfizer has treated businesses to be divested as discontinued.
So what does not considering Animal and Nutrition discontinued tell us about the status of the actions on those businesses? Secondly on tofacitinib did Pfizer request a priority review and it was turned down by FDA? And then thirdly should we assume that a good portion of the Lipitor sales force at peak so at the peak marketing force will be marketing Eliquis? And I'm also wondering if you'd help us craft an expectation for the rollout.
So should we think of the rollout as PRADAXA- or Xarelto-like? Or would you like us to think about it as being appreciably better driven by the data? Thank you Steve.
Frank if you could take the first question? Sure.
So in terms of not having discontinued ops treatment as of today Steve that's because no decision's been made.
Just to -- we've said all along we're on track to finalize our strategic decisions regarding the Animal Health and Nutri business.
We said we would do that this year.
We're pleased with the progress we've made to date.
In terms of our objective nothing's changed.
Our objective is to generate to create the greatest after-tax value for our shareholders and we will be providing updates on this as we move through the year.
But the reason why it's not being accounted for as disc ops is simply because we haven't made a final decision.
Tofacitinib? Yes.
On the tofacitinib question we did not request a priority review.
We are seeking a broad label with usage in patients in second-line as well as third-line therapy.
So we didn't go for a priority review for an unmet need in the post-TNF indication.
Okay.
And then on the Lipitor stroke Eliquis question I'll make a couple of comments and then Olivier can add to it.
I think from a point of view of your modeling our resources have been dimensioned for both post Lipitor and an Eliquis launch as of the end of the fourth quarter of this year.
And as regard to Eliquis I see that marketplace -- number one I see the advent of having 3 products in that segment as positive in the sense of it's a new class.
It needs medical education.
It needs continued promotion.
And having 3 products in that class will be positive for the overall expansion of the class.
And we would expect given the fact that the strength of our data for us to be -- to take a leadership role in that class.
Olivier do you want to give any...
Nothing much to add to that frankly.
With BMS we think we have optimized the launch and we are putting the right amount of resources to make sure that we are very competitive with cardiologists and primary care physician.
And as you said it's going to be competitive.
But we think we have one of the best-in-class profile.
And again we have the right resources behind it.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple questions on the growth outlooks.
With respect to Emerging Markets the revenue growth x currency was 5% in 2011.
Can you please provide a little bit of color on what the growth outlook is in 2012? And then basically similar questions with respect to Nutritional and Animal Health.
Nutritional grew 11% last year constant currency.
I'm hoping that you might be able to provide some color on the outlook for '12.
And Animal grew 14% last year.
Wondering if you could provide perspectives on the growth outlook for that segment.
Okay.
I'll make a couple of comments on Emerging Markets and I'll ask David to expand upon it and I think ask Frank to handle the questions on Nutritional and Animal Health.
So Emerging Markets growth in '11 was volume 10% and the price reductions of 5% were beyond our expectations of sustainable price reductions in Emerging Markets.
So we continue to expect volume at double digits and we expect to continue to see pricing pressures but not of the level we saw in 2011.
And David do you want to add any more color to that? Yes just to call out a couple items.
And when we look at Emerging Markets as a backdrop we see 2 fundamentally strong trends that aren't going away over time.
One is the increase in population masses overall and the second is increase in the wealth of these population masses.
So that's the backdrop that keeps us very optimistic about opportunities in Emerging Markets.
Now as Ian mentioned the price erosion we saw in 2011 was a little stronger than what we had anticipated and we've factored that into our views going forward.
We do expect to improve our growth rate moving forward.
We would expect to increase this up to high single digits.
And our strategies to do that are focused around maximizing the opportunity space of our in-line innovative portfolio having very very targeted approaches to the generic market more targeted than we've ever had and also being able to adapt to unique local market opportunities.
Those are the 3 fundamental strategic pillars that we think will cause an uplift in the inflection of growth rate.
Thank you David.
Frank? And then on Animal Health and on Nutri let me just add the absolute numbers to that.
So Animal Health this past year we did $4.2 billion in sales and in the Nutri business we did $1.2 billion in sales.
And both had strong growth rates to your point 14% and 10% respectively.
$2.1 billion in Nutri $4.2 billion in Animal Health.
Correct.
We expect strong performance going forward and all of that performance has been factored into our 2012 guidance.
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions here.
First can you talk about your Established Product growth here? I guess it's tough for us to get a clean read on this given some of the recent off-patent assets securing growth like Effexor.
Can you just talk about the growth or decline you're seeing in that business let's say for the I don't know pre-2010 products in this portfolio to help us understanding the kind of underlying trends that you're seeing in that business? Second on gross margins.
Can you just confirm what your expectations for gross margins are for this year and what type of quarterly progression we should be thinking about given the Lipitor decline throughout the year? I guess what I'm trying to get out here is what your gross margins look like exiting this year.
And then the final question is on the tax rate.
It's roughly 500 basis points above your competitors.
Why are we seeing this? And when or if should we start thinking about those rates starting to come down? Thank you Chris.
So if David could comment on Established Products and Frank could handle gross margin and the tax rate.
Sure.
Chris you're asking the question the right way.
You've got to separate out the products that are going through LOE events last year and into this year because you've got an abnormal comp.
So if you remove out Zosyn Protonix and Effexor that was the major cause of the decline in Established Products.
So when you go back to that original base of legacy Pfizer brands going back to 2009 plus the addition of growth initiatives like some of the generic work we've been doing what you see is that business that was decreasing 3 years ago at about minus 18% to minus 20% that business has been stabilized.
So if you look on that basis this year the growth on that business segment plus those select growth initiatives got to flat.
So we stopped the deterioration on that business.
And those strategies'll continue going forward.
Whether we can hold that line or not we'll have to see.
It's a very dynamic market in this off-patent market.
On gross margin.
So in 2011 -- I think I'll answer this by doing cost of sales.
And then the gross margin is just a reciprocal.
So in 2011 our cost of sales was 19.3% for the year.
Our guidance for 2012 is 20.5% to 21.5% on cost of sales guidance.
And what's happening there clearly is that's increasing which means there's downward pressure on the gross margin.
And that's based on the change or shift in the company's business and geographic mix including things like the Lipitor LOE.
That said we continue to believe we can achieve operating margins in the high 30s to low 40s because some of the primary care revenues is being replaced by revenues like in places like Emerging Markets where we don't need as much of an expense base to generate those revenues.
So there's clearly some pressure on gross margins but we continue to believe we can generate operating margins that are in the high 30s to low 40s.
In terms of quarter-to-quarter there'll be volatility quarter-to-quarter based on how the mix of the business changes from quarter-to-quarter which is why we provide the guidance on an annual basis.
In terms of the tax rate let me just give a little history on this and then I'll answer the question.
Pre-Wyeth our tax rate was in the low 20s.
When we announced the Wyeth acquisition we increased the tax rate to approximately 30% and part of the reason for that had to do with the amount of cash that we planned on repatriating.
That repatriation of cash continues which is why we gave guidance for 2012 of approximately 29% which is pretty much what we predicted in 2011.
We predicted 29.5%.
One other point on the 29.5% it was down year-over-year from 29.7% in 2010 to 29.5% in 2011.
I think in '12 we should assume that 25% and beyond '12 with all of the winds blowing fiscally globally today it's hard to predict tax rates.
But I think we should assume for the time being a rate that's approximately 29%.
Thank you Frank.
I mean the only thing that would change that would be fundamental tax reform in United States which we would hope would move the United States more in line with the rest of the developed world on its corporate tax rate and even to a territorial system which potentially as you pointed out would have a differential impact on Pfizer vis-à-vis our competitors.
Your next question comes from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's Jeff Holford here.
Three questions for you if you can.
Firstly what important readouts could we see from tofacitinib this year in ongoing clinical studies and if you can give us any indication of potential timelines you think could happen there? Secondly when you talk about fixing the innovative core as you put it in your release is that deemed to be an internal organic process? Or does that rely on to some or a large extent on acquisition or licensing going forwards? And then just lastly on the disposal process news wires indicate that there's a number of buyers out there for the Nutrition business but it's less clear on the Animal Health side.
Can you give us any update if you are seeing a number of potential interested buyers for that business? All right.
Geno if you could do the tofacitinib I'd like to have Mikael to give a comment on the innovative core which we see as both internally being better and also reaching outside of our borders seeking the best science.
And the third question was on Animal Health which Frank can deal with.
So for tofacitinib we read out our 5 pivotal trials over the course of the year in 2011.
In 2012 there'll be additional analyses from those databases that'll be presented at EULAR and ACR later in the year.
And I really can't comment on the specific sub-analyses that will be presented at this point.
Okay Mikael if you could just have a comment on the innovative core? Yes.
So I'm very excited about the flow of the pipeline.
And you have seen strong discipline in the late-stage pipeline as exemplified by comments from Geno and Olivier.
And we have a pipeline out with lots of opportunities of differentiated drugs from early mid to late stage.
And just to give you highlight on some of the stages that you not have been able to follow as closely.
So in immuno inflammation we have a number of Phase II assets such as MAdCAM IL-6 and dissociated steroids for indications from Crohn RA and to lupus.
In oncology we have a number of exciting signal transduction inhibitors in both solid and hematological tumors.
In vaccine we have not only mening B but we have staph aureus in the Phase II studies.
And we're bringing in towards the clinic vaccine for nicotine and later on to Plastene [ph] and [indiscernible].
In cardiometabolic you heard Olivier to speak about Eliquis.
We have a very encouraging data on our PCSK9 antibody for cholesterol lowering.
We have multiple diabetes read-outs in Phase II and we also have a very interesting drug PDE5 a very selective inhibitor for diabetic nephropathy.
Similarly neuro pain where we had a discussion around bapi we are adding a new generation of drugs in the pain portfolio with precision medicine focus as Ian spoke to and a couple of more earlier CNS drugs.
So as you can see there is a lot of exciting drugs where we are highly differentiated and either best- or first-in-class in our aspiration.
Thank you Mikael.
I'd like to reinforce that.
I think that we feel we've made good progress on the innovative core.
But in a way we feel at Pfizer it's just the beginning as we continue to accelerate what we're doing by focusing in the therapeutic areas where we're in and merging together the biology and the chemistry that I think -- the biology from Wyeth and the chemistry from Pfizer to a best-in-class scientific organization.
And then on Animal Health.
We've not yet decided on what the potential method of monetization is.
However we continue to explore all options and once again with the goal being to maximize after-tax value to our shareholders.
And on Animal Health we are proceeding according to our internal plans.
We remain on track and we are pleased with the progress that we've made to date.
Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just one brief question around Enbrel.
The reps that you have today that are marketing to rheumatologists if we make an assumption that tofacitinib is approved do you actually continue to market Enbrel given that you will -- your contract expires with Amgen in '13 I believe? And moreover is this a product actually that will also be part of the bag of a rep who also is a -- who also is actually visiting primary care physicians? I'll ask Geno to answer that question.
So for Enbrel in the U.S.
we currently copromote with Amgen and that arrangement will expire at the end of 2013.
So we are in dialogue with Amgen on how we'll make that transition.
But ultimately we will be promoting tofacitinib within Pfizer alone in the United States.
Outside of the United States we'll continue to have a role with Enbrel and we'll manage Enbrel and tofacitinib in countries outside of the United States.
And your final question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple of questions here.
Ian maybe you could just discuss for us what we're seeing in Europe with these developed market value determinations with the evolution of the German market IQWiG GBA and really what that might mean for the business and new products near term.
And then also if you can just give us your sort of 30 000-foot view in terms of the expectations for these types of developments broadening and how you're approaching those types of things strategically.
And then sorry for the long question there.
But then lastly can you also comment on what would prevent if anything a timely separation of either the Nutritionals business or the Animal Health business? Okay.
A pretty expansive question there on Europe.
I'll ask Frank to talk about the timeliness of the Animal Health business for a second and then come back to you on your first question.
So relative to Animal Health and Nutri I mentioned for both that progress is proceeding.
We're pleased with the progress.
Things are moving according to plan.
In terms of what would hinder the progress at this point I don't see anything at this point hindering our progress.
I think we're going down a good path and pleased with the progress and I think we'll continue to move down a good path.
All right.
So regarding Europe.
Europe has had HTA or healthcare technology assessments for a long period of time.
And frankly in Europe as you pointed out they tend to be used in conjunction with medical evidence also as a rationing tool.
So as our portfolio changes as Lipitor goes LOE as some of our primary care products go LOE and we become a more specialty business the medical differentiation and the value add is a lot more visible to those authorities than perhaps a primary care product would be.
So I think while my view is that this practice will continue to expand outside of Europe and it's appropriate that payers and the government expect value from their medication I think in the U.S.
we'll see a broader view of what value is including wider stakeholders than in Europe including the caregivers and the patients a less narrow definition a more -- of value to society.
And I feel once again our portfolio is evolving.
And certainly our research is focused in a way that we'll have the data and the differentiation to be successful in that environment where there is health technology assessments.
Thanks Ian and thank you everybody for your attention this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Pfizer Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's first quarter 2012 performance.
I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Primary Care; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide R&amp;D; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel and President and General Manager of Pfizer Nutrition; and David Simmons President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance First Quarter 2012 which is located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Also the discussions during this conference call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today May 1 2012.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck.
During my remarks this morning I will briefly discuss the quarter and how I see the company evolving over time as we continue to stay focused on getting our innovative core more productive and sustainable and keeping our capital allocation priorities in line with the best interest of shareholders.
Regarding the quarter we started the year on a solid footing.
Some noteworthy highlights include good performance in Emerging Markets of 9% operational growth in revenues quarter-over-quarter.
In particular we had strong growth in 3 key markets: China Mexico and Russia.
While I'm pleased with this quarter's performance in Emerging Markets as we have said before we still expect there will be some volatility from quarter-to-quarter due to ongoing pricing and macroeconomic issues.
Several parts of our branded portfolio performed well.
Globally we grew revenues of Celebrex Lyrica and Enbrel.
The work we did in planning for the Lipitor LOE has proved to be successful.
Five months after LOE in the U.S.
our market share is over 2.5x compared to other LOE analogs at the same point in time.
Branded Lipitor sales in the U.S.
for the quarter were $383 million.
The Animal Health and Nutritional business turned in another quarter of strong operational growth.
Animal Health grew 6% and Nutrition grew 8% over the same quarter in 2011.
As you know last week we announced an agreement to sell our Nutritional business to Nestlé.
We are pleased with the interest there was in this business and believe that Nestlé with its presence resources and focus is a very good strategic fit for the Nutrition business.
We expect the divestiture of Nutritional will be complete by the first half of 2013 assuming the receipt of the required regulatory clearances and satisfaction of other closing conditions.
As we have said in the past we will use the proceeds in a way that creates the best after-tax value for our shareholders.
And we expect to allocate the after-tax proceeds to further share repurchases while also considering other value-creating opportunities with the return on share repurchases remaining the case to beat and a high hurdle.
Our expense discipline and process improvement efforts continue to yield savings.
Adjusted total costs were down 7% operationally from the first quarter of 2011.
And we returned over $3.3 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases in the first quarter.
Despite pricing pressures and global market uncertainty the fundamentals of the business is strong and our strategy is positioning us well for the future.
With the pending sale of the Nutrition business and after the potential separation of Animal Health which at this time we expect would most likely be a public market transaction our strategic imperatives remain the same.
We are focused on building a sustainable research engine and allocating our capital in ways that create a competitive and flexible operating model that maximizes value for Pfizer and our shareholders.
I'm frequently asked: How do I see the company's strategy evolving? And what are the markers that will indicate if we're on track? As I've shared with you in prior calls through our strategic imperatives we are building 2 strong cores: an innovative core and a value core.
I see each of these as having distinct cost structures and operating drivers and our consumer business can support the evolution and growth of either these cores through its portfolio of strong brands.
A few words about the innovative core.
It is intended to be a growth engine sustained by R&amp;D investments that enable us to continue to build a robust late-stage mid-stage and pre-proof-of-concept pipeline.
A pipeline of highly differentiated products that are focused on areas of unmet medical need that payers are willing to pay for.
While we still have several products that will either lose exclusivity or will be approaching the end of their co-promotion periods over the next 2 to 3 years I'm already seeing signs of positive momentum within the innovative core.
Our late-stage pipeline has progressed well across multiple therapeutic areas as evidenced by the recent launches of Inlyta Xalkori and Prevnar 13 for adults and the regulatory reviews that are underway for Eliquis tofacitinib and bosutinib.
Over the next few years we expect that these assets will likely form the foundation upon which we build and grow.
And by prioritizing our investments in advancing the most promising newest drug candidates we now have a complement of early- to mid-stage compounds that we hope will achieve proof of concept over the next 2 years and that will form the necessary late-stage substrate of the future.
Turning to the value core.
Its objective is to generate strong cash flow albeit with less growth.
It includes post-LOE products certain products that are approaching LOE and other Established Products targeted to broad populations.
The value core requires a strong presence in high-opportunity geographics low-cost go-to-market and manufacturing capabilities and a broad base of product offerings.
These are all capabilities we are building for our Emerging Markets footprint and other business development activities such as the JVs and contract manufacturing agreements we have entered into.
To support and evolve each of these cores we'll continue to work on our cost structure inclusive of everything from research and development manufacturing and go-to-market strategies while allocating capital in ways that maximize value to shareholders.
To sum up I believe we have the right strategy for Pfizer that will guide us over the next several years.
It will take a few years to fully determine our success in building the innovative and value cores.
That said as they each develop over time I see them generating consistent and steady growth in earnings per share.
Now I will turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter.
Thanks Ian.
Good day everyone.
As always the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast.
Please note that starting in the second quarter of 2012 the Nutrition business will be presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented on a retroactive basis.
And as you know discontinued operations are excluded from adjusted financial results.
This means that for the full year 2012 the results of the Nutritional business will be excluded from adjusted results.
Now let's move on to the numbers.
First quarter 2012 revenues of $15.4 billion decreased 7% year-over-year reflecting an operational decline of approximately 6% driven primarily by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies including primarily Lipitor in the U.S.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.58 decreased approximately 3% which primarily reflects the favorable impact of lower total adjusted costs resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives to a lesser extent the impact of foreign exchange which was more than offset by the loss of exclusivity of certain products.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter revenues by less than 1% or $57 million and favorably impacted adjusted total cost by $163 million or 2%.
As a result foreign exchange favorably impacted first quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01.
We've included the next chart for the first time to better clarify the composition of biopharmaceutical revenues in Emerging Markets.
In the first quarter of 2012 Emerging Market biopharmaceutical revenue increased 6% to approximately $2.3 billion reflecting operational growth of 9% and the negative impact of foreign exchange of 3%.
Volume growth of 13% in Emerging Markets was partially offset by price reductions of 4% resulting in the 9% operational growth.
Of the first quarter Emerging Markets biopharmaceutical revenues approximately 42% was generated by Established Products 32% by specialty and Oncology products and 26% by Primary Care products.
Established Product revenues generated by sales in Emerging Markets increased 9% operationally year-over-year.
Specialty Care and Oncology revenues in Emerging Markets increased 12% operationally and Primary Care revenues in Emerging Markets increased 7% operationally.
With respect to the BRIC-MT markets first quarter biopharmaceutical revenues of almost $1.1 billion increased 10% operationally year-over-year and of these revenues approximately 44% was generated by Established Products 29% by Specialty and Oncology products and 27% by Primary Care products.
Revenues for Established Products sold in BRIC-MT markets increased 14% operationally year-over-year.
Specialty Care and Oncology revenues in BRIC-MT markets grew 9% operationally and Primary Care revenues in BRIC-MT markets grew 4% operationally.
We've also provided the next chart for the first time to better clarify the composition of biopharmaceutical revenues generated in the BRIC-MT markets.
During the first quarter volume growth of 15% in the BRIC-MT markets was partially offset by price reductions of 5% resulting in operational growth of 10%.
These markets contributed about 50% of the Emerging Market biopharmaceutical operational growth versus the first quarter of 2011.
We're updating our 2012 revenue guidance and certain elements of our 2012 adjusted financial guidance solely to reflect our agreement to sell the Nutritional business.
Again starting in the second quarter of 2012 the Nutrition business will be presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented on a retroactive basis which means that for full year 2012 results of the Nutrition business will be excluded from adjusted results.
Now most notably we are decreasing revenue guidance to a range of $58 billion to $60 billion from the range of $60.5 billion to $62.5 billion decreasing the adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue guidance to a range of 19.5% to 20.5% from a previous range of 20.5% to 21.5% decreasing the adjusted SI&amp;A expense range to $16.3 billion to $17.3 billion and decreasing our adjusted diluted EPS guidance to a range of $2.14 to $2.24 from a range of $2.20 to $2.30.
In addition we are decreasing our reported diluted EPS guidance to a range of $1.23 to $1.28 from a range of $1.37 to $1.52 primarily reflecting additional expenses related to certain legal matters and certain asset impairment charges.
Our first quarter results reflect our continued solid operational performance despite the negative impact of the loss of exclusivity of certain products in various geographies mainly Lipitor in the U.S.
Again we are updating our 2012 revenue guidance and adjusted financial guidance solely to reflect our agreement to sell our Nutrition business to Nestlé.
Following the completion of the transaction and after we receive the proceeds which we believe will be in the first half of 2013 we expect to make additional repurchases of our common stock with the after-tax proceeds with share repurchases continuing to remain the case to beat.
We expect this to be accretive to our net results in 2013 and beyond.
We remain on track to announce the strategic alternative for Animal Health business in 2012 and continue to expect any separation of this business to occur between July of 2012 and July of 2013.
As always our decision will be based on the option that generates the greatest after-tax return for our shareholders.
We remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2012 and beyond with approximately $2.3 billion or 104.6 million shares repurchased to date in 2012.
And we continue to expect to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock in 2012.
With that I'll turn it back to Chuck.
Thank you Frank and operator please if we could now poll for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Catherine Arnold from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I actually have 2 questions.
I want to ask you about your comments on share repurchase.
I know you guys always talk about share repurchase as the case to beat.
And I think that we obviously have a lot of subjectivity in thinking about that in terms of what your stock price is now and where it will be and when that changes.
But is it fair to think about it from an earnings yield perspective? When you think about consensus numbers divided by your share price you're yielding 10% and that seems like a pretty high number to beat.
And actually even $1 or $2 up from here same deal.
So is that a fair way of thinking about it? And then my more granular question is on tofa.
Could you just comment on where the ORAL Start study is in regards to interim malice -- analysis reading out this year if FDA has that in terms of its review? And the same thing with ORAL Scan.
Yes I'll ask Frank to comment on the way you look at share repurchases but I'd just like to once again emphasize that we remain committed to discipline in capital allocation.
And we do see our shares as being a good investment and a high hurdle to beat.
And we remain committed to looking for opportunities of sort of bolt-on acquisitions that would produce growth but they always have to beat what we believe is the high hurdle of our share repurchase.
So Catherine I think the way I'd answer the question is we don't look at any individual metric.
We look at several metrics.
At a macro level we always start with at prevailing market conditions and therefore prevailing market stock prices.
Do we believe that buying back our shares represents an attractive investment opportunity and a prudent use of capital? The short answer is we do.
So we start there.
Then we look at a few other metrics.
One of which is the one you mentioned in terms of an EPS number on top of the stock price and the return you get.
And then by the way that's an after-tax return that needs to be trued up to a pretax number which gets you to the high-hurdle comment that Ian made earlier on the phone call.
So that is one of the other metrics that we do look at when we analyze the return on share buybacks.
And Geno if you want -- thank you.
Would you answer the tofa question? Yes.
Catherine for the tofa trial the ORAL Scan trial the 1-year readout was included in the dossier that went to the FDA.
So they have the data the 1-year data.
The 2-year data will read out a little bit later this year and whether we submit that data to the FDA or not prior to an action will depend on ongoing discussions with the agency.
In terms of the monotherapy trial that also the 1-year data will read out around middle of this year as well.
And that has not obviously been submitted as part of the dossier since it hasn't read out yet.
And so those data will be available as we progress through the rest of the year.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on Catherine's questions.
Ian I don't mean to put words in your mouth but do you see any other acquisition out there that is more attractive right now than buying back your stock? And then Frank maybe if you can talk about the proceeds from the Nutritional business as I understand are mostly outside the U.S.
And what can you do to minimize the tax burden when you take that cash back from overseas to the U.S.? And then lastly Geno if you could just frame for us the issues going into the panel on Wednesday for tofacitinib.
And just generally how you're feeling about the potential outcome.
So I think we've said many times that we -- as we look at opportunities especially in smaller bolt-on opportunities where we could acquire an asset that we could organically grow we would be interested in that because we do want to look at growth assets.
I certainly don't -- I look at them as bolt-on and I don't -- as I sit here today don't see any of those type of activities.
And certainly I would say -- while never saying never I certainly don't see any opportunity in larger-scale acquisitions that would be a prudent use of our capital.
Frank do you want to add to that? Yes so let me hit the question on the Nutri proceeds Jami.
Let me just start at the high level and then I'll drill down a little bit.
So first we're pleased with our recent announcement to sell the Nutri business to Nestlé.
We look forward to working with Nestlé to get that transaction completed by the first half of 2013.
In terms of the proceeds in my mind nothing's changed.
We are all about working to continue to minimize -- to maximize the after-tax return to our shareholders.
In terms of the use of the proceeds nothing has changed.
Share buybacks remain the case to beat.
And then specifically now to your question when we do receive those proceeds initially most of those proceeds will be domiciled outside the U.S.
because our Nutri business was a non-U.S.
business.
And then in terms of what is our objective our objective is to minimize the tax burden involved in those proceeds as we maximize the share repurchases from those proceeds.
And that's literally what we're working off all the way through as we go.
Geno? Okay.
Jami this is Geno.
So let me make some comments about tofa.
I think with regard to our expectations for the Advisory Committee and the issues I mean it's basically all about benefit-risk and I think there will be a thorough discussion of both.
And we feel that our data package is strong with regard to characterizing both the benefits and the risks associated with this medicine.
On the efficacy side we've done 5 large pivotal trials.
We have a database of over 4 800 patients.
We've shown consistent efficacy in signs and symptoms and function and remission.
We have structured data in the ORAL Scan study.
And importantly we have strong patient reported outcomes data that showed patients actually function better and they feel better actually on this therapy.
So on the benefits side we think the benefits are really well characterized.
On the risks side this is a new mechanism of action so there'll be lots of interest in understanding the profile thoroughly.
The good news is that what we've seen in our clinical trials with regard to adverse events and safety issues are predictable based on the mechanism of action.
You can almost anticipate what might be the case.
What we've seen in the safety profile is that it is predictable.
The safety events are familiar to rheumatologists.
They're manageable in most cases.
And we think that after a thorough and robust discussion the Advisory Committee will have the data to conclude that the benefit-risk is positive at both the 5-milligram and 10-milligram dose which is what we've concluded.
We think the fact that this is the first oral DMARD in over 10 years and given the high unmet medical need for patients with RA that the committee will be favorable and the discussions will be robust.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
The first question is a longer-term question on your restructuring.
While selling off Nutritional and spinning out Animal Health may benefit shareholders it's not apparent exactly how it really benefits the parent company because these are growth to your assets that you're getting rid of.
So it's clear how shareholders would benefit in the short term but I'm hoping you can describe in what ways the parent company benefits over the longer run if growth in the pharma business ends up being lower as a result of the restructuring.
And then the second question is again on tofacitinib once FDA makes its final decision on the application will you be disappointed if you don't get both doses of the drug approved and if you don't get a DMARD failure label versus only getting a third-line TNF-failure-only label? Okay.
So look I'm not quite sure I totally agree with your hypothesis there with be the disposition or the monetization of Nutri and Animal Health.
I think we are unlocking value for shareholders and hence we are unlocking value for Pfizer.
It's a good use of capital.
It's an appropriate use of capital allocation.
And in the end the business rests on our ability to have an innovative core and a value core.
That's where the vast majority of our business is.
That's where our growth will come from.
That's where our cash flow will come from.
So unlocking the value of these 2 businesses to me seems to be in the shareholders' interest and in Pfizer's interest.
With that I'll pass it over to Geno.
Okay.
So with regard to potential outcomes on the doses we believe that we've demonstrated that both the 5-milligram and the 10-milligram dose independently have a positive benefit-risk and should be approved and should be made available to practicing physicians.
We know that rheumatologists would like to have the ability to tailor therapy to meet the individual needs of their patients and their preference would be to have both doses available.
And so we will support the registration of both doses and hopefully that will occur.
If not we really don't see it as a major deterrent to the use of the medicine or the potential for tofacitinib to help patients in need of a different -- alternative to what's available today.
With regard to the positioning of post-DMARD or post-TNF it's likely that the initial utilization of the medicine will be in a post-TNF patient population.
That's where the greatest unmet need exists today.
So it's almost regardless of what the labeling is.
We think that the evolution of the use of the medicine will start in the post-TNF space.
And as experience accumulates and as additional data are generated we would see the labeling and the use of the medicine evolve to a pre-TNF and possibly even a pre-methotrexate position in the long run.
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The first question is how you're thinking about the longer-term dividend here.
You've commented a goal of getting back to an industry payout by the end of '13.
But given the highly diversified business you're going to have particularly post-Lipitor why not think about even a higher payout over time? And I guess how are you thinking over time about again a higher dividend versus share repo? And then my second question was on the bapineuzumab.
What should we just be expecting here? Is it something that we're going to have to wait for a conference to get data? Or should we anticipate a press release from Pfizer when top line rate results are available? Okay.
So I think Chris we've been reasonably aggressive in increasing the dividend over the last 3 years.
We're aware of how important it is in total shareholder return.
We constantly monitor that.
We've said up to this date that a 40% payout ratio would be appropriate but we will look at that every year.
And the tax -- right now the tax is equivalent tax treatment between buyback and dividends so there's no arbitrage there for shareholders.
So we will look at it on a regular basis.
We'll look at what the fiscal situation is and I think we'll make the most prudent decisions for our shareholders.
Frank do you want to add anything to that? I think I'll just add to it that the way we think about this Chris is the word I'll use is an "and " and not an "or." And what I mean by that is if you look at what we've been doing the last couple of years we've been doing buybacks and a dividend.
So last year for example we returned to shareholders over $15 billion: $9 billion in buybacks over $6 billion in dividends.
This year with our goal of approximately $5 billion in buybacks we'll return over $11 billion directly to our shareholders.
So in the last 2 years between what we've done and what we plan on doing that will be over $26 billion in capital returned directly to our shareholders.
So that's why I say an "and " not an "or." And over time clearly our objective is to generate steady consistent earnings growth with our approximately 40% target in terms of payout.
As earnings would grow the dividend would continue to grow.
So that's what we're all about doing.
Olivier would you like to take the next question on bapi? Yes Chris.
So study 302 as you know with ApoE4 carriers is now completed and the database is being locked down.
And the other study the 301 for the ApoE4 noncarrier will be actually completed later during the summer.
So currently we plan to issue a press release to include the top line results of both studies carriers and noncarriers because as an alliance we believe that we will best understood the results in the context of both populations.
So we plan to issue the release as soon as possible after the availability of the top line results of the 301 and we anticipate that to be during the third quarter of this year.
And after that in line with the standard practices we have within the alliance we intend to present the full results at a scientific or medical congress during the second half of the year.
Your next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> First on crizotinib can you give us an update maybe how many patients are on therapy and what's happening behind the scenes there? Second any major inventory changes for the products just from the end of the year to the end of the quarter? And then third on tofa and the panel the big concern is not what does the data look like and the adverse events.
We've all seen the data.
It's much more of a concern of how the FDA sometimes can recut data and look at things a little differently.
And I was curious if you could give us any sense of if they've done any of that in your conversations with them so far if it looks like the data is pretty straightforward as we've all seen it.
So could we -- Geno could you answer the crizotinib and tofa question? And then we'll pass it over to Frank to do the inventories.
So with crizotinib the best way to characterize it is that -- continued progress.
We have about 1 000 patients that have been prescribed Xalkori so far.
Again we're making really good progress.
We're seeing a consistent accumulation of new patients.
And as you know the molecular testing is really the key.
We've seen molecular testing increase from about 10% when we launched to about 45%.
It's actually a little bit ahead of what our projections were.
There are some issues with the length of time it takes for those tests to complete and information get back to physicians so we continue to work with the oncology community and the hospitals to improve the efficiency of the testing process.
But at this point I'd say we're encouraged by what we see.
And we think that with the duration of therapy starting to accumulate for new patients we'll see the business continue to build.
And with regard to tofa and the FDA's views I mean as you say they often run their own analyses and look at the data in various ways.
And at the end of the week they'll be making public their briefing documents for the Advisory Committee and you'll see how they've looked at things.
There's nothing that they've done that's been shocking or concerning to us.
We've had some dialogue with them about a number of items but I really can't think of anything to highlight at this point.
Frank? And then on the inventory Mark I think the short answer would be really no changes.
If you look at the weeks on hand for Q1 of 2012 2.7 weeks on hand.
For Q1 of 2011 2.7 weeks on hand.
Then you asked me about the end of the year.
The end of the year was 2.8 weeks on hand.
So really not any real change at all if you look over the various periods.
The next question comes from Greg Gilbert from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 for Ian.
First a strategic one.
Despite some observers' predictions or suggestions that you spin or sell the generic division I could see why you'd keep that business as different parts of pharma converge rather than diverge over time.
But my question is what can you do to enhance that business and treat it more as an offensive than defensive business? Or do you think you already have the right assets and culture in place there? And my second question Ian is that you sounded pretty excited at the Annual Shareholder Meeting last week about the CDK 4/6 inhibitor.
So if you or one of your colleagues could comment on that with a little more color and some timelines that would be great.
Well look I tried to be clear in the opening remarks about I do see the business the totality of the business in 2 cores one being an innovative core and the other being a value core which is where your question is going to on the spin-off sale.
I think they're both great businesses.
I do think both of them have different drivers for their success.
So I think certainly we want to move -- as we get through the Nutrition and Animal Health situation we want to move to more distinct business cultures for those 2 businesses so the managers have a clearer focus on what they're expected to do and how they're expected to do it and how we structure.
And as we do that I think it will allow us to do those businesses and then make the appropriate capital allocation decisions on those businesses.
So that -- I hope that answers your question.
And with that I'll hand it over to Mikael to talk about CDK 4/6.
Thank you for the interest in our next wave of pipeline assets.
And I think the CDK 4/6 drug which we are in the lead in the industry as we were with Xalkori is another statement to our strength in designing highly targeted treatment for kinases in oncology.
We have the CDK 4/6 tested in breast cancer -- ER-positive breast cancer and we have been very encouraged of the data we have seen.
And you will see in May in a breast cancer conference in Brussels investigators sharing the data.
We also see CDK 4/6 as an opportunity as we have learned more about the molecular changes in tumors that may predict response going into additional solid tumors although we see breast cancer currently as the main near-term opportunity.
And we all share Ian's enthusiasm about that drug and for an opportunity for patients suffering from breast cancer.
Greg just to follow up a little on my comments.
On the value core you asked a question about acquisitions.
We see acquisitions and joint ventures and agreements on supplies being vital to that business and we're very focused on that.
We had done a deal in Brazil to secure supply there which we did last year.
And we have just signed a joint venture -- or memorandum of understanding for a joint venture in China with Hisun which will be important to us.
We continue to look at ways of adding substrate through partnerships and supply agreements.
And I think that's a typical example of activities that that core business would be looking at that's distinct from how our innovative core would be looking at what type of activities they do.
We see the end in [ph] that that Emerging Market business as being far more susceptible to local acquisitions and local deals.
We don't -- I don't see it as being a global solution.
These markets are very separate and very different whereas perhaps in the innovative core you'd look more for a global-type deal to meet those needs.
So that's really how we're looking at that area.
And in certain countries we find the bar too high.
Like if you look at India it's a very expensive market right now and we're unlikely to be interested in acquiring assets at that value.
So I hope that gives you enough color.
Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a capital allocation question and a couple of general ones.
On the capital allocation if you guys know that you're going to get the proceeds from Nutritionals next year has there been any thought putting -- why not bring forward an increased authorization and perhaps accelerate some of the repurchases now? I mean it looks like you guys could probably borrow for 1 or 2 years at very low rates.
So just curious if you're thinking about that.
Number two on Emerging Markets how as analysts and investors should we be thinking about pricing in the Emerging Markets over the long term? Should we be modeling 4% or 5% price erosion year-on-year kind of forever? Or should we be thinking about something different? And if you could give any color specifically on what's happening in China that would be very helpful because I know it's a big part of your business.
I'll ask Frank to answer the uses of cash and then ask David to comment on the secular trend in the Emerging Markets both on volume and pricing and wealth.
So on the share repurchases and accelerating the purchases by leveraging up I'll give you a couple answers to this.
I think first as I mentioned before without leveraging up I think we've been very aggressive: $15 billion last year as I mentioned before; $11 billion planned for this year.
So quite frankly I think we get the benefits of being aggressive in this area without leveraging up the balance sheet.
And so from my perspective we'll continue down that path.
We said $5 billion or so this year.
Approximately $5 billion that's the path we're on.
We talked about another $5 billion with the remaining $10-billion authorization.
Remember Animal Health and Nutri are separate and distinct from that $5 billion this year and that $5 billion in 2013 and beyond.
Quite frankly we think that is aggressive and we're doing that without having to lever up the balance sheet.
Olivier -- I'm sorry David? Before tackling you specific pricing question let me give you a frame on this for Emerging Markets and the reason we're optimistic for potential growth in the future.
There's 3 large trends going on in Emerging Markets: The population masses are expanding at a pretty significant rate.
The per capita wealth is increasing at a pretty significant rate.
And country-by-country health care spending as a percentage of GDP is low when compared to OECD averages much less what we would see in Western Europe or the U.S.
So all these mean that there should be more healthcare spending going on.
Now against that and specifically to your pricing question there -- we do expect that there will be price pressure in the future on a continual basis.
Now the issue with your question of how to model it there's kind of a wild card in this in that you don't have a steady rhythm of price erosion.
You tend to have these step-function events where you can have a market turn into a pretty significant price decrease that could be in excess of 10%.
But that's against a backdrop of other countries that aren't doing much price cutting at all.
Last year if you will remember we had a price erosion of 5% against volume growth of 10%.
So we netted out at 5% growth.
That was a pretty large price erosion impact for us from a historic basis.
We expect a little bit more moderate price erosion this year and moving forward as we target high single-digit growth.
Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dr.
Dolsten you commented on the CDK 4/6 but I'd love for you to spend just a minute if you could on other assets that we should look forward to at ASCO given you do have an analyst meeting there.
Mikael? You referred particularly to the oncology area.
So the next wave of oncology drugs on the antibody-targeted conjugates we are very encouraged by inotuzumab.
We are in Phase III for lymphoma.
And also we'll share more data on leukemia -- on B-cell leukemia.
We're making progress with dacomitinib for non-small cell lung cancer a drug that have shown very encouraging data in Phase II versus Tarceva.
In addition to CDK 4/6 that I commented on breast cancer I could add there that CDK 4/6 has shown a very nice tolerability profile which I think also is something that can open up a very large opportunity in women with estrogen-receptor breast cancer adding on a combination on top of hormone blockade.
Beyond that we have 2 very interesting PI3K/mTOR drugs that we have in several Phase Ib studies and now entering Phase II studies for solid tumors.
And we also have a small Hedgehog drug for particular hematological malignancies.
So I think you can see that beyond the assets -- the 3 assets that we have been in registration alone Xalkori Inlyta and also bosutinib there is now a next wave of oncology drugs and you'll hear more of them as we share data at scientific conferences.
Your next question comes from John Boris from Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question for Frank on optimization of the supply chain.
Can you just remind us how many facilities you had when you merged with Wyeth where you've taken that to and how much more improvement there is on that side? And how that might shape gross margins going forward? Question on Eliquis.
The second question has to do with Coumadin and the stickiness of Coumadin.
If you take what you anticipate would be your mock label with some of the claims that you would have how much less sticky do you think Coumadin becomes from the profile of Eliquis? And then third question on your IV generics business that on a global basis is about a $12-billion market you have about a 7% share or close to $1 billion.
A lot of companies have had manufacturing issues there.
How is that business performing? And is that an important area for growth going forward? So we'll ask Frank to give you a reply on the rationalization of the supply chain.
Olivier will do Eliquis and then David can do the sterile injectable question.
So John on the supply chain question when we announced our planned network strategy when we finished up with that after the King acquisition we said we would cease operations in 10 manufacturing facilities over the next several years with those facilities being in the U.K.
Ireland and Puerto Rico.
So from where we are we have plans to reduce by another 10 facilities.
That would be point one.
In terms of what we're doing to manage the cost structure I think the way I think about it from a supply chain perspective is there's really 4 big buckets that we go after.
The first one is I'll call it the overall network which is the plant network strategy that I just alluded to in terms of the number of plants where they are.
That would be one.
Second bucket would be optimizing each individual plant do getting each individual plant to run as efficiently as optimally as possible.
And we use lean manufacturing processes multiple continuous improvement projects to get after that.
The third one is procurement.
Procurement is a major element of manufacturing costs.
So what we can do to continue to do better and better in the area of procurement.
And then the last area would be what I call center cost kind of the center cost that's needed to manage all of the supply chains.
So those are the 4 buckets that we aggressively manage to continue to drive costs and manage that cost in our margins as best as we can.
Olivier? John about the stickiness we are -- let me start by saying that we're planning for launching Eliquis during the summer and we are fully prepared to do that.
So first thing I believe is the fact that Eliquis is very strongly differentiated for warfarin.
So that's number one.
And you know why? Because it has demonstrated superior efficacy superior bleeding outcomes and overall mortality advantage compared to warfarin.
So that position us we believe very strongly against warfarin and position us also well to compete in the NOAC class.
So we expect that to be very compelling for cardiologists and primary care physician.
And then in the first 4 to 6 weeks after the approval we will be focusing on establishing access and reimbursement which is so critical.
We believe there we have a very strong value proposition for payers.
And we will also be preparing our sales force and medical teams in the field.
We also we believe leveraging the very strong expertise of both companies.
As you know the bulk of prescription initially will be driven by cardiologists and mainly in hospital.
About 50% of the initiations are made in hospital and there we will leverage BMS expertise and relationships with cardiologists before PCPs will take over.
And then -- and there as you know we have considerable expertise and experience with PCP and integrated health system.
So we think we're going to compete initially for new patient starts.
That's how we are planning at the beginning of the launch.
And patients who are not -- no longer well control on warfarin.
And that over time subgroups will actually be targeted and especially the one on aspirin or switches from patient who are well-controlled on warfarin.
So just talking about the stickiness if you look at data and market data about 20% of newly diagnosed patients are placed on a new oral anticoagulant or were in the past 3 months.
And I think physicians are estimating to put 30% of their new patients under those medicines.
So we are very optimistic for the beginning of the launch.
And then John I just want to -- even though you didn't ask me this I thought I would just add one thing to my supply chain answer which is we're acutely and very much focused on cost management.
But please know we are equally focused just as acutely focused on quality and service performance.
All 3 of those are equally important.
They're critical and we focus on all 3 in a critical way.
David? Yes John related to your question on hospital-based sterile injectables since 2008 we've been interested in this area and making efforts against our strategy in this area.
The reason of interest is primarily because the competitive intensity is lower in this segment of the generics market.
And that's driven by the precision and technical difficulty of manufacturing quality standards and holding those standards.
If anything in the last 3 years that competitive intensity has even gotten less because we've had more and more competitors fail to rise to the level of scrutiny that the FDA is rightfully applying.
Now our strategy against this area is to broaden the portfolio and introduce a few new technology platforms like refill syringes and bag technologies.
The portfolio expansion that we're doing comes from 2 areas one -- or 3 areas.
One we have a pretty significant basket of legacy products from Pfizer and its acquired companies pharmacy in particular Wyeth and Warner-Lambert.
Adding to that we are developing non-Pfizer legacy products in 2 manufacturing facilities that have specific technical capabilities.
That's Kalamazoo Michigan and Perth Australia.
Beyond that we have a partnership with Strides in India who is providing us with oncology and anti-infective products.
In fact we've been launching products.
We have a large-format vancomycin entry that's taking significant share in the U.S.
So everything you're seeing in the market is valid and it's an area that Pfizer is poised to compete well and be a leader in due to our manufacturing quality standards.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have one question on tofa and then a few on bapineuzumab.
So on tofa you're expecting a favorable committee.
Could you just talk a little bit about the REMS that you're proposing including monthly blood testing requirements? And then changing gears to bapineuzumab.
In the press release it indicated data mid-year and you are expecting to issue a press release in the third quarter.
My first question on bapi is should we assume that the data will thus not be at the Alzheimer's conference in Vancouver in the third week of July? And then the second with respect to the data there's been some discussion by your partners about adding and prespecifying additional endpoints.
But I'm hoping that Pfizer can clarify that since Pfizer owns half of bapineuzumab so that we understand the analyses that you're going to be running when you look at the Phase III data.
And then finally your partners have also discussed a new Phase III trial that's being started.
And once again there I thought it would be best for Pfizer to discuss it since Pfizer owns half of the compound.
Could you just walk us through this new subcutaneous trial in early-stage Alzheimer's patients? And with respect to that trial that you're running the new Phase III trial some bulls would interpret that to mean that Pfizer has seen positive data.
A bear would say "What company starts Phase III months before Phase III is supposed to report out?" So if you could provide some color on the new Phase III trial that would be helpful.
David thank you for those questions.
So we need to get at tofa first I believe.
Yes that's an easy one.
So David our expectation and our recommendation and the REMS for patient monitoring is that it's actually very consistent with monitoring that you would -- that's currently proposed and put in practice for patients that are on biologic DMARD methotrexate combinations.
So it will be very similar to what's in practice today.
And then Olivier I think the bapi was into 3 parts.
One do we expect to be at a conference in the third week of July? The -- some commentary on adding additional endpoints.
And the third question was why have we started a new Phase III trial? Right.
So on to the first one the answer is no.
However as I mentioned earlier during the call we are planning to present the data at one other conference but it's still not determined during the second half.
And there are a couple which would be available during the second half of the year.
So that's the first question.
The second question to be honest I'm not entirely sure what are those additional endpoints you are referring to.
The endpoints are very very clear in all 3 programs both in terms of efficacy and safety.
So I'm not entirely sure what again you are referring to there.
And I can get back to you on that one when it's clarified.
And the third one yes we are discussing within the alliance is a possibility of subcu study in prodromal AD.
However the decision is not made.
And as you rightfully suggested the decision will be made on the basis of the strength of the data of the current Phase III program and the 2 first studies.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 3 questions.
First on Eliquis do you believe 3% to 5% share of the oral anticoagulant market exiting 2012 is completely unattainable? Secondly the decline in alliance revenue x U.S.
is a bit puzzling because at least to my knowledge Pfizer's Spiriva participation has ended in only a few small markets with participation in larger markets ending in June.
So what is the reason for the decline? And then thirdly what was the rationale for exiting the Biocon deal for generic Lantus back in March? So Olivier if you could deal with the expectations on exit market shares at the end of 2012.
I don't believe we predict or give out projected market shares...
No we don't.
But you may make some qualitative comments about how we expect to go to market.
And then the decline in Spiriva x U.S.
I think that question was on that.
And then Biocon if David can talk to that.
So on the first one Steve as Ian has mentioned we are not giving out forecast as you know.
But we're planning again to be very successful and aggressive during the second half of this year so that would probably be a good target.
And again we're going after cardiologists first who are responsible for a large piece of the prescriptions a large volume of the prescriptions initially.
And we have terrific access and relationship with cardiologists in hospitals thanks to BMS.
And again the renewal of those prescription would be made through obviously a dialogue with our Primary Care sales force.
So that's number one.
Number two Spiriva has a contract for Spiriva in the U.S.
It's reaching year 10 only in 2014 by mid-2014.
So that I think answers your question.
And the third one Ian? The Biocon regarding -- David? Yes related to Biocon and in the framework of capital allocation when we made the deal we made a set of assumptions that primarily revolved around the U.S.
market which was the most attractive part of the estimates for that market opportunity.
As we progressed the partnership looking at the competitive landscape looking at progress in understanding regulatory requirements on these types of products we took an assessment that the amount of investment on a go-forward basis and the use of that investment versus other potential uses of that capital that we made a decision to go with other uses of the capital rather than continue with the partnership.
Your final question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly maybe strategically you guys can help us think about -- and again I guess it's more strategic pricing and marketing.
As we think about access for tofacitinib global pricing should we be thinking about this as kind of a globally-priced product? Should we be thinking about it as having differentials in different markets? And do you see value in coming in with a reduced price potentially to potentially gain market share despite Geno your comments that the use will probably be in the anti-TNF refractory space.
And then similarly on Eliquis even though you guys have demonstrated superiority over warfarin how will price versus access in the context of again the uptake and really breaking through this barrier of inertia how much does that weigh into your views versus marketing and the data itself? These are very good questions and go centrally to competitive situations that we don't really want to get into discussions before launching Seamus.
I would say that we clearly need to position the price based on the value we see in the product and where it's positioned.
And pricing is an important part of the launch platform.
And we will do that with research and we will do it carefully.
I really don't want to say anymore around pricing until those final decisions are taken and until we understand where the label is and where the positioning is.
And the same with Eliquis I don't really want to get into pricing at this stage just before the launch.
But thank you for the question.
Thank you Ian and thank you everybody for joining us this morning.
Thanks for your time everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Pfizer's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's second quarter 2012 performance.
I'm joined today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide R&amp;D; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel President and General Manager of Pfizer Nutrition; and John Young President and General Manager of Primary Care.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage at pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2012 located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
The discussions during this call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today July 31 2012.
In addition we’ll offer some brief comments regarding our preparation and target timeline for the potential initial public offering of the minority stake in our animal health business Zoetis.
As I am sure you’ll understand we're not going to able to respond to questions on that subject in light of the quiet period imposed by the securities laws.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck.
During my remarks this morning I'll briefly discuss the quarter and provide some context concerning recent late-stage pipeline developments.
Beginning with the quarter our performance was solid.
Noteworthy highlights include solid revenue and margin performance compared to the year-ago quarter despite the negative revenue impact of $1.8 billion resulting primarily from the losses of exclusivity of Lipitor in most major markets as well as Caduet Xalatan and Geodon in the US.
We had strong performance in emerging markets with 14% operational growth quarter-over-quarter driven by volume growth mainly in key markets such as China and Russia as well as the timing of government purchase of Prevnar 13 in Turkey and ENBREL in Brazil.
Of particular note China grew 36% operationally driven in large part by the targeted investments we’ve made in our Chinese our China sales force and the strength of our cardiovascular portfolio in China.
We had greater expense discipline resulting from our ongoing efforts to streamline operations and Focus R&amp;D programs.
Quarter-over-quarter adjusted SI&amp;A expenses decreased 16% operationally and adjusted R&amp;D expenses decreased 18%.
The Animal Health and Consumer Healthcare businesses achieved good operational performance quarter-over-quarter.
Animal health grew 7% and our consumer healthcare grew 11% driven primarily by the addition of products from recent acquisition of Ferrosan and Alacer Corp.
And we're continuing to create value for shareholders through share repurchases.
During the quarter we repurchased $1.3 billion of common stock and purchased about $3 billion since the beginning of this year.
On a full-year basis we expect to repurchase approximately $5 million of common stock.
Regarding animal health we anticipate filing a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission by mid-August for a potential initial public offering of up to 20% ownership stake in the business.
To be named Zoetis we are targeting completion of the IPO in the first half of 2013.
As we continue to work towards this potential IPO and the potential full separation we remain open to all alternatives that would maximize the after-tax return for our shareholders.
Concerning the pending sale of the nutrition business to Nestlé we remain on track to close the sale by the first half of 2013.
We’ll work to maximize the after-tax proceeds and expect to allocate those proceeds for share repurchases while also considering other value creating opportunities with the return on share repurchases remaining the case to beat.
Given our performance year-to-date I believe we are well positioned going into the second half of this year.
By staying focused on our current course we are building a sustainable innovative core and creating shareholder value.
A few words about the innovative core.
The actions we set in motion early in 2011 to improve R&amp;D productivity are starting to bear results.
We have a pipeline that I believe includes potential high-value assets at all stages of the development continuum across our key therapeutic areas.
Of particular note is the strength of our oncology vaccines inflammation and cardiovascular portfolios.
And our early stage portfolio is increasingly comprised of new therapies based on precision medicine approach an approach we believe yields more targeted treatment for patients.
We have precision medicine efforts underway at various stages by applying across several therapeutic areas including diabetes oncology and cardiovascular.
We have a sharp focus on innovative core.
I believe we are able to create a portfolio that matches our areas of expertise and that positions us for long-term growth.
In terms of the late stage pipeline we are in ongoing discussions with the FDA about the regulatory views of Eliquis and tofacitinib and remain enthusiastic about the potential commercial prospects for each of these important therapies.
Regarding Eliquis as we and our alliance partners Bristol-Myers Squibb previously said the FDA has requested additional information on data management and verification from the Eliquis Aristotle trial.
They have not requested any new studies and along with Bristol-Myers we are working closely with the FDA and are confident we can address and resolve their questions.
We will provide an update when we have new information to share on the status of the review.
Concerning tofacitinib as you know the FDA advisory committee recommended approval on May 9.
Subsequent to that meeting the FDA requested additional analysis of the existing data in our NDA.
We are planning on providing them that information in early August.
Given the timing of the additional analysis requested we anticipate that the FDA may require additional time beyond the August 23 PDUFA date to review this information.
In another tofacitinib development we now have the top line results of our Phase 3 Study 1069 also known as ORAL Start.
As a reminder this study was conducted in methotrexate-naïve moderate-to-severe RA patients and it evaluated the use of tofacitinib 5 or 10 mg twice daily doses as monotherapy compared to methotrexate.
1069 included a structural endpoint.
I am pleased to share with you that the study met all of its primary endpoints at both the 5 and 10 BID doses including demonstrating statistically significant changes versus methotrexate in inhibiting structural damage.
We are issuing a press release on these top line results following today’s call and we will provide more information about this study at upcoming scientific meetings.
Because the study only recently read out it was not part of our NDA submission and it's not under FDA review.
We are exploring the most appropriate method and timing to submit this information.
Overall we are confident in the efficacy and safety profile of tofacitinib and believe they would make an important contribution to the treatment of RA.
And now a few comments about the recent top line results for bapineuzumab study 302 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease who carry the ApoE4 genotype.
As we recently reported Study 302 did not meet the co-primary clinical end points; no statistically significant benefit was seen in changes in cognitive or functional performance in the bapineuzumab treating group compared to placebo.
Study 302 was the first of four placebo controlled Phase 3 studies complete in the bapineuzumab development program.
The Janssen led study in non-carrier Study 301 has just completed and the data is being evaluated.
We plan to report the data to regulators and announce the top line results in August.
Of note both Study 301 and 302 have been accepted as late-breaker presentations and we presented at the European Federation for Neurological Societies meeting in Stockholm in September.
Looking ahead to the second half of this year we will continue to work on our cost structure inclusive of everything from manufacturing corporate functions our go-to-market strategy and continuing to execute on our existing R&amp;D plans.
Our work across these areas should enhance our ability to create incremental value for our shareholders.
And invest in potentially new treatments that address unmet medical needs in such areas as cancer neuroscience pain and vaccines for infectious diseases.
For the foreseeable future we expect that our operating environment will remain challenging and uncertain especially in Europe and we will have to offset the impact of upcoming LOEs as well as expirations of co-promotion and licensing rights over the next couple of years as we embark on new product launches and generate growth in emerging markets.
Despite these challenging market forces we are demonstrating through our quarterly performance both in this quarter and in recent quarters that the fundamentals of our business are strong capital allocation decisions are sound and our colleagues are skilled in navigating in uncertain and sometimes inconsistent markets.
For these reasons I remain optimistic about our ability to generate consistent predictable earnings per share growth over time.
To sum up we turned in another quarter of solid performance.
We remain enthusiastic about the potential commercial opportunities we see for tofacitinib Eliquis Prevnar 13 adult.
We continue to build a track rate of consistent performance that provides us with a firm foundation for steady future earnings per share growth.
Now I will turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter.
Thanks Ian and good day everyone.
As always the charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast.
I want to remind you that the nutrition business is presented as a discontinued operation and consolidated statements of income for all periods presented given the pending sale of that business to Nestle.
As you know discontinued operations are excluded from adjusted financial results and consequently throughout 2012.
The results of the nutrition business will be excluded from adjusted results.
Now let's move on to the financials.
Second quarter revenue is at $15.1 billion decreased 9% year-over-year reflecting an operational decline of approximately 6% driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products and certain geographies notably Lipitor in most major markets.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.62 increased approximately 5% which primarily reflects the favorable impact of lower expenses resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives and fewer weighted average shares outstanding due to our share repurchases and the unfavorable impact of the loss of exclusivity of certain products including Lipitor in most major markets.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter revenues by 3% to $451 million and favorably impacted adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A and adjusted R&amp;D expenses by $396 million or 4%.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter adjusted diluted EPS by less than $0.01.
In the second quarter emerging markets biopharmaceutical revenue increased 8% to approximately $2.6 billion reflecting operational growth of 14% and a negative impact of foreign exchange of 6%.
Volume growth of 15% in emerging markets primarily in China and Russia were partially offset by price reductions of 1% resulting in operational growth of 14%.
The second quarter emerging markets biopharmaceutical revenues approximately 41% was generated by established products 33% by specialty in oncology products and 26% by primary care products.
Established products revenues generated by sales in emerging markets increased to 17% operationally year-over-year.
Specialty care and oncology total revenues in emerging markets increased 14% operationally and primary care revenues in emerging markets increased 12% operationally.
With respect to BRIC-MT markets second quarter biopharmaceutical revenues increased to 12% to approximately $1.2 billion reflecting operational growth of 20% in the negative impact of foreign exchange of 8%.
Of the second quarter BRIC-MT biopharmaceutical revenues approximately 42% was generated by established products 32% by specialty and oncology products and 26% by primary care products.
Revenues for established products sold in BRIC-MT markets increased to 24% operationally year-over-year specialty care and oncology total revenues in BRIC-MT markets grew 21% operationally and primary care revenues in BRIC-MT markets grew 13% operationally.
During the second quarter biopharmaceutical volume growth of 24% in the BRIC-MT markets was partially offset by price reductions of 4% resulting in operational growth of 20%.
These markets contributed about 62% of emerging market biopharmaceutical operational growth first to second quarter 2011.
Year-to-date operational growth in the BRIC-MT markets was 15% versus the year ago period reflecting volume growth of 20% partially offset by price reductions of 5%.
We are reaffirming all components of our 2012 financial guidance which we updated in our first quarter 2012 earnings announcement in May to exclude the results of the nutrition business from our revenue guidance and our adjusted financial guidance.
Our second quarter results reflect our continued solid operational performance despite the negative impact of the loss of exclusivity of certain products in most major markets mainly Lipitor in the US and in most major markets.
We anticipate following a registration statement with the SEC by mid-August for a potential initial public offering of up to a 20% ownership stake in the Animal Health business to be named Zoetis.
We are targeting the first half of 2013 to complete the potential IPO.
As we continue to work toward a potential separation of the business we remain open to all alternatives to maximize the after tax return for our shareholders.
We expect to complete the sale of our nutrition business to Nestle by the first half of 2013; additional repurchases of our common stock remained the case to be for the use of the after tax proceeds following the completion of the transaction.
Given the potential of our late stage and emerging pipeline our strong operating cash flow streamed line organization and disciplined approach to capital allocation we remain confident that we are well positioned for long-term success.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2012 and beyond with approximately 3 billion or 136.6 million shares repurchased to July 30 and we continue to expect to repurchase approximately $5 billion of our common stock in 2012.
Now I will turn it back.
Thank you Frank.
And at this point operator if we could please poll the participants for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs I actually have a number of questions but may be Ian if we could start with sort of bigger picture given the activity around Nutritionals and Animal Health if you could frame for the investment community you are thinking around how you envision the reshaping of Pfizer post the Nutritionals and Animal Health spend? What is Pfizer going to look like and do you envision an opportunity to further reshape the portfolio going forward? Secondly for you Frank is it safe to assume that the changes in the FX rate since you reported your first quarter and obviously the Euro has dropped quite a bit would have an impact on the balance of 2013 but that you are able to absorb it and how? And then my third question back to you Ian and they are further million other questions on the call relates to the Animal Health spend is there a minimum time line for which you would have to wait to spend the 80% of the Animal Health business that you would continue to own after the partial IPO? Just trying to get a sense for how quickly you could fully monetize the entire business once you have taken the 20% to the market? Thanks.
Thank you Jami.
I'll ask Frank actually to handle both the FX and the Animal Health in a minimum spin time.
And as your first question about reshaping when we completed I think we have discussed this several times when we have completed the separation of nutritional and the potential separation of animal health.
I basically see us as a company that has two core businesses with consumer fitting into even one of those but the two core businesses one being what we would call Innovative Co or Growth Co and the other being a value company.
The value company being represented by large brands sold around the world with reasonably large infrastructure good channel presence and the Innovative Co being a company which has growth from innovative products a research organization to size that size of that opportunity.
And we have started already down this path of managing the company that way by our BU structure where we have basically Innovative Co inside the BU structures of specialty and oncology and primary care.
And then outside of that we manage emerging markets in a more traditional method of country-based organizations.
So through ’13 and ’14 we will continue to refine our operational structure to maximize the values of those two distinct businesses and we will see how the value of those businesses are reflected in our growth and our share price and then take decisions based on that.
Frank?  Sure thanks Ian.
So Jamie on the FX question if you look at our basket of currencies and you look from our last earnings call where our guidance was based on mid-April rates and then you look at this earnings call where our guidance is based on mid-July FX rates currency has moved against us and its moved against us for the year to the tune of a few cents and we absorbed that in our guidance and obviously reaffirmed guidance is a result.
The way we did that was through a combination of things but primarily our cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
If you look at our numbers for the quarter on a year-over-year basis our adjusted cost of sales our adjusted SI&amp;A and our adjusted R&amp;D all-in were down about 12% operationally and so its that performance and its down 10% operationally on a year-to-date basis that allowed us to mitigate the adverse effect of foreign exchange from the previous quarter to this quarter.
In terms of the other question you asked about the timeline on animal health and to make sure I’ve got it right which was you know from the time of the potential IPO to the time of I’ll call it the potential full separation what were we thinking about; I will tell you how we think about it which is you know typically you want a quarter or two of some operational performance of the company so you can kind of demonstrate what I call the rhythm of the businesses.
So I think one will be one quarter or two of operating performance to the extent this demonstrate rhythm and then two the other thing that will inform us is the macroeconomic conditions; what's going on in the markets and you know those things in combination will drive the timeline between the potential IPO and then a potential full separation.
Your next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Merrill Lynch.
I will ask three quick ones upfront.
First on Eliquis were the issues raised by the FDA in the CRL and could be raised by other regulatory bodies around the world and have you been proactive about that? Secondly Ian what's your latest thinking on whether to weed or feed your generic business over the coming months and years? And third can you talk about the decision to drop the Acura program and what can we read in to regarding in better remarks Ian your commitment to that franchise? Thanks.
Thank you Gregg.
I am now ask John to answer the Eliquis question and also the Acura question.
Regarding weed or feed our generic business I mean we have Greenstone in the U.S.
it's a well run business.
It’s I think an important part of our overall established products presence.
We continue to invest where appropriate in branded generics and generics we take a regional approach to that.
We've done investments in Brazil we've done investments in China.
We take you know this is a very local business and we're committed to being successful in the presence in these BRIC-MT markets.
So we will continue to be opportunistic on how we spend in those businesses.
Geno would you take the other question the Acura question? Okay thanks Gregg.
So taking other first of all as we obviously previously stated the CRL we received from the FDA requested some additional information on the data management and verification from our pivotal ARISTOTLE study.
So you know it's a very big study right about 18 000 patients in atrial fibrillation relation.
I think one point which is really important for me is that it’s our belief that the information requested doesn’t impact the outcome measures of the trial and importantly as Ian has already said we haven’t been requested to conduct any additional studies.
So our confidence and the results from both the ARISTOTLE trial and the AVERROES trial hasn’t changed.
In terms of our discussions with other regulators around the world both in the EU and other countries those discussions are progressing in line with the timelines and our final dates that previously announced.
If I then pick up on the King products just to give you an update on where we are there with EMBEDA as we previously communicated we're very confident that we’ll be able to return EMBEDA to the marketplace and we expect to submit the prior approval supplementary FDA by the first half of 2013.
On Remoxy as we previously stated there based on the work completed by our technical team over the past several months we remain cautiously optimistic to be able to bring Remoxy to the marketplace.
We have preliminary results from two bioavailability studies that are currently being analyzed along with data from experiments designed to optimize the formulation composition and our nautical methods for that product.
And upon completion of those analyses we will determine the timing and the nature or our engagement with the FDA to address the complete response letter that we received in June last year and at this time we are certainly hoping to meet with the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2012.
So lastly if I just pick up briefly on Acura we decided to return the license development and commercialization rights to three smaller early stage immediate release assets to our development partner Acura based on our ongoing portfolio prioritization for not only our opioids portfolio but in line with our standard practice.
I think it’s important to say in regard to those particular technologies that immediate release wasn’t a high priority are for Pfizer but we do continue to work on Oxecta that was launched earlier on this year.
The next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.
Yes first can you help us just quantify on Prevnar some of the one-offs just so we understand what the underlying growth is for Prevnar? Second can you talk about where you are in taking expenses out of the business something that we half way through the nine inning game; are we three quarters of the way through; I know you have talked about Europe as an area that you are really focusing on and trying to take some cost out; you could give us some specifics on kind of what you have left to do there? And then third just on the gross margin can you just remind us again like what’s going on kind of behind the scenes on the gross margin which seems to be much stronger than we would expect that I didn’t hear the numbers that you had called as far as were FX related? And then I was just curious I mean obviously with LIPITOR going off at one thought that gross margin would fall-off much more and yet it’s not? Thanks.
Okay thank you Marc I will ask Frank to take the European gross margin first probably and then ask Geno to make some comments on overall vaccine growth? So on gross margins let me run the numbers and then I’ll answer the question which is are and I will do it in terms of just cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue.
So this quarter it was 17.7% it was down from 18.3% in the year ago quarter but if you adjust that 17.7% for foreign exchange it was actually about 19% which is you know I’ll call it in line with the guidance we provided out for the year.
Now what’s going on there Marc is clearly the benefit of cost reductions and I’ll talk to that in the second question that you asked me and then what kind of what’s working against that; it was actually the impact of LIPITOR when you put that all together you get the 17.7% that we reported but it had the benefit of foreign exchange which if you remove would take it to about 19%.
The FX benefit to COGS this quarter was $285 million so it reduced cogs by $285 million which is how I get from the 17.7% to 19% or so.
In terms of where we are I think you said you know you used the baseball analogy in terms of what inning are we relative to cost reduction; I would describe it is we are not in the early innings anymore; I think we are clearly in the middle innings but clearly with opportunities quite frankly throughout the business.
We continue to work on things like streamlining our manufacturing network to productivity initiatives and working on the productivity of each of our individual plants.
We have announce that you know over the next several years we believe we can further reduce our plant network by another 10 facilities or so you know still lots of opportunities there.
In SI&amp;A we continue to streamline our corporate functions.
In R&amp;D we continue to execute on our engine for sustainable innovation product in terms of the therapeutic areas that we focused on and the therapeutic areas that we discontinued and the work that we do in those areas.
So if I had to net it all out I would say we are in the middle innings and then still with everything that we've accomplished there's still significant opportunities going forward.
Yeah Mark just to comment on Prevnar on the pediatric business business is good in Europe and the United States and what we are seeing now is a return to kind of the stable growth that we've experienced in the past now that the catch up opportunity is fundamentally completed.
So we are looking at quarterly and year-to-date results on the developed markets that are similar to a base line that we can expect going forward.
Japan we continue to see strong growth as the formal immunization program is continuing to roll out there.
Remember that's Prevnar 7 and we are continuing through registration process introduced for 13-valent and expect to pursue a catch up opportunity when we do have the 13-valent there as well.
And then in the emerging markets we continue to see very strong growth of the Prevnar business for the quarter and year-to-date on what's becoming a reasonable base now not just good growth on a small base.
On the adult side we are making good progress.
As you know in the US this is a business that's driven by ACIP recommendations.
Fortunately the ACIP did make a recommendation to support immunization of immuno-compromised patients.
That's a good step in the right direction.
We've also seen progress with some quality measures through CMS that we expect to help open the door for additional growth for Prevnar adult going into the end of the year and the beginning of next year and around the world we continue to see registrations and all of the developed and emerging markets for adult and we are starting to see promotion and some limited uptick there as we start to introduce the adult vaccine on a global basis.
Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.
I had a couple of questions the first you may not answer but thought I would ask it.
On bapineuzumab is there a consideration that you may file in the non-carriers group even if you miss your primary endpoint but you see interesting signals in sub groups.
Second question is on EM this plus 14% year-on-year is very impressive and well above your annual guidance.
I was looking for a little bit more color on that.
Do you recommend we extrapolate that forward or should we keep kind of long-term growth rates little lower than that.
Third on tofa any more color on what the FDA has asked for and can you get the ORAL Start data in the FDA’s hands before they write the label and I ask specifically around structural progression.
And finally a really quick one.
I know you guys have said in the past you plan on breaking out sorry you said you are considering breaking out the value business versus the growth business for reporting purposes in the Ks and Qs next year.
I am just wondering where that decision stands.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Mark well you are quite right we really can't comment on the bapi situations.
We haven't seen the results of the trial yet it's still blinded to us.
So when we do have those results we will think about all the things you asked the questions on.
On breaking at the value and growth curve you know once we get through the potential separation for Animal Health and the separation nutritional we will step back and look at the business and see what is the best way to ensure that the analyst have transparency on to what we see as the core drivers of the business.
So we want to be transparent there.
With that I would also perhaps if Olivier can give a little bit more context from an emerging markets the growths in different market places and on tofa Geno you may want to make some comments on tofa for us? So in emerging we continue to be optimistic and which is track the opportunities across emerging markets and all of that of course related to increased population and wealth.
We’re seeing reduced Pfizer's [nations] as a low amount which is currently spent on healthcare of course.
So as you have seen we have posted 14% operational growth for Q2 and it's driven by very good performance in BRIC-MT.
You have seen the results for BRIC-MT's about 20% operationally but it's 24% in term of volume growth and there was an impact of 4%.
So we will continue we know that to expect and to see quarter to quarter volatility in emerging markets and it's more appropriate probably to look at the results on a 12-months basis and our goal for this year and future years is to grow our emerging market business by high single-digit over time.
Okay so with regard to tofa we see the review progressing very nicely.
We filed the NDA at the end of last year.
We had a very quick advisory committee meeting in May a very positive outcome.
In fact the only thing material that the advisory committee would have liked to have seen more of is more structured data and now we have the additional structure data.
So we see that as a positive development.
With regard to analysis that the FDA is requested it’s basically a routine analysis.
It’s a very large NDA we have five Phase III pivotal trials 5 000 patients and they have asked for some additional analysis.
This is very common to request additional analysis and even to do their own analysis and we are busy putting that together and we plan to have it to them certainly ahead of the action date so that they can determine their next step.
So with regard to 1069 structure data the FDA is aware that we have the top line results and we will find the most appropriate way to get the data to them for consideration in future labeling.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
Two questions on Prevnar 13 and then a couple others.
Can you get any real commercial traction in adults ahead of CAPiTA or does it all really depend on that? Also have you done an interim look at those results I believe almost built under the protocol? On tofacitinib do you expect to get both the five and the 10 milligram doses approved? And then last question in terms of the next round of pipeline products beyond the ones like tofacitinib and Eliquis what are the two or three products that excite you the most?  Thank you Tim.
So I will ask Geno to discuss the adult indication opportunity in Prevnar 13 and the third question on dose and then I will ask Mikael Dolsten to comment a little bit on the next wave of products.
Thank you.
So I mean with Prevnar 13 adult look what we know is that there is a huge disease burden out there and I think I have quoted these statistics many times before in the US.
We know there is 300 000 hospitalizations a year for pneumococcal pneumonia and 20 000 deaths associated with pneumococcal pneumonia.
So we believe there is an opportunity to build the business on the basis of just a need for the vaccine alone.
But you know having said it's true that it is -- historically in the vaccine business it's CDC recommendations that are the real drivers and the CDC recommendation is likely to be most influenced by the CAPiTA trial.
So we are going to do the best we can to build this business from the ground up from now until we have those CAPiTA results and certainly the CAPiTA results will be a major driver and hopefully that gives you a sense for what our thinking is.
In terms of the interim work on the CAPiTA trail the interim look I believe was only to give a sense for how many events had occurred and we don’t have any insight into the number of events that occurred in the placebo group versus the vaccinated group.
So we don’t have any insight into early read on effectiveness.
As you know this is an event driven trial and we will have a final result when there are accumulation of enough events to determine the outcome.
With regard to tofa 5 mg and 10 mg I think the question was do we expect both? We certainly believe that we have demonstrated through the 5 pivotal trials that we have done are very consistent and robust effect both the 5mg and 10 mg had a certainly acceptable safety profile.
So the advisory committee had a review of the two doses and we know that they were supportive of both doses.
We know rheumatologists would like to have both doses available and we believe that our NDA supports both doses.
So that's our feeling on the two doses.
And I don't know if the next round of innovative products Mikael.
Mikael will comment on that.
Yeah for thank you for showing interest in our rich portfolio beyond tofacitinib and Eliquis.
So let's give you a couple of example in four of our therapeutic areas.
In vaccines you will see really a rich pipeline evolving.
We have agreed with regulators in major regions about [Manage B] study design and we are starting with Phase 3 now.
We also have a very exciting Staph aureus program where we are industry leading and we have completed a first Phase 2 and are heading into the second Phase 2.
Oncology as Ian alluded to is really a growing exciting area for us.
We have tofacitinib as the leading antibody drug conjugates for hematological malignancies and also best in class documented need for lung cancer based again on precision medicine and you may not have seen our CDK drug that's go into breast cancer also based on precision medicine.
Finally immunology inflammation is not our life cycle management of tofacitinib going to inflammatory bowel disease psoriasis but also our really best in class 6 antibody for both lupus and the inflammatory bowels disease opportunity.
And also beyond Eliquis in cardio metabolic you know you should keep an eye on programs such as pancreatic glucokinase activator and also PCS canine field.
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
I just had a few here.
First on the gross margin trends looking at your second half I think I hit the midpoint of your range does imply a fairly substantial drop in margins just elaborate a little bit more on that.
I know its some currency benefit first half but it does seem like quite a big step down.
The second question was on the established product division and I think we had a new leadership there since our last call I mean is there in change in focus or priorities for that division? And then finally one that I don’t know if you'll comment on but as you think about the value versus established versus growth [core] here.
When we get out to 2014 or 2015 you had more time to evolve the strategy and if we’re not getting the value for those businesses in your share price would you be open to splitting those franchises apart or do you see meaningful structural issues that would not allow you to do that given the shared resources is that even something I guess on the table as we look out a few years.
Thank you.
Okay so you know on the established I will ask Frank to answer the gross margin question on our established products and emerging markets Olivier Brandicourt has taken over the leadership over of those two areas.
He has a long experience in pharmaceuticals both in emerging markets and developed markets.
So I would ask him to make a brief comment on what he sees these of established products.
But before he does that on the question of value and growth co we're focused at Pfizer on shareholder value and ensuring shareholder values.
So we’ll evaluate those questions you posed and we’ll take the decision that will best drive shareholder value at that time.
I think that’s the best way really to answer that question and one that we continue to show that we're focused on ensuring shareholder value is optimized.
On established product I must say I am very optimistic and I see very attractive opportunities with this business which is very new to me.
So we have a strategy which looks at both segments of the LOE market brand and generics.
For the brands we're trying to leverage in our leadership not only in quality but also in reliability of supply which has been a problem as you know in many countries and also in the enhancement of product value.
For the generics themselves we focused our investment in different what we call profitable pockets of the market and most specifically is the sterile injectable and all solids once they’re very much differentiated.
So we posted about 18% operational growth during Q2 and of course that was very much driven by the fact that we had inherited in this division a few LOE products and Lipitor being the largest one both into the US and Japan.
Thank you Olivier.
And then on the second half cogs relative to the first half what I am going to do is I am going to bump it up a level and not just about cogs but about earnings as well in terms of second half of the year versus the first half of the year.
We got a couple of factors that will impact all the second half of the year or a portion of the second half of the year that didn’t impact the first half at all or impacted only partially.
These are called the negative factors.
So for example in the US with Lipitor Lipitor began facing multi sourced generic competition in the US on May 30.
So you know not an impact for the entire first half of the year but that will be an impact for the second half of the year.
That will obviously adversely affect the cost of goods sold and also adversely affect the EPS.
Same thing Lipitor in Europe where once again began facing multi sourced generic competition in March and May.
So you get a full year effect of that.
At least in the second half you get the full impact of that.
Now same thing with Geodon which in the US began facing multi sourced generic competition in March of this year.
And then if you go out for the remainder of the year we have anticipated LOEs for Detrol in the US and Europe and REVATIO in the US in September which reversely affect earnings and that has an impact on our overall (inaudible) things like cost of goods sold as well.
So if those kinds of factors that we are factor into our guidance that will impact the second half of the year that didn’t have as much of an impact in the first half of the year.
Thanks Frank and operator if we can please move to the next questioner.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
Thank you three questions.
Many of the pressure points Frank you just identified will linger into 2013 would you be able to provide any perspective on 2013 relative to the trend versus 2012 can we anticipate an up year or flat year or what? Secondly on Spiriva what markets has Pfizer already given back to BI and what significant markets are to be given back in the second half of the year? And then thirdly did you formerly drop your follow on CETP inhibitor and if so was it because the agent was an optimal or do you feel the areas too speculative? Thank you so much bye.
Okay.
So Frank if you could handle the impact into 2013 and then we would ask John if he could take question on Spiriva and finally Mikael on the CETP.
Sure.
So in terms of what I said on the previous question relative to the second half of the year and then how that impacts 2013.
Let me just start with we haven’t provided guidance yet on 2013 and something we will do obviously later on.
But in terms of just I will call it positive items and negative items.
I went through some of the negative items.
Some of the positive items that will have a positive rhythm going into 2013 include the things like the strength in some of our inline products for example this past quarter Lyrica Enbrel Prevnar 13 Celebrex all have very strong operational growth.
Lyrica globally 18% Enbrel 15% Prevnar 13 14% Celebrex 7% and internationally even a stronger growth rates.
For example Prevnar 13 internationally grew 33% these are all year-over-year operationally.
So certain key products in the inline portfolio had been growing very nicely.
We expect those to continue to grow nicely going into 2013.
Our new products things like XALKORI Inlyta and those are products that we expect and obviously the products that we talked in there before like Eliquis for example.
Then geographic expansion so we had emerging market growth this past quarter of 14% and 15% of volume.
BRIC-MT markets grew 20% operationally 24% on volume.
We expect to continue to see growth in those areas as well.
And then obviously we'll continue to try to allocate our capital in ways that will in a enabler of growth on a going forward basis.
So those are some of the kind of the positive rhythms and the negative ones that will impact 2013 and we will provide guidance on '13 like we always do when we close it out this year and provide guidance for after 2013.
Thank you Frank.
John could you make some comments on Spiriva? Sure so thanks for your question Steve.
So based on our 10 year contract with Boehringer Ingelheim termination date differs country by country and it's calculated from the launch date of the product in each country.
So EU countries will begin contract exit in 2012 2013 period US Japan in 2014 and the last country is finishing in 2016 aligned with our contracts.
Yeah as you know we are not as well originally interested in CTP inhibitors as a mean to help regulate good cholesterol and reverse cholesterol transport.
Our view currently is that that field has uncertainty and we have not been keen in progressing on the field.
There is more science that understands the potential role of these mechanisms as a way of exchange risk factors in cardiovascular disease.
Instead we think further focus on lowering and also anti-inflammatory mechanism has to be in the main focus now.
Your next question comes from Catherine Arnold from Crédit Suisse.
First of all on tofa I wondered your comments about the starch study and achieving your primary endpoint on all doses both very positively obviously with the Advisory Committee there were some debate regarding the radiographic changes and the implications of those with Pfizer coming out with one dose having a positive effect and the FDA coming out with a different answer based on a different analytical method.
So I guess I just wondered could you express sort of your confidence that there won't be this difference of opinion in terms of the radiographic effect of both doses? And then on Bapi I wondered if you could comment if you will address any pulled data findings in press releases prior to the meeting in Sweden? And then I know you’ll love this last question so I can't help myself but its in regard to your definition of topline and what you are putting in the press release should we assume that when your report Study 301 that that definition will continue to be nothing below the primary endpoint on efficacy; meaning if there are any trends positive or negative in the sub-populations we won't know that till Sweden? And then I would assume the topline definition and I was just going into a conversation with Chuck in regards to the side effects with an instance of greater than 1%? Thanks.
Thank you Catherine.
I didn't quite understand the question on pulled on bapi.
Could you just expand on that what are we trying to get at.
You can't come back okay.
Well then we will go to tofa where Geno will try and answer your bapi question and we’ll also go to the topline question you have here for John.
Hi Catherine just to comment on the structure data.
The data as you know that was presented to the Advisory Committee and discussed during the Advisory Committee was from 1044 and in that study we had a different population.
These were patients who had experienced methotrexate for the most part and one of the design challenges for that trial was that the patients were on placebo for a very short period of time and then their structural progression was extrapolated.
And I think it was acknowledged by the Advisory Committee that this is a very difficult study design to demonstrate a difference in structural progression between the active group and the placebo group.
What we found in that study was that neither the placebo group nor the tofa group progressed very much and the separation was significant at the 10 milligram but not at the five milligram on the primary analysis; other secondary analysis did demonstrate significance of both five and 10.
So there was a lot of discussion around the study design and why the results were what they were and the sensitivity analysis and I think it was acknowledged that it was a difficult way to demonstrate the difference in structure.
Now on the other hand the 1059 study is a different study in a different patient population.
These are patients who hadn't been exposed to methotrexate.
They were progressing more rapidly in their disease and the separation between methotrexate and tofacitinib is much more pronounced and clearly there were significance of both the 5 milligram and 10 milligram doses.
And I think that this absolutely establishes the disease modifying capability of the drug and that’s what the FDA you know should be basing their decision on.
So we feel pretty good about these results.
Yeah the only thing I would add to that is of course there is a timing issue.
The FDA hasn’t formally got the 1059 and so you know we’ll have to see how we best incorporate that into the eventual label of tofacitinib; I’ll leave it to John to the bapi question and understood them? Hopefully Catherine we’ll continue to answer to your question.
Just as a status update so we have announced last week of course since we were to core primary endpoint results and we believe that was the right decision to make not only to inform regulatory authorities but also it’s a wise decision (inaudible) because patients needed to be re-consented in the overall program into the entire program.
The second decision we made was as an alliance was to extradite the interim analysis on the ongoing 3001 in the international cardio study.
The results will help us it forms a risk benefit profile of the assay and we know that we have enough patients who have completed the study to do a pretty small interim analysis and futility analysis.
So the other decision we made was for the extension study.
We have discontinued that study because we think the clinical benefit was just not demonstrated.
To your question regarding 301; 301 will be reported to you in the format of topline results and only core primary endpoints will be reported and that will happen during the month of August.
And finally all results including secondary endpoints and biomarkers all of that will be reported as you know in early September.
Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.
Thanks for the question.
So first off for Ian as we kind of look forward at different opportunities in the business what aspects are you most excited about; are you really more excited about what you are seeing in the innovation portion of the business and if there are products that you would call out that you are particularly excited about given your long history which ones would you call out? And then and again more on the sort of the near term and longer term pipeline if you would? Second as it relates to tofacitinib maybe you could just comment on should we think about this data that FDA has requested as sort of the typical major amendment type of situation that normally results in a three month addition; obviously not speaking for the FDA but more just speaking in your experience? And then lastly as it relates to bapineuzumab Mikael if you could just kind of give us your thoughts on biomarkers that would be important to future development of bapineuzumab as we look at the data; should we really be focusing in on PiB/PET markers or should we be looking at CSF to how as a potential marker going forward? Thanks a lot.
Thank you Seamus.
So on the tofacitinib question I think you expressed it well in the way you described the type of data that the FDA is requesting; not speaking for the FDA we continue to work with them but we would look at the way you expressed it as being very similar the way we see it and we’ll just have to wait and see what happens with the FDA.
On the – what I am excited about frankly is I am excited about the state of the company about the imperatives we have about what we are doing on fixed simulated core and seeing real momentum and enthusiasm both at the ground level with the colleagues who are working in research and R&amp;D and also excited about our opportunities as a global company in emerging markets with our strategies in the BRIC-MT driving our in line brands and also looking to launch our innovative products in those marketplaces.
So while emerging markets will be turbulent we’ll have ups and downs.
There is in a way a reversible move to high GDP high healthcare spend which represents a huge opportunity for an innovative company like Pfizer to be successful in over the short and medium and long term.
So emerging markets is a really exciting place for us; for all of our portfolio and you know in the developed world in Japan the growing strength of innovative core is also hugely promising both in oncology with Dacomitinib or Inotuzumab with the CDK program with XALKORI and the potential for XALKORI in c-Met which is a large opportunity.
Our inflammation portfolio and the expansion of tofacitinib into our extensions such as Crohn's and UC.
Our vaccine program is extremely strong.
We have one of the best vaccine teams in the industry and we have a broad vaccine opportunities.
We continue to invest in CV both PCK9 and the other molecules that Mikael mentioned.
So frankly you know I am enthusiastic about the short term and very enthusiastic about what I see coming through in the next you know from now to the next five years as our pipeline matures with a very strong Phase 1 Phase 2 program.
The remaining question was to Mikael on biomarkers.
I think you mentioned some I think you've really mentioned the ones that are most widely monitored in the field.
On one hand the PiB-PET to look the (inaudible) are you lowering (inaudible) that's number one.
And are you affecting downstream signs of damage such as (inaudible) level in C6 and I think those will be very important and we will see what we learn from this study and over time you will also see incorporation of more early psychometric sensitive tests as this field moves forward.
Olivier do you want to add your point on top of this? The only point I can make is refer to what we have in the current program which answers I think partially the question.
So we do have PET PiB as a marker of (inaudible) that we in the CSF we are looking for (inaudible) and we also have volumetric MRI.
So that gives you already a sense of what we're doing already.
Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.
And you didn’t call out Inlyta and XALKORI with respect to overall products and what those revenues maybe and while they may represent precision medicine as you've alluded to the question is are you putting additional resources behind them and then what lessons have you learned with respect to R&amp;D that may help you win next generation precision medicine.
And oncology for example comes out would it be more to (inaudible) point more to have biomarkers available at that time and be utilized with those medicines? The second question is around again emerging markets.
A tremendous operational growth of 14% especially when you look at 9% in Q1 and I just am interested in what changed between Q1 and Q2 other than a couple of the tenders that really led to that jump.
And then lastly and to be fair in Q1 in August I think it was Olivier had made the reference that once the 301 study was available you would announce the data in tandem for bapineuzumab and I am just curious and I haven’t heard it yet.
What actually changed with respect to splitting out 301 and 302? Okay so Tony on Inlyta and in XALKORI probably in oversight given the richness of the number of products I wanted to mentioned we are extremely excited about.
Inlyta it's going well on its first launch.
I think this product has a lot of legs to it and a lot of opportunity.
It's going to be a product that I think its profile will develop overtime and we're very optimistic about its performance in the market place and with XALKORI I think the issue on XALKORI is we're changing medical practice.
We need to get doctors to have the tests done to identify the specific needs of XALKORI.
It's frankly slower than we expected to achieve the changes given the 3% to 5% of the population that may have the translocation.
But we’ll continue to invest in that and as I said I think XALKORI may have substantial opportunity on the c-Met side as well.
Mikael do you want to comment a little bit on how you see or what we've learnt on the prevision medicine side and strategies we'll use and then I'll ask Olivier to comment further on the reason for the change on what we previously announced on bapineuzumab.
Yeah as Ian said it is very exciting to be a pioneer in bringing such a transforming product as XALKORI forward.
I think the few things on the learning side currently the diagnostic practice is very much one test one drug.
And I would like to see the change.
So you know it’ll be a panel of tests for a disease like lung cancer that I think will drive the utilization of the first drug and multiple drugs and grow the market place.
And also the need to engage all the players that are involved in precision medicine from the treating medical oncologists to the pathologists and also to the diagnostic labs and the payers.
So I think as this swerve of precision medicine stakeholders become more familiarized I think we'll see an even more significant momentum and the way you develop those relationships I think we are in a unique position given our learnings here.
Okay.
Tony on emerging markets so we have very clear a very clear set of three or four strategies which we are applying in emerging market for the last two or three years and I believe they are the right strategy so we are maximizing of course our innovative portfolio and we are building capabilities into behind that portfolio and you heard about the results so very good results we have got with Prevnar I could have mentioned Sutent Enbrel did also very very well during the quarter and Lipitor specially in China.
So second one is to participate in more meaningful way in the off-patent segment as you heard we have made acquisition in Brazil we signed a partnership with Iceland and China to that matter and we are penetrating that segment very effectively and you have seen the growth of established product in emerging market for this quarter has been 17% which is much larger than what we have seen in the previous quarter.
We are also executing a very specific program in term of access supporting governments in emerging market China and their healthcare agenda around cardiovascular medicine we are very active there.
And finally I think we are taking advantage now to our promotional infrastructure and the leadership we have put in place in emerging markets in the last two or three years so that’s how I would summarize the answer.
And then your question on 301.
Why they were separate in the press releases were not together?  All right so initially we were thinking to put 301 and 302 together because we thought that was best view so resulting in more meaningful in that context.
However the clarity of the results we have got on 302 let the alliance to take decision on reporting of top line results.
Thank you Olivier.
I think on emerging markets you know we have always said that you are going to get volatility quarter-to-quarter and you know different markets reacted different times and clearly in this quarter a lot of the BRIC-MT markets were all firing on full cylinders at the same time.
I don’t believe we see long-term or medium-term 14% growth rate in the emerging markets and we remain committed to our services high single digit for a full year growth rate.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley I have I guess three questions.
The first is I am not quite clear on the Eliquis time line from here; can you please clarify that in terms of the FDA process and potential approval? Second with respect to bapineuzumab the FDA and Pfizer and others agreed to two primary end points for Phase 3 could you just discuss why the FDA is interested in seeing both cognition and function and the relative importance of cognition versus function? And then third I was hoping that you could just characterize what the pipeline news flow is to watch in the near term beyond bapineuzumab so what clinical trial read out should we be focused on in the near term.
Thank you.
Okay.
Mikael could you take the questions on bapineuzumab and on the pipeline? Okay.
So I think you first asked about the endpoints here on cognition and function.
You know over the last few years we have seen from initial more focus on the importance when we show impact on a functional performance of patients whether you use physician scores or patient reported outcome and it was the kind of view of many regulator agencies that you needed to look at the combined impact on condition and function.
However I should say as we see this field moving forward there's growing interest in actually cognition as a standalone parameter both in diseases like Alzheimer’s and schizophrenia which I think again opens up opportunities for drug development here.
Thank you.
On Eliquis timeline John.
Thanks [David].
So as you heard from BMS on their call last week we've already the alliance has already met with the FDA and we have an agreed plan on the requested information and we are working hard to provide that information to the FDA by September and we are really working as expeditiously as we possibly can across the alliance to address the outstanding questions and move obligation forward.
As you know the FDA may pick up to six months to review our response to a complete response letter once submitted.
But we are already working with the agency and we are hopeful that the review can be a completed within a shorter period of time.
The alliance will issue a communication with when the FDA accepts our resubmission and we’ll be able to provide you with more information at that time.
Thank you and Mikael you made some good brief comments on the pipeline flow.
I would say that I think you know we have had a very rich year this year and still pending of course Eliquis and tofacitinib and bosutinib news and very very strong in our Phase II and do you want to comment on some of the more closer to Phase II studies Mikael? Yeah so you know its been I am thrilled about the interest in the pipeline and opportunity so I will speak a few that we haven't touched so much on this side.
In vaccines I think there is opportunity for a potential transformer with the change when it comes to management of staphylococcus aureus; as you know with tremendous healthcare burden with much resistance and we are in the mid of a Phase II trial with our Staph aureus vaccine here.
When it comes to the root class of antibody drug conjugate I am really thrilled with the strong date that we have previously reported for Inotuzumab.
We are expanding now also from lymphoma into leukemia and starting soon Phase III studies.
And I should say also there is a drag in our pipeline an IV mTOR 3K inhibitor that I am quite excited about and you will see that in addition to what we have mention about CDK.
And finally one example of an opportunity with risk but also high reward the PI3K inhibitors has been around for sometime and we have actually quite exciting study in COPD which could open potentially for overall drug with disease modifying effect.
So I think that gave you a mix of things of transforming capacity.
That’s all in our pipeline.
In addition to what that is that we have had opportunity to discuss.
Yeah and I think David just to comment on there I think you know we’ve had we will have this year and potentially in the first quarter of next year or in early next year we’ll have quite a bolus of really exciting approvals from some you know potentially Eliquis tofacitinib we’ve had (inaudible) we’ll have Prevnar 13 adults we’ve had XALKORI so I think we’ve had a rich bolus of approvals this year and potentially in the beginning of next year and then we need to see us progress; Phase II cohorts now Phase II and Phase III are really strong differentiated clinically differentiated products is something to look at.
Your final question comes from Michael Tong from Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but just a couple.
First one for Ian.
As you think about a Innovative versus Value Co in several years time what current synergy exist between the two businesses as they operate now and do they represent necessarily an impediment as you think about further breaking or further separating two businesses? And then secondly can you provide us with an update as to your biosimilar efforts you know where they stand now and how you see that space playing out? Yes I think right now I would say this one we’re going to time on the synergies.
Clearly we have large primary care products that require substantial infrastructure and that is synergistic to our emerging markets to our brand and products that sell on quality and whether those synergies remain important really depends on how our portfolio is shaped over the next two to three to four years.
So if the portfolio moves more in a direction of specialty products then the potential synergies between a Value Co and an Innovative Co maybe less in the future than they are today.
So really depends on how the portfolio develops and that’s why I think this is a matter of looking this as in evolving situation as we look at our options and we look at how to manage those businesses.
And the last question was biosimilar to Olivier.
So biosimilar we want to build on Pfizer experience now in biologic development and manufacturing and of course commercialization.
Second the biosimilar market is expanding and is expected to grow from something around $1.5 billion today to $22 billion in 2020.
So we want to build on that and we have successfully obtained IND for rituximab Pfizer product as well as Trastuzumab a biosimilar for Herceptin and we have started clinical trials already.
Thank you.
And thank you everybody.
Thank you for participating in today’s Pfizer second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer’s Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer’s third quarter 2012 performance.
Today I’m joined by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D’Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Establish Products; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development who is joining us remotely due to the storm situation; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel President and General Manager of Pfizer Nutrition; and John Young President and General Manager of Primary Care.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed at Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance third quarter 2012 located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.
Before we start I’d like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer’s 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8K.
Discussion during this call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer’s current report on Form 8K dated today November 1 2011.
In addition we will offer some brief comments regarding our preparation and target timeline for the potential IPO of the minority stake in our Animal Health business Zoetis and as I’m sure you’ll understand we’re not going to be able to respond to questions on that subject in light of the quiet period imposed by securities laws.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Ian Read.
Thank you Chuck.
During my remarks this morning I will briefly discuss the quarter and touch on some noteworthy events that happened in the last weeks.
Overall our performance remains in line with our full year guidance.
As we’ve discussed over the course of the year our financial performance in the near-term will continue to be impacted by the loss of exclusivity notably Lipitor in all major developed countries.
Year-to-date we have absorbed approximately $5.5 billion in LOEs.
I would note the most significant impact on revenues from LOEs will be in 2012 and this impact will decline significantly in subsequent years.
To mitigate the impact to our earnings per share we are producing growth from key lines patented products including Lyrica and Celebrex globally and Viagra in the U.S.
We are seeing growth in emerging markets most notably in China Mexico and Russia.
On a year-to-date basis our emerging market business has delivered solid performance with 10% growth on an operational basis.
We have been effectively managing our cost structure and using the strength of the balance sheet.
For example while revenue for the quarter declined 12% on an operational basis our adjusted cost of sales FIA expenses and R&amp;D expenses in total decreased operationally by 8%.
And if you exclude the $250 million payment of AstraZeneca for the exclusive worldwide rights to the over the counter Nexium they would’ve declined 11% operationally bringing costs down in line with the revenue decline we saw this quarter.
We continue to execute our share repurchase program.
During the quarter we repurchased $1.8 billion of common stock and our year-to-date repurchases are almost $6 billion.
The board has authorized an additional $10 billion in share repurchase to be utilized over time upon completion of the sale of nutritionals to Nestlé which we now anticipate in the next few months.
Our potential IPO for animal health remains on track and depending on market conditions we continue to expect the IPO to happen during the first half of 2013.
As for our regular practice I expect the board to set the dividend rate for 2013 at its meeting in December.
Turning now to some recent noteworthy events.
I remain confident that the quality of the assets and the progress I see in our pipeline.
We have a robust set of potential high-value assets across our key therapeutic areas.
They include some in early and mid stages for diabetes pain and cardiovascular diseases.
Vaccines for mening B at adolescence and Staph aureus.
Late stage in coli compounds and recent advances for key pipeline assets.
Concerning tofacitinib we are looking forward to hearing from the FDA about our NDA on or before the upcoming PDUFA date this month.
Tofa was discovered by Pfizer scientists in our labs in Groton Connecticut.
If approved it will be the first new oral disease modifying therapy for moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in more than 10 years.
It has the potential to change the way healthcare providers treat RA.
It would also be the first RA treatment and new class of drugs known as Ganis Hynais or JAK inhibitors.
And if approved it will be a first in class product that we believe will offer a compelling clinical profile and an effective new treatment option for patients.
Regarding Eliquis the FDA has resumed its review of the Eliquis NDA and set a new action date of March 17 2013.
We and our alliance partners Bristol-Myers Squibb remain confident in the therapy profile of Eliquis and that we can receive FDA approval by the new PDUFA date.
Turning to oncology Xalkori just received conditional marketing authorization in the E.U.
for previously-treated out-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients.
Our conditional marketing authorization in the E.U.
is similar to accelerated approval for the United States.
They have granted to medical products with positive benefit-risk assessment that addresses unmet medical needs and whose availability would result in a significant public health benefit.
Pfizer will submit data to the NEA from the recently-completed study which met its primary endpoint and previously-treated out positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients.
For a review of this data the European commission will consider converting the conditional marketing authorization to a full marketing authorization.
And coming at our consumer business we are encouraged by positive news that multivitamins resulting from the physician’s health study 2 conducted by investigators at Brigham and Woman’s Hospital a teaching hospital at Harvard University.
We are pleased that the study investigators chose Centrum Silver based on its quality and consistency among other factors.
For the duration of the 11-years study that tested the role of multivitamins in relation to long-term health benefits.
I would note that Centrum is the sixth largest OTC brand in the world and Centrum Silver is the world’s number one selling multivitamin for adults 50 and over.
We have recently launched new products Inlyta in Europe Busleth in the U.S.
and we will soon launch Xalkori in Europe.
I remain confident that we have a strong pipeline focused in the therapeutic areas where we have strengths and which can deliver our next wave of innovative products.
I am pleased with how we are executing on decisions we have made to create meaningful incremental shareholder value for the potential animal health IPO and Nutrition sale.
We are seeing good results from the actions we are taking to manage costs across the business.
We continue to make shareholder-friendly capital allocation decisions and finally we are making decisions that we believe have the potential to drive future earnings per share growth.
Now I’ll turn it over to Frank.
Thanks Ian.
Good day everyone.
As always the charts I’m reviewing today are included in our webcast.
I want to again remind you that the Nutrition business is presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented.
As you know discontinued operations are excluded from adjusted financial results.
Consequently throughout 2012 the results of the Nutrition business have been excluded from adjusted results.
Now let’s move on to the financials.
Third-quarter 2012 revenues of approximately $14 billion decreased 16% year-over-year reflecting a 4% negative impact from foreign exchange and an operational decline of approximately 12% driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies notably Lipitor in all major markets.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.53 decreased 12% primarily due to the previously mentioned decrease in revenues which was partially offset by an aggregate operational decrease of 8% in adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses primarily resulting in cost reduction and productivity initiatives a lower adjusted tax rate of 28.3% and fewer weighted average shares outstanding due to our continued share repurchases.
Reported diluted EPS of $0.43 decreased 10%.
In addition to the factors previously mentioned reported diluted EPS was favorably impacted by a U.S.
tax settlement and negatively impacted primarily from the non-recurrence of the gain on the sale of Capsugel in the year ago quarter.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted third quarter revenues by 4% or $699 million and favorably impacted adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses by $440 million or 5%.
This negative impact was primarily driven by the euro and to a lesser extent the Brazilian real versus the U.S.
dollar.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted third quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.02.
In the third quarter of 2012 emerging markets biopharmaceutical revenues were approximately $2.4 billion which reflects operational growth of 6% and a negative impact of foreign exchange of 8%.
I want to point out that the volatility in our emerging markets quarterly revenues was driven primarily by Prevnar purchasing patents specifically the timing of government purchases of Prevnar 13 in Turkey compared to the year ago quarter.
Volume growth of 8% in emerging markets was partially offset by price reductions of 2% resulting in the 6% operational growth.
Of the third quarter emerging markets biopharmaceutical revenues approximately 41% was generated by established products 33% by specialty and oncology products and 26% by primary care products.
Third quarter biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets were approximately $1.1 billion which reflects operational growth of 9% and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 10%.
Of the third quarter BRIC-MT biopharmaceutical revenues approximately 42% was generated by established products 30% by specialty and oncology products and 28% by primary care products.
During the third quarter biopharmaceutical volume growth of 10% in the BRIC-MT markets most notably in China Mexico and Russia was partially offset by price reductions of 1% resulting in operational growth of 9%.
Year-to-date operational growth in the BRIC-MT markets was 13% versus a year ago quarter reflecting volume growth of 16% partially offset by price reductions of 3%.
Based on our year-to-date performance and outlook for the remainder of the year we are narrowing the ranges for our full-year guidance components.
We are narrowing the reported revenue range to $58 billion to $59 billion from $58 billion to $60 billion.
We are decreasing and narrowing the range of adjusted cost of sales as a percent of revenues to 18.7% to 19.2%.
We are decreasing and narrowing our adjusted SI&amp;A expense range to $16.3 billion to $16.8 billion.
We are narrowing our R&amp;D guidance range to $7 billion to $7.25 billion.
I want to point out that our R&amp;D guidance includes the $250 million payment to AstraZeneca for the exclusive global over the counter rights to Nexium which were recorded in the third quarter.
We now expect other deductions to be approximately $900 million and continue to expect the effective tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 29%.
We are increasing and narrowing the range of our reported diluted EPS to $1.30 to $1.38 and we are narrowing our adjusted EPS range to $2.14 to $2.17.
Finally we now expect operating cash flow to be approximately $18.5 billion which reflects the charge related to the RapidUse settlement recorded in the third quarter.
Our third quarter results continue to reflect the loss of exclusivity of certain products mainly Lipitor in all major markets.
That said we are continuing to mitigate the impact of Lipitor LOE with expense discipline and share repurchases.
We received U.S.
regulatory approval for bosutinib and in European Union we received approval for inlatum and conditional marketing authorization for Xalkori.
We filed a registration statement in mid August for a potential initial public offering of up to a 20% ownership stake in the animal health business to be named Zoetis.
In addition we filed an amendment to the S1 on October 10th which included updated financial statements through the second quarter 2012.
We remain on track to complete a potential IPO in the first half of 2013 and as we continue to work toward a separation of the business we remain open to all alternatives to maximize the after tax returns for shareholders.
We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation with approximately $5.9 billion or 255 million shares repurchased through October 31st.
Approximately $4.1 billion of authorization remains under the current repurchase program.
The board of directors also just recently authorized a new program upon the sale of the nutrition business to repurchase up to 10 billion of our shares over time.
We now expect to complete the sale of nutrition business to Nestlé in the next few months.
Finally we expect to return more than $12 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases during 2012.
Now I’ll turn it back to Chuck.
Thanks for the review Frank.
At this point operator if we could please poll for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Ian and Frank a question for you both.
If you could give us some granularity and color on what the revenue outlook for this company might look like 2013 and beyond? Obviously 2012 we were in the teeth of patent expirations with the Lipitor LOE but how should we think about directionally revenue outlook going forward? And just also to follow-up on tofa Ian you said you expected the FDA to a act on or before the PDUFA date can you share with us your expectations for what kind of label you might receive? Thank you.
Thank you Jami.
Well revenue outlook – I’ll make a few comments and then let Frank add anything he wants to and I’ll ask Geno to answer on the tofa question.
The peak year of patent expiration for us as far as we can see is 2012 – approximately 8 billion.
Subsequent to that 2013 2014 and 2015 will continue to be faced with LOEs and alliance revenue losses.
They will be substantially lower than that – probably a peak of 4 billion in one of the years but between 3.5 and four in the subsequent three years.
Still subject to alterations and fluctuations as patents expire.
So countering that of course we will have in line growth from our patent products with emerging market growth.
We’ll have the launch we expect of tofacitinib and Eliquis and we expect to also have the launch of adult vaccine.
So those are the two currents I would say that would be affecting our revenue over those years.
So Frank do you want to add anything to that? I would simply add that in addition to everything Ian said we will also continue to manage our cost structure and we will continue to do share repurchases and all those things will lead to steady consistent earnings growth over time.
Thank you Geno on tofa? Yeah just a couple comments on tofa.
We’re nearing I think the end of the review process.
We do expect that we’ll have an action by the PDUFA date this month.
And with regard to the expectations I think you know we have a very robust data set behind tofa with five large pivotal trials showing a good advocacy and safety in both the pre-TNF and post-TNF setting.
We think that the results that we’ve seen across this broad range of trials and broad range of patient types showed very consistent response and we’re expecting to have a competitive label.
Thank you Geno.
Next question please operator.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you.
Ian you had mentioned this earlier about all strategic options being on the table for Pfizer.
So last year in July of 2011 you disavowed splitting up the drug side of the business when you give your strategic update.
That language in 2012 has changed subtly and I’m just wondering if you could provide any more specifics on potentially splitting up the drug side? So what can that look like look? What could the structure be and importantly when would we hear more? And then on tofacitinib if I can just ask one question.
Do you expect you will give up to five mg and 10 mg doses approved on the first go around? Okay.
Well I’ll take the overall company question and then I’ll ask Geno to reply on tofa.
So I think I’ve tried to be clear on this as I see putting consumer to one side which fits with the either of the other two remaining businesses I see us as having two businesses going forward once we finish.
If we do complete the separation of nutritional and animal health.
I see us having a growth business or innovated business which is fueled by the pipeline that I discussed earlier in my comments today and then I see a value business which is depending on post-LOE or pari-LOE products very broad geographic capabilities large capabilities in reimbursement and managing the global business.
So those two businesses I think are core businesses for us.
We will we already have in the develop market separated those businesses out so we do have an innovative business and an established products business which equates roughly to those two segments.
And in emerging markets we continue to manage them as country organizations.
Now once we get through the changes of animal health and nutritional we will continue to look at how to best structure those two businesses so they can maximize the value to Pfizer.
Geno do you want to comment? Yeah sure Tim.
Regarding the five and 10 as you know in all five of the pivotal trials that we conducted we tested both the 5 mg and the 10 mg doses.
Again the results were very consistent across the board across the patient types in the trials that were done.
We believe that the benefit risk is favorable for both the five mg and the 10 mg and at this point in our discussions with the FDA we’re not going to comment any further on what we expect the final outcome to be.
Thank you Geno.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Maybe if I could just first build on Tim’s question.
Will you report out separately at any point in the next year or so the established products P&amp;L versus the branded products P&amp;L? So not breaking the company up but just giving us more disclosure in the Ks and the Qs around those business operations? And then I had a question if I may for Dolsten for Mikael Dolsten sorry.
I was wondering if he could update us just on timelines make sure everything is on track for the Prevnar capita trial and also bring us up to speed on the mening B and Staph vaccine programs.
Thank you.
Okay.
I’m going to ask Frank to answer the question on the reporting structure and then Mikael if you could take those other questions on the capita trial.
So on reporting we provide revenue detailed today by individual business units.
So in charts that I walked through there’s clearly revenue detailed by business unit.
In terms of beyond revenue detail I think the way to think about this is the established products business has lower gross margins than the traditional pharmaceutical businesses but has comparable operating margins because it requires less expenses which is something that we’ve talked about previously.
And going forward we’ll do what we always do which is see where there are opportunities to improve the transparency of the company and to the extent that we see those opportunities to be more transparent we will incorporate those into our external reporting.
Thank you Frank.
Mikael if you’re on.
Thank you.
Thank you for your interest in our vaccine pipeline.
The Prevnar capita trial is an event and pending the seasonality and severity of the immune often treated by cold and flu seasons.
We have in our projections that capita may have sufficient events due in 2013 to allow us to aggregate data during the latter part of that year.
Mening B has gone through very productive dialogues with regulatory agencies in the U.S.
and Europe and we anticipate starting and plan to start before the end of this year.
Staff Aureus contains two studies that are in Phase 2 with a readout during next year.
Thank you Mikael.
Next question please operator? Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.
Thanks and good morning.
Two housekeeping questions and one R&amp;D question please.
What were the sales for Xalkori and Inlyta? And second if you look at Sutent could we argue that it might be slowing if you simply look at it sequentially? Has it totally maxed its potential? And then for Dr.
Dolsten an earlier stage product in PCSK9 Pfizer seems to be a little bit behind at least two competitors given that Phase 2B just started from a dosing perspective and will not complete until next year suggesting the Phase 3 trial would not necessarily start up until sometime later next year or even later than that.
And the question really is how would you envision this emerging is a year behind not that big of a deal and more importantly do you think that there is a unique characteristic for your molecule that may be different from others? Thank you very much.
Thank you Tony.
Frank could you address the sales of Xalkori and Inlyta? Perhaps Geno wants to comment on Sutent and then I’ll make a couple of comments on PCSK9 and ask Mikael comment further.
Sure so on Xalkori revenues for the third quarter almost 40 million for Inlyta revenues for the third quarter were almost 30 million so approximately 40 million and approximately 30 million for those two drugs respectively.
Yeah and for Sutent Sutent it is doing very well; it remains the number one choice in first-line metastatic RCC and frankly it’s showing a lot of durability.
So we’re looking forward to continuing our leadership position in RCC now with Sutent Inlyta and Toracel it’s a real strong franchise for us.
Thank you.
On Xalkori the testing has gone up from 11% I think at the beginning of year now to 55% which is very encouraging because that required a change in physician practice and if that occurs it makes us more optimistic about the potential for Xalkori going forward and of course we now have the launch coming in Europe.
On PCSK9 yeah I believe that we may be potentially a little behind some of our competitors.
It really is an issue of as you say the differentiation and if we don’t have a first in class do we believe we potentially have a best in class asset? And clearly the development of this asset has several strategic options.
Mikael do you want to add anything on the science of that? Yeah let me add a few words.
We are very excited about this drug class.
We think there may be differences between antibodies in the performance in the immunities and in the dosing regimen and it’s important to have the optimal dose regimen to allow sustained relevant cholesterol levels in a convenient manner to be accomplished.
Thank you Mikael.
Next question please operator? The next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Two pipeline questions; the first is specific.
I’m hoping to better understand the meningococcal B development program.
As I see it on clinicaltrials.gov you’re running a Phase 3 safety study involving 7 500 patients and since it has the word safety in the title I’m assuming that the drug or the vaccine cannot be filed after that trial that there will need to be additional Phase 3 trial work but I may be wrong.
So just wondering if that trial successfully concludes can you file or do you need to do a additional Phase 3 work? Then the second question is for Mikael Dolsten.
Mikael can you just highlight the key Phase 2 product readouts that we should be watching in the next 12 to 18 months? Besides the PCSK9 which you’ve already discussed.
Thank you.
Thank you David.
Mikael could you handle the mening B question and then also address the pipeline? Yeah so in the mening B program it’s correct – we have a safety study ongoing.
But we’re planning this year to start and also early next year several other studies that include large efficacy studies and different batch lot consistency studies and potentially can comment on vaccine studies.
So it will be a broad program that will be aimed to show effectiveness to raise relevant immune responses and applicability for young and adolescent patients to use the vaccine.
When it comes to the pipeline what should be the next wave to watch? So let me briefly mention some ten key opportunities for 4Q to carry us.
In oncology I would mention dacomitinib for non-smoker lung cancer Inotuzumab for basic malignancies and PD9 and 1 – our exciting CDK inhibitor for advanced breast cancer.
We are planning to present Phase 2 data at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium in December.
In vaccines we already spoke about mening B vaccine and the Staff Aureus vaccine which we’ll have a few C readout during next year.
Tofacitinib is of course the flagship in our immunology therapeutic area with a portfolio of opportunities beyond RA.
We are in a Phase 3 for psoriasis and also is collective with studying additional indication in Phase 2 including Crohn and we’re supplementing our inflammatory bowel disease activity with PUC studies for med cam and aisle 6 antibodies which we have readouts in the next 12 to 18 months.
The aisle 6 antibody will have utility and there is a PUC study ongoing in lupus.
And finally in the cardiovascular metabolic area in addition to PCSK9 we also have an exciting pancreatic acting glucokinase drug.
So as you can see I have selected some key opportunities of a very rich and diverse pipeline of some 90 projects.
Thank you.
Thank you Mikael.
I would add to that that the – clearly we started the safety program mening B because those trials take longer than the efficacy programs and clearly as we started our Phase 3 trials we now have an agreed-upon development program with the FDA that we believe will lead to approval.
Thank you next question please operator.
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JP Morgan.
Just couple here.
First emerging market growth – it looks like it’s about 10% year-to-date – year-over-year growth.
Obviously a nice step up over the 2011 results.
But just interested in your thoughts on the longer-term growth opportunity in these markets? Do you think you can sustain low double-digit growth in the emerging markets over time or has enough changed in the macro environment where that’s no longer a reasonable target? Second question was on the commercial opportunity Eliquis.
Just any thoughts on your expectations for the label you might receive there and how you’re thinking about that market and how it’s evolved so far with your competitors? And then finally can you give an update on this data is of Remoxy in beta? Just how we should be thinking about those? Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
I’m going to ask Olivier to comment on emerging market growth potential and then John Young will do Eliquis and Remoxy.
Chris yeah we think we can continue to perform in line with our goals of high single digit growth over the period.
The macro trends continue to be favorable with increased amount of spending on healthcare and the pharmaceutical market which is growing at 12%to 15% in the next few years.
So again we think we can maintain the high single digit and again if you look at the 6% we achieved during the quarter it’s very much influenced by the Prevnar and Amberal institutional sales to government.
And if you take out that cadence you look at the base business during Q1 2012 we grew by 9%.
The second quarter of 2012 and this quarter is still 11% percent.
So all of that indicates that we have a pretty strong foundation and we can then continue to build on it.
Yeah I would add also we’re very pleased about the presence in the BRIC-MT markets with accelerated growth there and the strength of our organizations we’re the number one multinational in China and we have impressive positions in the other BRIC-MT markets.
So with that John would you like to take the other questions? Okay.
Thanks for your questions Chris.
So let me take Eliquis first.
And say obviously as you are aware as we announced previously on 26 September the FDA acknowledged our receipt of the Eliquis NDA resubmission for our nonvalvular atrial fibrillation indication.
The discussions between Pfizer and BMS and the FDA are ongoing.
We continue to work closely with them.
And as you know the target date for the FDA to complete their review is 17 March of 2013 which is when the PDUFA date occurs.
In terms of your question about do we see the potential? Clearly we believe that Eliquis is differentiated from warfarin because it’s demonstrated superior efficacy bleeding on cores mortality compared to warfarin in a single dose.
So we believe that we should have a compelling profile with cardiologists as well as primary care physicians and we are working very closely with our partners BMS to finalize this strategy and plans and make sure that we are very well prepared for launch.
So if I turn now to Remoxy and Embetta first of all we meant with the FDA in May of this year to discuss our proposal for reintroduction of Embetta to the market.
The required stability programs are under way and we anticipate a submission of a prior approval supplement in the first half of 2013.
If I turn to Remoxy as you probably know from previous calls Remoxy has been a challenging asset that our teams have been working on very diligently since the acquisition of King.
As a result of that work the – and extensive insights that we’ve gained around the formulation we’ve initiated complementary by availability studies to assess the pharmakinetic or PK profile of modified Remoxy formulation compositions.
And we expect those studies to read out early in 2013.
We think that the results of those studies will provide us a much greater clarity on whether or not we’ll be able to adequately address the questions raised in the complete response letter that we received from the FDA.
So we’re targeting a late March meeting with the FDA to discuss those outputs and agree on a net go or no-go decision.
I think one last comment just to make is that I think it’s important to remember that our commitment to this area is very strong and as such we continue to invest in our compound ALO-02 which is an extended release oxycodone which uses an altraxon platform technology and it’s currently in Phase III.
Thank you John.
Thanks John.
Operator our the next question please? Your next question comes from Steve Scala with Cowen &amp; Co.
Frank would you dissect the strength in gross profit margin? How much was currency? How much were efficiencies? And how much was mix? And also how much of the narrowing of the range in sales and EPS guidance for the year is due to adverse currency fluctuations? And then one for Dr.
Dolsten what is your postmortem on the Bapineuzumab? Was that it flood molecule? Did you study the wrong patients? Or is the mechanism in your view unlikely to be effective? Thank you.
So let me hit the two questions you asked me Steve.
So first on efficiencies foreign exchange relative to the quarter let me run the numbers which is if you look at our total adjusted cost for the quarter they were down – and this includes cost of goods sold SI&amp;A and R&amp;D they were down $1.3 billion.
So from $9.5 billion last year to $8.2 billion this year foreign exchange helped that by $440 million.
So if you take the $1.3 billion subtract $440 million you get roughly $850 million.
That was down 8% operationally.
If you also add back or adjust for the Nexium payment that we made that 8% becomes 11% which Ian had mentioned in his opening remarks.
In terms of foreign exchange to the bottom line foreign exchange hurt the quarter by $0.02.
And by the way in terms of rhythm of the numbers if you look last year in Q3 it actually hurt – it actually helped Q3 by 4% – $0.04.
It was a $0.04 good guy last quarter $0.02 bad guy this quarter.
In terms of the revenue guidance the updated guidance is within the guidance we provided for the year.
We had set 58 to 60 we tightened it this quarter left the lower end of the range and then lowered the top end of the range from 60 to 59.
That decrease if you look the midpoint to midpoint is really primarily driven by foreign exchange.
You can’t just look at the euro which is typically what we do and that’s a big piece of our revenues about 18% of our revenues are euro dominated.
But the yen and the Brazilian real have really been moving against us quite frankly since the beginning of the year.
The real more recently.
And then when we tighten the range it has a more pronounced effect which is why we lowered the range from 58 to 60 to 58 to 69.
So the short answer is foreign exchange is the driver relative to our revenue guidance.
Thank you Frank.
And within the euro being roughly 18% of our sales the yen represents 10% and the real represents 4% so basically while traditionally people just look at the euro you’ve got a look at that mix to model the impact of exchange on Pfizer.
I’m going to ask Olivier to answer the question on bapi and then I’ll Mikael Dolsten to add anything if he thinks he wants to do that after Olivier’s comments.
All right.
Steve so we are currently closing out the bapi program as you know.
We have not seen any evidence of clinical activity in any of the relevant sub-population we study.
We reported results earlier in October and as we speak at the clinical trial AD meeting this week in Monte Carlo.
And the only study which is remaining with bapi is a sub-Q formulation study which is called the Summit AD.
It’s actually fully enrolled at this point and we are expecting to see the results during the first quarter of 2013.
I’d like to mention that it is only a biomarker study it is not an efficacy or safety study at this point.
So the alliance is going to look at all the biomarker analysis we have not only coming from what we have already.
But an additional two product SCC01 and also BOO3 and that information will actually inform our future work regarding potential for promo AD with any of those candidates which we have in our pipeline.
So we continue to believe in the btime pathway and are committed to research in AD and to that point I would like to ask Mikael eventually to mention a few.
I would assume anything you say would be speculation but go ahead.
I think Olivier summarized it in an excellent manner and we do continue as many in the field believe that effective intervention with Amyloid formation at the early stage of the disease is a valued way forward to explore.
We have a broad AD pipeline with both disease-modifying and systematic approaches.
Let me mention our Sam 765 HT6 antagonist that has completed phase 1 and is considered for further studies.
We have other ways to interfere with Amyloid formation such as base and gamma secretive inhibitors in late pre-clinical and as Olivier mentioned we are assessing different antibody approaches to modulate the base Amyloid and this reflects our continued interest to research in inflammatory disease.
Thank you Mikael.
Next question please operator? Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez with Leerink Swann.
I have a question.
Wondering can we get a little bit more color on how we should be thinking about the growth drivers of Prevnar 13 particularly in the pediatric indications going forward? What percentage of NIP’s are now kind of filled given the fact that we are seeing this slowdown in the U.S.? And separately as we think about some of the 2013 phase 2 catalysts Mikael maybe you could give us a little bit of your thoughts on the catalysts that you are most focused on? I think historically there has been talk about IO.
I guess that’s the Inotuzumab product for the antibody drug conjugate as well as dacomitinib on the oncology side.
Those are two that jump out at me.
Thanks a lot.
Okay Geno.
Would you like to comment on the play between pediatric and adult and then Mikael will comment on the 13.
I think with Prevnar pediatric we’re seeing now is primarily the effect of the success that we had with the catch-up opportunity where we added over $1 billion of value to the company by taking full advantage of the catch up opportunity when we introduced the 13 and now we’re reaching a point where it’s the base birth cohort that is driving the pediatric business.
We have very strong NIP performance across most of the developed world.
We are still growing in Japan and I think future growth for the pediatric business will come from growth in emerging markets and in markets where we haven’t introduced the thirteenth Valent yet which would included Japan and China.
And in the U.S.
you get a little bit from price each year but it’s fundamentally a strong base of business that we think we can grow to some extent but probably not dramatically in the developed markets.
The growth opportunity truly comes from the adult business.
As you know without the formal recommendations in place yet the adult business is slow to develop.
In the U.S.
we’ve recently gotten an ASIC recommendation for immuno-compromised patients and CDC has indicated that they will make Prevnar a recommended vaccine as part of the hospital quality measures.
These are things that will help bring attention to the use of the conjugate vaccine in the adult population.
But we think the real lift and the real big opportunity for growth in the franchise comes when we have a broader set of recommendations from the major recommending bodies around the world which will occur post-capita.
Thank you Geno.
Mikael? Yeah so left on the line are a couple interesting conferences end of this year already with data starting with the ACR Rheumatology Conference where we will have several abstract on tofacitinib including the oral start study on structure end point in pre-metatrecsate treated patients.
American Heart Association – we will have P59 and also sub analysis from Eliquis studies.
I briefly mentions San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium in December.
We will report the Phase 2 data from CDK in advanced breast cancer.
As you mentioned dacomitinib – we will have two Phase 3 studies that are expected to be presented at the conference in 2013.
We will also show a final analysis at relevant medical conference in 2013 on inlighta and we will continue to generate important data on tofacitinib in psoriasis and as John Young mentioned ALO2 our oxycodone abuse deterrent compound.
Thank you Mikael.
And next question please operator.
Your next question comes from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Firstly can you just comment on your review regarding M&amp;A opportunities out there? Does this authorization of a new share repurchase program imply any view from you – any change in view on the attractiveness of bolt on opportunities and acquisitions that may or may not be out there? Secondly the cost savings does appear to be running somewhat ahead of – at least our expectations.
I’m wondering if it is from your point of view just faster delivery than you may have originally anticipated or do you think you can go beyond what you have previously guided in terms of cost-saving and efficiencies within the business.
And then just lastly I wonder if you could make some sort of comment about the tax rate beyond this year.
Appears you may be seeing some structural mix changes in your tax rate.
If you could talk a little bit about that in terms of a Q3 or (inaudible) tax rate? Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you for the questions Jeff.
On the bolt on opportunities we don’t seeing that the increased authorization for buybacks in any way diminishes our ability to do bolt on M&amp;A transactions if we find cases that can be share buyback.
And I’d ask Frank a little bit about the cost savings and tax rate.
Yeah so on the tax rate – we reiterated our guidance for the year approximately 29%.
I think going forward with all the uncertainty around tax reform we should assume 29% and the one thing I’ll say is relative to tax reform we support any tax reform that will enhance the global competitive of U.S.
companies that are operating internationally.
But I think going forward given the uncertainty around this we’ll continue to assume approximately 29%.
In terms of the cost savings I think the way I’ll answer this is almost in terms of what inning we’re in relative to a baseball game.
So if you think about a nine inning game we’re clearly not in the early innings.
I don’t think we’re in the late innings.
I think we’re toward the end of the middle innings.
So there’s still opportunity but clearly the absolute size of the opportunity isn’t what the size of the opportunity was a few years ago given the billions of dollars we’ve already taken out of our cost structure.
Yeah I would say the changes going forward – if it ever was easy some of the targets – the more obvious targets have already been taken care of and now it’s going to be cost reductions or increased efficiencies going to be coming from exactly that.
Looking at business models and structure and as Frank said the targets that were there available have been hit and taken care of.
So with that I think we’ll move on.
Your next question comes from Alex Arphe from BMO.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
First Enbrel and other TNF seemed to be little weaker in Europe this quarter.
We’ve heard about cost containment measures focused on TNF.
To what extent do you see this as an opportunity for tofa as a potentially cheaper option that has similar efficacy? And as a follow-up the Animal Health business was a little bit lighter operationally compared to what we’ve seen with some of your peers.
Is there anything that was unique to this quarter that we should be aware of? Thank you.
Thank you.
Geno if you could do Enbrel and then Frank if you’d like to answer Animal Health.
Sure.
I think that the TNF inhibitors and frankly the whole pharmaceutical portfolio has experienced some challenge with cost-containment measures in Europe.
Our TNF business has been impacted more in the southern European countries than in the North but there is some effect there.
The volume growth remains fairly strong so I think the place for TNF inhibitors is relatively secure.
In terms of tofa we will announce our pricing strategy once we have approval and we’re ready to introduce the product.
Thank you.
On Animal Health let me run the numbers then I’ll give a little color-commentary.
To your point Alex the quarter year-to-date growth was 4% but if you look at it on a year-to-date basis the operating growth was 6%.
S we’ll will get some volatility quarter-to-quarter but on nine-month year-to-date basis 6%.
If you drill down a little bit we see increased demand across the global livestock portfolio increased demand across the companion-animal portfolio and increased demand in certain key geographies and I think the watch items are clearly the drought in the U.S.
Midwest and Southwest and just what’s going on in Europe in particular southern Europe relative to the economy but net net year-to-date basis 6% operating growth which we view as nice for that business.
Thank you Frank.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please operator? Your next question comes from the line of Damian Canover from Morningstar.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question most of my questions have been asked but just wanted to follow up on the management of the cost structure and continuing the baseball analogy it depends I guess when you start the analogy but you look at towards the end of middle innings it might suggest anywhere in the neighborhood of one to two billion in annual cost savings still to be pulled out from Pfizer.
I’m just wondering if you could maybe characterize where that number fits in the scheme.
And also when you look at managing the cost structure are you largely balancing costs that could be saved from products losing exclusivity versus costs that will be needed to launch new products? And then just lastly I was wondering if you could comment on the variable costs porting Celebrex.
Thank you.
When we look at our costs you obviously look at a company that has grown by acquisitions which has allowed us to take out costs as we do the acquisitions.
If you look at our global position and we carefully analyze what is our share of voice and what is our share of mind against competitors and we analyze that in the context of an industry that is in itself restructuring and faced with headwinds on pricing and access so that the spend you need up in the marketplace depends to a large extent on the competitive set you’re against.
So we tend to look at the spending of our competitors and what we need to do to remain competitive as a benchmark.
I want to be clear here that we are looking t costs always with a view to remaining competitive in the marketplace.
Frank do you want to add anything to that? Maybe I’ll give a little sub-ledger detail relative to what I said relative to where we are and then some of the opportunities going forward.
First if you think about manufacturing we said I’ve said previously we still have give or take about 10 manufacturing facilities that we plan to exit over the next several years in the U.S.
Puerto Rico and Ireland 10 manufacturing facilities.
That obviously represents a significant opportunity.
We continue to streamline our corporate center and enabling function services.
We continue to believe there’s additional opportunities there and we are looking at all of our functions everything we do in terms of where are there opportunities to be more efficient more productive we’ve been doing that we’ll continue to do that.
But those are some of the opportunity areas relative to what we can do on a going-forward basis and why I said where we are relative to the continuum.
We don’t really release variable or fixed cost around individual products for competitive reasons.
Thank you.
Operator if we could take one more question please? Your final question comes from the line of Mark Goodman from UBS.
Hello Mark.
Hi.
Ian in the past you’ve talked about cost cutting in Europe and how you are really focused on taking more cost out of Europe and changing the business model a little bit.
I was wondering if you were prepared to talk about that little bit.
And then the second question is on gross margin.
Once we eliminate these 10 plants and once we get through a couple more years of patent expiries what is the sustainable gross margin? All we still around 80%? Okay.
The opportunities in Europe of course center around as the European Union moves towards a more centralized retrograde environment what do you need to do on a country by country basis to maintain a commercially competitive organization and what you need to do to maintain your marketing and medical and the infrastructure? And It’s easy to compare Europe with the U.S.
which is a lot simpler because it’s federal and it’s one regulation but as Europe moves towards that and we tend to look at the treatment of Europe while not identical but more similar to a structure you would have in the U.S.
but I would ask John Young if he wants to add anything to that as he’s been managing previously managing Europe for some considerable time.
The only add I would give is that obviously as we do in all of our regions in all of our businesses around the world one of the things that we will continue to do is to make sure that we deploy our resources in line with the opportunity to generate revenue growth and value for shareholders.
That is something that we’ve been doing very actively as you know over the last three to four years.
And in line with the continued evolution the pipeline will continue to deploy resources appropriately in Europe to maximize shareholder value as the portfolio continues to evolve.
Thank you.
Frank do you want to try to answer the gross margin question? Sure.
So I think clearly there’ll be downward pressure on our gross margin on a going forward basis when you think about how the mix of our revenues is changing but I think the thing to focus on is our operating margins.
We can continue to generate cost reduction and productivity improvements to keep the operating margin relatively constant on a going forward basis.
Thanks Frank and thank you everybody for being flexible with the date change and thanks for your time this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Pfizer’s Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer’s Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer’s fourth quarter and full-year 2012 performance.<br><br>I’m joined today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D’Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Establish Products; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for our Consumer Business; and John Young President and General Manager of Primary Care.<br><br>The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed at our home page at pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer quarterly corporate performance fourth quarter 2012 located in the Investor Presentations Section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.<br><br>Before we start I’d like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer’s 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8K.<br><br>The discussions during this call will include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer’s current report on Form 8-K dated today January 29 2013.<br><br>In addition we will offer some brief comments regarding the potential IPO of a minority stake in our Animal Health business Zoetis.
As I’m sure you’ll understand we’re not going to be able to respond to questions on that subject in light of the quiet period imposed by the securities laws.<br><br>With that Chuck and good morning everyone.
During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap the progress we made in 2012 improving the performance of our innovative core and in creating value for our shareholders.
I’d also discuss our focus 2013.<br><br>2012 was a year of very strong operational financial performance especially given our LOE challenges.
We drove operational growth in many of our key products in the patent protected portfolio including Lyrica Enbrel Prevnar 13 Celebrex and Sutent.
Operationally Emerging Markets grew 12% animal health grew 6% and the consumer business grew 8%.<br><br>Also during 2012 we executed on our plans allocating capital in ways that it enhance shareholder value.
We reduced our total adjusted cost of sales SI&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses on an operational basis by approximately 10% which is nearly a $4 billion reduction versus 2011 levels.<br><br>We realized significant value for our shareholders through the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestlé for $11.85 billion and we’re on track subject to market conditions to unlock value from our Animal Health business by completing our IPO Zoetis in the near future and we returned nearly $15 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.<br><br>Our focus on creating and productive and sustainable innovative course is yielding results.
Our fourth quarter was highlighted by two important product approvals Xeljanz in the U.S.
and Eliquis in the U.S Canada the EU and Japan.
Along with our time at Bristol-Myers Squibb we’re looking forward to launching Eliquis in the U.S.
shortly and believe its strong clinical profile can establish this medication as an important new treatment option in the high need area of stroke prevention for patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.<br><br>Our Specialty Care business is in the initial phase of launching Xeljanz in the U.S.
a first-in-class compound with a compelling clinical profile and oral dosing.
We believe these factors will position us competitively within the moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis market.<br><br>We are prepared to invest in both of these products at competitive levels to support their launches.
In addition to Xeljanz and Eliquis during 2012 we received approval for three additional new medicines in light of advanced renal cell carcinoma in the U.S.
the EU and Japan Bosulif for CML in the U.S.
and Eleyso for Gaucher disease in the U.S.<br><br>During the year we also advanced our early and mid-stage pipeline most notably in oncology and vaccine areas.
We move forward in Phase 3 studies with dacomitinib for non-small cell lung cancer and inotuzumab for aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.<br><br>We reported encouraging Phase 2 data from our CDK 46 inhibitor for advanced breast cancer.
This asset formally known as PD-332991 is now palbociclib.
We commenced a Phase 3 study for inotuzumab for acute lymphoblastic leukemia and we began a Phase 3 study for meningitis B vaccine for individuals aged 11 to 25.
I believe we are entering 2013 with one of the most robust pipelines in the company's recent history.<br><br>The actions we set in motion early in 2011 to improve R&amp;D productivity are starting to bear results and we look forward to additional progress June 2013.
We have a pipeline that I believe includes high-value assets at all stages of the development continuum across our key therapeutic areas.<br><br>As of late last year our pipeline contained a total of 78 programs including 59 new molecular entities.
There were 17 programs in Phase 3 clinical testing and eight in registration.
Throughout 2012 we concentrated on advancing our pipeline reducing our cost structure and returning value to our shareholders.
I believe that through the dedication and focus of Pfizer colleagues we have delivered on each of these goals.<br><br>Turning to 2013 as I've discussed with you on previous calls we have two distinct operating models within the developed markets.
One model supports our innovative driven business; primary care specialty care and oncology.
The second model supports our value-driven business that comprises the off patent products within our Established Products unit.<br><br>In terms of the Emerging Markets our operational model has a geographic focus that supports both the innovative driven and the value driven business.
This is working well in these high growth geographies.
That said as these markets evolve we will evaluate if our Emerging Markets operating model should more closely mirror the two distinct approaches we have for developed markets.<br><br>The Consumer Healthcare business continues to be important as we pursue Rx to OTC Switch opportunities.
We believe these are the right models for achieving the best performance for Pfizer over the next several years.
During this time we will be able to focus on the market success of our new products advance our early and mid-stage pipeline drive continued growth in Emerging Markets in both our innovative and all patent portfolio.<br><br>Additionally we'll have put behind us our most significant LOEs.
We will also continue to use business development opportunities to supplement both our research and internal product efforts.
Our primary focus remains both on acquisitions that are projected to meet or exceed the return on investment of share repurchases.<br><br>More specifically in 2013 you will see us focused on continuing to maximize the value of our in-line portfolio including key in-line assets such as Lyrica Celebrex Enbrel Viagra and Prevnar 13; maximizing the performance of the products approved in the last two years; continuing to advance the mid-to-late stage pipeline in vaccines oncology cardiovascular information; focusing on the high-growth high-margin off-patent opportunities; focusing opportunities in key growth markets such as China Brazil Russia India Turkey and Mexico; continuing to work on managing our expenses and driving ongoing efficiencies within our manufacturing network so we have a lower and flexible cost base that allows us to respond to pricing pressures and our upcoming LOEs; and continuing to return capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.<br><br>In summary our results in 2012 demonstrated that we’re focused on the right areas and are making visible progress towards sustained value creation.
In 2013 we must maintain our momentum by continuing to execute by delivering on the potential within our pipeline and by demonstrating fiscal responsibility in how we use our capital.
We are committed to helping patients by delivering innovative medicines and creating value for our shareholders.<br><br>Now I’ll turn it over to Frank Read and good day everyone.
As always the charts I’m reviewing today are included in our webcast.
I want to again remind you that the Nutrition business is presented as a discontinued operation in consolidated statements of income for all periods presented.
As you know discontinued operations are excluded from adjusted financial results consequently throughout 2012 until its sale on November 30th.
The results of the Nutrition business have been excluded from adjusted results.<br><br>Now let’s move on to the financials.
Fourth quarter 2012 revenues of approximately $15.1 billion decreased 7% year-over-year reflecting a 2% negative impact from foreign exchange an operational decline of approximately 5% driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies notably Lipitor in all major markets.<br><br>Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.47 decreased 4% primarily due to the previously mentioned decrease in revenues which was partially offset by an aggregate operational decrease of 9% and adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses primarily resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives and fewer weighted average shares outstanding due to our continued share repurchases.<br><br>Reported diluted EPS was $0.85 compared with $0.19 in the year-ago quarter in additional to the factors previously mentioned.
Reported diluted EPS was favorably impacted by the gain on the sale of the Nutrition business to Nestlé and lower overall cost which were partially offset by the negative impact due to loss of exclusivity of certain products and several geographies and higher restructuring charges.<br><br>Foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter revenues by 2% or $271 million and unfavorably impacted adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses by $161 million or 1%.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.05.<br><br>In the fourth quarter of 2012 Emerging Markets biopharmaceutical revenues were approximately $2.7 billion which reflects operational growth of 20% and the negative impact of foreign exchange of 3%.
The revenue growth in Emerging Markets this quarter was driven primarily by strong volume growth in China overall Emerging Market growth as well as the timing of government purchases of Enbrel in Brazil and Prevnar 13 in Turkey compared with the year-ago quarter.<br><br>Volume growth of 22% in Emerging Markets was partially offset by price reductions of 2% resulting in the 20% operational growth.
Of the fourth quarter Emerging Markets biopharmaceutical revenues approximately 42% which generated by Established Products 34% by specialty and oncology products and 24% by primary care products.<br><br>Fourth quarter biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets were approximately $1.2 billion which reflects operational growth of 26% and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 4%.
Of the fourth quarter BRIC-MT biopharmaceutical revenues approximately 46% was generated by Established Products 29% by specialty and oncology products and 25% by primary care products.<br><br>During the fourth quarter biopharmaceutical volume growth of 30% in the BRIC-MT markets was partially offset by price reductions of 4% resulting in operational revenue growth of 26%.
Full-year operational growth in the BRIC-MT markets was 60% versus the year-ago period reflecting volume growth of 20% partially offset by price reductions of 4%.<br><br>As you can see in 2012 we met or exceeded most components of our financial guidance including achieving the top-end of our full-year 2012 revenue guidance and exceeding our just diluted EPS guidance.
Our 2012 adjusted R&amp;D expenses of $7.3 billion reflect opportunities to accelerate investments and promising late stage pipeline assets including palbociclib and advanced breast cancer.<br><br>However I want to point out that we expect full-year 2013 adjusted R&amp;D expenses to be in the range of $6.5 billion to $7 billion.
And as I previously mentioned reported diluted EPS was primarily favorably impacted by the gain on the sale of the nutrition business.<br><br>Now moving on to our 2013 financial guidance which incorporates the full-year contribution from Zoetis I'd like to comment specifically on a few elements of the guidance.
First we expect reported revenues to be in the range of 56.2 billion to 58.2 billion.
I want to point out that this range includes the absorption of an anticipated $4 billion negative impact due to the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies and to the near-term expiration of certain co-promotion agreements.<br><br>In addition it's important to note that approximately 200 million of 2012 revenues associated with products that Pfizer is contributing to the Pfizer-Hisun joint venture in China announced in 2012 will not be recorded as Pfizer revenues in 2013.
The results of the joint venture will be recorded in other income.<br><br>We expect 2013 SI&amp;A to be in the range of 15.6 billion to 16.6 billion the midpoint of which is less than the 2012 actual spending level.
This range includes spending and support of key product launch opportunities such as Eliquis Xeljanz and Prevnar 13 Adult.<br><br>These are significant product opportunities and we intend to appropriately fund and support these launches to be competitive.
In addition we plan to essentially offset those incremental expenses through our cost reduction initiatives.<br><br>We also expect our 2013 tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 28% which among other items includes the federal R&amp;D tax credit renewed by Congress under the American Taxpayer Relief Act for both 2012 and 2013.<br><br>Finally we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.30.
This range includes a $0.02 unfavorable impact for certain ongoing costs associated with the potential separation of Zoetis including the interest expense on Zoetis debt certain duplicative costs for corporate support and manufacturing functions and other costs as well as a $0.02 negative impact reflecting the difference in actual foreign exchange rates in 2012 compared with the mid-January 2013 exchange rates.
As always we will continue to monitor foreign exchange fluctuations and will update the potential impact if any on our 2013 expectations.<br><br>I want to point out that with all other things being equal the inclusion of the $0.02 of cost related to the separation in Zoetis and the $0.02 impact of recent foreign exchange movements has negatively impacted our 2013 adjusted diluted EPS guidance range by $0.04.
Excluding these items our adjusted diluted EPS guidance range would have been $2.24 to $2.34.<br><br>Now moving on to key takeaways we achieved the top end of our full year 2012 revenue guidance and exceeded our adjusted diluted EPS guidance.
Our initial 2013 financial guidance includes the full-year contribution from Zoetis.<br><br>We recently completed a 3.65 billion offering of Zoetis senior unsecured notes and remain on track to complete a potential initial public offering of up to a 19.8% ownership stake in Zoetis in the near future.<br><br>In November we completed the sale of our Nutrition business to Nestlé for $11.85 billion.
During the fourth quarter we received U.S.
regulatory approvals for Xeljanz and Eliquis.
We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.<br><br>In 2012 we repurchased 8.2 billion or 349 million shares.
As of December 31 2012 we had 11.8 billion of authorization remaining under our current repurchase programs.
Overall we returned almost 15 billion to our shareholders in 2012 through dividends and share repurchases.<br><br>Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2013 and beyond.<br><br>With that Frank and operator at this point if we could please poll for questions.<br>  can you say what it would be without (indiscernible) accounting and the R&amp;D tax credit? And you had a one-time -- actually at the time of the Wyeth merger suggested a longer term rate of maybe 30%.
Seeing what Bristol-Myers had done on lowering its tax rate remarkably I'm wondering if you have any ability to restructure any of your legal entities as well.
And then a second question its obviously one that you get asked about a lot but can you give us your latest thoughts on potentially carving up the drug side of business and the truly separate companies like you’re doing with Zoetis.
You’ve been alluding this for -- for those possibility for quite sometime now but I think investors don’t really know it's sort of hard to assign to it so when you say its higher probability Tim on the 28% which is down from 29.3% in 2012.
That even if we didn’t have this I will call it the double benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit in 2013 our tax rate would be closer to 28% and to 29%.
So that’s the way to think about it.
What will happen in 2013 is we recorded the 2012 benefit in Q1 and then 2013 benefit we record throughout the year just in terms of the accounting mechanics of the R&amp;D tax credit.
In terms of legal entity restructuring the way I think about that is our tax planning.
We do tax planning all the time.
If you look at our tax rate over the last couple of years it’s gone from 30% to last year’s slightly higher than 29% and our guidance for this year is approximately 28% we’ll obviously continue to do tax planning.
But the one thing I will say is trying to project tax rates beyond 2013 I think I’ve been talking some time now when discussing this with investors that I see that we have two models or two businesses within Pfizer today major segments.
One being the innovative core and one being what we call value which is basically post or pari – post-LOE products.
And we have made that operational separation in the developed markets in the U.S.
and in Europe and Japan and Australia or in Korea and places like that.
We haven’t made that separation in Emerging Markets where we run it from a geographic basis.
Although in the major markets we’re moving towards creating units within those geographies that specialize in oncology or primary care or Established Products.<br><br>I believe that at some point the markets will separate globally and there will be an innovative market distinct from an established market and I think Pfizer will continue to evolve into being managed that way.
So I hope that answers your question.
Right now as I think I said in my opening comments Emerging Markets is working well structure in the developed markets is working well we’re focused on the new launches the pipeline our capital allocation Ian.
Our next question please and I think you’ve talked about as the Emerging Markets evolve that we might see the business model evolve.
Just following up on that does it make sense for Pfizer to keep both a value and innovative core under the same umbrella if we get to a point with the Emerging Markets that structured us and that the current regional structure does not make sense? And the second question is coming back to the bolt-on acquisitions can you remind us how large a bolt-on acquisition you considered – you would be considering at this point? What are the priorities for you and when the Company if a larger deal were to come along with the right fit Chris.
Going back to the possibilities of [EM] and why would it make sense for Pfizer that to have those two businesses I think it is not really a lot of point on speculating over this.
Today we have both businesses certainly in an innovative side need to be careful that you have – it tends to be more volatile and the Established Products allows you to take short-term movements in volatile in the business.
But that being said we will look at it we will I believe move towards a separate management.
And at that point we'll be able to evaluate with the shareholders would prefer to have the option to invest in two distinct companies or not.
I don't think that is a short-term priority right now for us.
The priority is to evolve our internal model and measure how successful those businesses are and what management and leadership they require and are they distinct enough to go further.<br><br>On the bolt-on acquisitions we've said that we are focused on generating shareholder return and I'm going to make a few comments and ask Frank to add to it if he wants to.
So we look at bolt-on acquisitions as a way of adding high value businesses or intellectual property to Pfizer that can generate positive returns to shareholders above what we see as opportunity to share buybacks.
Bolt-ons I don't want to give you precise number we did King that was 3.7 so what's a bolt-on? Middle multiples of that number you pick it where our market cap's 180 billion what we do consider bolt-on for that size of company.<br><br>Now as regards larger opportunities we look at everything from a point of view of does it add value to Pfizer's shareholders? If it adds value we never say never we consider opportunities it's an enabler of our strategy.
So that would be point number one.
I think the second thing in terms of bolt-ons I think Ian sized it perfectly.
King was several billion dollars.
We viewed that as a bolt-on the way we think about that.
In terms of the priorities which is something you asked no changes.
I think our priorities remain on focus therapeutic and disease areas including the Emerging Markets.
That's clearly where we've been biasing and I think that's where we'll continue to bias.
Then in terms of the large deals just to punctuate what Ian said with the focus on optimizing both your innovative and your value-based businesses and we appreciate the significant progress being made in the innovative side with new product launches and pipeline progress.
We wonder if you could elaborate a little on some of the initiatives you're taking to optimize the value-based business.
And second of all I understand your comments may be restricted potentially with line extension and (indiscernible) product formulation.
We also have recently built on the opportunity to quickly provide very reliable source of product in shortest situations.
And we've been very active on the U.S.
market in that space.
We made also a move on sterile injectable.
We think it's a high value space for the post LOE market.
And in the space of differentiated formulation I don't know if you've seen recently but we launched Quillivant XR in January.
It was the first and only product which is in liquid formulation an extended release for kids between 6 and 12 years old with ADHT and we think we’re going to be prove that Olivier.
I will probably add to that we also have an active program in biosimilars I just want to reiterate what Chuck said at the beginning of the call which is we’re in a quiet period so I’m very limited in what I can say.
So what I can say is we remain on track to complete a potential IPO for up to a 19.8% stake in Zoetis in the near future and the road show is taking place and relative to beyond the IPO we’re assuming one is completed Frank.
Next question please I think this is the first earnings call since the fantastic data a month or two ago just wondering if you can clarify your plans in terms of filing timelines and also if you can help us understand the market opportunity for that that would be great.
Then also two major product launches this year Pfizer arguably the highest profile launches in all biopharmas with Xeljanz and Eliquis.
I would love it if you could give the investment community any advice or wisdom palbociclib as you mentioned we had some really terrific data that we were able to present in San Antonio last year that trial continues into this year.
There are two patient cohorts.
The one first patient cohort has completed and the second patient cohort will complete later this year and we’re expecting to present data -- full-fledged data by the end of the year.
And as the data emerges we will continue to discuss the data with the agencies around the world and determine the best pathway to bring this product to patients.<br><br>Our current focus is on the ER-positive HER2-negative advanced breast cancer patient population.
We expect to initiate a Phase 3 trial in this population that confirms the results that we saw on Phase 2 in the very near term and we’re anxious to proceed with that program.
We also have plans to initiate additional Phase 3 programs in other breast cancer patient populations and then to explore the utility of the drug in tumors outside of breast cancer as we go through the rest of this year.<br><br>With regard to the Xeljanz we’re off to a very good start.
We’re very pleased with the execution of the launch plans so far.
It is early days but the response’s from physicians has been very favorable.
They’re particularly pleased with the second line indication and the ability to use Xeljanz without the need for Methotrexate.
These are kind of recurring themes that we’re hearing.
We did expect that the majority of initial trial will be in the post-TNF patient population and we think that that’s reasonable going forward although we are hearing physicians trying the drug in both the post-Methotrexate and the post-TNF patient population.<br><br>Most physicians are putting a hand full of patients on the drug and want to see if the patients come back to evaluate them and we’re pretty optimistic that when they see those patients return that they will be pleased with the results given the outcome of our Phase 3 trials and in particular the feedback from patients on patient reported outcomes which were actually very favorable in our Phase 3 programs.
So we’re on track we feel good about Xeljanz – sorry and I guess Geno and thanks for your question Mark.
So obviously we are very excited about the opportunity that we have with Eliquis along with our partners BMS and I think clearly since the last call and a little more than six weeks Eliquis received back-to-back approvals in the U.S.
the 27 countries of the EU Canada Japan South Korea for reducing the risk of stroke and some systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
So we've already launched in the UK Germany Denmark and the launches will progress in the EU over the coming months.<br><br>In terms of the profile which you know very well clearly Eliquis is the only oral anticoagulant that's demonstrated superior risk reduction versus warfarin in the three critical outcomes of stroke prevention major bleeding and all-cause mortality in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
So as a result we certainly believe it offers a compelling profile for cardiologists and primary care physicians as reflected in our approved labels.<br><br>We expect Eliquis to be widely available in most U.S.
pharmacies by the end of January.
Our U.S.
sales teams from Pfizer and BMS are at the internal launch meeting as we speak.
I will be on the road speaking to physicians on Monday next week.
And overall we really believe Eliquis differentiated profile combined with the extensive experience that Pfizer and BMS bring to the cardiovascular commercial markets certainly positions us well to succeed.
Given the strength of the Eliquis data the superior risk reduction versus warfarin and those three critical outcomes of stroke prevention John and Geno.
Next question please Ian do you see opportunities for the industry to remove excess capacity the infrastructure from within EM and established market products through a reorganization consolidation of distribution channels? Second for Mikael -- for Frank I'm interested in how tax positioned you think your existing EM and Establish Products business is? And how much would alternative business structures potential enable you to optimize that? And then finally for Geno apologies Andrew.
Excess capacity in Emerging Markets I think right now probably if you go back to the U.S.
market in the '90s most companies are focused on trying to get as large as a share as they can in these quickly growing economies.
So I don't think people are focused right now on taking out infrastructure.
However I do agree with you that just like we saw in the U.S.
and Europe that clearly will be at some point opportunities to rationalize infrastructure in those geographies.<br><br>As the second question I didn't really understand EP and Emerging -- I didn't really understand I'm afraid Andrew.
Perhaps you can come back and reposition it.
Geno again we're in ongoing discussion with the agency and our focus is really on finding the best way forward to reveal data that will enable the best decisions on making the drug available to patients.
So perhaps I could just say on Emerging Markets and EP we have a clear vision of both businesses.
We're getting what we believe are strong results.
In EP you could see the successful switch of Lipitor you could see the [Coban] launch focus on sterile injectables focus on major markets.
And in Emerging Markets we have strong geographic based organizations that are driving value in both our innovative and our post LOE products.
Olivier cardiovascular sales force have this Lipitor and Norvasc and in many geographies Lipitor is still (indiscernible) where Norvasc is not but you do optimize the two brands that way.
So I realize that could be a lumpy growth line.
So perhaps you could set the bar with a reasonable growth vehicle would be annually in ’13 and possibly beyond? My second question along the lines of maximizing value for the value business the strategy so far for the developed market portion seems to be focused on Pfizer brands that lose exclusivity coupled with alliances with generic companies that do generic R&amp;D.
So going forward could the strategy also include one internal development of small molecule generics and/or to outright acquisitions of companies in that space? Again Gregg.
So you’ve seen – we posted 20% operational growth and that is a result actually of very good results across geographies.
BRIC-MT have actually posted 26% operational growth about 30% in volume and offset by pricing but very strong across geographies and portfolio.
Specialty is running at 45% growth this quarter and as I mentioned before Emerging Market at 21%.<br><br>Now having said that you have a lot of one-time items this quarter all right especially Enbrel in Brazil and Prevnar in Turkey and Mexico and if you exclude those one-time items you get to 16% growth for the quarter.
And there are still volatility quarter-to-quarter in Emerging Markets and we remain committed to grow our Emerging Market division by high single-digit growth into coming years.
So and then on the Established Products to maintain the developed markets we remained focused on Established Products to your point.
We are not focusing in generic – and the generic portfolio outside the U.S.
where we have a strong position with as you know with Greenstone.
Outside the U.S.
it's mainly emerging products – Established Products so I suppose in the developed market we would say that business is a combination of Greenstone a quality supplier that closes market gaps with quality product.
We’ve done that also in the oncology space.
We bring important and sterile injectable products.
We’re trying to launch innovative formulations and as distinct from Established Products in the Emerging Markets where it's still a primary care business its field forces great.
Sorry about that.
A question on Zoetis and its impact on Pfizer.
We know from the information that's available that the Zoetis business is a lower margin business.
If you were to proceed with full separation how should we think about the margin expansion for Pfizer? And then on the CAPiTA trial we know it's expected this year so on the impact of Zoetis on our numbers and once again I'm limited to what I can say.
But the intent here is assuming we were to complete an IPO we would issue – we would revise our guidance in early April after Zoetis has filed its 10-K which would be at the end of March.
So at that time the program the trial continues to accumulate patients.
As you know it's an event-driven trial so we really don't know what the date would be when the final event has been identified.
Once we have all the events approved we will complete the assessment do the analysis and report the data.
We expect that to happen later this year.<br><br>With regard to the magnitude of the opportunity assuming positive results Geno and Frank.
Next question good morning.
Geno maybe you can give us some color on some of the oncology launches how they're going? Second of all Olivier I'm curious in the Emerging Markets given all the cost cutting going on in the overall company so Geno oncology; Olivier if you could make some comments on the question there and Mikael just a couple of comments about Xalkori.
We got a full year now in the U.S.
Xalkori achieved $100 million from sales in 2012 primarily in the U.S.
It's now approved and launched in the U.S.
Europe Japan and several other smaller markets.
Sales are continuing to grow as adoption and molecular testing continues to expand.
We started out with about a 10% testing rate.
Now the testing rate is over 60%.<br><br>We think in the past year we captured about a quarter of the potential patients in the U.S.
We're also seeing an expansion in the duration of treatment as we're identifying patients earlier in their disease.
So we're happy with the progress of Xalkori and looking forward to expansion in new markets around the world.<br><br>Inlyta has also gotten off to a very strong start in the U.S.
where it's already established the leading share in second line.
In Japan it's the second most prescribed drug for metastatic renal cell carcinoma and with a 10% share and 40% in the second line setting.
So in general we're seeing good growth of Inlyta so we have been investing quite significantly in this market in recent years.
We continue to invest to remain competitive however we are putting transformation programs to ensure that we are optimizing our sales force and we have the best potential deployment especially in support of new products which are going to be very important for Emerging Markets and the new launches in addition to putting in place go-to-market models when it comes to brand marketing.
So while we’re investing so we have a very exciting Phase 2 cohort reading out more than 10 studies over the next 12 months.
I’ll share a couple with you.
Immunology we have our best-in-class aisle 6 antibody with data coming in Lupus and also in Crohn’s disease.
We have a Med-Chem antibody for Chron’s disease a small molecule (indiscernible) oral inhibitor for COPD.
In diabetes we have pancreatic glucokinase activator with a really unique profile reading out in diabetes and glucose control.
And we also have a Novel PDE5 inhibitor for diabetic nephropathy.
In vaccines we’re expecting data from Staph aureus.
Our F-14 biosimilar are starting to move very nicely.
We recently had positive data on Trastuzumab which is exploring plans to go into Phase 3 while this year we expect data from our second biosimilar rituximab after [finalization] of Phase 2.<br><br>In some small areas we’re strengthening our portfolio in rare diseases and have a readout on a GMI-1070 in sickle cell crisis.
Also pieces Canine had a positive readout that we’ve reported last year and we have a Phase 2b data coming (indiscernible) if possible you actually get the read out of the Phase 3 study ARCHER with dacomitinib this year.
And then second I guess for Geno going back to Xeljanz some doc feedback to us and again its limited so I can mention we're very excited about dacomitinib.
As you know it's a pan-HER inhibitor irreversible binding and it did very well in our Phase 2 data against Tarceva.
The ARCHER trial that you referred to is event driven and we expect to date probably more during the first half of 2014 to have accrued the number of ends required to close the trial.
In addition to that trial where we go against Tarceva as we did in our Phase 2 we also have another partner trial against refractory non-small cell lung cancer.
So its run by the National Cancer Institute of Canada fortunately within the first few weeks of launch we are near 100% awareness among the prescribing community which is terrific.
And as I mentioned before a lot of enthusiasm for the drug.
Patient awareness is much lower and we haven’t done a lot of work with consumers Geno.
Moving on to next question please first for Ian.
Ian can you just maybe clarify your comments in terms of the separation of the management.
Are you planning to actually tighten down the management from the multi-tiered organizations to now officially providing reporting at some point around the structure of the two businesses as you described them the innovative core and the value business? And then separately Geno can you just help us understand back when Prevnar 7 Seamus.
What you were really talking about was segment reporting.
Right now we have the management split and the responsibility split in the developed markets.
We don't have that split in the Emerging Markets just regarding Prevnar my recollection is that we choose not to go forward with the adult indication on 7 because we were so focused on advancing and broadening the serotype coverage and getting to 13 ahead of our competition.
Once we achieve the formulation for 13 we were anxious to proceed to the adult vaccine.<br><br>With regard to herd immunity Geno.
Next question we're going to try to benchmark the prescription trend ramp and I just wanted to understand your sampling program because on the one hand I understand that you are giving 30-day samples but on the other hand for virtually all drug launches drug companies give samples so I don't know if your sampling program is unusually strong relative to other product launches such that we should expect unusually low reported prescriptions?<br><br>And then with respect to the once daily Xeljanz which is entering Phase 2 in 2013 could you help us understand whether Pfizer plans to run bridging studies to shorten the timeline to filing and when do you plan to file that once daily for approval?<br><br>And then changing gears to Emerging Markets there's really two components and one is we have a patient support program to help patients access the reimbursement and to go through that process which is very similar to any of the other drugs that they would be using in rheumatology.
So there's a 14-day supply that we make available to patients to ensure that they can start therapy as soon as possible while they're going through that reimbursement process.<br><br>In addition to that we identified a group of rheumatologists who we wanted to have access to drug right away so that they gain experience immediately and we gave 30-day supply bottles to that identified population of rheumatologist to use to gain that early experience.
Now whether we’ll continue to add program into the future or not is unknown at this point but the very initial impact of these two sampling programs will range from fairly short period of time.
And with regards to the once a day program on the Emerging Markets I would agree with you that most multinationals are growing at slower than the overall market rate as these markets are very local in their healthcare delivery and there are strong local competitors who given the lack of intellectual property in the last 25 years have brought portfolios and add to those portfolios very fast.
So I don’t think it’s reasonable to expect the multinational will grow the marketplace.
That being said we have had accelerating growth I was very pleased with the growth in the fourth quarter.
However could you comment on your strategic interest in the eye business for the right price and also tell us when we’re going to hear about your dry AMD program? And then just a nuance on the CDK I don’t think we got you is the part two study comes out as positive or directionally in the same as you’re seeing for part one with your – of your ER negative so that would probably answer that one.
On macular degeneration you know we have more opportunities efforts in ophthalmology based on scientific spin of opportunity.
The particular program we have RN6G is an antibody against amyloid that we made some findings seem to in a models play role in dry AMD.
The study is up and running I think Geno has commented on this I’ll just reinforce it.
We have great data in the first trial.
We have a second trial running which is a different cohort of patients.
We expect to be able to give you the results of that trial in the second half of this year.
And as the data revolves we will continue to work with the FDA in our agencies has the strong flu season increased the event rate in capita and has it changed the timing from the Q3 conclusion which I think is what the Company has said previously.
And secondly has the decision by many payers to pay for Xeljanz post-TNF failures been mostly dictated by price I mean it has been a robust flu season this year and generally that is associated with a higher number of events.
I can’t confirm or deny whether or not there has been an acceleration of events in the trial.
Clearly the sooner the events accumulate to the target the sooner we’ll have results.
So we’ll let you know as soon as we know something there.
And with regard to reimbursement for Xeljanz Geno.
Next question when do you expect a first biosimilar product to get onto the market? And within 18 months of that we have – I think we're focusing on five molecules initially.
We have two in sort of active development and three that were – are further back.
I really can't give you the – we don't give timings but the lead candidate in biosimilar is in phase – Mikael Ian and Mikael.
We have time for one last question please can you talk about what your share repurchase assumptions are for the year? In addition speak to the maybe the timing of the buyback the assumption is mid-teen billions relative to buybacks.
And in terms of the rhythm this does conclude today's Pfizer's fourth quarter earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer’s first quarter 2013 performance.
I’m joined today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D’Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for our Consumer Business; and John Young President and General Manager of Primary Care.
The slide that we’ll be presenting can be viewed on our homepage by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance First Quarter 2013 located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during the call will include forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer’s 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and the reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer’s current report on Form 8-K dated today.
As we outlined in our earnings release the IPO of 19.8% interest in Zoetis was completed on February 6 of this year.
Thus effective February 7 the earnings attributable to the divested portion of Zoetis are excluded from adjusted and reported net income and diluted EPS in both our first quarter results and our full year 2013 guidance.
We still retain an 80.2% ownership interest so all Zoetis revenues and expenses continue to be included in first quarter results as well as in the financial guidance for the full year.
With that I will now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck.
I will begin with some comments on the quarter.
We started the year continuing to create significant value for our shareholders.
Specifically we completed the successful IPO of a minority interest in Zoetis and related debt offering and began returning those proceeds as well as the proceeds from the sale of our Nutrition business to our shareholders through share repurchases.
So far this year we have repurchased approximately 6.3 billion of our shares.
In addition our focus on rebuilding and strengthening our innovative core is yielding results.
During the quarter we launched some significant products; most noteworthy were the launch of Eliquis in the U.S.
UK Germany Denmark and Japan and the launch of Xeljanz in the U.S.
In addition we recently approved approval for Xeljanz in Japan and Russia.
Regarding Eliquis the market introduction since the launch is in line with our expectations.
We continue to work with our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb on securing broader commercial medical and hospital reformery access.
We expect to gain broader access as the year progresses as we seek to establish Eliquis as the leading novel oral anticoagulant in the market over time.
We are very confident in Eliquis’ clinical profile and our ability to translate that into a leading market position given the new prescriptions we are seeing.
Regarding Xeljanz we’re encouraged by the early indications or indicators we’re seeing with the U.S.
launch.
Describing where rheumatologist is tending higher and we are seeing that repeat prescribing is also tending higher which suggests that once a physician prescribes to Xeljanz they generally increase prescribing.
Importantly we are seeing use in post-methotrexate and post-TNF patients at similar rates.
Our full promotional campaign launched in March and we plan to introduce DTC advertising this summer.
In addition we recently submitted the supplementary NDA for Xeljanz that was accepted for review by the FDA to include support of patient reported outcomes data in the label.
Last week we announced receiving a negative opinion for Xeljanz by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use in the EU.
In the opinion letter to Pfizer CHMP noted that tofacitinib is a new chemical treatment with a different mechanism of action to products already approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and that in their opinion the safety and efficacy of tofacitinib is not properly or sufficiently demonstrated.
We disagree with their opinion and are seeking a reexamination.
While history would show that reversal of such an opinion is not common we feel compelled to further address the risk/benefit issues raised by the rapporteurs through this process.
We believe the risk-benefit profile of Xeljanz has been well characterized to date.
We have approximately 5 000 patients across Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials in more than 40 countries resulting in 7 000 patient-years of exposure.
The original application submitted to the EU was based on the same pivotal efficacy the safety data package that was provided to regulatory agencies around the world and that has resulted in approvals in the U.S.
Japan and Russia.
This recent development in the EU does not change the status of Xeljanz as an approved treatment option in these markets.
It is also under review in several additional countries and we anticipate decisions this year in a number of those markets.
Turning to our oncology business we launched Bosulif in EU and saw good and improving performance from both Xalkori and Inlyta across the markets where these products have launched.
Within our pipeline we have shown steady improvement in the quality of compounds and in the right progress in advancing these compounds.
Of particular note is the breakthrough therapy designation that the FDA recently granted to palbociclib our innovative new investigational compound for patients suffering from breast cancer.
Yesterday we announced a worldwide collaboration agreement with Merck except in Japan for the development and commercialization of Ertugliflozin our investigational compound for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
Phase 3 trials are expected to begin this year which will examine both its use as monotherapy and in  fixed-dose combinations.
We look forward to moving ahead with Merck in this area of significant unmet medical need and we have a robust vaccines portfolio that includes a vaccine for meningitis B for adolescents and young adults that is currently in Phase 3.
Earlier in the pipeline we are working on prophylactic vaccines to reduce the risk of some of the most difficult hospital acquired infections such as Staphylococcus aureus and C.
difficile; our next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and therapeutic vaccines for smoking cessation and allergic respiratory diseases.
While we are seeing good momentum in our innovative core our operating  environment continues to be challenging and at times volatile due to ongoing pricing and macroeconomic issues.
This quarter our emerging markets revenue grew 6% operationally.
But we were negatively impacted by certain events that included the timing of certain government purchases of Enbrel and Prevnar franchise and the transfer of  some of our products to a joint venture in China with Hisun Pharmaceuticals.
Let me note that we do expect the second half of the year will be stronger for our emerging markets business and on a full-year basis we continue to expect it will deliver high-single digit operational revenue growth.
We also continue to demonstrate good fiscal discipline in managing our cost structure by continuing to align our costs with our  revenue base.
This quarter we reduced our total adjusted cost of sales SI&amp;A expenses and R&amp;D expenses by approximately 7% compared to a year ago.
Overall I believe our results demonstrate our continued financial flexibility in adapting to our current operating environment.
In a moment Frank will provide you more details in the quarter and what we expect for the full year.
Before he does that I want to point out that we expect to see data from several important clinical trials during the second half of this year.
This includes CAPiTA data of Prevnar 13 which if positive may result in broader recommendations for adult usage following review by key vaccine technical committees like the ACIP.
We are also expecting data from two Phase 3 programs of dacomitinib  towards the end of this year.
These programs involve patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer whose disease has progressed after prior treatment.
Full data presentations are planned for a medical conference next year and we are expecting data from Phase 3 studies of Xeljanz for the treatment of psoriasis by mid year.
If favorable we expect to file early next year in the U.S.
and Japan for the Xeljanz psoriasis indication.
Separately we also anticipate beginning a Phase 3 psoriatic arthritis study for Xeljanz later this year.
Thank you Geno.
As you can see depending on our clinical outcome Xeljanz has the potential to become a broad-based product franchise for our specialty care business.
Also later this year or early next we’ll see the complete Phase 2 data for palbociclib for the treatment of breast cancer and the associated assessment of progression-free survival and overall survival.
We believe that palbociclib may represent an important potential treatment for this devastating disease given the encouraging data we’ve already seen.
And in February we began enrolling patients in a Phase 3 study evaluating palbociclib in combination with letrozole for first-line treatment of postmenopausal women with ER+/HER2- advanced breast cancer.
This represents 60% of cases amongst post postmenopausal patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer.
Regarding our options relative to our 80% interest in Zoetis we have not yet made a final determination.
We are actively assessing the best options to maximize value for Pfizer shareholders in a speedy and an efficient manner.
As we shared with you the course of the last year with the sale of the nutrition business and the successful IPO minority interest in Zoetis we are building two strong businesses innovative core and value core each with the same cost structures and operating drivers.
We know it will take the next few years to fully realize  the potential of each and as each of these businesses progress we will continue to evaluate how best to deliver their value to our shareholders.
In summary throughout this year we will continue to stay focused on building a substantial innovative core we will use our capital in ways to deliver the greatest value to our shareholders we will continue to manage our cost structure we will press forward on our initiatives  to help enhance our reputation with society and we will focus on creating an ownership culture that helps to drive results.
Now I’ll turn it over to Frank.
Thank you Ian and good day everyone.
As always the charts I am reviewing today are  included in our webcast.
Before I begin I want to remind everyone that adjusted and reported net income and diluted EPS in both our first quarter 2013 results and our updated 2013 guidance reflect the IPO of 19.8% interest in Zoetis which we completed on February 6 2013.
We still retain an 80.2% ownership interest so all Zoetis revenues and expenses continue to be included in our first quarter results and in financial guidance for the full year.
However effective February 7 2013 the earnings attributable to the divested portion of Zoetis are excluded from first quarter adjusted and reported net income and diluted EPS in both our first quarter results and our full year 2013 guidance.
Now let’s move on to the financials.
First quarter 2013 revenues of approximately $13.5 billion decreased 9% year-over-year reflecting a 1% negative impact from foreign exchange and an operational decline of approximately 8% driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies notably Lipitor in developed Europe during the second quarter of 2012 and Geodon in the U.S.
during the first quarter of 2012 the timing of government purchases of Enbrel and the Prevnar  franchise in certain emerging markets and of Prevnar 13 in the U.S.
and the transfer of certain product rights to our joint venture in China with Hisun.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.54 decreased 5% primarily due to the previously mentioned decrease in revenues which was partially offset by an aggregate operational decrease of 7% in adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses primarily resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives a lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted-average shares outstanding due to our ongoing share repurchase program.
I want to point out that our solid performance during the first quarter was unfavorably impacted by approximately $0.02 per share due to changes in foreign exchange rates versus the US dollar including the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar since we first provided our full year financial guidance in late January.
Reported diluted EPS was $0.38 compared with $0.24 in the year ago quarter and was favorably impacted by lower overall cost and lower certain other items including non-acquisition related restructuring costs and fewer shares outstanding and unfavorably impacted primarily by the loss of exclusivity of certain products as well as other factors impacting revenues previously mentioned.
During the first quarter biopharmaceutical volume growth of 10% in the BRIC-MT markets it’s primarily driven by strong growth in China and partially offset by price reductions of 1% to these markets resulting in operational revenue growth of 9%.
If you exclude the product portfolio of products whose rights were transferred to our joint venture in China with Hisun our operational revenue growth would have been 8% in our emerging markets business 14% in BRIC-MT countries and 31% in China.
In addition foreign exchange negatively impacted BRIC-MT revenue by 1% in the first quarter 2013.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter revenues by 1% or $118 million and had a net positive impact of $24 million in the aggregate on adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01 compared the year-ago quarter.
We’re reducing our 2013 reported revenue guidance range by $900 million solely due solely to reflect the non-operational negative impact of the changes in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S.
dollar since mid-January while most major currencies have worked against us since mid-January approximately half of this unfavorable impact is attributable to the weakening of the Japanese Yen versus the U.S.
dollar.
I want to remind everyone that Japan is our second largest market and represented 10% of our total revenues in 2012.
In addition the evaluation of Venezuela and Bolivar accounts for approximately 20% of the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange since mid-January.
Now moving onto our 2013 financial guidance I want to emphasize again that our guidance for this year reflects the completion of the IP over 19.8% interest to Zoetis and resulting non-controlling interest.
Also add us full-year revenues and expenses are included in our guidance but the earnings attributable to the 19.8% divested portion are excluded from both adjusted and reported diluted EPS guidance beginning on February 7 2013.
As I just mentioned we’ve lower the upper and lower ends of our reported revenue guidance range by $900 million or approximately 1.6% due to foreign exchange movements since in the January.
We’ve lowered our adjusted diluted EPS range from $2.20 to $2.30 to $2.14 to $2.24 to reflect the aforementioned changes in foreign exchange rates and the completion of the Zoetis IPO.
And we’ve lowered our reported diluted EPS range from $1.50 to $1.65 to $1.44 to $1.59 to reflect the same factors as well as some other offset factors.
Approximately $0.04 of this EPS decrease in adjusted and reported diluted EPS guidance ranges is due to the non-operational unfavorable impact of changes in foreign exchange rates from mid January to mid April on our full year guidance which includes the weakening of the Japanese yen and our [basket] of the currencies versus US dollar but excludes the $0.02 negative impact from the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar which we are absorbing.
Approximately $0.02 of the decrease in the adjusted and diluted EPS guidance ranges is due to the elimination of the noncontrolling interest of Zoetis.
To be clear excluding in this $0.02 non-operational impact related to the noncontrolling interest of Zoetis and foreign exchange rates remain constant we would be reaffirming our initial full year 2013 revenue and reported and adjusted diluted EPS guidance.
Moving on to key takeaways first quarter results were unfavorably impacted by the loss of exclusivity of several products and various geographies and the expected volatility in emerging markets.
As we previously stated because of this volatility we anticipate our performance in that business to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter.
That said we continue to expect high single-digit operational revenue growth in emerging markets in 2013 with the majority of this growth occurring in second half of the year.
We continue to mitigate the earnings impact of product LOEs with both expense discipline and share repurchases.
We received approximately $6 billion of proceeds from the successful completion of the IPO of 19.8% interest in Zoetis and a related debt offering.
We’ve updated our 2013 financial guidance to reflect the negative impact of foreign exchange rate changes since next January and the completion of the Zoetis IPO among other non-operational factors.
During the first quarter we launched Xeljanz and Eliquis in the U.S.
and Eliquis in several developed markets in the EU as well as in Japan.
We remain excited about the potential of our mid-to-late stage pipeline and we continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.
To date in 2013 we have repurchased approximately $6.3 billion or 227 million shares and we have approximately 5.5 billion of authorization remaining under the current repurchase program.
I want to point out that since 2010; we have repurchased nearly 1.1 billion shares of our common stock.
Finally we remain committed as we’re delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2013 and beyond.
With that I will turn it back to Chuck.
Great.
Thanks for your review Frank.
With that operator can we please call for questions? Yes sir.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Chris Schott of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning everybody.
Just two for you guys.
First Ian you mentioned it’s going to take several years for you to fully develop your innovative and value cores.
As you consider how to best realize value from these divisions for your shareholders should we think about the decision on that as something that could occur in the near term or do we really have to wait a couple of years to see how these businesses evolve before you have a better sense of the profiles of each.
My second question was on palbociclib just thoughts on what breakthrough designation means here the potential of file off of Phase 2 data and can you talk a little about the early breast cancer opportunity when we should expect to hear more about that? Thank you very much.
Okay.
Thanks Chris.
I will deal with the two core businesses and then ask Geno to deal with the palbo question.
I think what we’re saying is that we believe there are two core businesses we’re going to – we look at this year as a year as the decision year on how to structure those how to indicate to you to give you further visibility and then simply the work involved in order to have those businesses as entities with enough financial information to make decisions when we are ready to make them would take two years to three years because of the complexity of separating out the businesses.
So what we would like to do at some point in time and we’ll take that decision this year is to start to operate more independently those businesses give you more visibility as shareholders and then assess what are the advantages and disadvantages of having these two core businesses housed  in the same entity or not and at that point as we see that happen and frankly as we see the innovative core’s pipeline mature and as we take steps to continue to strengthen value core’s ability to have product growth inside certain segments of its product offering that will inform our decision.
Okay so Chris just a couple of comments on palbociclib.
I think you are probably familiar with the breakthrough designation now as this is a new device that the FDA has to increase or intensify their focus on programs where early clinical signals are compelling for conditions that are serious and life threatening and certainly palbociclib falls into that category and it was encouraging to see FDA give the designation to palbociclib recently.
So we look forward to continued engagement with the FDA on the program.
As you know the Phase 2 trial is still ongoing.
We are anticipating completion around the end of this year or sometime in the second half.
It is an event driven trial so in a way the longer that it takes it’s possible that patients are actually surviving longer and without progression in the palbociclib arm which could be a very good thing.
So we are just going to have to wait until we achieve the required number of events and we’ll report out as soon as we have results ready for disclosure.
With regard to the early-stage trial we are actually working on two additional Phase 3 trials now one for earlier stage high risk patients as well as for advanced recurrent patients and our expectation is that we’ll initiate those trials in the second half of this year as well.
So we’ll provide more color once we reach that point.
Thanks Geno.
Operator next question please.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you Frank I have a question for you.
I guess I’m still very confused about something related to Zoetis IPO.
Can you walk us through the dynamics of your 20% stake that you sold to the IPO and how the $6 billion in proceeds from that which were being allocated to share repurchases would not have allowed you to report accretion from your sale of Zoetis instead you’re reporting $0.02 of dilution so I’m just confused about that I would just think with the IPO proceeds and given your market cap or rather your P/E multiple that this would have been pretty meaningfully accretive.
And then secondly can you talk about your current plans for the 80% Zoetis stake I understand as Ian said that you haven’t yet decided when or how but if you could talk about maybe how you’re thinking about allocating those proceeds as well? Thanks.
Okay.
So on the first question let me walk through this in a couple of steps Jami.
So first on the last earnings call I mentioned that our current year guidance the 2013 guidance assumed mid teens in the billions share buybacks so that was already factored into the guidance.
That mid teens billions in buybacks made assumptions about the Nutri cash proceeds as well as the Animal Health IPO and debt offering proceeds point one.
Point two; remember when we’re buying back shares we don’t get the full year benefit of those shares from the EPS calculation in the year it’s a weighted--average calculation.
So the full year benefit of those buybacks will actually take place in 2014.
Point three if we were to do something with the second step on Zoetis and you assume that there was a share reduction from that it would clearly be when you net it all out accretive the reason you’re seeing that $0.02 decrease in earnings today is simply a timing issue it is the way that I think about it.
So hopefully that explains the steps relative to why you saw the $0.02 it’s really timing not getting the full year benefit of the shares we repurchased this year and the fact that we had already planned for mid-teen billions in buybacks that -- which have taken into account Nutri in the first step on Animal Health.
In terms of current plans for Zoetis and our remaining 80.2% couple of comments.
First we haven’t made any decisions to date.
Second we have several alternatives available to us per the IRS ruling and we continue to monitor our market conditions.
Third there are no operational barriers that would prevent us from proceeding with a potential second step.
And then lastly our goal remains the same which is to maximize after-tax return to our shareholders.
Thanks Mike.
Operator next question please.
Your next question comes from Marc Goodman of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Yes I was hoping you could talk about Xeljanz a little bit more and what’s going on behind the scenes in the U.S.
and the launch there and how its progressing and talk about the reimbursement that you have now and how that’s going to change? And then second of all on the oncology products that you have launched Xalkori and Inlyta if you could give us a little bit of an update there Geno on just how those are progressing and what kind of patients have been already penetrated and how much is left there? And then third when is the staph vaccine trial is  going to readout? Thanks.
Okay.
I will ask as you say as you requested Geno to answer the Xeljanz and any oncology questions and Mikael can give you some update on the staph readout.
So I guess for Xeljanz in the U.S.
we’re pretty pleased with the way things are going right now.
We’re seeing a continued adoption of the drug fairly broadly now across rheumatology community.
We have somewhere around 1 200 1 300 physicians who have initiated patient trials and about two thirds of them are repeat prescribers and we see this nice trend week after week after week increase in number of physicians with experience.
We know from our Phase 3 trials with the patient reported outcomes and the efficacy that patients are likely to be very satisfied.
We are already hearing from some rheumatologists that they’re hearing back from their patients that their early experience has been very favorable so I think it is a so far so good situation as Ian mentioned in his opening comments we really just kind of got off the tracks on our full launch in March with speaker programs with sales representatives with promotional materials in their hands with additional medical support in the field; and in the middle of the summer beginning of summer we expect to launch our DTC.
So we’re right where we need to be we see the trajectory of our launch comparing favorably to other recent launches.
We’re a little ahead of most of the other products that have launched in this category.
So again we like what we see.
With regard to reimbursement initially we had probably broader reimbursement support than we anticipated.
Everyone just seem to agree to pass through reimbursement over the last couple of months we’ve seen more managed care players doing their full assessments and making decisions on formula replacement we’re getting the formula replacement we would expect.
There will be prior authorization required for this medicine just like there is for all of the medicines in the RA category and so I think we have now formal reimbursement decisions made for lives totaling about $60 million and continue there will be a continuation of evaluation by plants as we go into the summer.
So again that’s looking okay and then finally just to reiterate another point that Ian made in his comments what we’re seeing in terms of patients is we’re seeing about an even split in patients that are post-methotrexate and patients who are post-TNF.
So we’re getting both second line and third line patients in the early experience so far.
So that’s that Xeljanz with regard to Xalkori and Inlyta again we’re continuing to make progress there.
Inlyta in the first quarter we did $63 million in the quarter.
We’re seeing real good uptake in second line which is the indicated physician for that product for about 26% share in the second line.
In Europe where we launched later last year we know about half of the physicians now who treat patients with renal cell carcinoma have had experience with Inlyta so the uptake there is on track.
And in Japan we’ve had very robust uptake it’s actually the number one product to renal cell in Japan.
So Inlyta is off to a good start good feedback on patient tolerability which is what we expected the benefit to be so again so far so good there with Xalkori.
We had a $53 million first quarter up about 20% from the last quarter which is again good progress.
Health testing continues to improve in the first quarter of this year; new guidelines were published for health testing.
We think it will helpful in setting standards for who to test and how to get through the diagnostic in an expeditious manner.
So we think that can have a benefit.
And we’re actually seeing now that we are getting healthier patients on Xalkori of good duration of therapy.
So all the indicators are on track with Xalkori as well and make out handed over to Mikael to comment on (inaudible).
Marc thank you for interest in our step always you like seeing.
We are expecting data readout from our proof-of-concept study meter this year.
It’s really our first-in-class vaccine which contains four components carefully select that to one hand two of them and allow immune-mediated clearance of bacteria while the two others are selected to inhibit the growth of the bacteria including proprietary antigens that we have identified.
The vaccine is designed to act on antibiotic resistant and antibiotic sensitive stuff hours and we are quite enthusiastic about this potential new approach to deal with the threat of a difficult to treat stuff hours.
Thank you Mikael And Mark I’ll just that Xeljanz sales in the quarter were $11 million.
Then with that operator we’ll go to the next question.
Yes your next question is from Gregg Gilbert of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Just thank a few quickly on the Merck deal should we view this as a step in the direction of Pfizer wanting to have a full fledged IBDs effort covering several classes of drugs or just weight of share cost and risk for one product area.
Secondly on capital deployment your dividend yield is at the low-end of the major pharma average at this point certainly due to strong stock performance but your payout ratio was also somewhat lower than average I was curious if you add any updated thoughts on the balance between dividends buybacks and business development or if not when can we expect an update? And lastly in the pain area in light of the recent FDA actions on abuse-deterrent opioids I was hoping you could update us on your current thinking on Remoxy in the ALO product in the oxycodone space as well as Embeda in the Morphine space.
It seems like there is quite an opportunity there to cannibalize generics and generate a lot of revenue if you can Embeda back on track thanks.
Thanks some of your questions are lot on you agenda.
On the Merck deal we have a large effort in CVMED; we continue to do research in diabetes and in areas around those conditions.
I think this was a great opportunity for us to play there the product could not be as a backbone of monotherapy and we continue to remain focused on seeing some of the opportunities.
John do you want to add a little bit more on what you see at this partnership? Yeah.
Thanks for the question Greg.
And I think first thing to say is we’re really very excited about the opportunity of this collaboration with Merck to develop and commercialize ertugliflozin and ertugliflozin-containing fixed-dose combinations with metformin and JANUVIA.
It’s a proprietary innovative SGLT2 inhibitor for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes which as you know is a huge unmet clinical need and one that is growing.
We expect to begin Phase 3 trials later in 2013 and we think that the clinical prolife in differentiating action has the potential to really complement the market leading therapeutic profile of JANUVIA brought to the collaboration by Merck.
So overall we think as Ian said this is a very positive opportunity and one that really get the degree into point for the ongoing research efforts that we have in cardiovascular metabolic.
Maybe just to pick up on your question on pain and opioids as well clearly it has been an interesting last few months with some of the decisions that the FDA have made which I think is really a recognition for some of the challenges that we have here in the United States with the abuse of opioids.
I think the decision along with the guidelines the agency issued in January really help to inform our development strategies.
Specifically with Embeda as we said last quarter the required stability programs are already underway.
We are working towards the submission of a prior approval supplement for Embeda in 2013 and we believe that Embeda subject to successful completion of those stability programs will be commercially available in the first half of 2014.
For Remoxi we had a predictive meeting with the FDA in March and the guidance that we’ve got out about meeting it certainly helping to inform the next steps and addressing the issues that the FDA had raised previously in their Complete Response Letter.
We believe we have a path forward and we will publicly communicate further details overcoming quarters.
Thank you John.
Frank you want to take the total shareholder return… Yeah sure.
So Gregg let me run the numbers first and then I’ll give you a little more color commentary.
So the payout ratio for the quarter was 44% right $0.24 on the dividend overnight over $0.54 or 44% payout ratio for Pfizer.
If you look at what we’ve done with the dividend since the acquisition of Wyeth when we announce Wyeth we cut the dividend from $1.28 to $0.64 since then we’ve rated from $0.64 to $0.72 $0.72 to $80 $0.80 to $0.88 and $0.88 to $0.96 or 12.5% 11% 10% and 9% increases respectively just in terms of running the numbers.
In terms of what we’ll do going forward to dividend is on every year-end December Ian and I make a recommendation to the Board of Directors and then once we get approval from the Board of Directors we obviously announced that to on the investment community literally that day or the next day.
So that’s the game plan for the dividend on a going forward basis.
In terms of just capital priorities capital deployment priorities from my prospective they remain the same.
So first and foremost in terms of total shareholder return we understand the importance of dividends and buybacks so that clearly remains the priority investing in the business whether that would be R&amp;D programs capital expenditures launch cost associated with our new products continued investment in the business business development will be an area that we continue to look at the amount of cash that we’re paying to oversees.
So all the things that I’ve talked about previously and I think what’s important is because of the amount of cash that we generate from operations we have the ability to do all these things which is really that’s a nice structure to have so that’s all I answered the question.
Thank you Frank.
Next question please.
Your next question is from Tim Anderson of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Well thank you couple of questions.
You talked about Prevnar being week in Q1 due to timing that would imply.
We should see a rebound in Q2 through Q4 such that on a full year basis will still see growth across the franchise is that correctly of looking at it? And then the second question relates to the mechanics of potentially splitting up the company further you mentioned recently the one of the things that would be needed to do this is three years of audited financials.
My question is whether that three year clock has started yet and if not is that mean that the earlier same thing it happened in terms of actually accomplishing the split would be 2016 or can you look back or satisfy some of the three year period versus it being forward-looking? Tim thank you.
Well so I just want to emphasize firstly that I believe we do have two operating models two core business in the company.
The first order of business is define a model where we can separate them and give the management ability to run those businesses of this much authority and independence is necessary and to judge if those businesses inside Pfizer can fulfill what we believe is that full potential and where the shareholders see the potential as businesses and value them fully inside that combination.
If we decided or can be conclusion if they were further benefits from a split of those businesses my decision has not been taken.
I believe the earliest we could do that would be in 2016.
And as I say this year we’re studying how best to report and how the results and how complicated it will be for us to start generating different P&amp;Ls and even potentially balance sheets.
So that is the situation where we are and we will give you more color on when and how later on this year.
With that I would turn it over to Geno for his comments.
Yeah Tim.
Just on Prevnar I think you actually – you have it right I think our first quarter was impacted by some inventory differences compared to the first quarter last year primarily with the CDC purchases some stockpile purchased last year in the first quarter and even in the private market we saw slightly lower inventories in the first quarter this year compared to the first quarter last year that will probably even out as we go through the year.
Those decreases relative to last year offs that a little bit by some price increase that we had for this year in the U.S.
in the first quarter and a little bit of adult business that started to creep in.
So all-in-all I think the business is stable in Europe; we were actually up about 3% for the first quarter reflecting a better pricing situation in the UK.
And for emerging markets rest of world we’re off again slightly in the first quarter of this year related to purchase timing primarily.
The fundamentals of the business are very sound the only NIP that we don’t have this year that we had before is Morocco it’s about $9 million impact.
So we’re on pretty solid ground with Prevnar I expect we will see strength as we go through the rest of the year.
Thank you Geno.
Thanks Geno.
Our next question please? Your next question is from Mark Schoenebaum of ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks a lot for taking the question.
On [drugs] if the appeal doesn’t work out at the end of re-filing what new data would you have that would allow a re-filing and the second question is on PD-991 given the mechanism of action I guess there is a reasonable it’s reasonable it may work across different tumor types I’m wondering if you’ve seen strong signals often Michael outside of breast and then just finally on the EM you mentioned EM you thought growth would pick up in the second half and I was looking for little bit of color on that why you think that’s going to happen.
Thank a lot.
Geno if you could deal with the Xeljanz and then I’ll Michael talk about Palbo and … Yes To talk about EM.
So Mark Xeljanz in Europe as we’ve indicated we are going to go through a reexamination process we hope to build to clarify some of the issues that were raised by CHMP and either eliminate the majority of them or some of them so we can focus our follow up activities on the areas that our of most interest or concern to the CHMP.
We would probably spend more effort analyzing and reanalyzing data that we have to complete a new filing.
We would have some additional data from our 1069 study the two year data which would be new and we could have updated safety tables from ongoing long term extension trails as primarily the data that we will put into the filing but I think it has more to do with going deeper into some of the areas that the CHMP has been asked about and I think we can do some of that with just stronger analysis of some of the databases that we’ve already discussed.
Thank you Geno.
So on Palbociclib and Mark we appreciate your interest in how this drug could be fully developed.
Yes certainly we are exploring opportunities in a number of different tumor segments and we have pre-clinical and some early clinical signs that this mechanism can have an important outcome also in other tumors.
We are starting now or thinking on starting of course the number of segment from melanoma to squamous cell carcinoma in a variety of different locations which can include head-to-head neckline esophageal tumors.
I would like to underline that given the strengths of palbociclib in ER positive breast cancer and amount of understanding we have got on the importance of this drag in breast cancer as Geno outlined this year we are starting three different breast cancer trials advance ER positive breast early breast cancer that are ER positive and recoverant but in addition to that there are more segments in the ER positives that we are considering as opportunities which can include medium to low risk ER positive breast.
And also within the – our two segments substantial proportion also carry the ER positive signature.
So Mark even the very strong signal in breast its compelling to consider that the breast cancer ER positive is segment alone obviously have potential to make this one of the most impact full drugs.
In addition to exploring other tumors as you asked for.
Okay Mark coming to emerging markets you’ve heard Ian and Frank talking about the one-time event of government purchase of Enbrel in Brazil and Prevnar in Mexico and some countries in Africa and Middle East.
Those had significant impact on the growth for the quarter and taking those events out underlying growth is more like 10% for OEM and some seeing around 14% for BRIC-MT countries.
So the reason why we are expecting a better second half in term of growth rate is due to the fact that we still expecting to get the full year purchase order of those medicine and I’m talking NIP Prevnar and Enbrel but the timing would be pushed for the second half of the year.
Thank you Olivier.
Thanks.
Next question please.
The next question is from Steve Scala of Cowen.
Please go ahead.
do you believe you can still get an ACIP approval? Secondly does the ongoing Phase 3 Palbo trial have an interim look built in and if so when would we get that data? And then thirdly on Xeljanz I appreciate it is early days but of the 11 million in Q1 how much of that was pipeline stocking? Thank you.
Okay.
Geno would you like to take all three I mean the CAPiTA trial design the Palbo and those? Yeah.
So I mean the CAPiTA trial design was obviously discussed with regulators.
This is a post marketing commitment for the accelerated review in the United States so this is a trial design that has been thoroughly discussed and agreed upon with the FDA and the decision to not include Pneumovax – as competitor I think was related to the fact that there is lack of evidence that there is a Pneumovax effect on Community Acquired Pneumonia but essentially it was an agreed upon protocol with the regulators.
We do believe that with positive data that we will be able to demonstrate reach agreement on a favorable recommendation from ACIP.
So with the Palbociclib Phase 3 trial there is a provision for an interim look I don’t know what the timing on that is so I can’t give you a date we’ll have to follow-up with you Steve on that.
And with Xeljanz of the $11 million almost none of it is pipeline stocking we put very small amount of product in the marketplace at the end of last year because of the class and the specialty pharmacy management of a drug like this there are not large inventories out there.
Thank you Geno.
Next question please? Your next question is from Andrew Baum of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Three questions please.
Firstly on Palbociclib you mentioned there were current breast cancer trial you are running to understand the trial design you’re looking at adding the drug on top of AFINITOR or looking at in head-to-head design? Second are you looking at the development of Palbociclib we have combination chemotherapy in select rheumatoid using the drug of chemo protections which an idea has been suggested by some? And then finally on Xeljanz just outline the [repeater and co-repeater] and whether the possibility exists that became individual up and central approval if you do in fact receive the rejection from your ongoing appeal? Thank you Andrew.
I’ll ask Mikael to answer the Palbo questions and in fact Geno could talk a bit about the Xeljanz and the European Union.
Yes so concerning Palbo our Phase 2 study was on top of letrozole and [aromatizing] EBITDA.
We do think that the unique opportunity with Palbociclib is to a large extent to delay the need or replace the need for chemotherapy with all its burden on patients.
So our treatment designs for the advanced and recurrent involves the use of additional full moon blockade beyond letrozole and particular for the recurrent we are keen on the opportunity to add a drag on top of fulvestrant which you may know has been used and demonstrated to be an agent that can have some intrinsic activity even off the human receptor blockade is diminished by receptor antagonist by having additional receptor degradation of the insulin pathway.
But we haven’t excluded opportunity for a certain chemo-combinations but we are even more enthusiastic about the ability to give profound treatment effect without the serious side-effect of chemo treatment.
Great.
Thank you very much Geno? Okay.
Andrew I think your question was related to the opportunity or the potential to go forward with individual country registrations versus the central approach in the event that we’re not successful with the reevaluation.
I mean suddenly there is an opportunity to explore that option but we’re not at a point yet we’re prepared to make that decision.
Thank you Geno.
Thanks Geno.
Next question please operator? The next question is from David Risinger of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you.
I have a couple of questions please.
First with respect to separating established products could you just explain to us some of the operational changes that you’re making for example I think you’ve mentioned in the past that you’re moving some lines of manufacturing to different parts of facilities.
But if you could go into some more detail on operationally what action is being taken that would be helpful? And second with respect to the possibility of exiting the business I’m just curious about whether you need the three years of financials to be able to do a tax free spin off and that is why you are looking at a three year timeline or whether you could exit the business sooner through a simple sale of the business or would that just be too difficult from a tax standpoint to exit the segment through a sale prior to having three years of audited financials? Thank you.
Thank you.
Well on separating the business we already have separated the management in U.S.
and developed markets.
The key question that we are looking at is in our BRIC-MT and our emerging markets that are very successful in growing aggressively what would we need to do to separate out and what will be the dynamics of that of separating out and what portfolio we separate out so as to create an innovative core and a value core and how would we allocate capabilities and access within that this is not a tribune undertaking in an organization that’s already performing so well.
And the second part would be clearly on the manufacturing side we would want to try and identify plants that are purely of a value or established product type plants and there have to be independencies and you look at that and then you also have to look at the tax issues as you do that.
So this is we believe worth doing I believe it is worth creating that separation internally because I think it brings focus and management focus and will improve the performance of those two businesses.
But it’s something that we’re doing carefully given the – it’s sort of reorganization of our potential reorganization of emerging markets that is being so successful as is.
But certainly that’s some of the consideration as we go to look at this separation now.
I’ll ask Frank to talk about the timing and the mechanics of that but I would just add that under your hypothetic scenario of a buyer I’m sure the buyer would want to see P&amp;Ls and balance sheets.
And Dave I think what I’ll add to what Ian said is when we talk about the three years it’s really I’ll call it a path that’s similar to what we did – if we would do it a path that’s similar like the (inaudible) path where basically it’s a path that we are doing it ourselves and we set ourselves up in a position to be able to do whatever kind of optionality we want on a standalone basis.
But that’s what we think about when we talk about the three years.
So the underlying thesis of this is that we have an innovative call which is focused on science and focused on selling and delivering education in a certain way and would have an exciting pipeline that would drive substantial growth and certain shareholders would have an appeal for that type of investment.
And then we would have a value company which has a substantial and cash flows large dividend capacity big brands in emerging markets more of a sort of traditional selling model also with brand generics.
But also we want to take time as we go through the next couple of years to see how we strengthen both of those segments.
We are strengthening [cumulative] call with the pipeline.
We also want to look on how do we strengthen the value business at the same time.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question is from Seamus Fernandez of Leerink.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> All right thanks very much.
So just wanted to check on BD historically you’ve discussed primarily tuck-in acquisitions Frank.
May be you can just give us reiterate the thresholds or give us the thresholds that you are thinking about on that regard.
Also historically you’ve talked about interest in the sterile injectable space as a potential area of interest.
Can you just update us on that as well? And then lastly on psoriasis and the indication for potential indication for Xeljanz can you just give us a sense of the dose used in the oral studies as well as the percept of the topical formulation.
And I’m more asking that in the context of safety questions that have been raised at least by the CHMP.
Thanks very much.
Geno could you answer the psoriasis question? Yeah.
So for the psoriasis program our Phase 2 trial we used five milligram to 15 milligram dose and I think those results have been disclosed.
In the Phase 3 we have the 5 milligram and 10 milligram doses both administered BID.
And again you’ll be seeing readouts in the middle of this year on those trials.
We are now working on a topical formulation and intent to initiate a Phase 2 trial with the topical formulation this year.
Okay on BD I just like to preface a few comments and make some comments and pass over to Frank.
Our view on BD has always been that it’s not a strategy it’s an enabler and we will do BD if we see a clear path of increasing shareholder value.
So we’ve always said never say never to big deals and we’ve said we’re looking at bolt-on deals or frankly any deal where we felt that there was a convincing argument that we would add value to our shareholders.
So Frank do you want to make some more color on there.
Yeah.
I think what I would say is just to punctuate Ian’s comments is from my perspective as of we never say never the strategy remains bolt-on acquisitions and we say the thresholds and my mind target areas are our priority therapeutic areas so inflammation and immunology pain oncology CVMED neuroscience emerging markets you seen us do take actions in the emerging markets more on a local basis when you see what we’ve done there and then established products which by the way comprises a major part of our emerging markets business and that includes things like reformulations for example which was Quillivant transaction with NextWave.
So those have been the strategies those continue to be the strategies and always with the focus being how we create shareholder value.
Next question please.
The next question is from Alex Arfaei of BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
First the question for Frank in cost cutting I think last year you characterize as being in the middle and I was wondering if you could update us on let us know which anywhere now and then a follow-up on for Geno could you talk about your sampling strategy and would you characterize it as aggressive and could that perhaps time consuming little bit and when you expect those patients to come back to the physicians to perhaps get prescription thank you.
Frank? So last year I did say earnings if you look at what we saved operational last year in terms of our total cost and expense base it was almost $4 billion in operational savings I think the exact number is about $3.8 billion and I think it was clearly entered via the late innings entering the seventh inning right now.
Still opportunities to further reduce cost; I think you saw that again this quarter.
Adjusted costs and expenses were down operationally $545 million 7%.
But I think when you look at kind of the continuum the rhythm I think we’ve entered just started entering the late innings.
Yeah.
So Alex the program that we’ve put out there for Xeljanz there were two sampling programs one of the 14 day sample it’s primarily managed through our patients support program to help patients get started on therapy right away while they’re going through the prior authorization process.
So that’s a 14 day relatively short-term program.
And then we gave select physicians a series of 28 day patient starters so again they could get some early experience.
It’s very difficult for us to track the utilization of those samples so it’s difficult for me to say whether or not I think that’s influencing the uptake.
And I’m not sure I’ll call it aggressive I think we were somewhat pointed in a way that we distributed those samples and so we’ll see how things play-out.
Thanks Geno.
Next question please.
Your next question is from Anthony Butler of Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Just briefly one question on our two parts to Eliquis and one is around overall spend there is do you feel or otherwise it’s an early launch that the overall spend so far has been as you predicted sufficient for the initial launch and the second issue is assuming the six month mTOR on DTC is over do you anticipate a direct-to-consumer campaign much like occurs with rivaroxaban thank you very much.
Thank you Anthony.
John? Okay.
Thanks for the question Anthony.
So I think the first point to make is that you along with our partners BMS we’ve been very thoughtful by making sure of you.
We are very focused on our investment but we are also mindful of the very competitive nature of this market and resourcing what we remain convinced is actually a really significant opportunity to improve the outcomes for patients with the indications that we’ve researched thus far.
So we’ve deployed our resources have made sure that we are competitive and in addition to just this year spend; I think the other thing that both companies bring is obviously a strong heritage in cardiovascular medicine between Pfizer and BMS which we believe is a real positive advantage for us in the marketplace.
And our expectations for Eliquis are broadly in line with launches in mentioned in his opening comments.
We always have known this was going to be an opportunity that was going to require us to displace a competitor in warfarin that’s been in the marketplace for 50 years.
But we are very positive about the progress that we’ve made thus far and certainly what we have seen is a trend in the marketplace that has Eliquis pretty much on track to actually the second (inaudible).
In terms of DTC specifically you are absolutely right we currently are still in that six month moratorium period which certainly is an alliance we would – once we have come out of that moratorium period subject purposely see clearance by OPBP and the FDA we would certainly have plans to initiate a DTC campaign in the U.S.
to enable us to communicate the benefit risk of Eliquis to the patients and we are very positive about that as being a further opportunity that will kick in the second half of the year.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Next question please You next question is from Jeff Holford of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Joe my questions have been answered.
Thank you.
Next question operator.
Your next question is from Michael Tong of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just one quick question on the R&amp;D side if I look at Inlyta and Xalkori nice to see the ramp coming up but in the overall scheme of things still a relatively modest contributor to the top line.
So maybe for Frank or Mike as you think about capital allocation within the R&amp;D segment where you’re allocating your R&amp;D dollars maybe perhaps give us an idea of how you splitting between primary care and specialty care at the moment and where you think it might be in two or three years time? Thanks for question.
We have TAs we’ve broadly stated that we are spending on which is oncology and vaccines and inflammation and immunology CVMed oncology pain and that’s where we are dividing our spend and we’re dividing it as we see opportunities that occur in the science.
I personally I am excited about what we see coming at our oncology portfolio.
And I think they have the potential to be a large driver on our revenue go forward as does the vaccine segment where we are investing in which we really basically we start investing from a standing star after acquiring Wyeth.
They had one large and good vaccine but since then we’re really building up a portfolio of vaccines.
So in fact Mikael may just want to comment briefly on the more interesting oncology projects.
Yeah so overall oncology is our largest investment in R&amp;D slightly above 20% of the R&amp;D investment followed by immunology inflammation just slightly below that.
And then number of the other core areas are somewhere between 10% to 20% and we try to do capital allocation by looking at what’s in the pipeline what is looking most promising and where we’ll see a return of investment going forward.
So it’s certainly not carving stone but as we do across the business in R&amp;D allocation to maximize output.
Particularly in oncology we have opted a successful launch of three products in recent one to two years.
We now have a second wave that we’re very excited about.
On one end Dacomitinib that with the end rate data within the next period of this year early next year in Rituximab for blood cancer and of course Palbociclib that we spoke a lot about it today.
But behind that we have other interesting oncology drugs such as (inaudible) for multiple blood cancers and PI3K/mTOR that will have a readout over the next couple of years in several solid tumors.
So it’s quite a rich portfolio in oncology immunology vaccines and across the biotherapeutic areas.
Thank you Mikael.
Thanks Mikael.
If we could take our last question please operator? Yes your final question comes from Damien Conover of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just one question on the strategic deployment of capital to research and development.
And the pipeline has shown a lot of strength and productivity over the years a lot of that strength is coming from the R&amp;D spend where the spend was much higher.
As you look forward are you comfortable with around 12% of sales going to R&amp;D and keeping this high productivity going – to keep it going over the long-term? Thank you.
Thank you for the question.
Yeah we are very confident about capital allocation.
We feel we have the right balance allocated to research right now.
And it obviously depends upon opportunities to come in the pipeline; if large opportunities come that look very promising and requires substantially more resources and we would not shrink from putting those resources there assuming we believe in the opportunities.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thanks everyone for your attention this morning.
This does concludes the conference you may all disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer’s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer’s second quarter 2013 performance.
Joined today as usual by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D’Amelio our CFO; Olivier Brandicourt President and General Manager of Emerging Markets and Established Products; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for our Consumer Business; and John Young President and General Manager of Primary Care.
The slide that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2013 which is located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer’s 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions during this conference call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer’s current report on Form 8-K dated today July 30 2013.
Also as we outlined in our earnings release as a result of the full dispositions of Zoetis the financial results of the Animal Health Business are now reported as a discontinued operation for the second quarter and year-to-date for both 2012 and 2013.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck.
I will begin with some comments on the quarter.
We saw solid operational revenue growth at a number of areas.
Moving on Innovative business oncology grew 28% driven by the uptick of new products mostly Inlyta and Xalkori in several major markets and we saw strong performance from Lyrica in developed markets which grew 14% and Celebrex in U.S.
which grew by 13%.
The consumer business grew 5% operationally primarily due to strong global growth from Centrum.
And China had strong volume growth most notably for Lipitor and Prevenar.
Overall total China revenues grew 14% operationally or 22% excluding the impact of product transfers in connection with forming a partnership with Hisun.
We continually expect that the second half of this year will be stronger than the first half of emerging markets.
Although on a full-year basis we now expect to see operational revenue growth of mid single-digit rather than high single digits.
It is mainly due to a slowdown in growth in Brazil and Russia and the impact of cost containment measures in Columbia Polland Thailand and Turkey.
We completed the full separation of Zoetis into a standalone public company.
The transactions related to the disposition of Zoetis generated approximately $17.2 billion of after-tax value for Pfizer’s shareholders.
And our board of directors authorized a new 10 billion share repurchase program to be utilized overtime.
This new program is an addition to the 3.1 billion of authorization remaining under the company’s current repurchase program.
Turning to our products and pipeline assets the launches of both Eliquis and Xeljanz continued progress in various markets around the world.
And we are gaining market approvals to both Xeljanz and Eliquis in additional countries.
We are encouraged with the potential for both of these therapies over the time.
For Eliquis we're focused on gaining preferred formulary acceptance continuing to obtain reimbursement and building physician knowledge and comfort about the drug in this profile.
With this unique profile in atrial fibrillation is the only product with superiority versus Warfarin in stroke prevention major bleeding and a proven mortality benefit we're confident we will continue to see steady growth that will build overtime.
For Xeljanz we're seeing good opportunities with patients who are switching from their current biologic therapy as well as patients who are initiating Xeljanz's therapy and as a second-line setting.
That is following the tricks before a biologic DMARD.
In fact almost half of our recent prescriptions are in the second line setting with the remainder being patients who have been on one or more biological DMARDs and not achieving satisfactory results.
In addition we began our direct consumer campaign in the U.S.
early in June and that's seen a subsequent uptick in prescription volume.
Last month we announced that the FDA had accepted for review our supplementary new drug application to include progression of structural damage in Xeljanz label and as of today Xeljanz will be commercially available in Japan where it'll be co-promoted by Pfizer and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited.
Overall we remain encouraged by what we’re seeing what physicians and patients experienced so far.
I would describe our progress as measured and steady and we recognize it will continue to take time for rheumatologists to feel comfortable making a change.
The launch is consistent with our expectations for new oral mechanism.
Turning to the status of Xeljanz in Europe last week we announced The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use in the EU confirmed their prior opinions on marketing authorization applications for Xeljanz although with a much closer vote.
Given the novel mechanisms or action to Xeljanz the CHMP wanted to see more data particularly around safety to better understand the full profile of Xeljanz relative to other agents used in this patient population.
As a result of the reexamination process we addressed several of the questions and had more clarity on the remaining ones.
We plan to work with European Medicines Agency to determine what additional data will be needed in order to resubmit a marketing authorization application and anticipate this will result in several years to lay.
Regarding the Xeljanz Phase III psoriasis program it continues to progress.
However given the large size and complexity of this data set the analysis and reporting of the data have been more complicated than we anticipated.
That said there is no issue with the integrity of the data and this delay is purely due to operational issues.
As a result we now expect as the top line results from two of our four psoriasis ongoing studies by the end of the year.
One of the studies expected to read out this year evaluates maintenance of efficacy when patients are withdrawn from and then retreated with Xeljanz therapy.
The second study compares the efficacy and safety of Xeljanz to Enbrel and placebo.
We anticipate reporting the top line results from the two pivotal studies that will be part of our planned regulatory submission in the second quarter of next year.
For Prevnar sales this quarter were adversely impacted in the U.S.
by the variability of CDC purchase patterns and a lower birth cohort in the U.S.
as well as the end of a supplementary dose program in Asia.
Regarding CAPiTA we continue to accumulate events and based on (indiscernible) spend rates we expect to complete the study this year.
Given the size of the study which is approximately 85 000 patients once the number of events is achieved it will still take several months to complete the necessary database validation and related activities prior to unblinding the results.
Given where we are today we expect that we should see top line results in the first half of 2014.
As we announced yesterday we are moving forward with formally internally separating our commercial and management structure into innovative and value business segments.
And we will integrate emerging markets’ fully into each of these segments.
One of the innovative business segments will be led by Geno Germano who'll become Group President Innovative Products.
This business segment will generally include products that have exclusivity beyond 2015 across multiple therapeutic areas consisting of immunology and inflammation including Enbrel cardiovascular metabolic neuroscience and pain rare diseases and women's and men's health.
XELJANZ and Eliquis examples of products in this business.
The other innovative business segment will be led by Amy Schulman who will become Group President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer Healthcare.
Each of these businesses will operate in the separate global business.
Each has a different operating model with the same specializations around science talent and market approach.
The Value Product segment will be led by John Young.
They will include the brands that have lost their exclusivity and generally a mature patent protected products are expected to lose exclusivity through 2015 in most markets.
Some examples include Celebrex Zyvox Viagra outside of the U.S.
and Lyrica in the EU.
The Value business will also include our biosimilars portfolio and current and future collaborations for broadening our off patent portfolio such as our existing partnerships with Mylan in Japan Hisun in China and Teuto in Brazil.
While we have decided to integrate emerging markets into the innovative value businesses these markets will continue to play an important role in Pfizer's long-term success.
We see the fastest-growing emerging markets becoming more aligned with the profile of developed markets.
With these changing dynamics we believe this is the right strategic to move for us at this time.
I've asked Olivier Brandicourt to lead the transition from the current emerging markets business into each of the three business segments.
And with Amy becoming the Group President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer Healthcare we're appointing Doug Lankler currently our Chief Compliance and Risk Officer to be Pfizer's General Counsel.
And additionally Ray Johnson Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel will become the new Chief Compliance and Risk Officer.
All of the leadership changes are effective January 1 2014.
We will be moving towards operating in the new commercial structure at the start of 2014 while we continue to manage our business and report our financial results and the existing structure for the balance of 2013.
All the current leaders will continue in their roles for the remainder of this year.
Starting with a release of our financial results for the first quarter of 2014 we will provide greater transparency into the financial profile of each of the three new business segments.
Our plan is to provide 2014 baseline management view of profit and loss to each segment.
We anticipate providing additional financial detail as we move forward within a new structure effective January 1 2015.
In summary I believe this new commercial structure will put us in a better position to assess the capabilities progress and opportunities our innovative core and provide our value business dedicated resources required to fully strengthen and grow and position it to be a market leader.
Now I’ll turn it over to Frank to take you through the details for the quarter.
Thanks Ian good day everyone.
As always the charts I’m reviewing today are included in our webcast.
Before I begin I want to point out that as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24 2013; the financial results of the Animal Health business are now reported as a discontinued operation and the condensed consolidated statements of income for the second quarter and year-to-date for both 2012 and 2013.
Now let’s move on to the financials.
Second quarter 2013 revenues of approximately $13 billion decreased 7% year-over-year reflecting a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange and an operational decline of approximately 4% driven mainly by the loss of exclusivity of several key products in certain geographies most notably Lipitor and developed Europe for the second quarter of 2012 and multi-source generic competition for Lipitor in U.S.
beginning in late May 2012.
The decline in Pfizer’s share of revenues for the terms of the co-promotion agreements for Spiriva which are in the final year in the U.S.
Australia Canada and certain European countries.
The timing of government purchases of Prevenar in various markets and the transfer of certain product rights to our joint venture in China with Hisun in first quarter.
Adjusted Diluted EPS of $0.56 decreased 5% primarily due to the previously mentioned decrease in revenues and the impact of foreign exchange which were partially offset by a lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding primarily due to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Reported diluted EPS was $1.98 compared with $0.43 in the year-ago quarter.
So it’s mainly driven by the pre-tax gain of $10.5 billion associated with the full disposition of Zoetis and to a much lesser extent by the Protonix patent litigation settlement and lower legal charges which were partially offset by the previously mentioned decrease in revenues and a 5.1 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate on reported income from continuing operations mainly attributable to the tax liability associated with the previously mentioned Protonix patent litigation settlement.
During the second quarter biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets declined 2% operationally primarily due to the timing of government purchases of Enbrel in Brazil and Prevenar in Turkey and the transfer of certain product rights to the Pfizer-Hisun joint venture in the first quarter.
These were partially offset by strong volume growth in China especially for Lipitor and Prevnar.
In these BRIC-MT markets volume growth of 1% was more than offset by price reductions of 3% versus the year-ago quarter.
In addition foreign exchange negatively impacted BRIC-MT revenue by 1% in the second quarter of 2013.
Revenue from all emerging markets increased 4% operationally in the second quarter.
If you exclude the portfolio of products whose rights would transfer to our joint venture in China with Hisun we would have had operational revenue growth of 5% in our emerging markets business and 22% in China and BRIC-MT operational revenue would have been flat compared with the year-ago quarter.
Operational biopharmaceutical revenue growth from all emerging markets business is expected to accelerate in the second half of the year to a high single-digit percentage.
However we now expect full year operational revenue growth and our emerging markets business to be in the mid single digit percentage due continued slowing growth in some markets as pricing pressures continue to build and governments take additional steps to contain rising healthcare expenditures.
As we previously stated because of the continued volatility in emerging markets we anticipate our performance in that business to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter revenues by 3% or $392 million and had a net positive impact of 3% or $228 million on the aggregate of adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.02 compared with the year-ago quarter.
Now moving on to our 2013 financial guidance we are reaffirming all components of our full year 2013 adjusted financial guidance that we updated on June 24 to solely reflect the impact of the Zoetis exchange offer.
I want to remind everyone that the weighted average shares outstanding used in the calculation of adjusted and reported diluted EPS reflects the net reduction of 405.1 million shares of Pfizer's outstanding common stock as a result of the exchange offer.
Because the exchange offer was completed on June 24 we will recognize only a partial year benefit to our full year 2013 adjusted and reported diluted EPS.
As an additional reminder when we completed the full disposition of Zoetis in June we announced that the expected impact of the removal of the full year 2013 financial contribution of Zoetis and the impact of the partial year benefit from the net reduction in shares of our outstanding common stock due to the exchange offer would result in a $0.04 decrease to the upper and lower ends of our projected range for 2013 adjusted diluted EPS.
Today we’ve also updated our 2013 reported diluted EPS guidance range of $3.07 to $3.22 to reflect the gain associated with the full disposition of Zoetis and income from the previously mentioned litigation settlement.
Now moving on to key takeaways.
Second quarter results reflect the loss of exclusivity of certain products in various geographies as well as the continued volatility in emerging markets.
As I previously mentioned we expect high single-digit operational revenue growth in emerging markets during the second half of 2013 and now expect mid single-digit growth for the full year.
We continue to mitigate the earnings impact of product LOEs with both expense discipline and share repurchases.
We completed the full disposition of Zoletis during the second quarter and we accepted 405.1 million shares of Pfizer common stock in exchange for our remaining interest in Zoetis.
We continue to expect the transaction to be accretive to reported and adjusted diluted EPS on a full year basis in 2014.
We are reaffirming all components of our 2013 adjusted financial guidance we remain excited about the potential of our new product launches in mid-to-late stage pipeline.
We’ve announced our intention to implement the new commercial structure beginning in fiscal 2014 which we except will better position Pfizer in long term success and we continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.
In the second quarter we repurchased approximately $3.3 billion of our common stock.
To date in 2013 we have repurchased approximately 8.7 billion or approximately 309 million shares and have $13.1 billion remaining under our current authorization.
And we continue to expect the repurchase in the mid teens of billions of dollars of our common stock this year despite the blackout period for share repurchases during and for 10 business days after the Zoetis exchange offer period.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2013 and beyond.
Now I’ll turn it back to Chuck.
Thanks Frank and Ian for the update.
Operator can we please now pull for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Thanks very much for the questions.
The first one was on the corporate structure.
Can you just elaborate a little bit on why three divisions here as compared to simply the innovative and value core franchises you've discussed in the past.
I guess is there – I know you’re talked about the – is there a scenario where Pfizer could break itself into three companies at some point in the future.
And then my second question was – and just so I am clear can you elaborate a little bit more on what type of P&amp;L granularity we should be anticipating in 2014 and then maybe even looking forward to 2015 for this three operating divisions? Thank you.
Thank you Chris.
So why the three rather than two.
Well I think it basically is very strong operational reasons that the innovative business under Geno has a collection of large disease areas that cut across both the primary care and specialty and they have challenges both capital allocation and of the go-to-market model as we look to be more efficient in how we deliver the message and how we get to see primary care physicians.
Whereas the oncology business and the vaccine business have a very distinct culture they’re smaller businesses that I wanted to make sure that you can get didn’t get assumed into a large primary care business.
They have specific customers they have dedicated search facilities and research focus and I thought it was very important for those business to maintain their unique focus and extend it globally.
So that was the primary reason for maintaining or claim a structure where we had two innovative businesses.
On the details I’ll turn it over to Frank.
Yeah.
So Chris on the P&amp;L granularity for ’14 and then as about beyond 2014.
For 2014 fiscal year we will show revenue for each of the three businesses.
We’ll show direct cost and we’ll show direct expenses and then what we’ll do is on expenses that we don’t allocate today that we don’t allocate to come fiscal 2014 we’ll provide some qualitative directional statement.
So that you will be able to model some good full stream P&amp;Ls.
Come fiscal 2015 we'll provide that same information and then we’ll provide some additional balance sheet information as well.
So that’s kind of the rhythm of how we’re thinking about this.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Sure.
On the separation was curious as you internally separate these businesses are you considering any changes that could affect the overall tax structure at Pfizer? Then on Palbo I've a couple of questions.
By when will you know that you might not have data in time for San Antonio? I assume it's some time before the actual start of that conference.
So let us know if there's a key date there.
And Lilly has a program that's much earlier in that class but they talk about the ability of their product to be dosed continuously.
Any comments on that subject of continuous dosing versus otherwise? Thanks.
Great thank you.
I will ask Frank to comment on the tax issue.
So in terms of the tax structure the creation of these three businesses in and up themselves does not impact in any material way the tax structure but we are always doing tax planning to see what we can do to be more efficient from a tax perspective.
And if Geno could you respond to the questions on Palbo? Yeah I mean with regard to the timing on Palbo we’re continuing to accumulate events and based on the rate of accumulation that we’re seeing at this point we think it’s unlikely that we’ll be presenting data at San Antonio.
So I don’t have a specific date to give you but I think our best view at this point is it’s unlikely that we’ll present at San Antonio.
We still expect to accumulate the required events around the end of the year but unlikely we’ll meet the San Antonio date.
And then with regard to continuous dosing I’m really not sure and familiar with the Lilly program.
So I can’t really comment on that.
Thanks Geno.
Next question please? Operator: Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you.
A couple of questions on the split up.
Can you give us a very rough preliminary idea of how operating margins might compare across those different businesses could establish products had the highest margins because those products seem to kick off a lot of cash and don’t require a lot of support even directional guidance on this sort of thing would very helpful because that’s what folks I think are going to be interested in as we head into 2014? And then separately you’ve talked about meeting three-years of audited financials before you could potentially truly split up the Company if that’s what you’re ultimately destined to do.
There’s been some speculation that perhaps you could use historic data for this three-year requirement which means you wouldn’t have to wait until 2017 or so until we really carve it up.
Is this a possibility should we really think of 2017 as being the earliest you could really split things up?  Well I’ll ask Frank to answer the margin issue the best he can and also your hypothetical question on data needed to split.
Sure.
So let me answer the second question first which is on data requirements.
If we were ever to decide to do something external to the Company obviously we haven't decided anything yet and which is it requires three-years of audited financials and our current thinking is those would be prospective.
And the thought of trying to retrospectively create those when we look at everything that we need to be done is would be extremely difficult.
So the current thinking is clearly that those will be prospective in terms of the three-years of audited financials.
So that's how I'd answer the second question.
On the first question on operating margins the way I think about this is we're going to provide 2014 guidance.
We're going to stop providing more granularity relative to these three businesses.
So Tim for the time being I really don't want to start projecting the margins on those businesses until we start showing them from 2014 and that will give lots more clarity when that time comes.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please operator.
The next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Just to follow-up on that last question.
Frank is there a difference in SEC requirements for a spin versus a split.
And then a question for you Ian on M&amp;A you've done an amazing job returning cash to shareholders which we've all strongly applauded.
But you also say that with respect to M&amp;A that you would always use share buybacks as the case to be but with your stock at a 12 to 13 multiple there really is no case to beat relative to a share buyback.
So I am wondering how you are thinking about M&amp;A going forward especially as it relates to the potential to split the Company into multiple parts that might require more growth drivers or M&amp;A activity? Thanks.
Thank you.
So on the BD issues we look at BD not as a strategy but as a way of creating shareholder value and strengthening cost of our franchises or portfolio.
We always try to analyze it sort of in the light of new capabilities or strengthening capabilities we already had.
We’ve tended to talk in terms of bolt-ons and you’d have to think that bolt-ons would be you’d easily consider single-digit in billions of bolt-ons for this company.
And we’ve also said we’ll look at any type of acquisition never say never to larger acquisitions that made sense.
Regarding when would we consider our share price to be at a level that BD would be more effective.
Well you know it depends on what deal we are looking at in BD how it’s priced and where our expectations are of our multiple is going in the next two to three years.
So I don’t know I can answer that in a hypothetical way but more in a look at each case by case.
We look at each deal.
We’re active in looking at deals.
We can pair to what we think the value of buybacks are and we take the decisions on a deal by deal basis.
Do you want to add anything to that Frank?  Yeah let me just add quickly to that and then I’ll answer the question about split versus spin which and Jamie when we look at deals remember in terms of the case to [BP] in buybacks it’s also over what timeframe.
So is it year one is it year two and then well how do we feel about the certainty of being able to achieve those EPS projections based on assumptions on synergies and the like.
So in my mind to Ian’s point it’s deal by deal situational and then over what timeframe do we see that being I’ll call it accretive relative to the buybacks.
And then the terms of the split versus the spin question and is there any difference in required financials the answer is no.
Both scenarios require three years of audited financials.
Thanks Frank.
Operator can we move to the next question please?  Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.
Hey guys.
Excuse me.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Maybe I can build on Jamie's question around use of cash I think in the past I've heard you say things like your priorities for cancer vaccines and also general practitioner drugs I wondered if you could clarify or confirm that and when you say you never say never do a larger deal maybe you could just expand on that is that just a theoretical statement or is that something that we should be thinking about as possible move for Pfizer? And then under the new structure have you decided will BD be centralized or each unit have independent BD M&amp;A functions within them? And then maybe just quick R&amp;D if I can do you expect the NGF antibody to return to clinical development? Thank you  Okay so you asked about BD by segment.
Clearly BD that builds on a capability it allows you to synergize your expense space is how easy they get done than BD when you're going to a totally new space.
So while we look at any good intellectual property that we could bring to patients and use our capabilities to bring to patients they're easy to get done if you've got some inherent synergies.
On a big deal all I would say is look we're focused on creating value for shareholders and you do the analysis and you look at the risk and you look at the uncertainties and you make your decisions as you go forward.
We've been up-till-date primarily focused on bolt-ons.
Frank do you want to talk about the BD? Certainly I would say part of the rationale for creating these goal businesses is that I now feel I can have management teams tasked on creating both organic and inorganic growth and they're obviously going to have close ties and working with our BD organization.
Frank do you want to add to that? Sure.
On the BD org structure question the way we approach this is the BD resources are centralized however there's matrix from a client support perspective.
So when you look at any of the businesses they'll have folks that are dedicated to them that literally from a business perspective are on their team.
Who they report to from my perspective is irrelevant.
We matrix this in such a way that their reporting is transparent.
They're living with those folks.
They're collocated with those folks.
They're working with those folks on a dedicated day-to-day basis.
That's how we do it quite frankly for just about all of our enabling functions.
John you want to add something? Yeah thanks for the question about tanezumab which is our NGF antibody.
Just sort of a quick update on that on the 19 of July this year we actually received notification from the FDA that the partial clinical hold for tanezumab has been lifted.
You may know that the partial clinical hold have been placed on the development of all the NGF inhibitors back in December 2012 based on observation and some animal tox studies conducting in NGF inhibitors in development through other manufacturers.
So there partial clinical hold was lifted on a commitment by Pfizer to submit non-clinical data before initiating dosing in clinical trials and thereafter limiting dosing duration until the additional non-clinical data has been submitted and reviewed by the FDA.
So those record at non-clinical data studies have already been started and with the lifting of the partial clinical hold and on the assumption of a positive review of the non-clinical data by the FDA we're preparing for resumption of Phase III clinical studies in 2014.
Thanks John.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning and thank you for taking the questions.
First on the R&amp;D and perhaps M&amp;A’s front either for Ian or Geno.
Could you comment on the extent to which cancer immunotherapy is a priority for you? And then for Frank you’ve obviously returned a lot of cash to shareholders in terms of buybacks but any thoughts on the dividend increase given your relatively low payout ratio? Thank you.
Mike do you want to take the R&amp;D question? So we have a broad effort in quality in immunology and we certainly have interest also in the cancer immunology area.
On one hand we some vaccines in the cancer immunology area that are starting to move into pre-clinical development but we also have some monoclonal antibodies.
Let me mention the 4-1BB or CD137 checkpoint activating antibody that we now have in Phase 1 study in hematological and solid tumors and are following with quite some interest that are antibody and other assets.
Thank you Mikael.
Frank do you want to…?  Dividend? Dividend.
Sure.
So let me just run the numbers on the dividend and then I’ll answer the question which is when we announced the Wyeth acquisition back in 2009 we cut the dividend in half from $1.28 to $0.64.
Since then we’ve increased the dividend 2009 to 2010 2010 to 2011 2011 to 2012 2012 to 2013 from $0.64 to $0.72 to $0.80 to $0.88 to $0.96.
12.5% 11% 10% and 9% dividend increases over the last four years.
Our cadence is always at our December Board meeting.
We typically – Ian and I make a recommendation to the Board relative to what we expect or what we want the dividend to be for the following year.
Once the Board approves that we come out with a release to let everyone know what the new dividend will be.
That’s what we are expecting to do this year.
And then in terms of just absolute dollar amounts at the current dividend level we’ll be paying more than $6 billion in cash to our shareholders this year.
So big number and you mentioned the payout ratio if you use the mid-point of our guidance and then use the $0.96 you get about 45% which is roughly in line with the industry maybe a couple of points below.
But we've been closing that gap over the last couple of years with our increases.
Thank you Frank.
Our next question please.
Your next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.
First is PCSK9 the subcu I think we are supposed to hear about that in mid-year just wondering an update there.
Second on Xeljanz I know you are working on a once daily version I was curious if you could update us there.
And then there were a couple of products in the U.S.
that were very strong Lyrica and Celebrex were their stocking that drove out or can you help us there? Thanks.
Okay Mikael do you want to talk about PCSK9 results and then Geno will talk about Xeljanz and John on Lyrica and Celebrex.
Yeah so thank you for the interest in PCSK9.
We do believe there will be a limited number of entrants in this new drug class.
We think it has potential to be a very important drug class with substantial clinical and commercial potential.
Key here will be to over time demonstrate important to see the outcome value for the patients physicians and payors.
Our own antibody is now fully enrolled in Phase IIb and we'll soon complete that study.
We have seen interim results showing potent antibody with a competitive profile and we will assemble all the data from the Phase IIb and look at opportunity for subcutaneous delivery at various time intervals and make a decision at end of this year about the next step forward.
Thank you Mikael.
With regard to the XELJANZ once-a-day program we do have a delayed release formulation that we’re moving forward with.
We’ve had dialogue with the FDA on the development plan and we have determined that the registration package will be comprised primarily of pharmacokinetic data PK data without a requirement for a clinical Phase 3 trial which will accelerate the development of that program.
So we expect to be filing by early 2015.
Mark with regard to your question about the operational performance of Lyrica and Celebrex essentially both products have seen strong operational growth in the quarter and year-to-date.
We haven’t seen any effect of stocking or changes in inventory levels in the marketplace.
In fact those have been very steady and really the performance that you’re seeing is really just a reflection of the combination of both price and volume in the U.S.
and a value proposition that continues to resonate very well with physicians.
Thanks John.
Next question please? Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Yes thanks very much.
I have three questions on the new business structure and then a pipeline question.
So first is it dilutive to create three business units and build the matrix and enabling functions? Second could you discuss breaking up the sales forces in emerging markets and implying them to the new segments? And then third regarding the three years of audited financials I’m assuming that’s to affect tax free exits but would you consider divesting one of the units for example established products before you have three years of audited financials or is that just not realistic given the necessity to ensure tax-free transactions.
And then for Mikael could you just tell us what the key pipeline disclosures are to watch through year-end including whether you’re going to provide any updates on your Breakthrough Therapy discussions with the FDA on Palbociclib.
Thank you.
So we don't believe this new structure will be dilutive to our present structure.
In fact we assume that there will be some modest savings as we go to that structure.
You have to remember we already have in the developed markets we already have a primary care a specialty care vaccines and oncology business and then we have an emerging markets business in the rest of the world and we are effectively collapsing most of the primary care and specialty business into one BU.
So we do not believe that those standing up to those BUs are going to be dilutive.
On the field force in the emerging markets it really depends country by country but if you take a country like China the vast majority of the field force will fit in the value business and we will have internal service agreements to provide field force support for the innovative products.
I do not see that at all as an operational issue it's something we've been doing for quite some time is sharing field forces between BUs.
I'd ask Frank to talk about the three-years and the possibility of divestiture prior to that and then we'll go to Mikael.
So on the tax-free question that you asked Dave way I’ve been I think about this is tax is aside we’ll need to follow – if we would ever do anything externally we haven’t decided we would need to follow registration statement those registration statements require three years of audited financials so that’s the way I think about that.
In terms of something prior to three-years of audited financials now our current thinking is this is all about getting these three businesses to hum internally top rates with excellence inside the Company and our current thinking is all around three-years of prospective financials that would be auditable.
So David thank you for your interest in our pipeline and I'm very excited about the pipeline both short-term and over the next couple of years.
With the focus on this year we already touched upon our phase 2b PCSK9 that will get data readout in – during this second half of the year.
Fairly as Ian has touched upon the two trials that we'll have a read out this year that will give us some first insights how Xeljanz is performing this new indication.
We also have I would like to say in psoriasis a topical study that now is running which I think is a very interesting further exploration of Tofacitinib.
You heard about Prevnar in adult that we are expecting to complete during the later part of this year.
Within the vaccines franchise we are also now in the finalization of our reports from staphylococcus aureus PUC trials that we will share during the latter part of this year.
I'm very encouraged by the profile I have seen so far when it comes to this unique technology that we are deploying for a very broad immune response to stop aureus.
In oncology we have the two dacomitinib trials for second third line and third line or fourth line that we expect to have data this year that we'll be probably shared early next year.
And you have heard earlier Geno’s comment on Palbociclib that we expect to have the final pieces of the data coming together this year and we have previously had very good dialogs with FDA on the breakthrough designation.
So we expect to continue a very close dialog and our guidance how to best use those data to the benefit of patients.
And on top of that in Phase II let me just point to couple of intriguing areas.
We have a best-in-class IL6 antibody and very long-acting antibody with a good potency and we expect read outs this fall in Lupus and late next year in Crohn's.
We have a read out in COPD related to a piece of data inhibitor.
We have our second biosimilar that have a readout this year Rituximab.
We have earlier communicated positive data from our first biosimilar product Herceptin.
And then we’re broadening our inflammation efforts to also involve the intersection of cardiovascular disease with a readout from a novel PDE5 inhibitor in chronic kidney disease.
So I do look forward to share with you the output from all of these studies in the next years to come.
Excellent.
Thank you Mikael.
Good comment our next question please? Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.
Inc.</strong> Thank you very much.
Some brief questions on the new structure if I may if we could back to the notion of business development and if we use an example say in established products with your partnership with the Brazilian company Teuto I believe there is an option to actually buy the entire company.
So the question is is that a decision by John Young and his Group.
They make a recommendation to you Ian and Frank and the Board how does that capital actually get allocated if that were to occur? The second question is around R&amp;D to the structures is 100 – this may seem silly but is the 100% of the R&amp;D allocated to these three structures and I say this because I might if they were split apart one could argue if all are should go in one of the innovative areas versus one of the others or not at all could be less then? And then similarly in the established products group with respect to R&amp;D allocation I could actually argue under the Pfizer umbrella there is very little R&amp;The but yet I suspect they were standalone if you look at Teva and Mylan as examples 6% of total 6.8% of total revenue is actually R&amp;D.
So I’m just trying to understand when we see this in January Frank how does it actually look if you could provide some additional granularity? Thanks again.
On Teuto what the global business units will do is they will be champions of projects and BD but we need to maximize the use of BD across the Pfizer portfolio.
So the decision is taken at the corporate level and the BU leaders have to champion the deals.
On the R&amp;D clearly there are parts of R&amp;D that are specific to the BUs and parts that are general infrastructure underneath it and I think we’ll work through that as we go.
I’ll ask Frank to comment on that.
So Tony let me provide a little more granularity and see if this is helpful which is – so before when I talked about direct expenses to the new businesses clearly the post-POC expenses that are in the business units today would continue to be in the business units tomorrow.
Then if you look at I’ll call it the pre-POC spend that we have that resides in Mikael's organization today and what we call WRD Worldwide Research and Development that doesn't get allocated to the business units today.
We're looking at how best to guide you all relative to that spend and that's the stuff that we're working our way through and we'll work our way through that through the year and obviously give you guys updates as we go but we are looking at how best to basically how best to communicate that to you all so that you can model this appropriately kind of point one.
Then you mentioned DP and if I could give you a little bit more direction the answer is of course I can.
If you look at the overall R&amp;D spend the value of business as a percentage of revenue will have a lower spend and innovative co-businesses as a percentage of revenue and once again and how we best direct and guide you all for next year is some of the sub-ledger detail that we're working our way through.
And Tony this is part of the one of the benefits I expect to get out of having global businesses with Presidents who are champions so the R&amp;D today that would probably go to establish a smaller type of R&amp;D that is safety registration regulatory some of biosimilars and then some work around special formulations and that type of work.
John's role will be to look at that and as you say compare it to what he needs to do it to drive growth and look at competitors in our Q4 capital allocation is appropriate into his R&amp;D and this is what the benefit you get out of this type of focus on businesses.
Thanks Ian.
Next question please? Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
Thank you.
First on Xeljanz the CHMP is seeking longer term safety data or is there a potentially rare and/or serious issue that they are requiring clarification upon? Secondly is CAPiTA's delay due to a lower than expected event rate or is it due to some other reason? And then thirdly on emerging markets may we anticipate high-single digit growth will return in 2014 and beyond or is this a business where mid-single digit growth is more likely? Thank you.
Geno? Yeah Steve so with regard to CHMP and XELJANZ obviously we’re somewhat disappointed at the outcome following what was really a positive scientific advisory group meeting and a positive view from the rapporteurs this time around.
Ultimately CHMP members at least some of the CHMP members a small majority wanted to see additional safety data and in particular wanted to understand kind of the full profile of Tofacitinib with a new mechanism of action relative to other agents that are used in this patient population.
So it's not entirely clear whether we’re looking for longer term data or a larger database.
As you know we continue to collect safety data.
We have long term extension trials.
We have registries.
We have a post-marketing study that we are kicking off from the U.S.
registration.
So we have multiple ways and then of course we have psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis programs.
We have a number of mechanisms to generate additional safety data and we’ll obviously continue to do that.
It’s not entirely clear at that moment what we’ll need to do achieve a registration.
We do anticipate we’ll need to do some additional clinical work and as Ian mentioned before we think this could require several years of delay in Europe.
So that’s the best way I can kind of characterize the situation there with the CHMP.
With regard to CAPiTA it’s difficult to predict what the event rate is going to be.
It is going to depend on various dynamics like the severity of the flu seasons the efficacy of the vaccine.
So if it’s a highly effective vaccine then the only cases that you’re accumulating are cases in the placebo growth.
So it’s difficult to predict and we becoming very close to the target number of events and hope to be able to present more clarity in the very near future.
And On EM we've always said that EM will be volatile.
And we'll see swings in quarter-on-quarter and even year-to-year.
I mean we'd all agree that secularly that’s where we are seeing the vast majority of volume growth that’s coming from in the foreseeable future as these economies continue to spend more on health care and the growth rate is going to fluctuate depending on how the volume is doing and what pricing pressures you are getting in the quarter.
And so I would say it's really too early to tell or to reset expectations for where we think long-term growth in the emerging markets are going to go and we'll look at in our 2014 guidance.
But overall we continue to be very bullish on the underlying demand for healthcare in emerging markets.
Thanks Jim.
Next question please operator.
Your next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi.
Yeah good afternoon.
Couple of questions first on the immunotherapy assays you mentioned Mikael the CD137 when do we get the first read out in NHL is that next year? And then same topic before you divested Tremelimumab to Astra you obtained some rights perhaps you could outline what invitation you have retained? And then separately for Ian one of your competitors is having very visible issues in China to what extent do you think that the ongoing investigations over fraud are going to impact pricing or demand in that market?.
Okay Mikael.
We're now running the Phase Ib studies here with our 4-1BB.
We think we'll have a real interest in antibody and we have seen some encouraging early signs of activity here.
I would expect as we finalized the Phase I studies here we will use conventional on-quality conferences to report outcome.
We also have behind it a couple of other antibodies such as OX40 and [Gitter].
So you should see it as second wave of checkpoint inhibitors trying to benefit from the early anti-cells around the PD-1 space but building on that and bringing the field further on.
Tremelimumab we did retain particularly rights to use it for vaccines and I shared with you some anti-cells about our cancer vaccine platform and I can inform you that it do include Tremelimumab as one of the options for adjuvant effect on cancer vaccine.
So that was a really good way for us to plan when we did that retention.
Thank you.
And on China I can't really comment on individual cases.
I would say what we've seen in China is that clearly as government focusses in spending more on healthcare.
They clearly want to be good buyers of value of pharmaceuticals so we'd expect to continue to have robust conversations and debates with them as we go forward as to the value of the innovation we bring.
I think you'll continue to see as they’ve been doing they do price reviews of segments of the market and they reset prices and normally volume responds to different price points.
So I think that will continue in China as we go forward.
Thanks you Ian.
Moving on next question please.
Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.
LLC</strong> Thanks very much.
Just a couple of questions here.
First can you talk a little bit about how you are going to be thinking about cost of goods and some of the overlapping dynamics there is this a situation where Pfizer might consider a co-bottling or [Lonza] type structure over time should the units be split out or how is that going to operate as we think about it? Separately can you also talk a little bit about Europe and infrastructure there relative to the overall industry's profitability one of your competitors commented on that and I think that might be particularly relevant as perhaps particularly relevant for Geno's business unit? And then finally as it relates to the emerging markets Ian you mentioned specifically that you see the emerging markets – some of the larger emerging markets starting to operate more similarly to the developed markets.
Can you just give us a little bit of a better sense in what regard that is is it on distribution reimbursement what is it specifically and are we talking about more similar to the U.S.
or more similar to Europe? Thank you.
So on the cost of goods about in terms of absorption 50% of our plans are absorbed through the value business and 50% are absorbed through the innovative business.
There are a limited number of plans that are specific to one business or the other.
So I would expect that internally simply a cross supply issue between the plans and if there was anything ever externally done I think this is easily handled by supply agreements.
Today Pfizer purchases about 30% of its requirements from external suppliers.
So this is easily handled in the ordinary course of business.
The next question was Europe and infrastructure look the pricing squeeze that Europe has applied to the industry over the last few years which has accelerated from low-single digits to mid-single digits is of course pushing companies to look at what their infrastructure is how they deliver the educational messages decisions and their investment in general part of our restructuring into the innovative one innovative two and the value business a response of that in the set we effectively are merging our primary care and our specialty BU into one.
So I expect in Europe you'll continue to see pharmaceutical companies look for more cost efficient ways to deliver their message to physicians.
And on the EM issue I think if you look at Turkey you can see Turkey has gone to a full reimbursement model more like Europe this out of pocket has now become less important in Turkey.
The government is more influential so they tend to be more dominant in the way they make acquisitions of pharmaceuticals and their pricing requests.
In sophistication I talk really about the way the markets have been regulated in terms of compliance in terms of the rules that are similar in Europe and the U.S.
so I just see these markets evolving and also you're beginning to see more commonality and the requirements they ask for registration and that's really the sense of my comment about their evolving to looking more like mature markets.
Thanks Ian.
And Operator if we could please take our last question? Your final question comes from Damien Conover from Morningstar.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just had a question on the restructuring.
Wanted to see how products would flow from the innovative pieces to the value piece post-2014 and whether or not there’d be any precedent set up for any sort of transfer of value that could be used if the entity is actually fully separated.
And then second question on the break up was just a question on the consumer health business and if I remember correctly one of the driving reasons to have that business within the Pfizer umbrella is to help with any sort of RX to OTC switches and given that it’s going in the vaccine and oncology bucket I still wanted to know if that RX to OTC switch was still a major driving force behind that business underneath the Pfizer umbrella? Thank you.
Thank you Damien.
So I think the movement of products between the businesses will continue as they have been in the last three years as products that are innovative one [go whether] we will move them over to the value business and they’ll be managed that way.
Any hypothetical situation where there was – the two businesses weren’t in the same corporate shell then you would make your decisions based on what’s the best way to continue to commercialize those products at a later date but that’s really very early to speculate on.
And then Amy would you like to take the consumer.
With respect to the Type 1 that we have for RX to OTC switches we continue to see feel very comfortable with the pipeline.
It’s robust and assuming regulatory approval we’ll proceed with the [DEXIN] launch in 2014 and then we have a number of other promising molecules in the pipeline some of which we talked about previously.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Amy.
And thank you everybody for your attention this morning.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Pfizer’s second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer’s Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer’s third quarter 2013 performance.
I’m joined today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D’Amelio our CFO; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Geno Germano President and General Manager of Specialty Care and Oncology; Amy Schulman General Counsel and Business Unit Lead for our Consumer Business; and John Young President and General Manager of Primary Care.
The slide that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Third Quarter 2013 located in the Investor Presentations section at the lower right hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer’s 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
The discussions during this call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer’s current report on Form 8-K dated today October 29 2013.
With that I’ll now turn call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck.
I’ll begin with some comments on the quarter.
Overall we delivered good operational performance generated solid financial results and continued to see steady progress with many of our in-line products and pipeline assets.
Operationally revenues for the Oncology business grew 26% due to the continued strong performance of new products primarily Inlyta and Xalkori.
We also had another strong quarter operationally from Lyrica which grew 11%; and from Celebrex which grew 13%.
Despite macroeconomic and other factors the emerging markets business grew 5% operationally primarily due to volume growth for key products in the Primary Care area such as Lipitor Norvasc Lyrica and Celebrex especially in China.
We still anticipate achieving mid single-digit growth in emerging markets for the year.
Turning to an update on our recently launched and approved products and pipeline assets.
Earlier this month we received FDA approval of Duavee our novel combination therapy for the treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause and the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis and we anticipate launching this product in the U.S.
during the first quarter of next year.
We and our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb continue to focus on improving the performance and physician uptake for Eliquis.
In the U.S.
we have seen positive momentum in the week-over-week growth in total prescriptions and in late September we launched our direct-to-consumer television advertising campaign.
Eliquis also has been launched for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation and several additional markets including Australia Spain and Canada where reimbursement has been established.
We also see potential expansion opportunities for Eliquis with additional indications.
With Bristol-Myers we’ve submitted an sNDA in the U.S.
for VTE prevention in patients undergoing orthopedic surgery.
Turning to Xeljanz.
We are pleased with the progress of the launch in the U.S.
and various other markets which continues to be in line with our expectations particularly in the context of being part of a large but slow growth segment within the anti-TNF market.
We are seeing a steady increase in prescriptions.
Comparing the third quarter with the second quarter this year we saw a 53% sequential growth in total prescription volume in the U.S.
Overall the physician’s feedback on Xeljanz has been very positive.
Satisfaction amongst users is high.
In fact nearly 3 000 healthcare providers have prescribed Xeljanz and over 75% have been repeat prescribers.
We know that before prescribing rheumatologists want to have a deep knowledge and confidence in Xeljanz’s safety profile and clinical experience particularly given it is a first-in-class product.
To-date the vast majority of physicians have reacted favorably to Xeljanz’s clinical profile and we are focusing our efforts on continuing to educate physicians on Xeljanz’s clinical data.
We also have several Phase 3 programs underway for Xeljanz.
The Phase 3 program in psoriasis is progressing and is one of the largest global clinical trial programs in moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis to-date.
There are five studies in the program.
Earlier this month we announced the top line results from the first two studies which provided information consistent with our expectations based on the Phase 2 data for psoriasis.
The other three studies in the Phase 3 psoriasis program include two pivotal studies and a long-term extension study.
We anticipate top line results for the pivotal trials in the second quarter of 2014 and will issue a top line data release after we’ve received and reviewed the results.
We have initiated a Phase 3 program to evaluate Xeljanz for the treatment of patients with active psoriatic arthritis which includes two pivotal trials that evaluate the safety and efficacy of Xeljanz and one long-term extension study.
The first data from these trials is anticipated in 2015 and we continue to study Xeljanz for other important inflammatory diseases with several Phase 2 and Phase 3 programs ongoing.
This includes a Phase 3 program in ulcerative colitis and a Phase 2 program in Crohn's disease ankylosing spondylitis and a topical formulation for psoriasis.
We are also moving forward with once-a-day modified release program for Xeljanz in RA.
The FDA recently agreed that a Phase 3 study is not necessary for the once-a-day dose and we plan to file a new drug application with the FDA in 2015.
Beyond the Xeljanz and Eliquis Phase 3 programs we have or will be initiating several Phase 3 studies and will be reporting on clinical trial data results from our primary care vaccines and oncology portfolios.
I continue to be pleased with the steps we have taken and the progress we are making towards improving our R&amp;D performance.
Looking at the primary care pipeline there are several promising candidates.
This month we’re initiating a Phase 3 program for bococizumab the proposed generic name for RN316 our PCSK9 monoclonal antibody to lower LDL cholesterol.
This is a global program that includes multiple lipid-lowering studies as well as two cardiovascular outcome studies in more than 22 000 patients.
Compared to the PCSK9 inhibitor Phase 3 cardiovascular outcome trials being conducted by our competitors only our bococizumab Phase 3 program includes a dedicated cardiovascular outcome study in patients who cannot achieve LDL levels lower than 100 mg per dL despite the use of statins.
This is a very high risk patient population with significant unmet need who represents a tremendous cost to our healthcare system.
Our second Phase 3 outcomes trial will address whether driving LDL cholesterols to levels well below current guideline recommended targets will lead to a further reduction in cardiovascular events.
Importantly compared to other programs our Phase 3 program includes the broadest range of risk – of high-risk patients and need of improved cholesterol management.
We are currently completing the final analysis of the datasets of our completed Phase 2b study and plan to submit the results of presentation at the American College of Cardiology Meeting in March 2014.
We are planning to continue development of tanezumab for the treatment of osteoarthritis chronic low back pain and cancer pain.
We have just entered into a collaboration agreement with Eli Lilly &amp; Company to jointly develop and globally commercialize tanezumab which provides that in addition to certain potential milestone payments to Pfizer.
Pfizer and Lilly will equally share product development expenses and potential revenues and certain product-related costs.
The tanezumab program is currently subject to a partial clinical hold by the FDA pending submission of non-clinical data to the FDA which we anticipate submitting in the first half of 2014.
In addition we are initiating a Phase 3 program with our partner Merck for ertugliflozin our SGL2 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
Turning to vaccines we expect to have data read-outs in three disease areas; pneumococcal pneumonia in adults meningitis B and Staph aureus.
For pneumococcal pneumonia the case accrual in the CAPiTA trial involving Prevenar 13 adult has been completed.
The processing of the cases will take several months to complete and we have not yet seen the data.
We expect the read-out of the top line results early in 2014.
For meningitis B we anticipate sharing results of the Phase 2 study data in adolescents and young adults who are the major carriers of this disease at a key Medical Congress in the first half of 2014.
Of note our vaccine contains two protein components which elicit a broad immune response against the majority of meningitis B vaccine strains in these immunized individuals.
We are encouraged by the efficacy and tolerability data we have seen to-date and have already initiated a pivotal Phase 3 clinical development program that includes Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials that will include more than 20 000 participants.
If trial enrollment and recruiting goes as planned data from this program are expected in the next several years.
For Staph aureus we recently concluded a Phase 2a study which showed encouraging signals that our vaccine elicits positive immune response.
The next step is to move into a Phase 2b study in surgical patients.
We anticipate sharing results from the Phase 2a study in the first half of 2014 at a key medical congress.
In oncology we also anticipate several readouts in 2014.
In breast cancer we expect the final efficacy and safety data from the Phase 2 palbociclib study to readout in early 2014 to be presented at ASCO in June 2014 or at another congress next year.
We have initiated two Phase 3 studies of palbociclib.
One study mimics the trial design of the Phase 2 study in patients with postmenopausal ER-positive HER2 negative advanced breast cancer which has a planned enrollment of 450 patients.
The other study is in patients with hormone receptor positives HR-positive and HER2 negative advanced recurrent breast cancer.
It compares fulvestrant plus palbociclib to fulvestrant plus placebo.
In addition we expect to start a Phase 3 study for palbociclib in the next few months in early breast cancer for high risk patients with neo-adjuvant treatment.
For non-small cell lung cancer we are expecting top line results from two Phase 3 studies of dacomitinib in the early part of next year.
We have five programs in various stages to develop biosimilars to innovate – of innovative products.
Our development program includes biosimilars for Herceptin which is scheduled to start Phase 3 within the next few months.
In addition we have a biosimilar development program for Rituxan and Remicade and Humira that are scheduled for Phase 3 to start next year and our biosimilar for Avastin will begin Phase 1 next year.
The ongoing R&amp;D investment level to support our late stage pipeline opportunities is warranted by the significant revenue potential associated with these programs and we expect that as these programs further progress some incremental R&amp;D investment will be necessary.
That said we will balance this need with overall shareholder return and we will continue to be opportunistic regarding additional internal and externally sourced compounds that can further enhance our research pipeline.
I will close with a few words about new commercial structure we’ve announced last quarter.
We have been aligning talent asset and individual reporting system to support our new operating structure.
We remain on track for commencing operations in the new structure at the start of 2014 and for providing a 2014 baseline management view of profit and loss for each business starting with our financial results for the first quarter of 2014.
In summary I believe we are making steady progress across the business by enhancing the quality of the pipeline demonstrating fiscal discipline on how we deploy our capital and executing on our business plans in order to drive greater value for our shareholders.
Now I’ll turn it over to Frank to take you through the details of the quarter.
Thanks Ian.
Good day everyone.
I want to remind everybody that as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24 of this year the financial results of the Animal Health business are reported as a discontinued operation in condensed consolidated statements of income for year-to-date 2013 and third quarter and year-to-date 2012.
As always the charts I’m reviewing today are included in our webcast.
Now let’s move on to the financials.
Third quarter 2013 reported revenues of approximately $12.6 billion decreased 2% year-over-year reflecting a 2% negative impact from foreign exchange.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange revenues decreased operationally by $38 million or less than 1% primarily due to the negative impact of the continued erosion of branded Lipitor in the U.S.
developed Europe and certain other markets.
the ongoing expiration of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries a decrease in government purchases of Prevnar and Enbrel in certain emerging markets and the loss of exclusivity of certain other products including Lyrica in Canada February 2013 and Viagra in most major markets in Europe in June of 2013.
These were partially offset by the growth of certain in-line products including Lyrica Enbrel Inlyta and Xalkori globally and Celebrex and Xeljanz in the U.S.
I want to point out that reported revenues also included $67 million from transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis which are expected to continue for approximately two years.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.58 increased 16% primarily due to the aggregate decrease and adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses of $341 million or 5% due to the benefit of our ongoing cost reduction and productivity initiatives the non-recurrence of the $250 million payment in the year-ago quarter for the acquisition of the exclusive over-the-counter rights to Nexium which was included in R&amp;D expenses as well as the favorable impact of foreign exchange on these items of $166 million or 2%.
These were partially offset by higher SI&amp;A spending to support new product launches.
In addition there were fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding due to our ongoing share repurchase program and the first full quarter impact of the Zoetis exchange offer which also favorably impacted adjusted diluted EPS.
Reported diluted EPS was $0.39 versus $0.43 in the year-ago quarter and favorably impacted primarily by lower legal charges lower acquisition related and other cost and fewer shares outstanding which were more than offset by the loss of exclusivity of certain products lower income from discontinued operations and the higher effective tax rate.
During the third quarter biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets increased 2% operationally driven primarily by strong volume growth in China especially for Lipitor.
In these BRIC-MT markets volume growth of 3% was partially offset by price reductions of 1%.
Revenue from all emerging markets increased 5% operationally in the third quarter.
If you exclude the portfolio of products whose rights were transferred to our joint venture in China with Hisun in the third quarter we would have had operational revenue growth compared to the third quarter of 2012 of 6% in our emerging markets business 4% in the BRIC-MT markets and 16% in China.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted third quarter adjusted revenues by 2% or $271 million and had a positive impact of 2% or $166 million on the aggregate of adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted third quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01 compared to year-ago quarter.
Now moving onto our 2013 financial guidance based on our year-to-date performance and outlook for the remainder of the year we are narrowing the ranges for certain components of our full-year 2013 financial guidance.
We are narrowing the reported revenue range to $50.8 billion to $51.8 billion from $50.8 billion to $52.8 billion.
I want to remind everyone that beginning on November 1 2013 we enter into the 36-month sunset period and the collaboration agreement with Amgen for Enbrel in the U.S.
and Canada.
During this period we expected our share of the Enbrel collaboration which is high margin because there is no associated cost of good sold will decline significantly.
In addition going forward the recognition of profits from the Enbrel collaboration will shift from alliance revenue to other income as we move to a royalty structure.
Furthermore these royalty payments will be much less than our current level of Enbrel profits.
Outside of the U.S.
and Canada however our exclusive rights of Enbrel will continue in perpetuity.
I also want to point out that our Spiriva collaboration which is also recorded in Alliance revenue will continue to wind down during the fourth quarter 2013 and 2014 most notably to the U.S.
and Canada.
Currently the majority of Alliance revenue is composed of Enbrel in the U.S and Canada as well as Spiriva.
Moving onto adjusted cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenues we are narrowing this range to 18% to 18.5%.
We are narrowing our adjusted SI&amp;A expense range to $14.2 billion to $14.7 billion while continuing to absorb launch cost and support of new products.
We are narrowing our R&amp;D guidance range from $6.3 billion to $6.6 billion which will support our high potential late-stage pipeline opportunities.
We now expect other deductions to be approximately $400 million and continue to expect the effective tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 28%.
We are narrowing and lowering the reported diluted EPS range to $3.05 to $3.15 and we are narrowing our adjusted diluted EPS range to $2.15 to $2.20 from $2.10 to $2.20.
Now moving onto key takeaways third quarter results continue to reflect the loss of exclusivity of certain products in various geographies as well as the ongoing volatility in emerging markets.
We continue to expect full-year operational revenue growth in our emerging markets business to be in the mid single-digit percentage range.
In addition we continue to mitigate the earnings impact of product LOEs with both expense discipline and share repurchases.
We narrowed the ranges for certain components of our adjusted financial guidance.
Our recently launched products are progressing at a measured and steady pace.
We are advancing initiatives internally so that we will implement our new commercial structure at the start of 2014.
We remain excited about our high potential late-stage pipeline assets and expect to allocate R&amp;D investments to support their advancement beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 or early 2014.
Finally we continue to create shareholder value through the prudent allocation of our capital.
To-date in 2013 we have repurchased approximately $13.1 billion or approximately 462.1 million shares.
We continue to expect to repurchase in the mid-teens of billions of dollars of our common stock this year.
As a result we expect to return more than $20 billion to our shareholders this year between buybacks and dividends.
In addition we expect the first quarter 2014 dividend level to be set by our Board of Directors during our December Board Meeting and finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2013 and beyond.
Now I’ll turn it back to Chuck.
Thank you Frank.
And operator please if we could now poll for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Bank of America.
Thanks a lot.
To the extent that there are a couple of other PCSK9s out there can you talk about what you needed to see in Phase 2 to make this large investment and potentially how your product is differentiated beyond the clinical trial differences you highlighted? And secondly Ian curious how you think the collaboration in Japan is going with Mylan and whether you think that could be a good model in other places or more broadly? Thanks.
Thank you Gregg.
Well clearly we’ve seen in the Phase 2 data sufficient quality of data to encourage us to enter into Phase 3 and believe we have a highly competitive product.
So I’d ask John Young to give more details on that and also discuss the Mylan collaboration.
Okay.
Thanks Gregg.
So let me take PCSK9 or bococizumab.
First of all we think we actually have a great antibody which came out of our Rinat Labs in San Francisco.
And I think in addition to having excellent substrate to take into clinical development we also believe that we’ve been able to put together a differentiator or potentially differentiated clinical program.
So our program will be the only program investigating both high-risk primary and secondary prevention populations.
And when we begin to look at the program in more detail it includes a dedicated CV outcome study in patients who can’t achieve LDL levels lower than 100 milligrams per deciliter despite the use of statins.
It’s a very high-risk patient population with a lot of unmet clinical need.
And those patients as you heard from Ian really do represent tremendous cost to the healthcare system so a positive outcome in that population we believe will be very significant and we also combined in our program a second Phase 3 outcomes trial that will address whether driving LDL levels to well below current guideline recommended targets will lead to further reduction in cardiovascular events.
And I think lastly the point to make is that importantly compared to other programs our Phase 3 program includes the broadest range of high-risk patients in need of improved cholesterol management.
And as I said uniquely it includes both high-risk primary and secondary prevention patients.
So overall we believe that the combination of good basic substrate and the antibody combined with a clinical program that we believe has the potential to demonstrate real differentiation across patient populations with significant unmet need that will enable us to bring a very competitive profile into what is clearly potentially a very attractive and promising marketplace.
In terms of Mylan we continue to make positive progress with Mylan in Japan.
the collaboration is on track.
currently we are selling around about 250 products from the combined company’s generic portfolios.
The transition integration of all 200 Mylan succondees to the Pfizer organization has been completed and we’ve completed the launch of the collaboration’s first generic pipeline products in June based on initial performance all nine products are forecasted to meet or exceed our full-year plans.
So I think let me just finish on Mylan and say that we’re extremely pleased with the progress that we’ve made and we’re going to look to maintain that momentum into 2014.
Thank you John.
I’d add that we’re also very comfortable and pleased with the quality of partnership with Mylan so… Okay thank you.
next question please operator.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
This is either for Ian or John.
I’m just wondering if you could talk about how you plan to monetize the value business just how do you see this business growing what are the opportunities on the table that will help to unlock value? And are one of those opportunities to sell the business and if so is there a time limit? Do you have to wait a certain amount of time I know that you’ve talked about the other businesses if you were to spin them out you have to wait three years but is there is a similar limit if you were going to sell this business would you sell part of it? And also if you were to sell it would you be willing to accept someone else’s stock in exchange for it? And then just a follow-up question on PCSK9 your competitors are not planning on getting – I don’t believe they need outcomes trials to gain FDA approval do you feel that you need these outcomes trials for approval or is this just to broaden your label and for further differentiation? Thanks.
Well Jami.
Thank you for those questions.
On PCSK9 I’ll ask John to comment on that first but I think the issue is in this marketplace we – our trials are constructed so as to be able to demonstrate value to society and payors.
John do you want to add anything more to that? Yes.
I think in terms of the program as I’ve already said we believe we’ve put together a really robust and potentially differentiated program.
Clearly we know that LDL-C is a very well established surrogate for cardiovascular risk but certainly we knew from dialogue and discussion we’ve had with the FDA that it’s conceivable that regulators may require demonstration of a beneficial effect on CV events before approving a new class of agents such as PCSK9 inhibitors.
At a minimum robust LDL-C lowering along with a comprehensive long-term safety database will likely be required for initial approval of bococizumab and potentially with our medicines in the class as well.
And the bococizumab Phase 3 program is designed to address the potential for regulatory authorities to require in addition to LDL-C lowering a robust long-term clinical safety database and cardiovascular outcomes data for approval.
Mikael if you want to add anything vis-à-vis the development of PCSK9 from the technical point of view? Yes.
we have put in a lot of technical capabilities how to develop antibodies with the most potent and biopharmaceutically appropriate characteristics and when you look at the class I think you can see emerging data suggesting some of the antibodies being very potent and some being intermediate.
And as Ian alluded to we were very encouraged by the potent effect of our antibody in Phase 2 and its really robust LDL lowering tolerability and low frequency of anti-drug antibody? Thank you.
And Jami on your questions on the value where we call it established products business unit right now we are focused on setting up the new organization model where we have two innovative businesses and one established business.
You know we’re doing that because we firmly believe those businesses have different characteristics and we want management uniquely focused on maximizing the growth opportunities of those businesses.
So John who is running that part of the business will clearly be looking at how to maximize the growth in the emerging markets how to maximize our supply chain advantages in the developed markets what growth opportunities there are in sterile injectables either organically or inorganically are there other BD activities that could be undertaken in that business such as 505(b) filings.
And frankly it’s simply too early to speculate on the future developments of those business.
Right now as an organization we are focused on getting them up and running the management up in running in place looking at all of the different growth opportunities I just discussed looking at supply chain there are and once those businesses are up and running and once there is transparency then we’ll see how the market evaluates some of the parts of those businesses.
Great thank you Ian.
Operator please next question.
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Great thanks very much just following up on that Ian how long do you think are you going to want to see these three business units running separately before you will be comfortable and in a position to evaluate and make that decision on the next steps for Pfizer with regards to the strategic alternatives for your portfolio of businesses? Is that something that’s going to take a year or is that something longer? I guess I am kind of thinking that as we -- next year is about setting them up.
As you go out into 2015 is that a timeframe where it’s reasonable to think about decision on some of these? The second question I had similarly a follow-up on Jami’s question if you were to decide that the value core was something that made sense to separate from Pfizer are there structures so it will allow you to do that prior to 2017 if that’s the right decision or is that something that’s unreasonable to think about from a timing perspective.
Just trying to get some clarity on the timing if in fact you went that direction with the business? Thanks very much.
Thank you Chris.
I don’t have a fixed timeline in my mind.
Right now we are really focused on the operational aspect and let’s see the value these businesses will come from their exclusive execution and management making them valuable by focusing on growth.
And as that occurs we’ll evaluate our options in a timely manner.
And I will ask Frank to comment on actual mechanics and -- of any type of transaction with… Sure.
So Chris the way to think about this is I’ll call it public transactions versus private transactions.
In a public transaction three years of audited financials are required.
So think about three years for perspective we have audited financials.
In a private transaction sale of a partial business of an entire business or some sort of a joint venture and anything like that it depends on a significance test.
And there is three elements to the significance test there is an asset test an income test and an investment test.
And what really drives the requirement there for audited financials is based on the size of the acquirer and then the income the assets and the investment of what’s being acquired compared to the acquirer’s income investments and assets.
And that can range anywhere from zero in terms of audited financials up to three years.
So that's really what will drive the audited financial requirements but once again to punctuate what Ian said what we are all about doing is getting these businesses to operationally hum and execute with excellence.
Alright.
Thank you Frank.
Thanks Frank our next question please.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford C.
Bernstein.
Thank you.
Two questions please if I could just go back to the split up.
Can you better characterize the possibility that Pfizer does not split itself up in the complete sense of a word you previously alluded to the idea that if a market appropriately revalues Pfizer once they better appreciate the financials for those different divisions that perhaps at full split up would not be necessary.
So my question is is it reasonably possible that you don’t fully split up.
And then on palbociclib when might we start to see data in non-breast cancers it seems like you should either have data in hand already or you should very closely have it in hand on tumor types in the blood cancer area in colorectal and then lung.
And can you say so far that you haven’t had any failures in any of these other tumor types.
Thank you Tim.
Well this issue of split is totally dictated by what our view will be on how to maximize shareholder value at the appropriate time.
So when these businesses are operating when there is transparency for analysts when they have had time to establish track record then we will look at that and we will make decisions based on how best to maximize the value to shareholders irrespective of size or composition or structure of residual companies because this management team is focused on producing shareholder value and that’s how we’ll take the decision and I don’t really think I can add anything more than that of than to say that our guiding star is how to create shareholder value.
Geno would you like to talk about palbo? Sure.
So Tim let me just comment that our highest priority is to efficiently advance our breast cancer program right now at palbociclib as Ian mentioned we've initiated two of the Phase 3 trials we’ll initiate another Phase 3 trial in breast cancer this year.
And frankly we are looking at other breast cancer populations to explore further as well.
We are firmly in the lead here and we really excited about the data and this is our highest priority and notwithstanding that statement we are exploring the use palbo and a number of other tumor types as said including melanoma and lung cancer et cetera these are primarily Phase 1 level studies and we are not reporting any data at this point.
Thank you Geno.
Thanks Geno.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.
Hey.
Thank you very much for taking my question.
If I could turn back to PCSK9 if I may might you help us out with the timeline for the completion of the outcomes trials and let us know if there are opportunities in those trials for early stoppage based on interim results? And then could you also tell us what the dosing is that’s being used in the trial is it once-a-month twice-a-month et cetera? And then CAPiTA if I might could you just walk us through the steps that need to occur after you see the CAPiTA data to ensure that sales pick up? I know you have to wait for certain recommendations certain buyers I wondered if you could just walk us through that? And is there a scenario where that trial misses statistical significance on its primary endpoint Mikael but the trends are robust enough that you could still see a recommendation come out of the relevant bodies or do you really think you need to show statistical significance? Sorry for my long-winded question.
Thank you.
So John if you can talk a little bit about PCSK9 again? Okay.
And then we’ll hand it over to I think Geno for the commentary on the CAPiTA.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
So obviously it’s fair to say that all of the PCSK9 programs are in relatively early stages of their clinical development.
And as I mentioned and answered to an earlier question one of the things that all of the programs including ours will have to be determined as the data sets as they emerge and what will be required for approval not something it will continue to have dialogue with the agency about it.
So I think it’s really premature to determine if there is any interim read-out of data that would lead to an earlier approval either a lipid-lowering indication or of the outcome indication.
Mark can you remind me of the second part of your question? Dosing.
In terms of dosing okay so the dosing schedule that we are taking into our clinical program is a twice a month dosing schedule.
So I would say you heard already from Mikael we will be presenting the results of our Phase 2b study early next year and from the analysis that we’ve done of that data so far – it’s incomplete at this point.
But certainly we believe that that twice-a-month dosing schedule actually provides really the optimal consistent cholesterol lowering right across the dosage interval in order to maintain the optimal clinical effect and ideally the optimal clinical outcomes.
So we feel really positive about the twice-a-month dosing schedule being the optimal dosing schedule for bococizumab.
That being said Mikael do you want to add on something about – some technology that we are excited about that? Yes just based on excellent way in which John described our PCSK9 clinical strategy.
It’s a really well-behaving antibody and just twice monthly administration schedule is the logical on next step as John described.
However we think that as part of a potential lifecycle management strategy there are opportunities to also explore once monthly schedule that may include the use of technology such as Halozyme technology for which we have a exclusive license within the PCSK9 class.
And we are now performing early test on the suitability of that technology to extend half-life and also lower the volume that you need to inject.
The antibody itself at high dose has the potential for once a month but we would rather see a technology like this to give a really convenient opportunity.
So as you can see as we go forward with twice months we have a lifecycle management potential to offer additional regimens.
Thank you Mikael and Geno CAPiTA.
Sure so with regard to the steps for CAPiTA as we’ve indicated we’ve completed accumulation of a required the number of events we are in the process now of finalizing the analysis of those events in completing the data management associated with creating our top line results and we are at the same time in discussions with the CDC and now the ACIP and pneumococcal working group to ensure they are understanding of the protocol and the potential outcomes so that when we have the data they can move on the data rapidly.
So we are in ongoing discussions with them and this is obviously in the United States.
So when the data is available the working group will be exposed to the data and we will come – will do their - the grading process and prepare for bringing those data and their assessment to the formal ACIP Committee.
And the ACIP Committee meets three times a year in February and June and in October its unlikely that will have data available for the February meeting but we are targeting the June meeting it could occur in June or it could occur in October.
So that’s the U.S.
situation ex-U.S.
in most cases we don’t have the pneumonia indication in most ex-U.S.
markets therefore the CAPiTA trial results will from the basis for the pneumonia indication and we will file those applications and depending upon the review times we would expect to see the pneumonia indication up here in the 12 month to 14 month timeframe beyond those filings.
So hopefully that gives you some sense of the steps and the timing associated with CAPiTA.
With regard to the outcomes there are multiple endpoints including vaccine type non-bacteremic pneumonia and vaccine type all-cause pneumonia or vaccine type pneumonia and invasive pneumococcal disease.
So there are a number of different scenarios you can play out depending upon the outcomes.
Obviously we’re targeting the most favorable outcome which would be demonstration of effect positive effect on prevention of vaccine type non-bacteremic pneumonia.
Thanks Geno.
Moving on to the next question please.
Your next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.
Yes couple of things.
First can you help us quantify the impact of these government purchases Prevnar and Enbrel and the lumpiness there and how that’s going to impact the next quarter? Second in China I mean it looks like the growth continues very strongly there.
I mean why are you not having the problems that some of the other players are having there? Can you just talk about the dynamics or may be it is impacting you and the growth would have been even better? And then Geno may be you can just talk about some of the dynamics of the new oncology drugs that have launched and what’s happening there and how those ramps are going? Thanks.
So thank you Marc.
If I understood the question you would like to understand some of the seasonality or lump seasonality or lumpiness in government purchases of Enbrel and Prevnar.
So perhaps if John can talk about that in the emerging markets and then deal with China.
And then Geno if you will talk to Prevenar in the..
The oncology and product.
in the oncology product.
In light as are going forward.
Thank you.
All right thanks Marc.
Clearly there is some volatility.
I think if you heard that the emerging markets while they clearly represent overall significant continued opportunities for growth but we do see quarter-on-quarter volatility as you know and particularly it is in the area of government tenders.
So without going into all the details but to give you sort of sense some of the moving pieces with Prevnar our IP shipments in Turkey this year for example we certainly have seen a fall in sales in Turkey this year we had NIP sales last year we haven’t seen those year-to-date.
In Brazil we’ve seen a decreased institutional purchases for Enbrel and also for Prevnar and the AFME or Africa Middle East region.
Enbrel in Brazil shows about a 2% decline this quarter and a 12% decline year-to-date just to give you a sense of the rhythm of the business in Brazil.
And I think overall obviously the emerging markets represent half history of markets running the world but I think the sort of high level sort of message is as we have always seen and will see some quarter-on-quarter volatility particularly in the area of institutional purchases.
But overall the performance the underlying performance of the business in the emerging markets for both Enbrel and Prevnar in 2013 remains very positive but we have seen in those markets and calling Brazil and Turkey particularly some volatility over the third quarter.
In China we continue to operate as we have always operated we are globally we operate with a heightened sense in the strict sense of our compliance obligations I don't believe our business in China is being particularly affected by anything other than just the macro economic situations that are occurring in emerging markets.
The growth has slowed up somewhat in China compared to the previous year but continues to be robust and we continue to expect our Chinese business to perform well.
Yes just Marc a couple of comments on Inlyta and Xalkori which we are really pleased with the progress that’s been made there for the quarter for Inlyta we did 83 million which is about 200% above what we did last year same quarter and a double-digit increase over our prior quarter about half of that's in the U.S.
where we grew by about 50% relative to last year.
So we see a nice continued fairly robust uptake of Inlyta physicians are really pleased with this product patients are responding well.
We have about a 30% share second line in the U.S.
and about a 35% of share of second line in Japan.
So we are doing well we think in many cases as future growth has come from expansion of use beyond academic medical centers and with oncologists sort of very familiar with the drug.
And we think there is good opportunity for further growth there.
Xalkori also is becoming a great product $73 million for the quarter up about 25% from last year and about 10% from the previous quarter.
The trick there is the same story; we need to get the diagnostic in full use.
We are about 66% in the U.S.
and a little bit less in Europe and Japan.
So we'll continue to work on that and continue to identify the appropriate patient and grow that business.
Thanks Geno.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink Swann.
Seamus we can hear you.
Sorry can you hear me? Yes we can hear you fine.
Okay great.
So just first off on the potential moves as you know between now and 2017 how should we be thinking about the prospects.
I know that there is a group at Pfizer that’s I believe constantly looking at opportunities to do incremental separations.
Do you see that as a possibility is that something that Pfizer is consistently looking at between now and 2016 and do you see opportunities for value creation there I guess that’s more question for Ian.
And then separately on tanezumab can you just update us again on where we stand with the anti-NGF scientifically the move forward in osteoarthritis chronic low back pain and cancer pain and again how we should think about the potential changes in the development path as you partner with Eli Lilly? Thanks.
So we have set up the organizational construct because we believe that is the best way to focus and maximize the different parts of our business as each segment represents my opinion in different models.
It also gives us a lot of optionality going forward as we look at ways of creating shareholder value.
So going back to your question we’re always looking of ways of maximizing shareholder value and I think this contract gives us the maximum optionality and ability to look at different ways of creating that value and we will take those decisions at the appropriate time as the opportunities mature.
So with that I’ll ask John to talk about tanezumab.
Okay.
Thanks Seamus.
So just to give you an update I think as you know in December 2012 the FDA placed a partial clinical hold on the development of NGF inhibitors including tanezumab and that partial clinical hold was unrelated to the prior hold that related to bone and joint related safety.
And that was based – the latest clinical hold was based on peripheral nervous system effects observed in animal studies conducted with NGF inhibitors by other manufacturers.
In April this year we reached an agreement with the FDA on the path forward removal of that partial clinical hold and to answer the questions which led to the partial clinical hold I do think it was initiated to demonstrate sympathetic nervous system safety and requisite non-clinical study in July of this year and that study is progressing on schedule.
So we intend to submit the results from that study in the first half of 2014 and assuming a positive review of the non-clinical data by the FDA and removal of a clinical hold we are preparing to resume the Phase 3 studies for tanezumab early in 2014.
So we are very excited about the deal that we’ve announced today with Eli Lilly and we believe that represents a very positive opportunity for us to collaborate to take tanezumab into Phase 3 clinical development and ultimately we believe into the marketplace which clearly has significant need and opportunity for new pain treatment options and so we’re very excited about the potential for tanezumab assuming that we are able to deliver positive data from those non-clinical studies.
So I hope that helps Seamus.
Thanks John.
Next question please? Your next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First question for Frank when you take a look at the Alliance revenue at least consensus estimates for Alliance revenue in 2014 2015 I think they are around $1.7 billion $1.8 billion are you comfortable with those numbers being where they are at in light of the exploration of the majority of your agreements.
And then when you look at the consensus revenue estimate of $50.5 billion for 2014 or – can you just maybe walk us through some of the pushes pulls or influencers on losses of exclusively that influence that number and are you comfortable with it.
Secondly on Mylan Pfizer agreement that you have in Japan can you help us understand some of the accounting around that and also the level of penetration that you have got into the generic market in Japan.
A very attractive opportunity there especially in light of what the Japanese government is trying to push there and then lastly just a pipeline question on the SGLT2.
Can you help us understand what the points of differentiation are especially in light of there being three other entrants potentially in that market before you enter and then any thoughts around the combination strategy that you might have with Januvia? Thanks.
Thank you John.
So Frank you want to… Yeah.
Address some of the projections for the question.
So I think the way I’ll do this for 2014 in total is maybe some of the headwinds and then some of the tailwinds.
So in terms of headwinds no surprises we continue to have some losses of exclusivity that will affect those in 2014.
Enbrel entering the 36 months sunset period is one of them and Spiriva in Japan is another.
So there will be some LOEs that we’ll experience that will impact 2014.
We said previously $3 billion to $4 billion in LOE impacts for the next couple of years.
That’s clearly with what we are expecting for 2014.
If you look at some of the tailwinds we continue expect growth in emerging markets some of our new products.
We’ve had some nice growth in Xalkori Inlyta Xeljanz.
We expect to see new product growth continue in a steady and measured way and we’ve had some nice performance in some of our inline products.
Lyrica this quarter Celebrex this quarter 11% 13% globally.
So lots of opportunities there and in terms of addressing headwinds in addition to the opportunity the areas on the top line we’ll continue to manage our cost of expense structure we’ll continue to use our balance sheet and our capital structure to help us manage beyond the LOE in revenue headwinds like we’ve been doing over the last couple of years.
In terms of Alliance revenue let me just run the numbers and then I’ll answer the question.
If you look at the alliance revenues this quarter $700 million down from $900 million in the year-ago quarter down 22% year-to-date down 15% $2.6 billion to $2.2 billion the majority of the alliance revenues to-date are really from Enbrel and Spiriva.
and going forward the alliance revenues are going to come from Rebif which is in the numbers today and then obliviously Eliquis growing.
So that will be the rhythm of the numbers relative to the alliance revenues but clearly on a going forward basis the alliance revenues will be declining and they will be declining significantly.
In terms of Mylan accounting I think the simple answer is we record the revenues from the products that are coming out of the arm collaboration.
John do you want to make any comment on the penetration in the market or is too early to… Yes I mean I think it’s really too early John to talk about penetration and market shares specifically other than to say that we are on track.
we have seen the – we’ve met all of our milestones in terms of the transfer of Mylan colleagues into the Pfizer organization.
we are currently selling around about 250 products from the combined company’s generic portfolios in the marketplace.
and the project plan is in place to [indiscernible] to Pfizer distribution which is the real strength of our organization in Japan and processes and work are in place to address any quality or supply risks.
in terms of manufacturing and development initiatives kicked off to build manufacturing capacity for collaboration volumes.
And I think overall message in Mylan is the joint venture is certainly progressing very much according to our plans.
In terms of our ertugliflozin as you know we entered into a worldwide collaboration except Japan with Merck to develop and commercialize ertugliflozin and ertugliflozin containing fixed dose combinations with metformin and Januvia tablets.
it’s our innovative proprietary SGLT-2 inhibitor for treatment of type 2 diabetes and we are initiating Phase 3 clinical trials with our partner Merck.
I certainly don’t want to comment in detail about competitors in this class.
So I want to say that our two lead competitors have had probably a troubled regulatory pathway and the U.S.
and Europe and we believe that the dialogue that we’ve been able to have with the FDA as well as the strength of the molecule certainly has enabled us to put together a development program combined with the strength of our partnership with Merck that gives us a very good runway into the marketplace.
Thank you John.
Mikael do you want to comment on the technical aspects of our products and differentiation.
Yes let me build on the excellent discussion that John had on ertugliflozin.
So it’s highly selective molecule for the SGLT2 transporter and as you will learn when you explore that class there is difference in the selectivity among the molecule.
it’s highly potent; it’s a very low dose which is really a key characteristic when you aim to combine with other drugs such as market leading Januvia and metformin is performing very well in the Phase 2 studies with robust lowering of HbA1c and also favorable effect on blood pressure.
So we think really these unique characteristics of a best-in-class molecule combined with a long experience with Januvia allows for a very favorable long-term opportunity.
Thank you Mikael.
Our next question please? The next question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning and thank you for taking the questions.
Two if I may? Ian I wanted you to get your latest thoughts about entering the cancer immunotherapy market perhaps partnering palbociclib in breast cancer with one of the leading of the PD-1s.
it seems like that could be a pretty promising combination.
And a follow-up we’ve recently heard some negative comments from your peers about entering the biosimilar market including commercial risk.
so I’m just wondering what is it that made you confident to proceed with this early aggressive biosimilar strategy? Thank you.
So on the biosimilar market each company takes its own view of the commercial opportunities.
We feel that we have the technology and the ability to bring bisomilars to the market that will be very well characterized.
We believe that in that marketplace we don’t see it reacting like the small molecule generic market.
We believe it will probably act more like the sterile injectable market.
We bring to that commercialization the credibility and the quality of Pfizer’s manufacturing and research.
and we think it is a reasonably low cost development opportunity for products that have a high commercial opportunity.
So we think it’s a good appropriate allocation of resources for the potential payoff.
Geno would you like to talk about the immunotherapy or and if you want pass to Mikael as well between the two of you.
Okay.
so I mean Alex obviously it’s a really pretty active exciting time with all that’s happening with the checkpoint modulators and using monotherapy in various combinations across many different tumor types.
We see this as an emerging field with a lot of experimentation going on to identify appropriate patients and appropriate combinations.
and we’re actively exploring a number of mechanisms ourselves internally with our 4-1BB monoclonal antibody and some of the vaccine approaches that we have access to as well as looking at potential partnerships.
Mike do you want to add? Yes I think Ian has got it very well.
We have of course invested heavily in our signal-transduction inhibitors and as you mentioned palbociclib is one of the real example of potential breakthrough drugs here.
But the ability to combine small molecule large molecule with cancer immunotherapy is going to have very interesting potential and we have as Geno alluded to a number of internal activities but they are also open for partnership which in general we have shown is a great way to grow value in this industry.
Thank you.
Thanks Mikael.
Moving on to the next question please.
Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays Capital.
Inc.</strong> Thanks very much.
Ian talked to biosimilars you alluded to a notion that there would be some incremental R&amp;D cost could you provide some color around that please.
And then secondly if I may one pipeline question on the Mening B 20 000 patient study could you provide some timing for total enrollment and when that might read out and moreover Michael do you need high tiders to both proteins in order to provide appropriate killing of the bacteria? Thanks very much.
Tony I wasn’t quite sure of your question on the biosimilars the incremental R&amp;D expenditures inst per se because of biosimilars is because of the what I think I describe is a very very strong cohort of Phase 3 products coming in develop in the near future and one that we are also – we are appropriate partnering to ensure that we maximize shareholder return.
So Mikael do you want to talk about the tider issue? Yes.
So thank you for the interest in Mening B and we do think it’s a very important vaccine.
It’s a kind of the missing component in staph aureus [ph] meningococcal strains the Meningococcal B.
So we have three trials that are well underway efficacy safety and lot consistency trial.
And we believe that you should aspire to raise the relevant prices to both proteins.
Together these two proteins that were carefully selected during our development process they will cover a great majority of meningococcal strain which is a unique feature of our vaccine and we noticed in our Phase 2 trial a robust and good tolerability.
As you know we are focusing on adolescent population which is the main carrier of the disease.
Thank you.
And Tony just to expand our biosimilar spend is we have been spending and its sort of in our baseline spend of our development program.
So I didn't particularly see that as a driver of R&amp;D spend.
And Geno just on the timing of the enrollment rate I think we have comments there or meningitis B? We are enrolling now and I think we anticipate completing enrollment in the 2015 timeframe.
Thank you.
Our next question please.
Your next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi.
Good morning.
Couple of questions please.
First Ian and Frank back to portfolio management.
Could you give us some guide to the total cost and the saving of those costs for the operational separation of the established products business.
Just in helping us understand how optionality pans out.
And then second to Mikael.
Could you give us an update on the Phase 1 anti 4-1BB CD137 trial.
It’s been running for two and half years in a very refractory patient population.
What's the chances we could get data prior to 2015.
Thank you.
Ian C.
Read Thank you Andrew.
Frank if you could sort of take us through the patients of restructuring and costs and the timing of that et cetera and then Mikael can answer the second question.
Yes.
So I think in terms of implementation costs there are not material implementation costs.
In fact as we look at the new structure there is some opportunities for synergies to the tune of couple hundred million dollars.
Minimal amount in 2014 is we’re basically getting the structure in place and we see an opportunity in 2015 2016 to capitalize on the new structure and generate couple of hundred million in operational synergies.
So that’s how I think about the puts and the takes on that.
So for 4-1BB you know the mechanism links to activate the immune cells particularly T-cell mediated and you are right we have been exploring it for quite sometime to fully understand its property and we have studies ongoing – dose escalation studies both as immunotherapy and in combination with Rituximab in hematological patients.
We are also looking at combination of full 4-1BB with other immunotherapy as part of our plan and we really share data as this protocol warps up at relevant conferences.
Thank you.
Will go to our next question please.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
Thank you.
A couple of follow ups with respect to the headwinds from the wind down in the Enbrel North America and Spiriva collaborations with an estimate of a $1 billion reduction in net income for these collaborations be a reasonable guess for all of 2014.
so that’s the first question.
Second is how do you assess the Herceptin biosimilar opportunity given that the standard of care in HER2-positive breast cancer is evolving so quickly and that evolution may limit Herceptin’s role overtime meanwhile Roche says it will compete aggressively and there may be other biosimilar competitors as well.
So it’s a shrinking market with unknown number of competitors attractive.
And then lastly on the staph vaccine you said data in 2014 on the second quarter of call you had said data later this year so any reason for that slight delay? Thank you.
Frank if you could comment on the Alliance revenue and then John on Herceptin and the nature of that marketplace and the pressures for managed care and I think Mikael on the timing.
So on the alliance revenue I ran the numbers before on Alliance revenue.
We’ll provide an update on the 2014 revenue number and the guidance for 2014 on our next earnings call.
We’ll incorporate into that number obviously the impact of the Alliance revenue declined on a year-over-year basis.
So on the next earnings call we’ll provide the details on 2014.
Okay.
In terms of the question on biosimilars almost by definition biosimilars do lead clinical practice they follow it.
And so again clearly today we know that overall the biosimilars marketplace the biotherapeutics marketplace is around about $100 billion marketplace globally for all biotherapeutics and that marketplace is expected to grow to around about $300 billion by 2019.
So I guess sort of first point to make in terms of our presence in the biosimilar marketplace is biotherapeutics overall is a very significant opportunity and the biosimilar segment of that is expected to grow from its current value of around about $1.4 billion to potentially around let’s say $22 billion by 2020.
So the key point to make there is it is a big opportunity.
In terms of Herceptin clearly don’t want to comment on our competitors and any additional therapeutic research that they are doing allowing to say that today Herceptin remains a standard of care for that particular patient population.
And so at the point that we have a biosimilar available to enter into the marketplace then we believe that that would be a potentially good option for physicians and healthcare systems for use in patients for Herceptin or that molecule trastuzumab is an appropriate clinical choice.
Thank you.
Mikael Yes.
So we have completed successively Phase 1/2 trial and our Herceptin is very good biosimilar version of the originator and we are now in the plans of starting a Phase 3 that we’ll be initiating dosing within the next couple of months.
And just to add to what John said clearly as you discussed there will be always an evolving marketplace and in manner of these indications which are driven by a continuous flow of product.
We do see still that many of these regimens include combination with Herceptin biologicals on top of Herceptin instead of traditional chemotherapeutics.
And we anticipate that our molecule could offer a quality alternative.
On the Staph-aureus I haven't looked at the transcript perhaps we misspoke I think perhaps we said we had data or internal data of Staph-aureus in that time period but we intend to take it to a congress next year.
So probably that was a confusion we created and if did we apologies for that.
I think that's right Ian it was presentation of the data.
Yes.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Yes thanks very much.
I just have two questions.
First with respect to the CAPiTA outcomes trial could you just talk about the reason for the delay in the results just sort of recap why it's been delayed so long.
I am guessing you are going to say it's simply a winter cool but is there anyway to read anything positive or negative into the delays relative to the expected timing when CAPiTA was started many many years ago? And then separately with respect to biosimilar Herceptin do you have agreement with the FDA on how that trial will be run in the U.S.
and also when do you plan to file biosimilar Herceptin in the U.S.
and ex-U.S.? Thank you.
Geno if you’d like to talk about CAPiTA? Yes I think on CAPiTA David you’re right.
I probably will say that it's event driven and when we have some -- we have the number of events but just to comment on a couple of factors the incidents of infection coincides with the severity of the flu seasons for example so flu seasons have been milder then you may not have as many events and that can be a factor contributing to accumulation of events.
And then there is overall efficacy or effectiveness of the vaccine.
Obviously if the vaccine is extraordinarily effective then the only events that you're going to accumulate are the ones in the placebo group you won't accumulate any or very few in the vaccine group that would be a good problem to have and we will know soon what the real answer is.
Thank you Geno.
John could you talk about Herceptin.
Yes so don't want to talk in detail about filing timelines but in terms of your question about the regulatory pathway certainly the EU and U.S.
have increasingly provided more guidance on the pathways for regulatory approval which include extensive analytical and preclinical data robust competitive clinical and immunogenicity data as well and that guidance is consistent with our development strategy for our portfolio of biosimilars including trastuzumab.
So we anticipate a Phase 3 start for that program by the end of the year and will be progressing that program in line with our guidance as expeditiously as possible.
Thank you John.
Charles E.
Triano Thanks John.
And I think with that we will complete our call.
Thank you very much everyone for your attention this morning.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's Pfizer's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth quarter 2013 performance.
I am joined today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read Frank D'Amelio our CFO Albert Bourla President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development Geno Germano President of Global Innovative Pharma John Young President of Established Pharma and Douglas Lankler General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Fourth Quarter 2013 which is located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions during this call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today January 28 2014.
With that I will now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck and good morning everyone.
We finished 2013 with a solid fourth quarter and the overall financial performance of the year was strong.
Looking at the quarter we delivered good operational performance revenues in the emerging markets grew 9% established products revenues grew 6% oncology revenues grew 29% and consumer healthcare grew 2%.
We also had strong quarterly revenue performance operationally from key inline products such as Lyrica which grew 14% Celebrex which grew 9% and Enbrel outside of North America which grew 8%.
We continue to see positive progress of our recently launched products Eliquis and Xeljanz.
For Eliquis in the last two quarters of 2013 we saw definitive momentum across key metrics resulting from the actions that we implemented together with our partners BMS.
While we are starting from a small base the trend we are seeing on sales growth for Pfizer is significant.
Specifically we saw a 124% increase in sales globally in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the third quarter and TRX volume in the US for Eliquis increased 68% from the third to the fourth quarter of 2013.
For Xeljanz we continue to see a steady increase in U.S.
scripts over 28% growth in TRX volume in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of 2013.
Physician feedback continues to be positive.
To date nearly 3 500 ACP have prescribed Xeljanz and nearly 80% have repeat prescribers.
Now turning to highlights for the year.
We met or exceeded every element of our financial guidance.
We drove operational growth in key products including Lyrica Enbrel outside of North America.
Looking at how our business performed operationally emerging markets reported solid single-digit growth of 6% oncology grew 29% and consumer health business grew 5%.
We saw advancement in our pipeline across the portfolio.
We achieved approval in the U.S.
for DUAVEE for the treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
We expect to launch next month and the FDA approved a prior approval supplement for Embeda extended release capsules.
We initiated a Phase 3 program which include includes pivotal and several outcomes studies for bococizumab the proposed generic name for our PCSK9 monoclonal antibody to lower LDL cholesterol.
We initiated two Phase 3 studies of Palbociclib on advanced breast cancer and began enrolling patients in the third Phase 3 study with a German Breast Group in patients with early breast cancer at a high-risk of recurrence.
We initiated a Phase 3 program with our partner Merck for ertugliflozin our SGLT2 inhibitor for the treatment of Type II diabetes.
We concluded a Phase 2 study for our staph aureus vaccine which showed encouraging signals that our vaccine elicits positive immune response.
We expect to present this data at a medical conference this year.
We completed the Phase 2a proof of concept study of a novel PDE5 inhibitor in diabetic neuropathy which showed encouraging clinical profile warranting further exploration in Phase 2b.
We conducted Phase 1 proof of concepts on biosimilars of rituximab and infliximab which concluded with positive outcomes on the relevant study endpoints.
For Xeljanz in Europe where we received a negative opinion last year for our rheumatoid arthritis indication we will continue to registration on active and engaging discussion with regulators and the development of additional data to support a refilling although we continue to expect this will result in a several year delay.
We reduced our total adjusted cost of sales SI&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses on an operational basis by approximately 3% which is about an $850 million reduction versus 2012 levels.
We completed the separation of Zoetis and generated approximately $17.3 billion in after-tax value.
We returned nearly $23 billion to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases and we put in place and are operating in our new commercial structure.
Each business has strongly leadership in place and we believe that by having a sharper focus we can to better maximize the performance of all our businesses.
In terms of financial transparency we will provide a management view of profit and loss for each business starting with the first quarter results this year.
To sum up the year we strengthened our innovative core by advancing key R&amp;D programs create significant value for shareholders through disciplined capital allocation and our commercial businesses have performed well during a time of transition and difficult market dynamics.
Three years ago we laid out the priorities and strategies for how we will create value for each of our businesses and address R&amp;D productivity challenges.
Over the course of last three years our priorities and our strategies have not changed and I believe it's showing strong results.
Again in 2014 you can expect us to remain intensely focused on maximizing the opportunities within each of our commercial businesses continue to advance science innovation and our pipeline and prudently deploying our capital.
We see distinct opportunities for each of the commercial businesses this year.
The Global Innovative Pharma Business will focus on accelerating the uptake trajectory of newly launched products Xeljanz and Eliquis and driving growth for major inline brands like Lyrica Enbrel outside of North America Viagra in the U.S.
and Chantix.
The Vaccines Oncology and Consumer Healthcare Business respectively will capitalize on the Prevnar 13 franchise concentrate on the recently launched oncology products Xalkori Inlyta and Bosulif and launch over-the-counter Nexium in Europe and in the U.S.
provided it receives FDA approval.
The Global Established Pharma Business will focus on maximizing key Peri-LOE brands namely Celebrex Lyrica in the EU and Zyvox.
It will support continued growth from important legacy old patented brands such as Lipitor and Norvasc in emerging markets build on local partnerships like those with Mylan Teuto and Hisun and advanced growth opportunities with the sterile injectables by some of those portfolio.
Building on the pipeline advances achieved in 2013 there are several potential milestones in 2014.
We expect to report in the near future the topline results for Phase 2 study of Palbociclib in patients with post-menopausal ER-positive advanced breast cancer.
The results for the CAPiTA trial for Prevnar 13 in adults age 65 and older are expected to readout during this quarter and if supportive we expect to discuss the data with the advisory committee on immunization practices ACIP in the U.S.
and other regulatory authorities.
Along with our partner Bristol-Myers Squibb we are seeking approved for Eliquis VTE prevention in orthopedic patients in the U.S.
and VTE treatment in the U.S.
and Europe.
We have two pivotal trials in the Xeljanz Phase 3 oral psoriasis program that anticipates to readout in the second quarter.
For the staph aureus and meningitis B vaccines we anticipate sharing results from Phase 2 studies at medical conferences this year while advancing the late stage development of both assets.
Last week we announced the topline Phase 3 results for ALO-02 an investigational agent called oxycodone hydrochloride and naltrexone.
It met the primary efficacy endpoints in patients with moderate-to-severe chronic low back pain demonstrating a statistically significant difference compared to placebo.
Yesterday we announced topline results for two Phase 3 studies BR.26 and ARCHER 1009 that evaluated dacomitinib in two different populations of previously treated patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
While we are disappointed that neither study met its primary endpoints we will continue to evaluate the full dataset from both trials to understand that molecularly defined subgroups of patients may derive benefit from dacomitinib.
In order to continue development of a robust pipeline of highly differentiated molecules in vaccines that has the potential to be either first or best in class such as the therapeutic I just noted requires ongoing R&amp;D investment.
In 2014 we will continue to be prudent towards how we allocate capital and we will balance these incremental R&amp;D investment with the need for delivering overall shareholder return.
As we have done in the past we will continue to use business development opportunities as enabler of strategies to create value for our shareholders.
In summary we start 2014 with a sound strategy and a strong business.
We will build on our performance in 2013 by continuing to create a sustainable high-value pipeline and establishing strong commercial businesses.
By executing on our new product launches growing key in-line products delivering on the potential at all phases of the pipeline and effectively deploying our capital we will further strengthen the whole of our businesses.
Our top priority and commitment is to develop and to bring to patients innovative medicines that meet their needs and together with our actions we will generate an enhanced shareholder value.
Now I will turn it over to Frank to take you through the details of the quarter and our financial guidance for 2014.
Thanks Ian and good day everyone.
As always the charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast.
I want to remind everybody that as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24 2013 the financial results of the Animal Health business are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for full-year 2013 and fourth-quarter and full-year 2012.
Now let's move on to the financials.
Fourth-quarter 2013 reported revenues were approximately $13.6 billion which decreased 2% year-over-year and reflect operational growth of approximately 1% driven mainly by the strong performance of Lyrica Celebrex Inlyta and Xalkori globally Enbrel outside of North America and Xeljanz and Eliquis primarily in the U.S.
These were more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of approximately $397 million or 3% the expiration on October 31 2013 of the collaboration agreement for Enbrel in North America continued erosion for branded Lipitor in developed Europe and certain other developed markets the ongoing expiration of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries other product losses of exclusivity in certain markets and decreased government purchases of Prevnar in certain emerging markets among other items.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.56 increased 22% primarily due to the operational decrease of adjusted SI&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses and increase in other income due primarily to the sale of a portion of our in-license generic sterile injectables portfolio to Mylan a lower effective tax rate on adjusted income and substantially fewer weighted average shares outstanding due to our continued share repurchases and the impact of the Zoetis exchange offer.
Reported diluted EPS was $0.39 compared with $0.85 in the year ago quarter driven by the significant negative impact of the non-recurrence of income from discontinued operations attributable to the Animal Health and Nutrition businesses including the gain on the sale of the Nutrition business in the year ago quarter.
In addition to the previously mentioned factors reported diluted EPS was favorably impacted by a lower effective tax rate primarily due to favorable audit settlements lower charges related to asset impairments and legal matters and lower acquisition related expenses.
During the fourth quarter biopharmaceutical revenues in the BRIC-MT markets increased driven primarily by strong volume growth in China especially for Lipitor.
In these BRIC-MT markets volume growth of 6% was partially offset by foreign exchange of 3% versus the year ago quarter.
Revenue from all emerging markets increased 9% operationally in the fourth quarter with China growing approximately 19% operationally.
If you exclude the portfolio of products whose rights were transferred to our joint venture in China with Hisun in the fourth quarter we would have had operational revenue growth of 10% in our overall emerging markets business 9% in the BRIC-MT markets and 27% in China compared with the year ago quarter.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter revenues by $397 million or 3% and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses in the aggregate by $251 million or 3%.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01.
As you can see in 2013 we met or exceeded all components of our financial guidance including exceeding our adjusted diluted EPS guidance.
Now I would like to comment specifically on a few of the elements of our 2014 guidance.
First we expect adjusted revenues to be in the range of $49.2 billion to $51.2 billion.
I want to point out that this range reflects an anticipated $3 billion negative impact due to declining alliance revenues specific to 2014 notably the Enbrel collaboration in North America and the ongoing expiration of the Spiriva collaboration in the U.S.
and other developed markets and the loss of exclusivity of certain products in several geographies including Viagra in the EU Japan and Australia Detrol in the U.S.
and Aricept in major developed markets.
I also want to point out that our 2014 adjusted revenue guidance also reflects an additional $1.4 billion negative impact due to the year-over-year difference in actual foreign exchange rates in mid-January of 2013 compared with mid-January of 2014 mainly driven by the movement of the Yen against the U.S.
dollar.
So had we applied the rates from mid-January of '13 to our 2014 guidance the adjusted revenue range would have been $1.4 billion higher.
We expect cost of sales as a percentage of revenues to be in the range of 19% to 20% an increase from the 18% we recorded in 2013 driven by the significant decrease in alliance revenues.
It's important to remember that these alliance revenues were recorded at 100% gross margin because there is no associated cost of sales.
Consequently the significant decrease of these revenues will also negatively impact our cost of sales as a percentage of revenue in 2014.
We expect adjusted SI&amp;A expenses to be in the range of $13.5 billion to $14.5 billion which reflects spending in support of key product launches as well as the benefit of our continued cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
We expect adjusted R&amp;D expenses to be in the range of $6.4 billion to $6.9 billion to support Phase 3 studies initiated in late 2013 and early 2014.
We also expect adjusted other deductions to be approximately $100 million.
I want to remind everyone that the recognition of profits from the Enbrel collaboration in North America has shifted from alliance revenue to other income as we have moved to a royalty structure.
We expect our tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 27%.
Finally we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.20 to $2.30.
This range includes anticipated share repurchases of approximately $5 billion this year which will more than offset some expected dilution related to employee compensation programs.
It's important to note that our 2014 adjusted diluted EPS guidance absorbs an $0.08 negative impact resulting from the previously mentioned difference in actual foreign exchange rates from mid-January 2013 compared with mid-January 2014.
As always we will continue to monitor foreign exchange fluctuations and we will update the potential impact if any on our 2014 expectations.
So moving on to key takeaways we achieved or exceeded all elements of our full year 2013 financial guidance in a continuing challenging environment.
In 2013 we completed the separation of our Animal Health business and created a new commercial structure that was successfully implemented at the beginning of this year.
We provided full-year 2014 financial guidance which reflects the negative impact of $3 billion due to declining alliance revenues and expected product losses of exclusivity.
In addition our guidance for adjusted R&amp;D expenses reflects our investment in several Phase 3 studies initiated in late 2013 and early 2014.
We will continue to mitigate the impact of product losses of exclusivity and declining alliance revenue with growth of certain other products as well as expense discipline and share repurchases.
We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.
In 2013 we repurchased $16.3 billion or 563 million shares.
Overall in 2013 we returned almost $23 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Over the past three years we have returned almost $53 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In 2014 we expect to repurchase approximately $5 billion of our common stock.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2014 and beyond.
With that I will turn it back to Chuck.
Thanks Frank and Ian as well.
With that operator please if we could now poll for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
Hello.
Thank you.
A couple of questions please.
You have no doubt seen various analysts reports predicting what the financials for the three divisions will look like and I know you are planning on providing those details on your Q1 call but can you give us your preliminary thoughts on what you are seeing thus far from the street.
Do you think we will end up being surprised by how the numbers fall out between the different divisions or do you think the analyses you have seen look reasonable? Then on Palbociclib any updated perspective on the likelihood of being able to file on the final Phase 2 results? I know that it is approaching.
I would imagine you have already had some discussions with the agency or at least at a minimum have some thoughts on the matter? Okay.
Thank you Tim.
I will ask Frank to answer the question that you posed on the financial divisions and when you will see the results and then I would ask Albert Bourla to comment on Palbociclib.
So Tim clearly we have looked at several models that have been put together relative to what the new businesses will look like.
I think the rhythm of those numbers is directionally correct.
Just how I would describe it.
Obviously we will come out with our numbers for our first quarter 2014 results but I think directionally correct is how I would describe it.
I don't expect what we will publish will create any big suprises.
Thank you Frank.
Tim on palbo as you alluded our discussions with FDA are productive and they are ongoing and this is particularly true given the breakthrough therapy designation we have received from them.
Now these discussions will continue after the Phase 2 analyses becomes available.
Therefore the exact regulatory path forward has not yet been determined.
Now having said that we can envision a scenario where depending upon the strength of the final Phase 2 data there may be a pathway to file with the FDA based upon these Phase 2 results.
However as you know the acceptance of an filing is ultimately an FDA decision.
Thank you Albert.
Thanks Albert.
Next question please operator.
The next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Bank of America.
Thanks.
Just sticking with the palbo theme could you comment on the competitive landscape in light of Novartis and Lilly's progress and what differentiation you could speak to at this early stage? For Frank can you put a little more meat on the bone on the gross margin commentary? What are the drivers for lower gross margin in '14 and whether those items are trends or blips? Thank you.
So Albert palbo again.
Yes.
As you are aware there is very limited information in the public domain on these compounds from these companies.
So its really difficult to differentiate palbo at this point until we see some more efficacy and safety data from them.
On palbo on the contrary we have seen data and we are encouraged by the magnitude of the clinical activity we have seen in our patient population.
So we are really looking forward to our final Phase 2 results.
Thank you Frank? Yes.
So Gregg on the gross margin let me walk through this and I am going to bridge this because I think it will be helpful.
So let me run the numbers first.
We printed 18% for the full year 2013.
We are providing guidance for next year of 19% to 20%.
So now let me build a bridge.
If we remove foreign exchange the positive impact of foreign exchange we had last year on cost of sales because it lowered cost of sales that 18% becomes 18.5%.
So 18% to 18.5%.
Then if you did the accounting for Enbrel in '13 the way we were going to do the accounting for it in '14 which is don't show it is alliance revenues but show it as royalties that 18.5% would become 19%.
So now 18% between 19% and then that 19% to 20% in 2014 is really a result of the other alliance revenue declines primarily Spiriva and then some of the product LOEs and one key point to make here is the big decline year in alliance revenues is in 2014.
So that's the way to think about the rhythm of the numbers.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please operator The next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.
Hi guys.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
Also congratulations on great P&amp;L management in '14.
I know a lot of people were nervous about the alliance revenue lines and everything.
So well done.
I just want to ask a question that you probably get a lot but I thought I would ask it on a call.
And that is is there a scenario that you can envision Frank or Ian where you might sell your established products or at least your generics unit in some kind of a tax advantage the way prior to 2017? Then just the only other question I had if I might is if my calculations are correct R&amp;D plus SG&amp;A crept up a little bit as a percentage of revenue at the midpoint versus 2013.
I was just wondering I know you are not going to give guidance beyond 2014 but in general are you comfortable where analysts models are or should we expect that trend to continue as at 2014 blip? Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
I think on the R&amp;D our R&amp;D spend has been responsive to late Phase 3 assets that we have a high confidence than anyone to invest in and have a Phase 3 with (inaudible).
So I think we will fund well you expect us to fund Phase 3 assets to the extent we see great opportunity for them and we will continue to do that that we will continue to manage our overall P&amp;L as we do that.
On the potential sale of our established products business you know we are managing all three businesses to create value for the company and I think the immediate focus of this is to get these businesses which have very strong management teams which they have put focus on the different ways of delivering value and to drive value for Pfizer shareholders.
There are also several data requirements which restrict our ability to enter into any transaction even if some of we wanted to at this stage and I will ask Frank to talk about that.
Yes.
So Mark it is Olympian but let me try to rip through this which is it depends on the type of transaction.
So if it's a public transaction so what's a public transaction.
A partial spend complete spend a reverse Morris Trust a partial IPO a partial IPO followed by spin or a split three years of audited financials are required.
That's a requirement.
If it's a private transaction a partial sale of the business a complete sale of the business formation of a joint venture where we have a minority where we have a majority interest no audited financials are required.
However a significance test is required the results of which may require audited financials.
Let me rip through these significance tests.
There is three tests that make up this significance test.
There is an asset test an income test and an investment test.
Basically it's the target's results for each of those test as a percentage of the acquirer's results.
So think about income it would be the target's income as a percentage of the acquirer's income.
Now the way the results work or the test work is if all three tests are less than 20% no audited financials are required.
If any one test is greater than 20% and lower than 40% between 20% and 40% one year of audited financials is required.
Between 40% and 50% in any one test two years of audited financials.
Any one test greater than 50% two years of audited balance sheet three years of audited P&amp;Ls cash flows other comprehensive income and shareholders' equity statements.
So that's basically what's required and why it's required.
That's a summary.
Thank you Frank.
As you can see Mark we have a lot of asset issues and I would say that we want to create optionality and the best way to create optionality is having strong results and transparency on these results over the next few years and that's what we are focused this on.
Thank you.
Thank you Ian and thanks Frank for the detail there.
Next question please operator.
The next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Just to follow-up on that.
Ian if you could talk about the value business which is what we are all focused on here the emerging markets and established products business that's a huge part of the overall Pfizer story and while we appreciate that you are going to focus on driving value to each of these businesses maybe you could talk about how you think about the margin and growth potential of this business? What are the true durable earnings performance that you seek from this business? Because from what we see the growth of established is really just coming from shifting products that go generic into that business and then the emerging markets space is obviously very difficult to predict.
So maybe if you can provide your view on how you see this business as a standalone performing over the next three years or so? Then just as a follow-up to the breakup scenario Frank you said three years of financial audit information is required.
So if we get this before showing the data in the first quarter this year does that then mean that the earliest you could contemplate a full breakup would be end of 2016? Thanks.
Thank you Jami.
Well obviously as I said the established products business is not a homogeneous business.
It is heterogeneous business with many different opportunities.
We have very strong management teams in all our businesses.
So I am going to ask John Young to answer your good questions over how we will manage the established business to grow.
And on the last point I think yes we are indicating that we would have three years financial by the end of '16.
Okay.
So thanks for the question Jami.
So maybe just to say a little bit about what this business is.
I think certainly we believe that this is not only a very large business unit to your point about its contribution to Pfizer overall but actually a very attractive a very diverse and a very profitable business with actually some unique opportunities across different portfolios and geographies.
So let me just walk you through a little bit what this business really comprised of.
Broadly we think it as in four buckets.
There is a Peri-LOE business in developed markets.
It includes some of the major brands that currently are pre-LOE such as Celebrex Zyvox Lyrica in the EU.
Certainly we are going to be very focused in that segment on maximizing the profitability of those brands both sides of the LOE spectrum and leveraging some of the capability from EP that we think has really done a pretty good job with some of the recent LOEs such as Lipitor compared to market proxies.
The second segment of that business is really a legacy EP business that comprises mature off- patent products in developed markets.
That business is declining but we are very focused on maximizing profitability through targeted investments in certain brands in that portfolio that present opportunities for growth.
The third piece of the business is really what comprises probably a little more than 70% of the emerging market business today and that business is growing pretty strongly.
You have seen the results from the fourth quarter for the emerging market business overall.
we believe that portfolio and actually the think of the mature products in Global Established Pharma portfolio is a great fit actually for a lot of the healthcare needs that we see in some of the key emerging markets such as China and Brazil and Mexico.
That is growing today and we envisage that that will continue to grow in the future.
Then the last component of this business really is what we think of as growth opportunities.
Now some of those growth opportunities will be medium term growth opportunities such as the biosimilar portfolio.
We think we have one of the leading biosimilar portfolios in the industry with five assets in different stages of development.
But we actually have a number of other opportunities too through areas of growth such as some of the partnerships that you are already aware of with Teuto Hisun Mylan all the way through.
We are very pleased with them.
They are performing well and we are going to be very active in looking for additional partnerships in targeted markets where we think there is an opportunity to drive shareholder value opportunities for continued growth of sterile injectables and some targeted opportunities in certain markets for some reformulated branded generic products as well.
I think probably the last point to make is this is really not a commodity generic business.
In fact less than 10% of our revenues would come from what you traditionally think of as being a generic business.
So there is no doubt that we will see some pressure on revenues over the next few year driven by some of the LOEs that everyone is well aware of from some of those Peri-LOE brands.
Actually this is a business where we believe in the medium-term that it will plateau and we believe that we can then have a number of significant opportunities for growth with this business in the medium to longer term.
Thank you John.
Frank you want to make a comment? Yes real quickly.
Jami I just want to punctuate what Ian said which is three years prospective financials as I have said previously.
So that would be '14 '15 and '16 financials and then obviously the '16 10-K wouldn't be done until the end of February 2017.
So optionality if we decided to do so it will be sometime in 2017.
Thanks Frank.
Operator next question please.
The next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Just staying on the established products side recognize the near-term focus in that business is kind of walking on the performance but when you consider the long-term options for that business I guess first of all would you agree with the statement that this is the division where a larger merger could make the most sense for Pfizer? And following on that can you walk through the pros and cons of a larger merger for that division as you consider your options relative to either running the business on your own or looking at tuck-in deals? Then my second question is just as we are thinking about capital deployment is there any changes in the way you are thinking about share repo versus higher dividend payout or other opportunities in light of the new business structure? Does that change at all or just you want to have either more cash available as these business units work out their various options as you consider new structures etcetera? Anything we should be thinking about there.
Thanks very much.
So Chris I think on the established products business our focus is the creation of value.
So we do have a quite impressive portfolio and a geographic presence across the emerging markets.
And your question is will further scale be useful? I think it depends very much on the opportunities that arise and we have to be opportunistic about that.
Clearly if we can broader portfolio and specific scale in some of key countries we would be interested in which is why we have doing on JVs on a country-by-country basis and would be open to other alternatives as we always are that would create shareholder value.
But clearly we are going to focus right now on running that business producing the value and open to various BD alternatives to create more value.
On the second question the capital structure I think you know as we have seen over the last few years our capital structure and the we manage our capital has been focused on ensuring we produce the best return for our shareholders.
We continue to manage that mix and I would ask Frank to make some more specific comments.
Chris I think the short answer is our priorities have not changed.
Maybe I will embellish a little bit.
So clearly dividends buybacks continue to remain important parts of our capital allocation.
Investing in the business you see that in '14 with our capital deployment for R&amp;D for launch costs and support of our new products and obviously business development remains a priority.
So priorities haven't changed and you look at what we did with our dividend in December we increased the dividend from $0.96 to a $1.04 an 8.3% increase.
We just announced another $5 billion in repurchases of our shares.
So the priorities have not changed.
They remain the same.
I would just add to Frank's comment there.
As I think we see ourselves in a position of well-balanced optionality in many directions given our capital structure.
Thank you Frank.
Thanks Ian.
Operator next question please.
The next question comes from Steve Scala - Cowen.
Thank you.
Two questions.
First I believe there is a pending court decision.
So does your 2014 guidance bracket a scenario where generics to Celebrex launch in May of this or do the guidance elements not consider the scenario? The second question is I know FDA was aware of CAPiTA's design very early on.
But what discussions have you had with ACIP on the design of CAPiTA? And are they comfortable that it did not compare Prevnar to Pneumovax? Thank you very much.
So Doug do you want to comment on the Celebrex situation? Sure.
Obviously so we have our reissue patent on Cele that takes us through December 2015 and our trial to defend that patent is scheduled to commence on March 19 of this year.
Frank you want to add anything to that? Yes.
Our guidance assumes we have a full-year of Celebrex.
Thank you Albert on discussions with ACIP? Yes as you can imagine once we have the results we will determine the best approach to present the data to ACIP and request a recommendation.
We have been in discussions with the CDC and members of ACIP to ensure their understanding of the protocol and the potential outcomes.
So when they have the data they can move quickly.
The ACIP meets three times per year.
I cannot speculate in which meeting they will make a vote.
As regards your question for how would they compare it with Pneumovax.
Again I cannot speculate on that but if you look at current practice in immunocompromised adults age 19 years and older that there is recommendation ACIP has recommended routine use of Prevnar 13 administered in addition to Pneumovax.
Thank you Albert.
Excellent.
Next question please operator.
The next question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the questions and congratulations on your performance.
I was wondering if you can provide us more color on the powering assumptions for CAPiTA and do you believe there is still enough residual disease among U.S.
adults given that Prevnar 13 has been available for four years and is probably significant herd effect? Finally on palbo is the Phase 2 sufficiently powered to detect a significant difference statistically significant survival difference between the two arms? Thank you.
Thank you for that question.
I believe the CAPiTA design was powered for three endpoints and it would have been designed well aware the herd effect.
So I would ask Albert just to talk through the three endpoints of CAPiTA.
You know really the response of ACIP will depend on those endpoints and that's why we have to wait for the trial to readout but I believe that it was very well designed trial powered to achieve show the results of the product's performance as we expect and then on the Phase 2 Albert could you discuss the powering vis-à-vis overall survival? Yes well I would say CAPiTA is a lot complex trial.
We have 85 000 health volunteers and the three endpoints are a primary endpoint to demonstrate the efficacy of the product in prevention of first episode of pneumococcal cap community acquired pneumonia of course for the vaccine type.
The secondary endpoint is to demonstrate the same efficacy in the first episode on non-bacteremic non-invasive cap and in invasive pneumococcal disease.
As you said the study is very well designed taken in consideration everything that study was post registration post approval obligation which the FDA.
So we have consulted with them for the protocol.
Thank you.
On the Phase 2 do you want to that Mikael? I just had one comment on the herd effect that Alex asked about.
Actually in 2013 there has been some very useful publications from U.K.
and U.S.
that have studied the epidemiology of various pneumococcal strains and have clearly shown that in the adult and particularly the older adult population that is highly vulnerable to pneumococcal there is a number of Prevnar 13 strains still occurring linked to disease and actually even Prevnar 7 strains are occurring.
So its just that the older population is more prone to pickup those strains and interesting is some strains that are not causing disease in younger population can cause substantial disease in the older population where we also see a substantially increased morbidity and also fatal outcomes.
So we do believe that the recent data will favor the view of an existing unmet need in this population and as Albert alluded to pending the readout of CAPiTA and this would be that all available study of this size that would show an effect in this population.
Thank you Mikael.
It's good questions and good to speculate.
We will know at the end of the quarter and then we can discuss it in more detail.
Albert on the overall survival of palbo? Yes.
Data for overall survival is event driven.
So therefore it is difficult to predict when the final overall survival data will be complete.
Apparently the study is well-powered to cut any differences.
We do anticipate preliminary overall survival data that could be presented at a medical conference in the first half of 2014 together with the other data.
Thank you Albert.
Next question please operator.
The next question comes from John Boris from Suntrust.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I just have two.
Just on Prevnar 13 you indicated that there is three times that ACIP meets.
What's the earliest meeting and have you asked the ACIP yet for to be a part of the agenda at anyone of those three meetings yet? Then secondly on Palbociclib.
If you look at your binding affinity for CDK4 and CDK6 most notably on cyclin D1 D2 for CDK4 its 11 and 9 and cyclin D6 IC50 is 15 which suggests high degree of affinity hence strongly correlated to efficacy.
Is there anyway you might be able to contrast that to the activity of the Novartis and Lilly compounds? Then the second part of that question on palbo is there some off target effects that occur on greater than 30 other kinases.
Has the FDA asked you to try and characterize any of those off target effects on palbo? Thanks.
Thank you John.
Prevnar ACIP I think there are three meetings.
One in February one in June and one in October.
I would find it doubtful we would make the February date and then when have the results we will immediately engage with ACIP so they can review the results at the earliest point possible and one would expect their willingness to do that will depend on the results in many ways.
Mikael do you want to comment on John's very scientific question there on palbo? Yes John.
First with your detailed understanding of this kinase inhibitor and as you very well articulate that we have designed an inhibitor that would have potent activity against both kinases which I do think is somewhat unique for Palbociclib.
All kinases have some off target activities but we do believe that the therapeutic window for Palbociclib favors the on target profile and if you look at efficacy and tolerability we have seen so far the main adverse events related to neutropenia that has been well manageable is very much compatible with on target effect for these type of drugs.
And we don't really have enough detail on the competitive products to make any comparisons.
Is that correct? Yes.
We tend not to comment on other products and that's why I used the term that you inhibitors are well balanced and has a unique profile in that sense and I think at this stage of clinical development as Albert very well alluded to we need to understand more from the competitive product as they advance in development.
Thank you.
Our next question please operator.
The next question is from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks for taking the questions.
I have two on the pipeline.
For palbo excited by your studies outside of breast cancer and where the most of the focus has been.
Can you just talk at this point where you see palbo having the most potential outside of the lead breast cancer indication? Then second on the PCSK9 just any comments there.
You are going into Phase 3.
Obviously it's a very large study.
A lot of investment really needed there.
Given some of the changing guidelines maybe less of an emphasis on LDL and HDL target levels.
How do you see the value of a PCSK9 program and would you consider maybe partnering that with someone just given the amount that you would need to invest there? Thanks.
So good questions.
Palbo Albert outside of breast cancer you may want to discuss a little bit of what we are doing there? Then Geno will do the PSK9 reply.
Yes.
Vamil expanding palbo beyond breast cancer is a top priority for us.
Given the potential of this franchise we are very focused on progressing in other few more types as melanoma for example.
There is an ongoing Phase 1/2 study of palbo with Zelboraf and this is conducted by the National Cancer Institute of France and this is for BRAF mutations.
Also in addition I am sure you have seen a recent announcement.
We are working with GSK to evaluate palbo with their MEK inhibitor in metastatic melanoma this time without BRAF mutations.
This trial should begin in the first half of the year of 2014.
Now if we look beyond melanoma we are working with academic centers including the Dana-Farber Cancer Center to evaluate palbo in non-small cell lung cancer and to have numerous other collaborations and programs in other tumor types including squamous non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer.
Thank you Albert.
Mike sorry Geno PCSK9? On PCSK9 we have initiated our Phase 3 program.
It's a broad program as you can imagine with multiple lipid-lowering studies and we have decided to go into two fairly large outcome studies as well with the intent to provide the broadest base of data of any of the PCSK9 program in the patient populations that we believe can benefit from the therapy.
We believe that outcomes trials and the results of the outcomes trials are going to determine the place for these agents in management of patients with cardiovascular risk factors and high cholesterol levels.
Our programs are designed to read out in a similar timeframe of the competitive programs as well.
So we are excited about the program.
We are often running with our Phase 3 program and we are at this point going in alone.
Thank you Geno.
Next question please operator.
The next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi.
Good morning.
First on palbo.
Should I assume that in the absence of any significant OS benefit from the Phase 2 you would not file under accelerated approval? Then in addition you made some comment about the manageability of the neutropenia.
Actually I have seen that's still the case and the profile hasn't changed from the early patient experience.
Then finally you retained the rights to both tremelimumab and your anti-CD40 together with use with vaccines.
Do you have any vaccines close to entering clinical development in combination with either these two assets? Thank you.
Thank you Andrew.
Look on palbo I don't think we can assume anything on the path forward until we see the results and then we will be in conversations with the FDA.
As you say overall survival is event-driven and may take a longer time but we will just have to wait for the results and have in-depth discussion for the FDA.
Mikael do you want to talk about profile vis-à-vis neutropenia and also then discuss the tremelimumab and the CD 40? Yes.
So the type of profile we have reported which is very well compatible with what you will see with these type of drugs has been very well manageable in the clinic and it seems to be much more tolerable than previous experience with the drugs in use in solid tumors when it relates to a hematological suppression.
So we feel very comfortable with the profile and look forward as Ian alluded to see the final results.
Clearly at this stage of development it's progression-free survival that will be the dominant endpoint to look for.
In the vaccines area you are right we retained use for tremelimumab.
Particularly I would like to underline that that antibody is part of the platform we are exploring together with unique prostate vaccine antigens and a very comprehensive delivery method of the vaccine to boost the immune response.
Our initial focus is on prostate cancer and we aspire to be in human studies by 2015.
At that time point we would like to see a number of Pfizer cancer immunotherapy approaches move forward based on a panel of different molecular antibodies.
Thank you Mikael.
Thanks Mikael.
Next question please operator.
The next question comes from Tony Butler from Barclays.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Just a brief question.
As you late last year made references to splitting out the units into three different business units you focused on Oncology and Vaccines claiming that there was the need for laser-like focus on these areas because they are clearly growing substantially above the corporate rate.
That's clearly understandable.
You included consumer at the time and as I seem to recall it was either Frank or you Ian made the reference that it was because the manager of the Consumer business would then be the manager of both.
Now that Albert is head of that does it not now make sense that consumer be split apart again because of this laser-like focus on Vaccines and Oncology? Thanks very much.
Thanks Tony.
I think the structure is important but not overriding.
What's overriding is having really good leaders running the Oncology and the Vaccine business having transparency on their results having somebody good running Consumer and then having an overall President who has done tremendously good work in the Established Products and the value business and somebody who is a seasoned leader.
So I don't really think it's important vis-à-vis small tweaks in the structure because of the changes in leaders.
But thank you for the question.
Thank you.
Next question please operator.
The next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks for the questions.
Frank thank you for the incredible detail on the P&amp;L structures.
That was great.
But separately you mentioned the staph aureus showing some preliminary evidence of efficacy.
Can you just give us maybe a little bit of color as to what you were looking for in terms of the quality of the immune response? So should we anticipate some threshold of real evidence of opsonizing antibodies actually showing since it's my understanding that that's what's necessary to really eradicate or fight the disease? Then separately as we think about some of the products in earlier stages of development would you mind just maybe giving us a little bit of color as to the products in Phase 2 outside of the products that were mentioned on the call today that might be particularly exciting particularly as we think about the prospect for combinations in your cancer portfolio? Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Thank you.
Really good questions.
So Mikael you are a popular man today.
Okay.
So thank you very much for the interest in staph aureus vaccine.
That's based on some various source of science that we invested in over the last couple of years and we identified four different antigens and both polysaccharide and proteins that we have shown elicit high level of antibodies in each relevant individuals.
As you discussed these induced antibodies will both induce what you call opsonization clearance of the antibody by the immune system but also they will interfere with the bacterial function which is based on some unique science that we have done for this particular vaccine.
We saw very nice levels of induced antibodies rapid onset with really the profile you would like to see before you vaccinate individuals to go into a surgical environment where there may be threatened with difficult infection.
I would like to underline that antibodies cross react with a large majority of staph aureus strains including the multiresistant strains that can cause devastating outcome of hospitalization.
So we are very encouraged by the data and we have shared it with both European and U.S.
regulators and we are now in dialogues around a Phase 2b study that we will invest in to show event reduction of infection in a pre-surgical population.
Concerning the interest in our Phase 2 pipeline I would like to underline that we have a rich pipeline with a lot of momentum behind the kind of near-term excitement around Palbociclib and adult vaccine.
Just a few highlights.
We have started multiple Phase 2 for our smooth inhibitor in blood cancers and related blood disorders an area that we are very excited about.
We are also moving our gamma-secretase inhibitor into triple negative breast cancer where we have seen some very interesting and favorable profile so far.
In the Xalkori space we are now dosing patients with a full-on drug that is targeting all non-mutations and we think can have a very exciting profile.
We have already moved one antibody drug conjugate into the clinic and we have several more that will move into the clinic this year.
In inflammation immunology we have readouts in this year of our best-in-class IL-6 antibody across numerous immune conditions similar for our Med Chem antibody and also for our small molecule dissociated glucocorticoid receptor.
Then in vaccine we also have noticed favorable Phase 1b data with (inaudible) and then moving forward with one of our formulations towards Phase 2 initiation this year.
And Ian alluded briefly in his introductory remark to some extent that work we are doing into renal diseases where we have seen a positive Phase 2a data of our novel PDE5 inhibitor.
We also have moved a second CCL25 dual inhibitor into diabetic nephropathy and diabetic macular edema underlying the important opportunity medical and commercial we see in this disease.
You may also note in some other highlights including a dual acting inhibitor of uric acid for gout therapy that we recently acquired through a licensing agreement with Kissei.
So I think you will continue to see great momentum with internal and external partnership in this area.
Thank you for your interest.
Thank you.
Of course on top of that we do have Phase 3 Bococizumab and the Xeljanz data coming out and MeningB.
So I think it's a strong pipeline across all phases.
Thank you Mikael.
Next question please operator.
The next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
Frank I appreciated all the detail that you provided.
I just wanted to follow-up though on some potential acquirers of the Established Products business.
You have implied or suggested that Pfizer can indeed retroactively audit going backwards.
So could you just sort of settle the debate could you talk about why Pfizer cannot retroactively audit going backwards and just explain whether there is an any gray area there that would be great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
So Dave I mentioned before that three years audited financials and I used the word prospective.
The reason I used the word prospective was if not prospective then it would have to be some portion of retrospective.
Remember if we are doing something retrospectively it's not just an income statement it's also a balance sheet it’s a cash flow statement and these are businesses that in their new construct didn't exist previously to 2014.
So it's the complexity involved in there not existing and the full suite of financial statements required which is why I said prospectively.
Thanks Frank and our last question please operator.
Your final question comes from Damien Conover from Morningstar.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just two quick questions.
First on Eliquis the Lancet in December published a mid-analysis that looked at the different anticoagulants and really showed little differentiation among them.
Obviously better than warfarin but I want to get your sense of the marketing efforts and if you are finding ways to market Eliquis and get a better response over Xarelto and Pradaxa? Then secondly just a question on the potential breakup of the company.
If you look forward to patent losses beyond the breakup just trying to get an understanding of how assets might stay within companies or shift companies? For example with Lyrica I think the patent loss is 2019.
How would something like that would that stay with the branded company or would it shift to the established company? I am just trying to get a sense of how that strategy might play out? Thanks.
Thank you.
So I will take the second question first and then I will ask Geno to comment on the differentiation and the confidence one can have in mid-analysis and compared to randomized prospective trials.
So look I think the way you see we have set up our divisions now and the transfer of assets is probably similar to what we would do if there was a separation but it would depend upon what type of separation it was and clearly you have to operate to maximize the value initially of Pfizer's shareholder at that time and then it either will be commercial considerations on how you ensure that continuing LOEs get well managed by an organization that is capable to maximize it.
So I think your questions is is all hypothetical this time without knowing exactly how we would if we do do any type of break-up with separation.
Whether it would be selling to another company or a spin that would clearly change the nature of the transactions etcetera etcetera.
So in both your cases we will be focused on doing what is right for our shareholders and ensuring maximum value.
Geno do you want to add any comments on? Yes.
Just a comment on our datasets.
Our Eliquis dataset is really an outstanding dataset a randomized prospective controlled clinical trial demonstrating superiority across three important efficacy and safety endpoints is a extremely strong database.
Frankly having randomized trials with those results is the strongest form of evidence that we could possibly have.
What we are doing with that that's really helping us in a competitive field is taking it to frankly the clinicians that can understand and appreciate the data the best and that's the specialist the cardiologist.
We have increased substantially our medical education our focus on the cardiologist and as a result we have seen a nice response.
In fact we use as a leading indicator new-to-brand prescriptions and we are watching new-to-brand prescriptions.
This is prescriptions where a patient is getting a new brand.
Across all of the business we are now over 25% and among cardiologist we are about 30% and we have surpassed Pradaxa and we are growing at a more rapid rate than Xarelto.
So we think we have got some good momentum going here and it's on the back of the excellent dataset that we have.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you this morning for everyone's attention.
Thanks.
So long everybody.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Pfizer's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's first quarter 2014 performance.
I am joined today in New York by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young President of Established Pharma and Doug Lankler General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance First Quarter 2014 located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions during this call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today.
We will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a question and answer session.
As we expect there will be questions related to our proposal to AstraZeneca and I would also note that there are limitations to place on our responses by the U.K.
Takeover Code and to such there will be some questions we are not in a position to answer at this time.
With that I will now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck and good morning everyone.
During my remarks this morning we will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter and provide some observations on how our strategy is progressing.
Before discussing the quarter I’ll begin with a few words about the proposal we made to AstraZeneca to combine our two companies and the rejection of our proposal by AstraZeneca’s Board.
The proposal we announced publicly last Friday represented a substantial premium of 32% to AstraZeneca’s shareholders based on AstraZeneca’s closing price of £37.82 on the day before speculation began regarding a potential proposal at 39% premium to the closing price of £35.86 on the day before our January proposal and a 22% premium to the unaffected all-time high closing price since the formation of the company in 1999.
This is an opportunity for AstraZeneca’s shareholders to realize near-term value creation well in excess of its standalone prospects as well as the opportunity to effectively trade up their AstraZeneca position for equity in the new combined company with far greater potential for value creation.
Up to this point we’ve only had access to publicly available information of AstraZeneca.
Based on what we have learned through their information we believe our revised proposal is compelling and responds to what we’ve heard from their shareholders.
We are very disappointed with their unwillingness to engage in conversations and believe it is in the best interest of both companies and AstraZeneca and Pfizer’s shareholders that we pursue a friendly negotiated transaction that can be recommended by both our Boards.
We would like to engage with AstraZeneca to gain a better understanding of their business and prospects.
We believe they are an excellent strategic fit to Pfizer and they have a strong and complementary alignment across and within our product portfolio and research platform.
That said we remain very confident in our go-forward strategy regardless of a combination.
We see this as further enhancing our strategy and consistent with creating shareholder value.
Regardless of whether we complete this transaction the main pillars of our strategy remain in place; namely focusing on innovation and advancing our pipeline maximizing the productivity and returns generated within our commercial businesses and remaining good stewards of our shareholders’ capital.
We believe that our formidable proposal merits serious consideration.
Given our position and strength we will remain disciplined as we move through this process.
Turning to our performance for the quarter overall we continue to perform well in a challenging operating environment.
Our financial performance was in line with our expectations.
Revenues for the quarter reflected the continuing impact of product loss of exclusivity and the expiration or near-term termination of some collaborations a disproportionate amount of about one third of the anticipated full-year impact was recorded in the first quarter.
If you exclude that impact we had 1% operational growth.
We saw growth from many of our key revenue drivers including Lyrica Xalkori and Inlyta globally Enbrel outside of the U.S.
and Canada recently launched products Eliquis and Xeljanz in the U.S.
and from our collaboration with Mylan to market generic drugs in Japan.
I would point out that our business has historically demonstrated seasonality of revenues and this quarter was no different.
In terms of product developments we reported positive results from Prevnar 13 CapiTA study in older adults and announced FDA approvals including supplementary new drug applications for Xeljanz to include radiographic data in the label and for Eliquis for the prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis as well as FDA approval of Nexium 24-hour for over-the-counter use for the treatment of frequent heartburn in adults 18 and over.
And there were several positive elements in our pipeline including positive results from a randomized Phase II study of palbociclib in combination with letrozole in first line treatment of ER+ HER2- advanced breast cancer.
Positive results from a randomized Phase II study of bococizumab in the reduction of LDL cholesterol and a breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA for our meningitis B vaccine for the prevention of invasive meningococcal disease in adolescents and young adults.
For the full year revenue outlook we anticipate key products will continue exhibiting growth and that operational growth in emerging markets will be in the mid-single digit range rather than in the 3% range we saw in this quarter.
Typically our sequential annual product revenue pattern exhibits relative strength in the late quarters compared to our first quarter.
For the balance of 2014 we anticipate incremental revenue contributions from Eliquis Xeljanz Prevnar 13 adult Duavee and the expected launch of over-the-counter Nexium.
As you know at the beginning of this year we implemented the new commercial operating structure to position the company for the future and to focus on maximizing growth.
We have three global operating segments; global innovative pharma global vaccines oncology and consumer healthcare and global established product pharma.
These segments are fully functioning and are increasing the focus of management in providing greater transparency to shareholders and enhancing our ability to drive the business.
As we previously committed to you in today’s earnings announcement we provided the revenues and costs associated with each of these operating segments.
In a few minutes the leaders of each segment Geno Germano Albert Bourla and John Young will provide you with additional context regarding the performance of their particular segment.
While we have moved to this new operating structure our overall focus and priorities have not changed.
We remain focused on driving future value creation for shareholders by delivering innovative new products maximizing the potential of our existing products remaining diligent in terms of capital allocation and driving a culture that continues to foster strong ownership environment.
Reflecting on the state of our business I am pleased with our pipeline progress.
We are continuing to see the benefit of the decisions we took over three years ago when we decided to focus our research and development in the areas where we have the most expertise and where the greatest unmet medical need exists.
Looking at the compounds we have across all stages of our pipeline I can confidently say that this part of our strategy is on track and gaining momentum.
Similarly our past and current steadfast focus on the prudent management of our capital is enhancing the overall competitiveness of our businesses.
This quarter once again we operationally reduced our adjusted cost of sales adjusted S&amp;I expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expense in total.
We will continue to build on our solid track record of realizing benefits from cost reductions and productivity initiatives and as we’ve done in the past we will use business development opportunities as an enabler of strategies for creating shareholder value.
Overall I believe we are performing well in a challenging operating environment.
Our pipeline is advancing.
We have a strong track record when it comes to using capital to generate value and we have an engaged and motivated work force that has embraced the culture of ownership.
Collectively these are the elements of our strategy that are helping to drive our overall business results.
Throughout this year you will see us taking actions that execute on our plans to advance new therapies of patients strengthen our commercial businesses manage our cost structure and deploy our capital in ways that yield the greatest value to our shareholders.
Now I’ll turn over to Frank.
Thanks Ian and good day everyone.
As always the charts we are reviewing today are included in our Web cast.
Before I begin I wanted to remind everyone that at the beginning of this year we began operating under our new commercial structure consisting of three operating segments global innovative pharmaceuticals global vaccines oncology and consumer healthcare and global established pharmaceuticals.
Consequently we are now reporting our quarterly and the annual P&amp;L and the quarters with structure for all periods presented.
I also want to remind everyone that as a result of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24 2013 the financial results of the Animal Health business are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for the first quarter 2013.
Now let’s move on to the financials.
First quarter 2014 revenues of approximately 11.4 billion decreased 9% year over year reflecting a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange and operational decline of approximately 6% driven mainly by the expiration on October 31 2013 of the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreements for Enbrel in the U.S.
and Canada the ongoing expiration of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries continued erosion for branded Lipitor in the U.S.
and most other developed markets the loss of exclusivity in subsequent multi-source generic competition for Detrol LA in the U.S.
and other product losses of exclusivity in certain markets.
These were partially offset by the strong operational growth of Lyrica Xalkori and Inlyta globally Enbrel outside of the U.S.
and Canada Eliquis and Xeljanz primarily in the U.S.
the contribution from the collaboration to market generic medicine in Japan with Mylan.
In addition reported revenue included 57 million from transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.57 increased 12% primarily due to an aggregate operational decrease of 3% and adjusted cost of adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses primarily resulting from cost reduction and productivity initiatives a lower effective tax rate and a few diluted weighted average share outstanding due to our ongoing share repurchase program and the impact of Zoetic exchange offer.
Reported diluted EPS of $0.36 compared with $0.38 in the year ago quarter was positively impacted by the abovementioned items and lower restructuring and assets impairment charges compared at the year ago quarter.
Reported results were negatively impacted by the previously mentioned year-over-year decrease in revenues and the non-recurrence of income from discontinued operations associated with our Animal Business and the gain associated with the transfer of certain product rights to Pfizer’s JV with Hisun in China in the year-ago and finally higher legal charges compared with the year ago quarter.
And foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter revenues by 3% or $364 million and had a net positive impact of $195 million on the aggregate of logistic cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expense and adjusted R&amp;D expenses.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01 compared the year ago quarter.
Now moving onto our 2014 financial guidance historically our business has demonstrated seasonality of revenues and this quarter is no different.
That said we’re confirming all components of our adjusted 2014 financial guidance ranges and as such continue to expect our adjusted revenue to be in the range of $49.2 billion to $51.2 billion.
We expect that the continued momentum from our new products including Prevnar 13 Adult Xeljanz Eliquis Inlyta and Xalkori.
The expected launch of over-the-counter Nexium and the accelerating operational growth in emerging markets will help to mitigate the impact of product LOEs and losses of alliance revenue.
It’s important to note that our adjusted financial guidance continues to reflect a full year contribution from Celebrex in the U.S.
If necessary we’ll update our financial guidance when we’re in a better position to make an informed judgment about the market exclusivity of Celebrex in the U.S.
from May 30 through the end of this year.
We’d report to reported diluted EPS due to the applicability of the UK Takeover Code to our proposed combination with AstraZeneca we’re not currently permitted to confirm or update our 2014 reported diluted EPS guidance which is our customary quarterly practice.
Preparation of certain reports by our reporting accounts financial advisors in accordance with the UK Takeover Code are currently underway.
Because Pfizer recorded a number of charges during first quarter 2014 relating primarily to the resolution of litigation-related matters Pfizer's previously-issued 2014 reported diluted EPS guidance is no longer valid.
Updated reported diluted EPS guidance will be provided as soon as practicable.
As required by the UK Takeover Code the Pfizer Responsible Officers including Ian Doug Lankler our General Counsel in May confirmed that the adjusted financial guidance provided has been properly compiled based on the same assumptions set out in the adjusted financial guidance issued on January 28 2014 and prepared in accordance with the accounting policies of Pfizer.
Now I’ll turn it over to the business leads Geno Germano Albert Bourla and John Young for the respective commentary and results for the Global Innovative Pharmaceutical’s Global Vaccines and Oncology and Consumer Healthcare and Global Established Pharmaceutical Geno? Thanks Frank and hello everyone.
On the Global Innovative Pharma is our research driven biopharmaceutical business focused on developing and commercializing innovative new medicines.
Our current portfolio consist of newly launched products including Eliquis and Xeljanz key in line brands including Lyrica outside of Europe and Enbrel outside of United States and Canada.
In addition to the other products that we generally anticipate will maintain market exclusivity beyond 2015.
Our strategy involves making targeted investments to help grow our recently launched brands and other leading medicines in order to generate sustainable revenue growth overtime as well as making investments in R&amp;D to support our next wave of innovative products.
Well some of these near term investment objectives include continuing to build on a momentum with Eliquis among cardiologist focusing on its differentiated clinical profile building on the efficacy profile of Xeljanz in the United States through promotion of the data regarding inhibition of structural damage that’s now included in our labeling and also our mono-therapy indication.
Leveraging our presence in the women’s health category to launch DUAVEE in the United States as a potential new standard of care from moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
Continuing investment in direct to consumer advertising for Lyrica Chantix and Viagra in the United States plus investment in growth market such as Japan.
In supporting ongoing Phase III clinical studies for bococizumab ertugliflozin and Xeljanz.
Now moving to the first quarter results for the Global Innovative Pharma segment.
In the first quarter revenue declined 4% operationally versus first quarter 2013 and this was largely due to the expiration of the Enbrel co-promotion term in the United States and Canada.
Revenues were also negatively impacted by the loss of exclusivity of Lyrica in Canada in February 2013 as well as some other smaller LOEs from prior periods.
We excluded the impact of Enbrel in these LOEs underlying operational revenue growth was 10% driven primarily by continued growth of Xeljanz’s Eliquis Enbrel outside of the United States and Canada and Lyrica outside of Europe.
Now I’d like to review selected financial highlights for the Global Innovation Pharma segment.
As a reminder the revenues and expenses presented are those that were directly attributable to the GIP segment.
First quarter 2014 income before taxes declined 5% operationally to $1.8 billion versus first quarter 2013.
IBT as a percent of revenues on an operational basis declined modestly to 57.4%.
Increased investment in recently launched brands and key in line products partially offset by benefits from cost reduction and productivity initiatives resulted in a 12% operational increase SI&amp;A expenses compared to prior year quarter.
Our first quarter 2014 R&amp;D expense grew 29% operationally compared to last year as we initiated Phase III programs for bococizumab and ertugliflozin and continued investment in our expensive clinical development program for potential new Xeljanz indications.
Additionally IBT in the first quarter 2014 benefited from a significant increase and other income primarily due to trailing royalties earned on sales of Enbrel in the United States and Canada after October 31 2013.
On that date the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement for Enbrel in the United States and Canada expired and we became entitle to royalties for 36 month period.
In conclusion we are excited about the GIP portfolio and our pipeline.
We believe our focused investment strategy this year will drive sustained future revenue growth.
And now I’d like to turn it over to Albert Bourla to discuss the Global Vaccines Oncology and Consumer Healthcare segment.
Thank you very much Geno and hello everybody.
Both these comprised of three separate distinct businesses vaccines oncology and consumer healthcare each poised for organic growth over time.
We’ve had an eventful year so far and have several significant milestones.
First with vaccines we presented positive results from Prevnar 13’s CAPiTA trial at the major conference which clearly demonstrated that Prevnar 13 can prevent a significant portion of pneumococcal community acquire pneumonia in adults’ age 65 and old.
Evidence from this study is important for population in which age related decline of the immune system makes it difficult to prevent disease.
Hospitalizations due to pneumococcal pneumonia in adults represent a growing burden to public health systems.
For example the annual cost of adult hospitalization in the U.S.
alone is estimated at $8 billion.
We look forward to further discussing this data with regulatory authorities and vaccine technical committees to help inform decisions regarding Prevnar 13 label and recommendation of the age.
Regarding ACIP we have had productive interim discussion with pneumococcal working group.
We are prepared for more formal ACIP presentation in June should the CDC confirm that topic in their agenda.
Second in vaccines again the FDA granted breakthrough therapy designation of our vaccine for meningitis B a disease that is characterized by rapid onset with high rates of fatality.
We intend to a BLA with the FDA by mid-2014.
Moving to oncology we presented positive results palbociclib’s PALOMA-1 trial at the major conference.
We are very pleased with the results which highlight the potential for palbociclib to become a new standard of care for women with ER+ HER2- advanced breast cancer.
This is encouraging information for these women who represent approximately 60% of the advanced breast cancer population.
We’ve continued to have productive and ongoing discussions with the FDA about this data as well as the other necessary supporting data for a new drug application.
We continue to envision its potential by way to filing an NDA based on the PALOMA-1 data.
Although no decision has been made.
Once one has been made we will communicate it public.
We also begun those in patients in two additional Phase III trials one in recurrent advanced breast cancer and one in early breast cancer and next we reported positive results for the Xalkori compare to chemotherapy in the first line setting for all positive non-small cell lung cancer.
Final with consumer health care we receive FDA approval for Nexium 24HR for over-the-counter use.
This approval represents the first significant milestone in executing our Rx to OTC strategy.
The U.S.
launch is set for May 27.
We also continue to advance promising candidates to position the next wave of potential innovative launches including the C.
difficile and staph oral vaccines as well as our small inhibitor for hematologic cancers.
Now let’s go the VOC first quarter results.
For this quarter VOC segment delivered revenues of $2.2 billion which represent an increase of 1% operationally versus Q1 2013.
Please note that the revenues and expenses presented are those that were directly attributable to the VOC segment.
Revenues for vaccines increased 2% operationally driven by the U.S.
primarily reflecting government purchasing orders.
Internationally revenues were flat operational with emerging markets growing at 14% rate driven primarily by China and gavi (ph) purchases but essentially offset by declines in the UK and Canada.
Oncology revenues increased 10% due to growth for new products Xalkori and Inlyta partially offset primarily by changes in Sutent buying patterns in certain markets.
Consumer health care revenues declined 3% operationally due to a soft cough cold flu season in the U.S.
and Canada in comparison with the same period last year.
Extreme winter weather negatively impacting retail traffic in the U.S.
and increased competition for our group with the return of certain brands to the market; however it is important to note that as the year progresses we anticipate revenues to be positively impacted as more healthcare providers appreciate the value of the Prevnar 13 adult indication.
Of course the therefore potential will depend upon updated labels and recommendation of the seasons.
Additionally we expect revenues to be positively impacted by the launch of Nexium 24HR and other consumer products the timing of certain national immunization programs and continued uptake of recently launched products in oncology among other factors.
I would like now to walk you through a few additional highlights from the VOC segment finance as typically regarding our income and our direct managed expenses.
VOC segment income before taxes was 1.1 billion or 48.6% of our revenue.
This represents an improvement of 2.8% points operationally.
Our gross margin was 1.8 billion or 81.2% of revenue an improvement of 0.8% points compared to the year ago quarter.
Due to a greater percentage year coming from our Oncology and Vaccines business as well as further cost efficiencies in manufacturing.
SI&amp;A expenses were $531 million this represents a 2% increase operationally primarily due to prelaunch expenses for Nexium; however as a percentage of revenues our SI&amp;A expense has remained consistent year-over-year.
The VOC R&amp;D expenses were $184 million which represents an 18% decrease due to the completion of certain Phase III trials which more than offset incremental costs related to the expansion of the palbociclib clinical development program.
Thank you and I will now hand it over to John Young Group President of the Global Established Pharmaceutical segment.
Thank you Alert and good morning everyone.
Global Established Pharma is a large and highly diverse business with unique opportunities across portfolios and geographies.
It’s a significant cash generator and its Pfizer’s largest business.
For the first quarter of 2014 the GEP business accounted for just over half of Pfizer’s total revenue and about two thirds of Pfizer’s total revenue from the emerging markets comes from GEP.
Notably during the first quarter emerging markets comprised nearly 30% of the GEP segment revenues.
Contributed to some perceptions of this business traditional commodity generic products in develop markets are actually very small part of the GEP portfolio.
And it came through in May by 5% of GEP revenues.
We see our GEP strategic priorities as two fold one is optimized the financial performance of the decline in components in the developed markets.
And two focus on the current and future areas of growth and reversing the decline in trend.
I am not optimizing the business margins over the mid to longer term.
Before I get into the details of the GEP performance of quarter one I’d like to give a quick overview of the business and have it structured.
GEP is comprised of three components I have different market dynamics.
Two of these components are in the developed markets.
First Peri-LOE includes major brands have recently aloft or are approaching a lots of exclusivity.
Such as Celebrex Lyrica in Europe Zyvox Pristiq and Detrol.
Secondly legacy established products include mature off pattern products such as Lipitor and Novex and we also have targeted opportunities that exist in this product grouping.
We expect to see a decline in both of these areas featuring tense erosion from generic competition.
However we will continue to focus on growing the patterned brands prior to the loss of market exclusivity as well as to optimize the transactions of brands to the off pattern stage and extend their life beyond LOE.
The third component is the emerging markets including the BRIC-MT markets.
This includes all GEP product sold in emerging countries and growth opportunities in emerging markets including the BRIC-MT’s.
This component is expected to grow steadily driven by favorable macro-economic and improving social-economic conditions in these countries.
Growth opportunities represents fourth dynamic of the GEP business that includes organic and inorganic initiatives such as partnerships product enhancements and are by similar portfolio spanning both developed and emerging markets.
We anticipate these opportunities will drive revenue growth and legacy EP developed and emerging markets portfolios overtime.
Now let’s go to the GEP first quarter results.
For this quarter GEP delivered revenues of $6 billion which represents of 10% decline operationally the Peri-LOE products in developed markets experienced an overall decline of 17% operationally.
Due to lots of exclusivity and subsequent multi store generic competition for Detrol LA in the U.S.
and for Viagra in most European markets as well as the determination of the co-promotion agreement for Aricept in Japan and the decline in our share of revenues resulting from the winder determination of this three our co-promotion agreement for certain markets.
However it’s important to note that certain pattern protected products have shown positive operational growth including Lyrica in Europe Pristiq in the U.S.
and developed international as well as Inspira in developed international markets.
Our legacy established product in developed markets experienced a 10% operational decline from early due to the continued share erosion by generic versions of Lipitor in the U.S.
in most developed international markets.
The legacy emerging markets increased 1% operationally growth was negatively impacted by certain onetime of shares under moving this operational growth would have been 4% driven by BRIC-MT markets.
The growth opportunities increased 10% operationally driven primarily by contributions from the collaboration with Mylan to market generic drugs in Japan and Quillivant XR sales in the U.S.
These growth opportunities performance is reflected in the previously mentioned operational results of legacy established products in the emerging markets components.
The revive one final metric for how we measure GEP’s underlying performance expiring alliance product to LOE and Lipitor in developed markets.
The operational revenue decline in the first quarter 2014 for the remaining 92% of GEP’s portfolio was 2% other post to 10% for the segment overall.
I’ll now walk you through a few additional highlights from GEP financials and we’ll explains what it’s driving some of the rations and how I see them revolving.
In terms of the ratios obviously speaking to our direct managed expenses relative to our revenues income before taxes that is directly attributable to GEP was $4 billion in the first quarter 2014 or almost 68% of GEP’s revenue.
This represents and improvements of 1.7 percentage points on an operational basis.
Our gross margin as $5 billion or 83% of revenue this is representative of the portfolio profile of the GEP business that is mainly composed to pushed LOE on Peri-LOE brands with a smaller contribution from generics.
As large brands with market exclusivity this gross margin will come under pressure.
GEP SINA expenses were $837 million in the quarter this represented a 20% operational decrease and it’s primarily driven by the increased sale force expenses in the both develop and emerging markets as well as resource allocation favoring higher growth opportunities within the emerging markets.
This 20% reduction also reflects a favorable onetime item this quarter related to administrative expenses.
We will continue make SI&amp;A expense discipline a focus of the management of our business.
The GEP R&amp;D expenses for the quarter are 2.3% revenue and represent a 23% operational decline.
This is the result of focused reductions in operational expenses partially offset by higher spending for clinical trials associated with the development of our biosimilars portfolio.
Moving forward we expect to increase investment in those assets that have entered and will enter Phase III.
In summary while GEP is expected to go through a period of revenue decline over the next few years primarily due to the LOEs of major brands in developed markets.
We are focused on building our revenue base and stabilizing margins over the mid to longer term and following the period of anticipated LOEs we expect revenue growth to return other growth opportunities become a more substantial piece of the GEP business in the future.
Thank you and I’d now like to hand it back to Frank.
Thanks John.
Now moving on to key takeaways our first quarter 2014 results were in line with our expectations with effective loss of exclusivity of certain products the expiration in near term terminations of certain collaboration agreements and a continued challenging operating environment.
We confirmed all components of our 2014 adjusted financial guidance which continues to reflect the full year contribution with Celebrex in the US we’re now operating under our new commercial structure and presentation of our financial results for the new structure provides transparency and to each of our global segments with respect to our late stage R&amp;D pipeline we achieved a statistically significant primary endpoint resulting in our PALOMA-1 Phase II breast cancer study of Palbociclib and began dosing patients for two Phase III breast cancer trials and we presented positive results of our CAPiTA trial which demonstrated Prevenar 13 prevented a first episode of vaccine type community acquired pneumonia in adults 65 years or older.
We continue to create shareholder value through a prudent capital allocation.
Today the 2014 we’ve repurchased $1.7 billion or approximately 54.3 million shares and we continue to expect to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock this year.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2014 and beyond.
Now I’ll turn it back to Chuck.
Thanks Frank and I want to thank the audience for listening I know the prepared remarks were longer than typical but given it was the first quarter with the new financials for the segments we wanted to give our business leaders some time to walk through their segments and the financials.
We’ll get ready for the Q&amp;A session and I think I would just reiterate once more related to questions regarding AstraZeneca we will limitations placed on the responses by the UK takeover code.
With that operator if we could please poll for questions thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI Group.
Good morning Frank thanks a lot for taking the question.
If I could just throw one at you I’m sure you’ve gotten this in all kinds of one-on-one meetings but it might be good just to address it again.
You know the big concern I guess about the AZ deal or proposed deal is that you guys obviously think there’s something wrong with Pfizer if Pfizer wasn’t able to acquire AstraZeneca so I was just wondering Ian or Frank if I could just get a general reaction to that.
And then number two the Street as I understand it is currently modeling pretty dramatic revenue decreases for GEP as well as more modest decreases for GIP over the long term and I heard in the prepared remarks you talked about a return to growth in GEP and I was just wondering if you could expand on that a little bit and help us out.
I know you did a little bit but I’d appreciate some more color if possible.
And then finally an easy one for Frank since you have 2013 segment information at least for the 1Q 13 in the press release is there any chance that those numbers could be audited such that that would become year one? Thank you very much.
Thank you Mark for your one question you know I think we’ve gone out of our way to say that this I see this AZ deal as a way to accelerating an already good strategy.
I think we’ve gone at pains in this release to point out the exciting developments in our pipeline the evolution of fixing of any core the way we return value to shareholders and so I definitely feel that we did this out of position of strength.
In fact we having approached AZ in December and having received a negative from them in confidential conversations decided to wait until we had results of Palbociclib and adult vaccine so that if we came back into the market it would be seen as we’re coming back from a position of strength.
So you know we will continue to operate our business continue to drive shareholder value and feel very confident about our standalone strategies.
I’m going to ask John to talk a little bit about GEP and I believe it was interesting enough in GEP when you took out the loss of exclusivity or loss of the deal with Amgen you know and other small LOEs it was 10% growth which is a really good growth in that area solid in that area.
John regarding GEP.
So thanks for your question Mark I think we’ve -- certainly in my prepared remarks and in the meetings that we’ve had with the analyst community one of the things that we’ve been very clear on is that we knew that in the short to medium term we will see pressure on revenues as we experience losses of exclusivity from some of the major brands in our portfolio that are either already post LOE and are still coming under pressure so brands would include Lipitor falling into that bucket or some of the major brands that we have in our portfolio that have yet to lose exclusivity but will do so over the coming few months and years so brands like Lyrica in EU like Celebrex in the U.S.
like Zyvox and so on.
So to be clear we certainly know that this is a business portfolio which will come under revenue pressure in the short to medium term.
But in the medium to longer term we certainly see our revenues plateauing and having the opportunity to return to growth and the underlying drivers for that opportunity that we see in the medium term would include our biosimilars portfolio.
We believe we’re going to have a strong biosimilars portfolio of we hope ultimately five biosimilars that we will aim to bring to market.
Clearly the landscape for that type of portfolio in the regulatory environment is still evolving but we have regulators that have clarified the regulatory pathway.
We actually believe that as a very positive opportunity for growth.
And additionally we see the opportunities for growth with this portfolio in some of the emerging markets including China as an example but not limited to China remain very positive.
Our China business continues to perform well.
And additionally we see additional opportunities for growth with certain key partnerships such as Hisun in China and our Teuto partnership.
So when we put all of those things together whilst in the short to medium term we certainly will see continued pressure on revenues in the medium to long term we do believe that this business does have a number of underlying factors which will enable us to return to growth in the medium to long term so hopefully that answers your question Mark.
Thank you Frank.
And Mark no change from what I’ve said previous.
2014 year one three years prospective audited financials and I think the key here is remember audited financials require more than an income statement.
They require a balance sheet a cash flow statement another comprehensive income statement and the shareholders equity statement.
So no change from what I’ve said previously.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
Good morning Ian and Frank and the rest of the team.
I just had two questions.
First with respect to Xeljanz obviously the competitive landscape will evolve down the line but you’ve talked about driving greater uptake could you just comment on why you wouldn’t consider discounting more to drive greater share? Obviously the plans are using safety concerns to limit formulary adoption in an attractive Tier 2 status position but really the plans obviously get tremendous rebates on Humira and Enbrel so I guess I am just wondering how we should think about the pricing strategy for Xeljanz and if pricing can be a greater lever to driver greater uptake? And I guess just a follow on to that is since you’ve asked for just one question could you just update us on the once a day formulation development and filing timing? Thank you.
Thank you David.
Geno could you take those questions? Yes and obviously Dave we’re keenly aware of the kind of pricing and access and reimbursement environment for Xeljanz and then frankly in the whole class of biologics for RA and have run all the scenarios and frankly at this point in time we think the best thing to do is to continue to build on the positive profile that we’re seeing with Xeljanz the data from our Phase III studies from our long term extension now we have the structured data in our label.
We have positive outcomes from patient reported outcomes analysis and we think that that will give us the strength that we need with physicians and with payers to continue to grow the business.
We saw a nice increase from fourth quarter of ’13 to the first quarter this year with a 16% uptick in prescriptions and we continue to gather momentum.
So we’re feeling pretty good about that.
With regard to the once a day we are putting the data together and I believe we’re planning to file next year.
Thanks Geno.
Next question please operator? Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Great thanks very much and I appreciate all the business unit details it’s very helpful to understand the company here.
So two questions the first was if you actually split your business into three standalone entities can you quantify how much more operating expense or dyssynergy the company would incur I think which would be a helpful data point as the street looks to value your various business units? My second question is just managing the company in this business structure it’s been four months.
Maybe the business unit leaders could you just talk about what they’re finding in terms of the strategy and expense structure of the business.
I guess my question is should we think about are there incremental cost cutting or updated strategic priorities for one of more of these units over time as the new management teams kind of further review their franchises or is everybody pretty comfortable in terms of how the business that they’re positioned today and how they’re being managed? Thanks very much.
So Chris on this idea of three segments I think I would sort of withdraw the market to the view that there are actually two major segments inside the company.
There is an innovative core and there is an Established Products and as we look to the future optionality I'll be more focused on that and looking at multiple businesses with multiple dissynergies.
So we don't really think there's any material dissynergies if these businesses were to be standalone or these two segments in fact we think that management focus overcomes those types of dissynergies.
And on the sort of getting at this stage given we've taken so long with prepared remarks I'm really going to just say that I think we feel that we've laid by our opening comments the major strategies of these businesses and during the year it will be ample time I think for the business unit leaders to have conversations with you.
Frank do you want to add something to that? Yeah.
Just a couple of quick things on the first point Ian on the standalone to respond to Chris.
Chris we gave you all the detail we could relative to kind of the direct managed and then the allocated piece with the big chunks of the allocated piece being research and development through PAC medical and then corporate centers so finance IT those kinds of functions.
In terms of hypothetically if they were separate companies there'd be some incremental cost right? There's one CFO in the company today.
They'd each need their own CFO and they'd each need their own General Counsel.
So there'd be those kinds of incremental costs.
Then we didn't assign any of the interest expense or the interest income to the businesses either.
We left it out of the allocation.
So there's some items clearly that would be incremental if they were to be standalone but to Ian's point I don't think there's anything that would be really material to those being standalone.
That’s correct.
Well our next question please.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Jami Rubin - Goldman Sachs: Just a couple.
On Prevnar 13 you had mentioned that the next ACIP meeting is June.
What are the potential outcomes of that meeting? I would assume that the most realistic outcome given the results of CAPiTA would be that the the Prevnar 13 would be included in the 65 and older mandated vaccination schedule if you could confirm that? And then just one other question or rather two other questions on the new business structure.
Ian how does the business development process work in the context of the new structure? So if VOC wants to make an acquisition or GIP or GEP I may have gotten those wrong wanted to make acquisitions are they competing with each other for capital? How do you assess which of the three groups get capital to make acquisitions? And just finally Frank I noticed when you broke down the three businesses that there is a very large R&amp;D expense $896 million allocated under Other.
How do we think about that Other business? How do we allocate that across the three businesses? Well Jami thank you for the questions.
I'm going to just answer the Prevnar 13 because I think we're -- to say -- we took a long time in the prepared remarks they will consider in June.
Normally the usual practice is for ACIP to have two meetings one to debate and then the second meeting they would vote on.
They may decide to short-step that in June and both discuss and vote but the normal pattern would be a discussion in June and then a vote in October.
Albert do you want to add anything to that or is that fine? That's fine.
It's not unprecedented what they have done it one… It's unprecedented -- we're working with them.
The data was really good but we're working with the agencies as hard as we can to get them to see and get excited about this data.
On BD how it works is? That there is a corporate cost of capital and BD is run corporately in essence each business unit will have projects that they bring forward to the corporation.
Competition for capital is not necessarily -- we're not necessarily limited in capital.
There's a competition for good ideas and best returns.
And I think the most important thing of this structure is that it puts the business leaders on the accountability side of the projects they want to get funding for.
So I think it clears up and makes it very very -- it's good governance that inside the company now a BUD that says I want to do this project and I stand by it and I'm a champion by it and the accountability attached is which I think brings a great judgment and a great discipline to capital allocation.
Frank do you want to add anything to that? No.
I was going to answer Jami's third question on the ecos I don't have anything to add on the business dev point.
Jami I think the best way for me to explain this is to point you into the certain pages of the release and just quickly walk you through it if that's okay.
So if you go to Chart number 18 you'll see up on the top quarter ended March 30th 2014 and there's a column called Other and in that column called Other there's an R&amp;D expense line which amounts to $896 which is the number you quoted.
If you go to the next page and you go to the tables on the bottom but the one higher up on Page 19 you'll see the $896 off to the far right column and then you'll see the breakdown of that between the different organizations.
Then if you go to the next page and you go to the table again but the bottom three numbers you'll see in the last number there research and development expenses and you see how we give percentage ranges to drive at each of the BU.
So we try to provide drill down for you all so you could see how we take the numbers and then how we drill them down and we gave you ranges of allocation to enable to you to do that by position.
Your next question comes from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.
Thanks for taking my question.
I don’t know what to answer this to but obviously AstraZeneca in terms of its statements has pushed back around valuation to mix of cash and equity and also execution risk.
Would characterize conversations you’ve had with shareholders voicing similar concerns or perhaps there is a slight different perception as you go around asking about that? And just another side question just on GEP I wonder if you could breakdown the current R&amp;D spending in terms of what would be on newer projects such as biosimilars and what might be associated most of the older based business products? Thank you.
We listen to the shareholders and we thought it was a compelling offer which fully valued AZ and we’re waiting commentary back or further commentary back from AZ.
On the R&amp;D I’m giving you quite a lot of statistics in the backup pages for you to allocate R&amp;D but perhaps John do you want to make a couple of comments on the main sort of around spending gap? Yes.
Obviously the precedent we don’t sort of go into detail on the sort of breakdown of R&amp;D expenses in overall.
I think what I’ve mentioned Jeff in my sort of opening comments is that that obviously includes operational expenses for the business unit as a whole and also includes the expenses for the development of the biosimilars portfolio.
I think at this point that’s probably is as much detail as I can give.
Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.
So first question for Frank and then the second question is actually on Prevnar 13.
Frank can you just talk about your cash and borrowing capacity and remind us what your current reading is and what the difference in the borrowing costs might be from the current rating to a single step down in the rating? Then separately as we think about Prevnar 13 and the adult indication obviously there has been quite a bit of impressive data already accrued in terms of the herd immunity that we have already seen presented to the ACIP.
I am just wondering if you could help us understand that in terms of the evaluation of Prevnar 13 particularly in international markets and the willingness for national immunization programs to pay for the adult indication? Then just a last question on Prevnar 13 the ACIP also reviewed a possibility of a three dose schedule for Prevnar 13.
Can you just update us quickly on how a three dose schedule might actually evolve or if that’s a very unlikely situation or if the product is already being used mostly at a three dose schedule? Okay so I will ask Frank to answer the cash and borrowing and costs and then will ask Albert to take the Prevnar adult and the ACIP three dose question.
So Seamus let me start with on the current ratings with S&amp;P - I’ll do long-term ratings first; S&amp;P were AA.
Moody’s were A1 Fitch were an A plus.
On the short-term ratings with S&amp;P we’re at A1 plus with Moody’s we’re at P1 with Fitch we’re in F1.
In terms of cash and borrowing capacity the end of last year [audio gap] dollars obviously given that given our ratings we have a significant amount of borrowing capacity and in terms of a change in rating well that due to our borrowing cost.
Obviously you got to make assumptions without notches but I don’t think there’d be any material notch change.
So whatever changes they were would not be material.
And quite frankly if you look at the capital markets these days and investment grade paper it’s a very favorable market.
Let me start first with the herd effect and then I will speak about the dosing schedule.
While Prevnar 13 has led to substantial reduction in the incidence of pneumococcal disease the residual disease burden in the U.S.
and globally is still significant.
Even a decade after the introduction in the infant program in U.S.
alone there are 440 000 cases of non-bacterial pneumococcal pneumonia.
They account for 300 000 hospitalizations 200 000 emergency room visits and unfortunately 90 000 deaths.
And globally WHO has also similar estimation.
600 000 to 800 000 adult annual deaths due to septa caused pneumonia which is the leading cause of cough.
We need to understand that the scientific community and us of course do not regard the herd effect as an alternative to direct vaccination.
So in summary we believe that the vaccination with Prevnar 13 represents a compelling value proposition for healthcare systems around the world.
Moving now on the dose schedule.
First of all we support the continued scientific exchange on the topic but having said that we have a vaccine schedule in the U.S.
that has demonstrated success and we believe that this clinically proven FDA approved CDC recommended four dose schedule is the optimal way to protect the U.S.
infants and young children from pneumococcal disease and also we believe there are no data in the U.S.
population to make a decision to divert from this four dose schedule that it is proven to be so successful.
Thank you Albert.
From my point of view and I think from society's point of view the Prevenar 13 vaccination schedule delivers considerable value and we see that value to society in the overall treatment and don't necessarily really look at it as a per dose cost.
It's more an overall value delivered by the protection.
Mike do you want to add a little bit about the herd effect? Albert described it very well and I could just comment kind of one clinical aspect what we learned in Netherlands is that when we typed the serotypes from the pneumonia and IPD cases which was possible by a proprietary assay that we have developed it was nicely shown that a significant fraction about a quarter of the cases requires to serotypes from the regional Prevenar to 7-valent which clearly shows that although there has been immunization there is a residual serotypes remaining in the population and herd effect is not sufficient to protect.
Finally I just want to add a medical aspect that - with increasing age you're more susceptible to severe outcomes and increased fatality first by age underlining the importance that Albert alluded to to get the campaign rather earlier than later in adults for protection.
Your next question comes from John Boris from Suntrust.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just first question is for Frank when we look retrospectively at the last big breakup that we had which was Abbott spinning off AbbVie when we look back at that transaction there was some dilution that was associated with it.
By our math the breakup of the two companies was about 15% dilutive in retrospect to what the separate companies would have earned if they'd stayed as one.
In this instance you're breaking up into three.
What is the potential dilutive effect operationally and potentially from any tax leakage by breaking the entity up into three different businesses? Second question just for Ian you indicated in your opening comments that once you had the palbo data and the Prevenar data that that positioned you at least from a position of strength to be able to go back to AZN.
Is your assumption that on palbo that you'll be able to file in '14 and then launch in '15 and are you assuming you're going to get a universal vaccination recommendation on Prevenar going forward and is that the position of strength that you're coming at this from? Thank you you know on this whole issue of Abbott and AbbVie we really can't comment on how they went about restructuring and what expenses they incurred and what dilution they incurred.
I do believe though just from memory that that I think if you took the value of the two separate companies after they did this and you stripped out general market movement they still created many billions of dollars of value.
So I think that's a more important issue than the dilution or the small incremental cost of the separate companies.
By the way as I've tried to reemphasize John we are not talking about -- if we are -- there's no decision been taken regardless of separating these companies and certainly we are not talking about of three or four ways split we are talking about two major segments just to emphasize that.
On this question of yours on position of strength I was not trying to assume any action on the part of the FDA or the ACIP panel I was just talking about the strength of the data and the data is compelling and that one would expect the marketplace to follow the data.
So thank you for the question.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you couple of questions that are both merger related.
What things do you think that a merged Pfizer and Astra can do better than Astra alone? In other words what do you see as potential weaknesses of Astra standalone business either in terms of product mix or R&amp;D abilities or geographic positioning or anything else? Then I want to go back to a question I asked on the call you guys did last week just to confirm or reconfirm Pfizer's intentions assuming it acquires Astra is it again most likely that you would take the post-merger entity and eventually split it up completely into separate publically traded companies because it's kind of a different story if the answer to that is no.
So I guess I am just looking for some continued assurances here and not promises but rather what's most likely or is there something about in version and re-domiciling in the U.K.
that would make a full split-up like that more difficult? Yes.
So I think if you look from our point of view if you look at AZ and it's my view not their view so I am talking of my view of their strategy not their view of their strategy that they have had a strategy of confronted with massive LOEs.
They have gone out and they have licensed in and brought in lots of products from other companies.
In fact most of their pipeline is licensed in products with very few developed nationally.
But -- so we look at that and we look it to fit with our portfolio especially immune Oncology area where they have assets which standalone or probably coming late to the market but if they were combined with our portfolio I think it strengthened their portfolio substantially.
And then when you look at their products they fit into our categories.
So we believe that with our marketing presence and our ability in those categories we can make more out of those products that they can standalone.
But the power of this deal for us is these three components it’s the fit on the portfolio; it's a nice fit with the early pipeline but it's not a pipeline story per se.
It's also a removing of overlaps and making the organization more efficient.
And I do believe you’re seeing you will continue to see a trend in the industry towards as governments pressurize on access and pricing they are really telling the industry you need to get more efficient you need to bring to market higher value products at a lower cost and there are ways -- different ways of doing that there’s internal improvements in your efficiencies which Pfizer has done and been very effective at.
There is asset swaps as you saw going on between GSK and Novartis which also gets to -- getting companies to remove overlaps or there is industry consolidation which -- this would be an example of that.
And then the third component of value here which is really important for Pfizer is its ability to free the balance sheet up and get our tax rate down which would enable a lot of different strategies.
And so all three of these elements are important I've been asked would you do it if you didn't have this part or you didn't have that part? I mean the answer is I'm doing it because I have all three parts and it strengthens our strategy right now and creates I believe compelling shareholder value.
I would say on your other question that we are interested in preserving optionality that we've set up.
We would see the integration of AstraZeneca with Pfizer along the way that we are organized.
We would preserve that optionality.
We would focus on managing those businesses as efficiently as possible and no decision has been taken about the future as there's been no decision taken about our businesses at this moment in time but we would conserve that optionality.
Thank you Ian.
Next question please.
You next question come from Marc Goodman from UBS.
There’s couple of things.
First you had mentioned last time on the call about palbo that you were going to be meeting with the FDA.
I just wanted to know if that meeting actually had taken place if you have it scheduled yet.
I was a little unclear about your comments on palbo there.
Second the meningitis B vaccine when will we see the data? And then three on biosimilars can you just remind us of when will we start to see data from the studies there these pivotal Phase IIIs and filings start to occur? Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
On palbo it is scheduled.
It is extremely imminent and once we've had that meeting and once we have any confirmation from the FDA we will let you know but we're still in discussions with the FDA.
On Mening B I don't know who's the best here -- Mikael do you have the data or there’s…? Yeah.
I can just mention that we are in the process of sharing data at conferences.
It includes experiences from our Phase I Phase II and dosing schedules and also they're recording data strong data on combining Mening B with vaccines that are used in these age groups such as GARDASIL or the typical adolescence vaccines different schedules in Europe and U.S.
hence we would present soon at the European Society for Paediatric Infectious Diseases and later in this fall corresponding U.S.
presentation too.
Thank you.
John biosimilars? So we'll get back to you with some specifics on our plans for presentation of the data.
I mean just to remind you we have two of our portfolio which are in Phase III we have rituxumab which initiated a Phase III or initiates Phase III in second half of this year.
We have trastuzumab where Phase III has already been initiated.
So rituxumab will go into Phase III in second half of the year trastuzumab is already there.
So it'll be some time before we see the readout of those studies but we'll get back to you separately in regard to your question about when any plans to present any other of our Phase I data.
Yeah.
Thank you and I would say internally that Mikael is very satisfied with the profile that we're exhibiting and the ability to say that is biosimilar and we're very pleased with the science we have and the capabilities around this development area.
Right.
We can move to the next question.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
Thank you.
I have three brief one.
First why is stage R&amp;D such a high percent of the total 56% of R&amp;D is unallocated to any division which seems high versus your peers.
Second is there still uncertainty around Celebrex U.S.
sales from May 30th to the end of the year given the settlements? And then lastly Ian are you willing to give any assurances of limited R&amp;D cuts in U.S.
like you did in the U.K.? Thank you.
Thank you.
Could we do first of all the -- yes the early stage and the allocation algorithm there and then dub you on through the uncertainty? So I think the best way to answer this Steve is the way we manage the organization which is all of the post-POC R&amp;D spend is in the business units the new operating segments the pre-POC R&amp;D spend.
So all the discovery the research up and through inclusive of POC is in Mikael Dolsten’s organization WRD.
That’s what you’re seeing in the other column.
That’s really what’s driving that.
So that’s why you get the split that we currently have.
Yes so on Celebrex both Mylan and Actavis have sued the FDA having concluded that FDA will give Teva 180 days exclusivity.
They believe that unless the courts overseeing those suits rule in Mylan and Actavis’ favor and change FDA’s ruling that Teva is going to have exclusivity.
We previously settled with Teva and as part of that settlement the earlier stage Teva can launch December 2014 their exclusivity would begin then.
Frank do you want to add to that? Just -- and I should have mentioned partner alliance too regulatory toxicology all those kinds of things Pharm Sci are all in that other column as well.
So on your question about the integration of the two companies I think we’ve made some commitments to the combined Company’s presence in the U.K.
and we clearly will stay with a massive presence in the U.S.
as a combined Company.
The next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
On the VOC unit Albert you mentioned these are really three different businesses kind of blended into one.
Can you just talk about that one specifically in terms of the synergies and overlaps you see that may give or probably keep them all as one unit as opposed to being structured maybe differently? And then second just on the consumer side you’ve highlighted the news around Nexium 24HR always have some displaying news for your singular potential being in OTC product just given your -- you’ve been generally bullish on the Rx OTC switch opportunity how important do you see to have consumer business internally to be able to profit from that opportunity as opposed to maybe do alliances with other companies that might have consumer if you didn’t have one yourself? Vamil thank you for the questions.
First question remind me again was on… The three separate… Well look see these units are independent global units that are run basically separately.
I think any type of -- and Albert is a very experienced business leader and has three division heads reporting to him.
Any type of synergies between those businesses is more of the nature of managerial talent and leveraging strategies across great leaders and not really address towards synergizing the operational infrastructure those businesses as all these things they are global and they have their own culture and their own focus which is part of the reason why we made them global businesses.
On the other side from the point of view of the corporation consumer business is an important business for us.
We see there’s a great store of value.
We’ve made acquisitions in that business and the OTC strategy is a component of the value of that business.
But we are not just managing that business only because we have an OTC strategy.
We see acquisitions as part of that strategy and switches and organic growth and freshness index in the business and continuing to make sure that business grows.
Thank you for the question.
And we have time for our last question please operator.
Your final question comes from Alex Arfaei fro BMO Capital Markets.
Ian at one point would you consider going directly to the AstraZeneca shareholders.
You mentioned a premium that you are offering plus as well as your disappointment by the company’s lack of engagement.
Then on the pipeline and approaching AstraZeneca from a position of strength other than palbo and Prevnar 13 in adults what are the other key assets that you believe may not be adequately appreciated by the Street? Thank you.
We’ve made public our offer to the Board.
We remain considering all our options on how we progress these discussions.
I think on our -- you are talking about our pipeline I think you have got PCSK9 which is we will arrive at the market we expect roughly at the same time as the other major competitors in that with outcomes data.
We have palbo we have all the trials around palbo Prevnar 13 adult.
We have got the mening B.
We have got the SGLT2 ertugliflozin with Merck.
We have the Xeljanz life extensions around that.
Around that continuing growth in Eliquis continuing growth in Xeljanz continuing growth in Oncology portfolio and in Inlyta and Xalkori some very good fast following products in Oncology that could come to market given we think they are very differentiated.
So frankly opportunities abound inside our Company both from the inline portfolio the emerging markets opportunities the pipeline recent launches and to be launched and then if you look at the sort of across of vaccines Oncology and give a very nice portfolio of unique opportunities.
So as I say we're doing this because we see an opportunity create additional value from this acquisition or combination not because we feel any negativity towards our present strategy which we feel is very strong.
Okay thank you.
Thank you everybody for your time today.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Pfizer's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's second quarter 2014 performance.
I am joined today in by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young President of Established Pharma and Doug Lankler General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on the call can be viewed at pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2014 which located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand corner of this page.
Before we start I would like to remind you that our discussions during the call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussion during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today.
We will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a question and answer session.
With that I will now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck and thank you all for joining our call this morning.
I will begin with some brief comments from the quarter.
Overall we saw good performance and strong operational growth in a number of areas including Lyrica in developed markets Prevnar primarily in the U.S.
and in emerging markets and Celebrex worldwide.
Our recently launched brands are making solid gains.
Eliquis grew sequentially 50% quarter-on-quarter on a global basis while Xeljanz posted sequential growth quarter roughly 30% primarily in the U.S.
With the continuation of this momentum these products are on a trajectory to become meaningful contributors to our underlying business in the coming quarters.
We also are looking continued uptake with Xalkori and Inlyta globally.
Revenues in our consumer business increased 15% operationally primarily due to the recent launch of Nexium 24HR in the U.S.
in late May.
We also saw strong companywide performance within the emerging markets revenue increased 11% operationally compared to the year ago quarter driven by growth in China Venezuela Argentina and Brazil.
Despite to somewhat slower start to the year each of our businesses is performing well in the face of ongoing product losses of exclusivity for innovative businesses and continued pricing pressures and changing market dynamics effecting our established business.
I would also point out the negative impact of LOEs and the revenue loss resulting from the exploration of some co-promoted revenues was 1.7 billion for the first six months.
This impact mass the companywide operational revenue growth from all other products during the first half of the year which was 3% overall.
In evaluating our performance now that we have been operating in our new commercial model since the beginning of the year I believe this structure is providing greater transparency into the operations of each business and on a daily basis it enables decision making that better optimizes the performance and portfolio of each of our segments.
Furthermore we remain encouraged by key developments that demonstrate our pipeline momentum.
Of particular note we expect to complete the submission of the palbociclib new drug application to the FDA in August.
This submission is based on the final result of PALOMA-1 a randomized Phase 2 trial comparing the combination of palbociclib plus letrozole versus letrozole alone as the first line treatment of postmenopausal women with estrogen positive HER2 negative advanced breast cancer.
We will publically communicate once we’ve completed our submission.
Also of note our Phase III palbociclib trials in advanced breast cancer PALOMA-II and PALOMA-III are progressing and both trials have completed recruitment of new patients.
In addition the number of Phase III studies where we are collaborating with leading international breast cancer investigators are open and enrolling patients with both advanced and early breast cancer and we have active exploration underway of multiple Phase I and II studies in non-breast indications.
Given the outbreaks of meningitis B disease on several US college campuses in 2013 we work closely with the FDA to submit our biologics license application for accelerated approval of our meningitis B vaccine for the prevention of meningococcal disease and in adolescent to young adults.
We look forward to the meeting that adjusted the scheduled to take place on August 13th by the CDC Advisory committee on immunization practices ACIP to discuss and vote on a potentially expanded recommendation for Prevnar 13 use in adults.
We had a comprehensive Xeljanz program that is progressing with Phase III studies underway and you see in psoriatic arthritis and Phase II studies in psoriasis for top reviews Crohn’s disease and ankylosing spondylitis.
We continue to enroll patients in Phase III trials of bococizumab for cholesterol lowering and high risk individuals the total flows into the treatment of diabetes and later this year we expect to begin enrolling patients for the Rapunzel for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crises individuals of sickle cell anemia.
As we ended the second half of this year our strategy focus and priorities remain unchanged supported by the steady performance of each of our commercial segments.
When it comes to business development we will continue to evaluate all opportunities regardless of the size through the lens of value creation for our shareholders and enhancing the competitors of our businesses.
Our most recent announced acquisitions and collaborations are example to enablers of our strategy.
We expect far more meaningfully increase the size of our sterile injectable business through their existing and out licensed portfolios sterile injectables as well as the medium and long-term through the potential of their pipeline.
And if we see promising result as we move forward with the selector’s collaboration to develop immune therapies against select [indiscernible] oncology we believe it has the potential for changing the way cancer is treated.
In summary for the remainder of this year we will be focused on executing our plans and taking the actions that will further strengthen and globally position us as the market leader in each of our business segments.
We remain committed to advancing innovative therapies on behalf of patients we serve prudently managing deploying capital to drive the greatest value for our shareholders and creating a culture within the organization where [indiscernible] creatively take prudent risk in operating with an entrepreneurial mindset.
I will now turn it over to Frank to take you through the financial details of the quarter.
Thanks Ian and good day everyone.
As always the charts we are reviewing today are included in our webcast.
As a reminder because of the focused position of Zoetis on June 23 2013 the financial results of the animal health business and the gain associated with its fully disposition are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for the second quarter and first six months of 2013.
Now let’s move on to the financials.
Second quarter 2014 revenues of approximately 12.8 billion decreased 2% year-over-year reflecting a 1% negative impact from foreign exchange to an operational decline of approximately 1% driven mainly by the expiration on October the 31 2013 of the co-promotion terms for Enbrel in U.S.
and Canada the ongoing terminations and expirations of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries the loss of exclusivity is subsequent to multi-sourced generic competition for Detrol LA in the U.S.
and other product losses of exclusivity in various markets.
These were partially offset by the strong operational growth in developed markets of Lyrica Nexium 24HR in the U.S.
Prevnar Eliquis Xeljanz Celebrex Xalkori and Inlyta and by strong operational growth of 11% in emerging markets.
In addition reported revenues included 71 million transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis.
I want to point out LOEs in declining alliance revenues had a negative impact of approximately $840 million during the quarter.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.68 increased 4% primarily due to fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding due to ongoing share repurchases and the impact of the Zoetis exchange offer which were partially offset by a 4% aggregate operational increase and adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A adjusted R&amp;D expenses resulting from an unfavorable shift in product mix and recently initiated Phase III programs for bococizumab ertugliflozin palbociclib and the meningitis B vaccine and for the studies of Xeljanz and certain other products and potential new indications.
However adjusted SI&amp;A expenses decreased because of continued benefits from cost reduction productivity initiatives.
Reported diluted EPS of $0.45 compared with the $1.98 in the year ago quarter was primarily due to the non-recurrence in the second quarter 2014 of income from discontinued operations in the year ago quarter attributable to the animal health business including the gain associated with its disposition and the income in the year ago quarter from a litigation settlement for patent-infringement damages.
And to a lesser extent the LOE from the exploration of the co-promotion term of certain products all of which were partially offset by lower acquisition related cost purchase accounting adjustments and asset impairment charges.
A lower effective tax rate due to the resolution in the second quarter of 2014 of certain prior year tax positions with various foreign tax authorities a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings and the non-recurrence of the unfavorable impact of the tax rate associated with the aforementioned patent litigation settlement income and finally fewer shares outstanding.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter revenues by 1% or 87 million that had a net positive impact of 18 million on the aggregate of adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses.
Consequently foreign exchange negatively impacted adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01 compared with a year ago quarter.
Now moving onto the financial highlights of our businesses in second quarter Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals revenues decreased 5% operationally year-over-year due to the previously mentioned exploration of the co-promotion term for Enbrel in the U.S.
and Canada and the loss of exclusivity for Lyrica in Canada in February of 2013.
And the exploration of the co-promotion term for Enbrel and LOEs of certain products resulted in an operational decline of $459 million; however all other GEP revenues grew 9% operationally driven by strong growth from Lyrica primarily in the U.S.
and Japan as well as the performance of recently launched products including Eliquis globally and Xeljanz primarily in the U.S.
Income before taxes declined 12% operationally due to the decrease in revenues a 5% operational increase in cost of sales or a 1.2 percentage point increase as a percentage of revenues.
I want to point out here that the loss of Enbrel alliance revenues in the second quarter 2014 negatively impacted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues by 1.5 percentage points operationally 13% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses from an increased investment in new products and in line brands such as Lyrica and Viagra as well as a 41% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses due to recently initiated Phase 3 programs for bococizumab ertugliflozin and additional Xeljanz indications.
In the second quarter revenues from our vaccines oncology and consumer healthcare business grew 15% operationally year-over-year due to the strong operational growth of Prevnar 13 in the U.S.
and emerging markets the launch of Nexium 24HR in the U.S.
in late May 2014 and the continued strong uptake of Xalkori and Inlyta globally.
Income before taxes increased 10% operationally due to increased revenues which were partially offset by a 23% operational increase in cost of sales driven by increased sales volumes in unfavorable change in product mix an 18% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses associated with the launch of Nexium 24HR and the prelaunch marketing expenses to the meningitis B vaccine palbociclib.
And the 16% increase in R&amp;D expenses supporting the acceleration of the meningitis B vaccine at palbociclib development programs.
The second quarter Global Established Pharmaceuticals revenues decreased 5% operationally year-over-year due to the loss of exclusivity and subsequent launch of multi-source generic competition for Detrol LA in the U.S.
January 2014 Viagra in most European markets in June of 2013 and Aricept in Canada in December of 2013 as well as the ongoing termination of the co-promotion agreement for Spiriva in most countries including the U.S.
in April and the ongoing exploration in certain other countries.
These were partially offset by the strong operational performance of Celebrex in most major markets Lyrica in Europe and Lipitor primarily in China.
The LOEs of certain products the loss of alliance revenue for Aricept and Spiriva and Lipitor in developed markets negatively impacted GEP revenues by 395 million operationally; however all other GEP revenues grew 1% operationally.
Income before taxes declined 4% operationally due to the decrease in revenues was partially offset by the aggregate decrease cost of sales SI&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses which included increased spending on biosimilar development programs.
Now moving onto our 2014 financial guidance we've updated several components of our adjusted guidance and reaffirmed our 2014 adjusted diluted EPS guidance range.
Because of the anticipated negative impact from the expected multi-source generic competition for Celebrex in the U.S.
in December 2014 we now expect revenues to be in the range of 48.7 billion to 50.7 billion versus 49.2 billion to 51.2 billion.
This range absorbs the negative impact of approximately 3.4 billion due to declining alliance revenues and expected product losses of exclusivity.
In addition we are decreasing our adjusted SI&amp;A expense range due to an expected reduction in promotional spending for Celebrex in second half of 2014 and now expect adjusted SI&amp;A to be in the range of 13.3 billion to 14.3 billion compared with 13.5 billion to 14.5 billion previously.
To reflect the planned 80 million upfront payment to Cellectis for our global strategic collaboration and anticipated increased expenses for the acceleration of certain late-stage clinical programs including palbociclib and bococizumab among others we now expect R&amp;D expenses to be in the range of 6.7 to 7.2 billion versus 6.4 to 6.9 billion previously.
We now expect approximately 200 million of other income versus approximately 100 million of other deducts because of lower expecting net interest expense for the remainder of 2014 and gains realized during the first half of 2014 mainly on sales of product rights and investments in equity securities.
We expected reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.47 to a $1.62 due to charges related to certain legal matters primarily related to Neurontin incurred during the first quarter 2014.
And we are reaffirming our 2014 adjusted diluted EPS guidance range of $2.20 to $2.30 which absorbs approximately $0.05 per share for anticipated negative impact related to Celebrex and $0.01 related to the planned upfront payment to the Cellectis collaboration.
Now moving on to key takeaways we recorded solid second quarter 2014 results.
We reaffirmed our adjusted diluted EPS range which absorbs an approximately $0.05 anticipated negative impact related to Celebrex and $0.01 related to Cellectis.
We achieved several key R&amp;D milestones including the initiation for rolling submission in June 2014 of an NDA seeking approval for palbociclib which is expected to complete this August.
In June we submitted a Biologics License Application to the FDA for our meningitis B vaccine candidate and we discussed with the ACIP at its June meeting a potential expanded recommendation for Prevnar 13 used with adults.
We expect the ACIP’s decision on August 13.
We announced several business development opportunities to further strengthen our position in key strategic areas and we continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.
To date 2014 we repurchased 2.9 billion or approximately 95.1 million shares and we continue to expect to repurchase 5 billion of our common stock this year.
These repurchases and planned repurchases for the remainder of the year are expected to reduce total shares outstanding year-over-year by a total of approximately 100 million shares by the end of 2014 after considering actual and projected dilution related to employee compensation programs.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2014 and beyond.
Now I will turn it back to Chuck.
Thank you Frank.
Operator at this point can we call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Great thanks very much for the questions.
Just two here.
The first one on assumptions is the first time you've been at this recently but on business development just how are you thinking about DDA at this point.
I guess given the valuation research and pipeline recovery that’s occurred within this space is it more challenging to find larger deals that both advance the Pfizer story and give your investors (indiscernible) they are looking for? And the second question for the past year or so until the Astra approach that better focus on potential breakup of Pfizer based on your new corporate structure you are creating coupled with your pipeline recovery can you update us on your thoughts on that potential split of Pfizer over time has your view of breakup making potential sense making at all? And I guess do you still see merits in the idea of splitting the company over time? Thanks very much.
Thank you for questions Chris.
On BD BD is not a strategy it's an enabler strategy.
We continue to aggressively look at all cuts of BD regardless of size that we believe would add value to shareholders.
So that our stance on BD and on this much discussed potential breakup as before we are managing the business in two segments broadly speaking.
One being innovative and the other being established.
And in the innovative we have sub businesses like oncology and a consumer and vaccines that are very distinct from other parts of the innovative business.
So we are giving you transparency on those segments and we are collecting both P&amp;L and balance sheet information to give us optionality.
What we do eventually will really depend upon how those business perform how our shareholders value those businesses and we will look at that after an appropriate period of time of both collecting the data we need for optionality and the performance in the marketplace.
Thank you.
The only thing I would add Chris to punctuate what Ian said is and I think for the time being and for the near future the most important thing those businesses can do is execute with excellence so that operational performance and that will create all kinds of options and choices for us in the future.
And fundamentally I see BD is adding to what I see as a strong hand we have with our core strategies.
Your next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking the question.
Couple here.
Again I'm sure you've gotten some of these before as well.
But one around the increased rhetoric in Washington around inversions.
Would that impact or is it impacting any way the way you look at doing an inversion-based deal in the future? And then the second one just on the pipeline around Palbo I think there's still a lot of questions.
You said obviously you're going to file next month a lot of questions around with what the FDA is going to do and really why would the FDA approve it on an expedited basis when you'll be getting full Phase III data just a few months later? And so if you can give us any updates there around discussions you've had with the FDA and why the need to again just maybe take a little bit more of a risk to get this out just a few months ahead of the full data session.
Thanks.
In Washington we remain committed to discussing and advocating for fundamental tax report.
And that will play out with the political parties we suspect over the next coming years.
And it’s really difficult to comment more than that other than we do believe the tax system is inherently puts the companies at a disadvantage and we would like to see the tax system reformed.
On palbo I think there is some confusion as to when we get the final Phase III data but I will ask to Albert to comment on the palbo submission.
As you are aware our submission is based on the final results for our Phase II trial and this has happened after conversations with FDA.
I don’t want to speculate what FDA will request as we go through the review process but I can tell you that until now they have not placed any conditions on us related to the Phase III trial results.
As we learn a little bit the Phase III has completed recruitment and it is expected to come to final completion at the end in December of 2015 and the final report would be available in 2016.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Sanford Bernstein.
Just going back to M&amp;A and I know you all probably struggle to answer this question but in your prepared remarks you said you would continue to evaluate all opportunities regardless of size.
My question is whether it’s reasonable to expect that Pfizer could find strategically attractive targets that are big enough such as tax conversion could be one of the benefits so the operative here for me would be strategically attractive.
Because I can think of other theoretical inversion targets but I am not sure I see the strategic value on those I’d like to get your opinion on that.
And then on palbociclib in Europe do you expect that PALOMA-1 will be adequate first submission or will regulatory authorities likely require at least interim Phase III results before proving kind of like a date with Xalkori? Why don’t you take the palbo question and I will come back to the M&amp;A?  Look I mean as you can expect we have begun discussions with the European and other regulatory health authorities and those discussions are for palbociclib and those discussions include discussions on the clinical data.
Also we have presented to them our development program and we have entered into discussions about the potential regulatory path forward.
But it is too early to disclose at this stage our regulatory strategy for these reasons.
Thank you.
And Tim on M&amp;A we look and continue to look at a very wide spectrum of M&amp;A transaction so we have substantial financial ability and balance sheet and tax inversion is one part of the value equation.
I mean we're looking at AZ we’ve looked at both their pipeline the synergies and the tax inversion.
So we will continue to look very broadly at deploying our capital in a way that makes sense for shareholder return.
Your next question is from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
I know we are all kind of dancing around the same issue Ian but just on the assumption that AstraZeneca does not materialize is there actually a plan B in place? What we have seen since then is a small acquisition InnoPharma and is that the kind of deals that we should anticipate going forward or is there still a plan in place to achieve a lower tax rate to enhance the pipeline? And then I don’t know if Mikael Dolsten is on the call but just a question on business development in out licensing activity.
I mean we have seen recently a couple of high profile licensing deals tremelimumab to AstraZeneca and neratinib to Puma and regrettably those look like a very unfortunate decisions and just Ian are you working internally and are you pleased with the team that you have in place who are charged with making these critical decisions? Thanks very much.
So on the BD we looked at both those assets that you mentioned early on in their lifecycle and we looked at the opportunities with inside our portfolio and took decision given that they were lower -- we believe lower value assets to what we knew about those assets at the time to out license them.
In the case of the Puma asset they acquired neratinib we outlicensed this so what we looked at almost 10 companies and most of them major pharmaceutical companies.
And the only company that was interested in this development was Puma.
And as such we were pleased with the outlicensing we struck with them and the royalty rate.
I have not seen the data nor has Pfizer seen the data that may or may not indicate that the product has value and we will be in discussions with Puma vis-à-vis our legal rights as to that data and the consequences of that data.
On the tremelimumab it was a decision to outlicense to AZ and I am not aware of any data that would make me believe that we made a mistake given the fact we had other products that we were developing of higher productivity value.
Now with regard to plan B my comment would be our plan A is a plan to continue to develop our innovative pipeline to restore the vigor in our pipeline.
We're making progress with mid-and late-stage pipelines including Prevnar adult palbociclib bococizumab ertugliflozin mening B and Xeljanz follow indications.
We're continuing to grow on newly launched brands such as Eliquis Xeljanz Inlyta Lyrica and Embrel.
And we’re focusing on the emerging markets so plan A is to continue with the strategy we’ve always articulated which is to re-vigor our innovative core make our R&amp;D productive and make smart and shareholder friendly capital allocation decisions.
Any BD that we do will be looked at for the view of accelerating those strategies and improving returns to shareholders and the deal that you are in a pharma and Cellectis are deals that are opportunistic and add on and we can build and help the underlying BUs but certainly are not representative of the total firepower of corporate strategy of Pfizer.
Frank do you want anything to that?  Your next question come is from the John Boris from SunTrust Robinson.
First question for Frank in 2013 and for the front half 2014 you returned a significant amount of cash through share repurchases and through dividends in both of those years can you just remind us what the total amount that you returned and how much cash that you have to bring back offshore to be able to fund your share repurchase and your dividend from offshore? Second question for Ian on large scale versus tuck-in type acquisitions if you look at your U.S.
operation which is traditionally the most profitable operation as a major pharma it seems with ongoing losses of exclusivity and losses of alliance revenue that that operation seems to be under a fair amount of pressure you do have some pipeline assets that you’re successfully launching through there but is the scale of what you’re launching large enough to be able to offset some of those pressures that you have from continued losses of exclusivity losses of alliance revenue? And then on your established products business traditionally you’ve had a lot of success bringing in injectable assets into that business but on a global basis is it of scale where you have the regulatory capabilities needed to be able to successfully launch other types of assets on a global basis through that strategically? Thanks.
Thank you John.
Frank do you want to take the first question? Sure.
So John just in terms of running the numbers last year we returned 23 billion to our shareholders between share buybacks and dividends.
The buyback piece of that was 16.3 billion.
This year the buyback piece year-to-date is 2.9 billion.
If you look our dividend on an annual basis we got on average call it 6.4 billion 6.5 billion shares at above full dividend and call that 6.5 billion to 7 billion so from midyear piece of that to another 3 billion 3.5 billion.
And then if you look by the way just in terms of numbers if you look over the last three years ’11 ’12 and ’13 we returned about 53 billion to our shareholders in terms of buybacks and dividends.
In terms of major way we have funded that as then through some our unlocking value activities.
So we sell Capsugel the cellular nutrition and we exchange for Zoetis.
So those are three of the ways we have done that and obviously through very effective and efficient tax plan.
Thank you Frank.
On your question about scale of the innovative business obviously your question goes to the strategic issue we’ve been dealing with as we’re trying take care of the LOEs while trying to minimize revenue decreases while growing our EPS and I think we've been doing a good job of doing that while we manage the sort of onslaught of LOEs with EPS growth.
So it comes down to with the question of the growth of Lyrica the growth of Eliquis the growth of Xeljanz the adult vaccine the mening B the Xeljanz follow ons.
What is the extent of growth we can get from that while we continue and of course palbociclib and when it launches that compared to the LOEs plus the growth we can get out of them as you market so it’s a very good question.
We feel that our strategy is the right one.
We will continue to be challenged on revenue growth that we see that we can manage through this cycle through those products I just mentioned and behind that we see a wave of very exciting products coming as we get through the LOEs.
On EP I would ask John to comment.
Okay so thanks for the question John its sterile injectable.
And I think maybe the first point to make is that we actually have a very strong sterile injectable business globally not only in the U.S.
But one of the features of the market overall is actually is pretty concentrated and thereabout five markets globally that probably represent about 80% of the total profit pool and sterile injectable.
The US is obviously one of those markets but the other markets would include China Japan France and Italy.
It was actually more concentrated that you would think and I think the answer to your question as we actually feel very confident about the underlying capabilities that we have particularly in regulatory affairs could be able to bring to market products in that portfolio either products that we're developing organically or hopefully in the future pending completion of the acquisition of InnoPharma products that would come out of the pipeline outside of that company.
I would add John our established products our international presence is probably the strongest of the American company and certainly on the power of any of the Europeans they had great strength broadly speaking in emerging markets with a number one multinational in China.
I’m very confident we have the talent the distribution and the know how to fully leverage our products globally.
Thank you for the question.
Your next question is from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Yes thanks very much.
I have two strategic questions and then one cost question.
So on the first two number one I was just wondering if you could provide feedback that you received on the final offer of 55 for AstraZeneca that you received from major investors? And second are you considering other major tax redomiciling transactions and then with respect to net cost obviously Pfizer continues to cut costs but also needs to reinvest.
So beyond 2014 Frank should we think about Pfizer being able to reduce net cost in terms of selling and general administrative and R&amp;D or at the end of this year will you be at the point of essentially looking at flattish cost or rising cost going forward? Thank you.
So now you see you understand I can’t make any forward looking statements on AZ I would like to put in context of I believe inflations already been reported.
We were faced with the AZ management with an indication that they would not engage with us in a meaningful way unless we had an opening of approximately 59 pound.
Faced with that we made report was a full and final offer of 55 pound that fully valued the company and gave appropriate sharing of synergies to the appropriate shareholders.
We have in general received good feedback from our shareholders that we demonstrated appropriate capital discipline.
Are we looking at additional or other BD deals? Absolutely.
And would the tax inversions because that value this was with AZ it will be part of the value that we look at but we also look for a strengthening parts of our businesses as well as we do that fundamentally what we look for is will any BD create long term value for our shareholders and that’s the lens we look at it through not necessarily through financial strategic but overall is it value creating against our cost of capital.
Frank on a cost -- ?  And so David just in terms of timing when we close out the year we are on the end of January or at least February call it 15 we'll close out Q4 and then I will give specific guidance by line item for 2015 so you will get the specific numbers then but I will comment I'll answer your question now and maybe macro-context what I have said this year last few quarters is I think we’ve entered delayed innings on cost reduction.
We have got some pressure on R&amp;D is that we have initiated some late stage and development programs that we have eluded on the call we've had some pressure on SI&amp;A and due to launch cost cutting products is a good problem to have.
That said in terms of managing our cost and expense structure our expectation is that we will continuously improve as we go forward and there are still opportunities to improve our cost structure and we'll capitalize on those opportunities and we will drop as much of that to the bottom line as we can and that will be a balance between cost benefit analysis and how we deploy our capital.
Your next question is from Colin Bristow from Bank of America.
Thanks.
A few product questions if I may.
On Xeljans can you just give us a little more color on the performance in the quarter? And then looking forward where are you in terms of getting the 10-milligram dose approved in RA.
Given you intend to follow the 5-milligram and 10-milligram doses in psoriasis what gives you confidence the FDA will feel comfortable with a 10-milligram dose in this setting? And then on the once-daily formulation what are the timelines associated with this? And then finally on ertugliflozin how do you see yourself competing given it looks like you'll be fourth to market and historically third or fourth entrants in these types of commoditized markets have struggled to gain meaningful share? Thanks.
Sure.
So let me start out with Xeljanz so we had a good with Xeljanz.
We grew by over 30% from the first quarter this year.
We think we have really hit an inflexion point with the launch of the structure data that they came after in the first quarter this year.
So we have some momentum and we’re feeling good about the performance in the U.S.
With regard to the 10 milligram in RA we think that that’s going to be -- that’s going to take a while that’s going to take accumulation of additional safety data to satisfy the FDA.
Although we have 10 milligram registrations in other countries so we will just see how that plays out.
With regard to psoriasis we have a fairly large comprehensive data base over 3 600 patients and four significant trials in psoriasis.
The results that we saw across the 5 milligram and 10 milligram doses were consistent in those trials.
It is obviously a different a patient population with a different safety and efficacy profile overall.
So we are in the process now of assembling our dossier and we will file a dossier and have discussions with the agency on the appropriate benefit risk and the appropriate dosages for that indication.
With regard to the once a day we are continuing to make really make really good progress with the once a day program.
As you may know we are not needing to do any addition clinical work we are doing some pharmacology and PK work.
So we expect to be filing in the first half of 2015.
And with regard to ertugliflozin we have again a comprehensive program and partnership with Merck developing ertugliflozin as a single entity molecule or product and also in combination with JANUVIA and metformin and we will have an overall strategy that involves both the single entity and combination products to make our way into that marketplace.
Thank you Geno.
Of course I should say fourth in but it depends upon the quality of the clinical trial and the results we get and we believe that it is potentially best in class molecule.
Your next question is from Marc Goodman from UBS.
Geno I was wondering if you could also give us an update on Xalkori and Inlyta how those products are doing in the trends and how much more you think we can get from those.
Second question is an update on tanezumab and third China maybe you could talk about some of the trends in China.
Are we still gaining market share over there? Are we adding sales reps are we moving into new cities and how the Hisun JV has worked out.
Thanks.
So Albert in fact will -- has oncology and his responsibility he will answer the Xalkori Inlyta questions and then we will go to Mikael for tanezumab.
And then perhaps in general perhaps John could answer the China question.
Mark Inlyta overall very pleased with the performance with Inlyta that was driven by very strong up take in key new regions.
In the quarter we had 101 million of sales that was up 44% operationally from last year.
Very seamless sentiments for Xalkori we reported revenues of 108 million for the quarter that was up 59%.
Overall the growth is driven as a result of we have increased testing for the [indiscernible].
It is 78% remind you that when we launched the product it was 11% so quite a strong uptake.
And second reason is because we’ve extended duration of [indiscernible] so more patients are treated and they are treated for long.
So very strong performance for both we expect to see this growth continue.
Yes so on tanezumab and thank you for the interest in that asset and as you may remember tanezumab delivered some very strong efficacy signal in the previous studies and represent potentially one of the few classes of new mechanics that are recently proving substantial clinical benefit.
And we have been working with FDA in some very good constructive dialogues and what needs to be demonstrated in pre-clinical toxicology in order to submit a new package that could open up at a potential for reinitiating those studies.
This has been focused on pre-clinical studies on the peripheral nervous system.
And we have done some in depth studies that continue to accumulate data but so far I am encouraged about we have learned about the drug and the mechanics and we have stated that we will plan potentially to resubmit the data if we'll continue to come together in a positive way no later than first part of 2015.
So thanks for the question Marc.
So I mean I think we are obviously very pleased with the performance of China this quarter.
Overall the total biopharmaceutical business in China showed operational growth of 27%.
The GEP business was in line at 37% in the quarter.
And you can see the product performances when you get to the schedules and the earnings release.
So pretty much across the Board what we have seen is strong volume growth driven by good operational performance in the marketplace.
I think maybe just a comment on overall strategy in China for a business which clearly is very important to us.
Overall our strategy has a number of areas of focus.
We are very focused on driving the legacy brands in China LIPITOR is probably a standout product for us and we see a great fit with the priorities of the Chinese government to really better treat and manage patients with cardiovascular disease on a portfolio of Lipitor and Norvasc is a great fit in that regard.
You mentioned Hisun and certainly we’ve had a strategy in China for a number of years and I had to really find ways of participating in the profitable segments of the fast growing generic markets.
And our partnership with Hisun is really a great example of that.
Overall generic products came for around 70% of the domestic market in China and really our partnership with Hisun places this extremely well to be able to maximize our contribution there with products that are great fit with again the means of the healthcare system.
Third clearly we’re looking to bring innovative products to market and the GIP and [warts] businesses in China are looking to maximize the performance of innovative products in the market as well as bring new products to market.
And overarching all of that the last thing I would just say is that we’re clearly looking to find ways of collaborating very constructively with the Chinese government and with their goals for the development of the pharmaceutical industry capability in China.
We’ve had domestic manufacturing capacity in China for many years and we are also very engaged with working with the Ministry of Health to partner with them to better screen patients for cardiovascular disease in China as well.
So all of those things together really can be hopefully a flavor of what is driving the performance in China this quarter.
And then Mark I’ll just run a few of the numbers and then I’ll answer your question about REPS.
So John mentioned 27% operational growth for the biopharmaceutical business.
Total company for the quarter grew 24% operationally and then John mentioned Lipitor and Norvasc Lipitor in China grew 55% operationally quarter-over-quarter Norvasc grew 30% quarter-over-quarter.
So just some really-really strong performance.
And we have added a significant amount of REPS in China in the first half of the year.
Your next question is from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.
Thanks very much.
I have three questions.
The first one on palbociclib can you update us on the potential interim look in Paloma 2? The second question is really for Frank.
Frank maybe you can confirm for us as we look at the year-over-year comparisons we do see the 2013 numbers broken out.
But can you just confirm that this is not fully audited information that would include the balance sheet? Basically my question is is historically you've said that there won't be a look back at 2013 that would basically facilitate a split occurring sooner.
But as I look at that data if it were fully audited it would seem like that might be a possibility.
And then my last question for Ian would you ever consider a sale of the innovative businesses should you be approached by another company/ basically a willingness if it made sense for shareholders in terms of that value that might be provided to Pfizer in an eventual split? Thanks so much.
Yes there is an interim review built into the design of Phase 3 trial of PALOMA-2 but you know the timing of that review is event driven so we cannot speculate when that review will exactly take place.
As I said before the primary completion of the study is expected to be end of ’15 so the final report is expected in ’16.
Again it’s event driven so the actual data may vary a bit.
So Seamus the way I think about this is no change from I have said previously which is if it’s a public transaction if we were to decide to do something from a separation perspective in the future it would be three years of audited financials.
In that with year-one being 2014 so it would be prospectively there years of audited financials.
So no change from what I have said previously.
So on your last question Seamus I see myself in the management team and I am sure the Board sees themselves as custodians of shareholder value and so we would have to evaluate any proposal under its merit and we believe it produces long-term superior returns of shareholders.
Your next question is from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I've got three for you.
First off on Prevnar 13 would you just like to frame the opportunity for us again if you were to receive a positive recommendation from the ACIP in August and is that contained within your guidance for this year? Secondly could you just comment around your strategic thoughts on your consumer business? Given some of the recent consolidations in that industry does this asset still make most sense within the Pfizer structure? And then lastly I wonder if you could just an up to date overview of your biosimilar programs and the potential timelines for any key assets.
Thank you.
Okay on the consumer business we see the great store value.
We have an active -- we’ve acquired assets in that business.
We’ve just launched Nexium 24HR.
We have an active RX OTC suite strategy so we see it as a business that we want to be in.
On Prevnar 13 adult I'll ask Albert to give you some idea of the opportunity.
The early approval is included in this year's overall guidance no major change.
Yes I will -- this is a great opportunity of course globally not only in U.S.
because there is a very large adult target population and there is a significant unmet need over the 300 million adults are greater than 65 years of age in the world and half of that it is in U.S.
and Japan.
3.6 to 3.7 million U.S.
adults are turning 65 this year and also depending upon a ACIP recommendation.
We do believe that there could be even an additional catch up opportunity for adults greater than 65 that have already received the old generation vaccine.
So we expect the Prevnar 13 to be the leading adult vaccination given the strength of our data.
Okay thanks again for the question Jeff.
So essentially we have five monoclonals in development all of those products we expect to come to market in the 2017-2018 timeframe after the loss of exclusivity of the basic patterns of those molecules.
So just to give you a rundown of the five we have trastuzumab which is a biosimilar for Herceptin.
That is already in Phase III that Phase III was initiated earlier on this year.
We have a biosimilar rituxumab that achieved our proof of concept in the first half of this year and we expect to initiate Phase III in the second half of 2014.
We have biosimilar infliximab Phase I that was completed or we expect to complete at the end of this year and the next milestone there would again be initiation of Phase III and the second half of this year we have biosimilar adalimumab Phase I has been initiated and the next milestone would be a proof-of-concept redirect from those Phase I studies and making this year and then we have biosimilar bevacizumab that is in preclinical and the next milestone for that program would be the initiation of Phase I studies again this year.
Your next question is from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the questions.
On palbo when can we expect updated survival data from Paloma 1? And a higher level R&amp;D question is there an opportunity for additional cost savings in your R&amp;D structure? We've seen some of your peers simplify their structure and achieve significant savings without seemingly compromising productivity.
Is that option for Pfizer? Thank you.
Yes on the overall survival data we had initial assessment but it was done when we had only 37% of the total events.
Now there is a follow up analysis that is scheduled following the accrual of additional events but the time can take really long because the average the medium overall survival of this population it is unfortunately four years.
So I really think that the final analysis likely will take long.
Just a reminder though here that the primary end point of their study was the progress on free survival the overall survival was one of the secondary end point and also historically agents on the market for [indiscernible] metastatic breast cancer have been approved all with PFE’s data as a primary end point.
Thank you Albert.
So on R&amp;D question we feel that post the acquisition of Wyeth we were very prudent in the way we dimensioned our R&amp;D spend I believe taking the combined spend of sum 11 million down to 6.5 6.7.
So I really can’t comment on what our competitors have been doing but certainly for a few years now we have accelerated the refining of how much we spend in research where we spend it we have really good tools internally to look at the productivity by asset and we invest behind strong signals with lots of quality gates and we had separated out the decision between proof-of-concept and a decision to move forward into Phase III between the research and the commercial business so we've got strong internal drivers for a return on a capital.
Will we continue to look at the best ways to invest in research? Of course we have got a CTi initiative where we have major relationships with some 20 universities in the U.S.
and I believe outside of the U.S.
at least one where we attempt to look to be efficient the way we discover mechanisms of action and of course this is a major expense which we are constantly monitoring to make sure its efficient.
When you have great products like we do and we are bringing them forward in the development and Phase III clearly there is pressure on the development cost of large trial such as within bococizumab or with palbociclib or with the mening B or with the staph aureus vaccine.
So clearly there are pressures on our Phase III spend that we will continue to manage our overall R&amp;D spend within our overall guidance and overall drive to continue to grow EPS.
The next question is from Andrew Baum from Citi.
Hi.
Couple of questions please.
First we've obviously seen increased pressure by PBMs together with lesser price disciplines from the pharma industry translating into negative pricing dynamics in respiratory and diabetes spaces.
I would be interested in your view on the evolution of that into the specialty pharma segment.
And then leading on from it and I appreciate it's a different situation but GSK recently announced the pricing for their GLP 1 at a 65% discount for the first in class.
To what extent do you think aggressive pricing strategies like that may work for products where it is late to market? And I guess I'm thinking partly of Xeljanz.
Maybe not now but at one point does a pricing lever become a potential option for you? And then secondly building an oncology company around one drug is not easy particularly if you've never had a strong legacy oncology business as I think is the case with Pfizer.
To what extent do you think you can build an oncology company without the acquisition of external talents and additional products through an M&amp;A structure? Thank you.
Well undoubtedly the PBMs are doing what they constructed to do is to try and aggregate volume and achieve price discounts.
This has been going on in the U.S.
markets for many years now and I think will continue to occur.
It really depends on the value that you bring to the market place.
And we are focused on that and I think specialty products certainly normally if you define them as having close to cures or having dramatic impact on the outcome of disease or with disease modifying have huge value.
And so I believe we will continue to see an attention in there but value is rewarded innovation is rewarded.
I really can’t comment on GSK pricing and on how we price Xeljanz? We think it reflects the both the composition of the value to the patient of value in the marketplace.
And the most important thing in that market is I think is the efficacy and safety and adoption is normally slow and driven by clinical data rather than pure pricing decision.
So I would see pricing as being more for acute conditions or conditions with highly genericized and it’s not so much a sort of long term serious disease.
Geno do you want to comment anything more on that? All that I would say is that as I am sure you are aware Andrew the pricing reimbursement process is particularly in the United States is very complex very fragmented and we are dealing with not only prices but discounting rebating step edits tiering of formulary status.
And so it’s not as simple as saying the price should be higher or lower it’s really a strategic approach to the marketplace where you first and foremost have to build value for your product and then operate within the system that exists out there for maximum benefit.
So it’s a day in and day out process we think very strategically about how to price our products how to discount our products how to position our products on formularies.
And I think we are going to continue to need to do that.
Thank you Geno.
On Oncology I don’t quite understand your comment about building around one product.
We have Xalkori in the market we have Inlyta in the market Bosulif in the marketplace we have Sutent in the marketplace.
So we see palbo as another product coming to market and we have a very in depth Phase II oncology portfolio.
So perhaps Mikael do you want to just mention a little bit about how you see the oncology portfolio developing? Thank you Ian.
So one hand there is significant activities on expanding palbociclib into a variety of additional indications and we have a handful of Phase I Phase II studies exploring various segments of lung cancer including genomic defined with collaborators melanoma and we are also looking into other novel indications.
We have a very exciting smoothened EBITDA that we’re broadly expanding into a variety of blood cancer in ongoing Phase II studies including AML and mild myelodysplastic disease.
Our gamma secretase inhibitor shows a very interesting clinical profile distinct from what we have seen previously reported and we’re moving that into triple negative breast cancers.
And in immunooncology as you know we are collaborating with Merck on combining 41B BB with RPD1 and that study will soon start.
And over the next year we plan to bring in to clinical studies on [40] antibody followed by PD1.
So during the latter part of 2015 we will have a significant oncoimmunology portfolio.
And then of course we have a Phase I ongoing with a full on to cell core that shows a real interesting profile.
So this was just a brief overview of some of the more interesting compound building on what Ian said we have breadth and depth in talents and pipeline here.
Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from ISI group.
Hi thanks for fitting me in.
Maybe just go back to some questions in the first half of the Q&amp;A if you would tolerate that.
Number one maybe for Ian.
Ian speaking again about BD could you perhaps if possible kind of prioritize therapeutic areas for us that you're interested in? I know -- I remember as recently as last summer you had mentioned a few therapeutic areas you're most interested in.
I was understanding what your priorities are now.
And then within that commentary perhaps you could comment on strategically whether it would make sense to add to -- whether it would make sense to add a significant generics component to your current business.
And then a two-part question for Mikael I may.
Mikael could you update us on conversations you may have had with the regulators in the last several months around the PCSK9 class? I know Pfizer had spoken before about how you thought perhaps outcome struggles might be necessary prior to registration.
I was just wondering what your current thoughts are.
And then also just summarize your CAR T-cell program that you recently inlicensed and how it differs from the programs that are a little bit ahead.
Thanks.
Thank you Mark and on BD clearly you want to do BD way you have potential for not only organic growth but synergy so you’d like look at the BD where you already are strong in therapeutic areas whether it’s pain oncology or vaccines.
Just to mention a few anything that would you utilize a primary care field force would be of interest to us.
And adding a significant generic component we would look at as you say we look at all alternatives if it fits it will make sense if we see we can leverage it in the emerging markets if we see there is organic growth we could produce from it we could certainly consider it.
I mean we are open to a wide range of business development activities that we believe that we can acquire at a good value for our shareholders.
Mikael on the question on PCSK9 and then I think the cart technologies.
So Mark thank you for the interest in R&amp;D program.
So first on PCSK9 we have a very large clinical program that of course includes LDL [indiscernible] and a significant severe outcome study involving those patients with less than 100 patients above 100 in cholesterol and includes prime and second prevention.
And we think actually it’s the broadest program available which could you know of course bring a real insight to patients efficient and to regulators.
We think it’s difficult to speculate if regulators will approve with LDL alone or wait for outcome studies I think it depends how other studies that are reading out.
We deliver on the correlation between LDL lowering in a variety of CV patients groups to outcome but I would underline that it’s our view that what would really matter for the up take in their marketplace my dialogues with Geno is very much that pays.
We look for outcome studies and we think we have a premier outcome program and we think it would deliver timely to competitors.
Concerning Cellectis it’s another Pfizer entry into the different modality of oncology and I am pleased to share with you that the Cellectis is the company that use allogeneic cause which has the upside that it’s not a complex procedure but you could actually in a more industrialized process provide a defined cellular treatment for thousands of patients.
Cellectis as a unique tail-end technology that allows them to modify and optimize those cells with a position that made it very attractive for us to make a deal and it’s a significant collaboration including more than 15 targets by Pfizer.
And also we are supporting some targets that Cellectis will develop and we have first rights to refusal for those few Cellectis targets.
And it includes a number of technologies such as giving the cell the specificity such as introducing signals that allow it illuminate the cells making the cells resistant to certain standard of care that the patient may be receiving as well as enhancing the course by possibly knocking out molecules such as the PD-1 creating super course.
So I just gave you a flavor of what I think we and Cellectis will unequally do in the industry and it really combines our in-depth ability in engineering of biological with Cellectis new medicine.
Your final question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
Thank you very much.
I have three questions.
What is your level of confidence around the August 13 ACIP vote on Prevnar 13 in adults? Would you say for instance that you're highly confident in the vote? Secondly regarding the neratinib comment earlier in the call were you suggesting that you believe you have some legal right to gain greater participation than just the 13% royalty? And then thirdly I would think you have kept a close eye on developments at AstraZeneca maybe involving evolution of the pipeline and I'm wondering if you would share any observations.
Thank you.
Okay on AstraZeneca I really don’t want make any comments.
It’s a very complicated legal situation whether you take a look at and I think it’s thus remain silent so far that Steve but I’m sure you’ll understand right.
As Doug you could comment on neratinib.
Sure as we indicated before we did not see the data and believe we should – to that data and we are in the process of reviewing our contractual rights.
I think what we’re basically talking about is that we were in negotiations with them and we believe we have contractual rights to see data that we are reviewing our options.
And ACIP Albert?  I don’t want to speculate what the ACIP decision would be but I’m very optimistic and I think that the policy options that they proposed were both favorable actually commercially neutral for us because either will be the only or would be the first a vax inverter will be administered.
We think that will be a vote in this meeting and we hope to be positive.
Thank you.
When you have a chance to meet Albert he is a very optimistic personality.
So we appreciate that optimism.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude Pfizer’s second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Operator.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's third quarter 2014 performance.
I am joined today as usual by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young President of Established Pharma and Doug Lankler General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed at our homepage pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Third Quarter 2014 which is located in the Investor Presentations section which is in the lower right hand corner of this page.
Before we start I’d like to remind you that our discussion during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today October 28 2014.
We will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a Q&amp;A session.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Yes.
Thank you Chuck and thank you all for joining the call this morning.
I’ll start with a few comments regarding the quarter and then a few words about our strategy including some remarks about business development.
Starting with the quarter our performance was well in line with our expectations as the business continues to perform well.
In our Innovative business for Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals the underlying business grew 9% operationally if you exclude approximately $425 million or a negative 13 percentage point impact due to LOEs and the loss of Enbrel alliance revenue.
Operationally the Vaccine business grew 19% the Oncology business grew 17% and the Consumer Healthcare grew 4%.
For our Established business GEP revenues for the quarter were down less than 1% if you exclude the approximately 383 million operational or 6 percentage points due to the negative impact of recent LOEs and Lipitor in the U.S.
and Japan.
We had good operational growth in several of our key products including Lyrica which grew 16% and the Prevnar franchise which grew 18% Enbrel remains a solid contributor in markets outside the United States and Canada where we retained marketing exclusivity and there is good momentum of our newest products including Eliquis Xeljanz Xalkori and Inlyta.
Specifically for Eliquis a key reading indicator referred to as new to brand share of cardiologists continues to improve nicely.
Since launch based on the most recent date Eliquis’ share has increased from 0% to 44% while our main competitor’s shares declined from the high of 70s to slightly above ours.
For Xeljanz the inclusion of structural data in the Xeljanz label has served as an inflection point with prescribers.
We hope to see further steady share gains aided by the growing attractiveness of positions of using Xeljanz as an effective monotherapy option.
Again this quarter we achieved solid companywide performance in emerging markets revenues increased 9% operationally compared to the year ago quarter driven by growth in China and Latin America.
Overall performance year-to-date positions us to achieve a strong finish even after taking account that we’ve transitioned to a new commercial model internally while also adapting to ongoing external market forces.
Looking ahead the period of high LOE impact will continue through 2016 making it difficult to generate revenue or growth on a net basis.
We expect the size of the impact to be substantially reduced starting in 2017.
Our strategy has not changed.
It is anchored upon the following pillars; making our R&amp;D more productive so we deliver on our pipeline; continuing to make smart and shareholder-friendly decisions on how we allocate our capital and globally position Pfizer to be a market leader for organic and inorganic growth opportunities.
Regarding the pipeline we recently achieved several regulatory milestones in our late-stage vaccines and oncology pipelines.
The FDA accepted the biologics license application for our meningitis B vaccine with priority review and set a PDUFA date of February 14 2015.
The new drug application of palbociclib was accepted with priority review of an April 13 2013 PDUFA date.
We also had discussions with the European regulatory health authorities and intend to file palbociclib in the EU next year.
The FDA approved abuse deterrent labeling for embedded-extended release capsules and our investigational C.
difficile vaccine was granted Fast Track designation and advisory committee on immunization practices recommended a routine use of Prevnar 13 amongst adults 65 years and above in the United States.
And looking at our late-stage pipeline there are multiple indications that Xeljanz is progressing.
We have completed all four three phase studies in psoriasis has Phase 3 study is underway in psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative colitis and there are Phase 2 studies in psoriasis for topical use Crohn's disease and ankylosing spondylitis.
And we’re exploring expansion of palbociclib from advanced to recurrent and subsequently early breast cancer.
In addition we’re working to advance potentially attractive opportunities that could be commercialized in 2017 and beyond they include ertugliflozin for the treatment of diabetes bococizumab for cholesterol lowering in high risk individuals vaccines for hospital acquired infections such as Staph aureus and C.
difficile and several biosimilars in oncology and information.
Given the pipeline progress being made I believe we have good sight to improve R&amp;D productivity.
In terms of capital allocation we have a strong solid track-record of taking expenses out of the business generating strong operating cash flows and having a sound balance sheet that is a competitive advantage.
We have returned significant capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
During the period 2011 through 2013 we returned approximately 53 billion and expect to return nearly 12 billion in 2014.
All of this positions us well to pursue business development opportunities.
Recently there has been a lot of attention paid to deals involving re-domiciling and the proposed regulations announced by the treasury department which make it more complicated and also potentially limits value that could be created by U.S.
companies that re-domicile.
The fact that treasury has left open their ability to make further changes without notice is of concern.
For Pfizer enhanced financial flexibility from re-domiciling is certainly still one potential source of creating value.
As we’ve said previously we will look at any business development opportunities based on strategic-fit including operational portfolio and financial synergies.
We continue to evaluate a broad set of potential options on a case-by-case basis to accelerate value creation to shareholders.
Finally a few words regarding the potential split of our businesses we have two primary businesses.
I want to say that again because there seems to be some confusion that I made and verbally created we have two primary businesses.
An Innovative R&amp;D driven portfolio which is managed through our Global Innovative Pharma and Vaccines Oncology and Consumer segments and secondly a Global Established Pharmaceutical business.
We have 10 months experience operating in our current commercial model with P&amp;L information.
This is proving valuable insights into the strength and challenges of each business.
In 2015 we will maintain a significant effort towards setting up the groundwork required to operationalize a potential split.
What we do will eventually depend upon how our commercial business is performing in markets? How our shareholders value these businesses? If in some of the parts is greater than the whole.
And wherever there are opportunities to enhance their competitive positioning which could be achieved outside of Pfizer.
It is a decision it’s important to underscore that at this point in time we have not yet made a decision.
In summary we have an unrelenting focus on successfully executing on our commitments so that we start 2015 financially and operationally strong.
And with a flexibility to take the actions that create value and is best for our shareholders patients and colleagues.
Now I’ll turn it over to Frank who’ll take you through the financial details of the quarter.
Thanks Ian and good day everyone.
As always the charts we are reviewing are included in our webcast.
As a reminder because of the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24 2013 the financial results of the animal health business and the gain associated with its full disposition are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for the first nine months of 2013.
Now let’s move on to the financials.
Third quarter 2014 revenues of approximately 12.4 billion decreased 2% year-over-year reflecting an operational decline of approximately 270 million or 2% driven mainly by the expiration on October 31 2013 of the co-promotion term for Enbrel in the U.S.
and Canada the ongoing termination of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries the loss of exclusivity in subsequent multi-sourced generic competition for Detrol LA in the U.S.
and other product losses of exclusivity in various markets.
In total LOEs in declining alliance revenues had a negative impact of approximately 750 million in the quarter.
These were partially offset by the strong operational growth in developed markets of Lyrica Prevnar Eliquis Xeljanz Xalkori Inlyta as well as Nexium 24HR primarily in the U.S.
and by 9% operational growth in emerging markets driven by Prevnar as well as Lipitor primarily in China.
Foreign exchange had a negligible impact of 11 million on reported revenues.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $0.57 decreased 2% or $0.01 primarily due to lower revenues and a 2% aggregate operational increase in adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A and adjusted R&amp;D expenses resulting from an unfavorable shift in product mix upfront payments to Cellectis and MedGenesis Therapeutix associated with recently announced agreements as well as the ongoing Phase 3 programs for bococizumab ertugliflozin palbociclib and certain other new drug candidates.
Adjusted SI&amp;A expenses however decreased by 1% operationally because of continued benefits from cost reduction and productivity initiatives partially offset by product launch investments.
Adjusted diluted EPS was favorably impacted by fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding which declined by 253 million shares versus the year ago quarter due to ongoing share repurchases and the lower effective tax rate.
We recorded reported diluted EPS of $0.42 compared with $0.39 in the year ago quarter due to the previously mentioned factors and the favorable impact of the non-recurrence of a loss associated with Theo-Dur option.
Lower restructuring charges and lower expenses related to cost reduction initiatives which were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a charge to account for an additional year of the non-tax deductible branded prescription drug fee under the final regulations issued by the IRS during the third quarter 2014.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted third quarter revenues by 11 million and had a net unfavorable impact of 10 million on the aggregate of adjusted cost of sales SI&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses.
And consequently the impact of foreign exchange on adjusted diluted EPS was negligible compared with the year ago quarter.
Now moving onto the financial highlights of our business in the third quarter Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues decreased 4% operationally year-over-year due to the previously mentioned expiration of the co-promotion term for Enbrel in the U.S.
and Canada partially offset by strong operational growth from Lyrica primarily in the U.S.
and Japan and Eliquis and Xeljanz globally.
Income before taxes declined 8% operationally due to the decrease in revenues a 12% operational increase in cost of sales or a 1.9 percentage point increase as a percentage of revenues of which 1.5 percentage points was attributable to the loss of Enbrel alliance revenues a 6% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses from increased investment in new products such as Eliquis and Xeljanz and in-line brands such as Lyrica and Viagra as well as a 33% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses due to incremental investment in late-staged pipeline products such as bococizumab ertugliflozin and additional Xeljanz indications.
In the third quarter revenues from our Vaccines Oncology and Consumer Healthcare businesses grew 13% operationally year-over-year due to the strong operational growth of Prevnar Xalkori Inlyta and Nexium 24HR.
Income before taxes increased 19% operationally due to increased revenues which were partially offset by a 12% operational increase in cost of sales driven by increased sales volume.
As a percentage of revenue cost of sales decreased by 0.2 percentage points due to a favorable change in product mix and there was a 13% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses due to Nexium launch cost and Prevnar Adult investment and prelaunch expenses of palbociclib and our meningitis B vaccine candidate.
R&amp;D expenses however decreased 10% operationally due to lower cost for certain oncology programs partially offset by increased investment in the palbociclib and mening B development programs.
In the third quarter Global Established Pharmaceutical revenues decreased 6% operationally year-over-year due to the previously mentioned product losses of exclusivity and the loss of alliance revenues and an operational decrease of Lipitor in U.S.
and Japan.
Income before taxes declined 4% operationally due to the decrease in revenues it was partially offset by the decreases in cost of sales SI&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses which included increased spending on biosimilar development programs.
Now moving on to our 2014 financial guidance we’re updating certain components of our 2014 financial guidance based on our year-to-date performance recent changes in the foreign exchange rates and our outlook for the remainder of the year.
It's important to note that this guidance does not include an adjustment for the potential devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar or any other currency.
We’re narrowing our adjusted revenue range to 48.7 billion to 49.7 billion from 48.7 billion to 50.7 billion.
We are narrowing and lowering our adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of adjusted revenues range to 18.5% to 19% or 19% to 20%.
We are narrowing our adjusted SI&amp;A expenses range to 13.5 billion to 14 billion from 13.3 billion to 14.3 billion.
We are narrowing our adjusted R&amp;D expense range to 6.9 billion to 7.2 billion from 6.7 billion to 7.2 billion.
We now expect other income to be approximately 400 million versus our previous expectation of about 200 million.
We continue to expect our adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 27% which does not assume the renewal of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit if renewed the effect would not be material and we would not anticipate any impact on our 2014 adjusted effective tax rate guidance.
We are narrowing our reported diluted EPS range to a $1.50 to $1.59 from a $1.47 to $1.62 and we are narrowing our adjusted diluted EPS range to 2.23 to 2.27 versus 2.20 to 2.30.
Now moving onto the key takeaways we narrowed our guidance ranges for adjusted revenues and adjusted diluted EPS.
We recently achieved several key R&amp;D milestones related to palbociclib our meningitis B vaccine candidate Prevnar 13 and our investigational C/ diff vaccine.
We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.
To-date in 2014 we have returned approximately 5 billion in dividends to shareholders and repurchased 4.2 billion or approximately 140.4 million shares and we continue to expect to repurchase approximately 5 billion of our common stock this year.
These repurchases and planned repurchases for the remainder of the year are expected to reduce total shares outstanding year-over-year by a total of approximately 100 million shares by the end of 2014 after considering actual and projected dilution related to employee compensation programs.
In total we expect to return nearly 12 billion of the shares repurchase in dividends to shareholders this year.
In addition last week the Board of Directors authorized a new $11 billion share repurchase program to be used overtime.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2014 and beyond.
With that I’ll turn it back to Chuck.
Thank you Frank and Ian for your comments.
At this point operator can we please pull for questions?  Great thanks very much for the questions.
Just a few here on bis dev first I just want to make sure I am clear on your comments.
Do you still see meaningful value to Pfizer from inversion or should we be thinking about larger deals having to be much more driven by operating synergies and pipeline opportunities I guess relative to I’ll say six or 12 months ago? The second question is just how does the potential for future treasury action factor into that analysis in terms of -- do you really kind of know what treasury ultimately does and does that effect how you are thinking about this? And then the final one is just a broader one which is relative to a year ago it seems like Pfizer is much more focused on business development.
I guess this question is for what’s kind of changed over the last year that it seems like you are just kind of seeing that is just a big value creating event for shareholders that didn’t exist maybe one or two years ago? Thanks very much.
Thanks Chris.
I appreciate your questions on BD I just want to make the point that BD is not a strategy it is an enabler of the strategy.
So I don’t want to get us sort of totally focused on BD and not on the strength of our underlying business the development of our pipeline and I think in our prepared remarks has gone through that so I won’t repeat it here but I do want to stress that we feel the strategies we have put in place on improving our innovative core and getting capital allocation right are working and working well.
So the rules that the proposed rule changes on inversions have not stopped inversions if you are between the 80% and 60% I think it's fair to say they have made it more difficult and perhaps changed the timing on realization of the value.
But we still believe on a case-by-case basis there is meaningful value that we had from inversions and probably the most significant is the liberation of a substantial proportion of your future cash flows outside of the U.S.
tax system into a territorial system.
The next question I believe was future treasury actions.
I can’t predict what they are going to do so no one can it's worrying that we’re putting this the U.S.
businesses are put in this uncertain situation and that U.S.
companies are put in such a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis foreign competitors both from the tax rate and also the uncertainty of the rules.
But that’s where we are today and that is what we have to live with.
I think what it means is that as you look at inversion you need to thoroughly understand case-by-case what inversion target is what your capabilities are and how you intend to realize the values and there should be multiple ways of realizing such value because you can't anticipate the rule changes that treasury may put in place so all of that would be factored in I think by anybody who intends to do an inversion deal.
And then I think from your question about why more focus on Pfizer now on BD.
I think if you got to look that in the context of when this team they took over the company back in late '10 we were really focused on fixing our related core working with Michael to make sure that our science organization was best-in-class.
Advancing our pipeline getting our capital allocation right getting our expense base right getting our culture the way we want it to be and I think through '11 '12 and parts of '13 we got where we wanted to be and we felt very confident about our ability to take on BD over a bolt-on or a large size and ensure we maximize the value of any such BD.
So I think that explains the timing.
Thank you for the question.
Thanks Ian.
Operator next question please.
Thanks.
Ian what have been the key learnings since the decision of separating your businesses internally.
I realize you are telling 10 months but I am sure you've learned from some goods and bads? And may be part B of that questions is a hypothetical.
If someone were to offer you a price for the EP business and could run it in a more cost and tax efficient manner and Pfizer shares could benefit from that would it even be possible at this point or soon from an operational standpoint in other words has enough separation work occurred to enable that type of hypothetical to be a reality? Thanks.
Okay I will deal with the learnings and then I’ll ask Frank to talk about the hypothetical of this more immediate separation.
I think the learnings are what we basically expected is the power of focus it's the power of having a leader on a team focused on Established products with John Young leading that with crafting strategies that address the specific issues of the EP business of driving that business in those countries without losing focus on what the strategies are for that business.
it is about having John working on growth opportunities his team looking for growth opportunities I think it's back to the whole area of give a team an objective make it clear make it focused and let them go at it.
And if you've got good people they will come up with extraordinary results.
So I think that's the learning on that and we continue to be pleased with the way John’s approaching his the way Albert is doing it with VOC and what Geno is doing with GIP.
I mean these growth rates in Eliquis and Xeljanz and Lyrica are a result of a great management team working and Albert also will be the growth in the Vaccines Oncology.
So I am very pleased with the focus we are achieving.
So with that I’ll handover to you.
Yes.
And so Gregg in terms of the timing the way I will answer the question relative to for example our Established Products business.
The way to think about this is is it a public transaction or a private transaction.
If it's a public transaction and by the way I know your example was the private one I’ll get to it.
If it's a public transaction so a reverse mortgage trust a partial spin a complete spin a partial IPO a partial IPO followed by a single split and three years of audited financials is required and that would be three years of prospective audited financials.
So think about that as 2017.
If it's a private transaction by the way your example was a private transaction.
So we sell an entire segment to someone who we would sell a partial element of your segment or a joint venture with a minority interest or a joint venture with a majority interest.
Then it is subject to what's called a significance test and then there is three tests within the significance test there is an asset test an income test and an investment test.
The asset test is the targets assets as a percentage of the acquirer's assets.
The income test is the acquirer's income as a percentage of the acquirer's income.
And then the investment test is the acquirer's investment in the target as a percentage of the acquirer's assets.
If all three tests are below 20% no audited financials are required.
If anyone test is between 20% and 40% one year audited financials is required.
If anyone test is between 40% and 50% two years of audited financials are required and if anyone test is greater than 50% two years of balance sheet three years of income statement cash flow comprehensive income and shareholders’ equity are required.
Given the size of our established products business it is very likely one of the tests if not all would be greater than 50%.
Gregg you can see that we've given this some considerable thought and continually working on this and leaving no stone unturned in ways of trying to achieve our objective here.
Thank you.
Thank you Frank and Ian.
Next question please operator.
Hi thank you for taking my question.
Actually Vlad Nikolenko sitting in for Mark again congratulations with a great quarter and I have a couple of questions about the R&amp;D update.
So I am wondering if you can provide more color on the level of confidence for the ongoing palbociclib filing which is our understanding is based on Phase 2 data and the plans how to use the Phase 3 data? And also I want to know if you can give more highlights about the ongoing PCSK9 program.
And finally just to get more sense about the state of the pipeline.
Because currently published pipeline accounts more than 80 programs at different stages of the development some of them are label extensions.
Just what investors have to focus on besides palbociclib and PCSK9 and Vaccines that you already mentioned? Thank you.
Paul thank you very much good questions which we welcome answering so I’ll ask Albert to deal with the palbo issue Geno with the bococizumab and then we’ll ask Mikael to give you a succinct description of the portfolio and what we’re excited about.
Thank you Vlad and for palbo as you are aware we have submitted a filling and FDA has accepted the NDA and gave us priority review.
And we have a PDUFA date which is on April 13.
This filing was based on Phase 2 data.
To-date FDA has not placed any conditions related to submission of Phase 3 data results during the NDA review.
In fact we do not expect to have any Phase 3 data before the PDUFA date.
There is an interim review built into the protocol which is event driven and so I cannot speculate when it will happen but this interim review will not happen before the PDUFA date.
So we’re looking forward to continue working with the FDA so we can bring this product to patients as soon as possible.
Thank you Geno?   The palbociclib the PCSK9 program is progressing we’re in Phase 3.
We’ve been enrolling for about a year now.
We have a fairly extensive Phase 3 program with five LDL trials and two cardiovascular outcomes trial.
This I think differentiates our program from others in the category.
So I believe we’re the only one with a cardiovascular outcomes trial in the high risk patients who are unable to get their LDL levels below 100 on maximum doses of statins.
And so this is a patient population where we’re likely to show a benefit and in the event that reductions in LDL levels to very low levels don’t show the linearity that we’re looking for.
We think this patient population will still show the benefit.
We have a second cardiovascular outcomes trial in a broader patient population testing whether reducing LDL levels below the current recommended levels will confer an additional morbidity or mortality benefits.
So it is a robust program we’re moving quickly to enroll patients and we’re on-track.
Mikael some comments on the -- do you have products outside of those mid-term.
Absolutely the way to look upon the pipeline is as you said we have more than 80 projects across Phase 1 to registration.
And when you look at the late-stage I would encourage you to see it as four potential blockbuster franchisees supporting GIP VOC and GEP and you are aware of palbo for VOC for GIP boco and Xeljanz’s lifecycle management.
As you have heard Xeljanz is really picking up pace in array and there are multiple indications that the following psoriasis ulcerative colitis psoriatic arthritis and a QD foray.
And then finally for GEP the biosimilars which are moving to four soon in Phase 3 and one additional in PUC study.
There is also an upside that we haven’t discussed a lot and that is progress that we’re making on tanezumab in pre-clinical safety in the dialog with the agency and we look forward to concluding this data with a potential opportunity to get back on the dialog to restart that program pending of course good date and so on agency dialogs.
You already mentioned vaccines and I expect that we’ll see mid of next year that we’ll have six different programs in addition to staph C.
diff we also have therapeutic vaccines now coming that includes a gene nicotine and cancer vaccine and I encourage you to see that as a whole technology platform that we have built.
In enology inflammation in addition to the tofacitinib oral program there are now additional opportunity in psoriasis we have recently seen encouraging data for our topical version of tofacitinib in both dermatitis and psoriasis and we’re designing a new generation of JAK inhibitors with psoriasis as well as for IBD.
In the cardiovascular and metabolic we have generated encouraging data on novel PD-5 inhibitor for diabetic nephropathy and we’ve another drug CS-25 that is leading out in the next one or two months.
Oncology there is very nice mid-staged pipeline with the GSI drug for genetical altered triple-negative breast a broad program around slow and hematology and we have recently seen encouraging Phase 1 data for our full on drug 392 and as you are all aware we’re building a increasingly robust immuno-oncology second wave program and we’re now for example dosing 41BB on top of PD-1 in a partnership with Merck and recently we moved our fifth antibody drug conjugate into the clinic and addressing multiple solid tumors so these were just a couple of things that I think will deliver a lot of momentum over the next two years.
Thank you Mikael.
Thanks Mikael.
Next question please operator? Yes I'm not sure if Geno is on the line but if he could talk about the oncology business and maybe specifically some of the products.
Inlyta Xalkori some of these products look that they are slowing down a little bit so I was curious what's happening there.
And then I believe we got into the oncology just at the end there about how you are positioning yourself for the future but I'm curious how you are thinking about immuno-oncology and the products that you are working on.
And then on biosimilars could you tell us the four Phase 3s has anything moved forward? When should we be expecting the Phase 3s to finish? Okay so I’ll ask Albert who has responsibility for oncology business to make some comments on SUTENT and Inlyta and Xalkori and all basically are in line products and then on the positioning perhaps of the for immuno-oncology I’d ask Mikael to make a comment on that and then on biosimilars John could make comment.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot for the Inlyta as you know we said for the quarter 23% growth operational U.S.
was 9%.
And in U.S.
we have a strong uptake in the academic setting what we’re working now it is to make sure what we have strong uptake also in the community setting and to have numerous programs that are in place to achieve that.
In EU Inlyta it was quite impressive 32% growth for the quarter.
However the results are driven basically by positive ESMO guidelines but now are endorsing Inlyta as a standard second line treatment option and also we saw this year improvement in our reimbursement status.
Right now we have basically all 16 EU countries reimbursing Inlyta.
If I go to Xalkori in Xalkori we were very pleased with the performance.
We had 55% growth operationally for the quarter.
U.S.
33%.
It’s driven by clearly an increased testing for the ALK gene mutation right now we’re at 74% testing to remind you we started at the launch at 11% and the year ago was 60%.
So it’s a significant improvement.
In EU the growth was even more impressive 74% for the quarter.
Although over there again it is driven by ESMO treatment guidance but also we have positive data from the PROFILE 1014 study that we released and that is driving a lot of these results in Europe.
And finally in Japan Xalkori had 43% growth and is driven by again the new data of PROFILE 1014 but have compared Xalkori to the standard chemotherapy.
Thank you very much.
So we go to the positioning on immuno-oncology.
Yes we’re enthusiastic about immuno-oncology rising as a new modality in oncology and as you know that’s been durable but mainly are partial responses and we see the next level of immuno-oncology to go to deeper and more complete responses and that where we really are focusing our current efforts strongly to be a leader.
I mentioned briefly that our 41BB is now dosing on top of PD-1 in a partnership with Merck.
We have a partnership to study 41BB on top of CCR4 with KHK.
And we’re moving additional checkpoint modulators into human studies export early next year or later next year our own PD-1.
In addition to the checkpoint drugs I think you will see not only I/O plus I/O combos but I/O plus targeted agents.
And we’re working in a partnership with Merck studying PD-1 plus Inlyta and planning to study PD-1 plus Xalkori together.
A second modality beyond the I/O checkpoints are cancer vaccines where we’re planning during next year to start our first out of a serious of cancer vaccine clinical studies.
We also have our own platform of bi-functional antibodies that will start delivering human agents in 2016.
And as you know we did with Cellectis and partnership around CAR T-cell so we’re playing very broadly with the leading technologies and assets and our goal is to move one to two immuno-oncology agents in the classes as I described every year for the coming period into human studies mainly focusing on combination which we think will deliver the outmost value of deep more durable responses.
Thank you Mikael John?  Okay.
So thanks for the question Marc.
So just as a reminder in our first wave we have five monoclonals in our biosimilar portfolio primarily in oncology and inflammation indications.
So the three biosimilars are already in Phase 3 studies that are ongoing or enrolling our biosimilar for rituximab our biosimilar for trastuzumab and biosimilar for infliximab.
So those Phase 3 studies are ongoing already.
As Mikael mentioned earlier on biosimilar bevacizumab has just recently completed successfully completed Phase 1 study and so the next milestone for that in development would be at the initiation of Phase 3 and we have an adalimumab biosimilar which is currently in Phase 1.
So those studies are progressing well and we anticipate bringing this portfolio to the market in the 2017-2018 timeframe.
Thanks John.
Moving to the next question please operator.
A few questions you stated I think that you would file palbociclib in the EU in 2015.
Is that based on the same Phase 2 data that you submitted to the FDA so the filing could be early in 2015? Or is it based on some look at Phase 3 as well which would probably push the filing to later in the year? And two questions for Ian and I apologize in advance for both.
But why the very deliberate comment on two businesses rather than three when the Company is giving financials on three businesses and has been talking about three businesses for several years? I know you've been talking about two companies or two businesses in recent calls but why the need to emphasize it now? Secondly I'm not clear on the benefit to Pfizer of saying an inversion is still possible.
Is it for instance to prompt further treasury clarification or for some other reason? Thank you.
I’ll ask -- on the -- as answering a question about whether we still thought that inversion was a viable strategic component of any deal we still believe it is I was answering the question so I think that explains why I answered it that way it was no ulterior motive beyond that of reassuring investors that while the rules have changed we still believe in the appropriate circumstances that inversions can be part of the value mix of a deal.
And although we can do deals and we do see value in deals with that inversions it still remains part of our overall mix.
So I hope it explains that Steve.
On the two businesses the reason I would so I’ve been talking to investors and I believe there is a confusion out there we have two businesses we report one of the businesses in several in two segments.
We have our business which is our Innovative business which relies on our core research and our core capabilities and which I see as an integral business is made up of Oncology and Vaccines and Consumer and what I would call traditional Innovative.
That is as I see it one business and the fact that we report it separately is really an artifact of the SEC rules on segment reporting and depending on pure management construct and who reports to the CEO.
And I think that’s led to some confusion in the investment community that we see the company as made up of more than two business segments.
So I see two business segments one is Innovative using those resources of Innovative and one that is Established using and those are the ones that John runs.
So I just wanted to make that clear and most of the work we’re doing on optionality is around those two businesses not around more than those two businesses Palbo in the EU? Yes.
Thanks a lot Steve.
And we have had discussions with the European regulatory health authorities on the clinical data and it is our intention to file an EU and that filing will happen in 2015 I don’t want to be more specific if it's going to be beginning of the end of ’15 or it is going to be in 2015.
Now of the anticipated filing packets will likely look similar to what was submitted in U.S.
to the FDA.
Okay.
Thanks Albert.
Next question please.
Good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
Just on BD the immuno-oncology product seems to continue to grow as potential indications continue to grow making it arguably more attractive for those who aren't first to market.
How are you thinking about this space with regards to your business development priorities? And then just on Xeljanz there's obviously it a couple of competitor JAKs on the horizon.
How do you view the competitive threat and Xeljanz's positioning? And you said on track for a filing in the first half of 2015 for your once daily formulation.
Thanks.
Alright so Geno can talk about the Xeljanz situation and then I’ll come back on the BD.
Yes so I think we’re very pleased with the progress we’re making with Xeljanz we see continued adoption by rheumatology community we have about a 10% now share of new to brand patients from rheumatology which is a nice leading indicator of where that business is going.
Obviously the rheumatology community is getting more and more comfortable with Xeljanz a majority that uses Xeljanz is used in what I call methotrexate free regiments where patients who have difficulty with methotrexate are finding adequate therapy with Xeljanz which is great.
So it's becoming entrenched it's becoming established and we think that's going to speak well for its competitive position in the future and we are still on-track for our first half filing for the once a day.
On our immuno-oncology BD activity I agree with you that I think the value is in combinations.
You've all seen the results of PD-1s there are some durable responses in monotherapy but our belief is that the true power of the immuno-oncology will be from combinations perhaps on two or three combinations and so we are focused in developing our second wave in oncology and our vaccines and the CART technology and are clearly open to any type of business development which would give us access earlier to a PD-1 type portfolio that we could more easily integrate and combine with our second wave.
Thanks Ian.
Next question please operator.
Thanks very much.
So I have two questions first regarding the net cost outlook.
Frank could you just talk about how investors should think about cost trends going forward? And maybe you could weave in some comments about the potential for some increased cost if you are building up two business segments from the one that currently exists globally? And then with respect to palbo I'm just curious what should investors focus on in terms of timing of next key palbociclib readouts in case the FDA does not improve palbociclib on the first cycle review next spring? Thank you.
Okay.
Frank do you want to go into the net cost and then Albert can look at the… So Dave the way I think about cost trends going forward is kind of by starting with where are we and I think where we are now and I've said this before as we are in the late innings I think on cost reduction that there is always more opportunity to be more efficient in everything that we do but I think the big ticket items are behind us.
We've basically gotten those identified we've gotten those implemented and we've gotten those executed and they are obviously in our results.
So I think going forward there will be some opportunities but the big ticket opportunities in my perspective are behind us.
The one thing I would say though about just kind of managing cost is I am making every statement based on the hand we currently have.
To the extent that we expand that hand through whatever collaborations partnerships business development and that gives us opportunities once again to be more efficient on a going forward basis.
So I think late innings we've taken a bunch out still some more we can take out but the big ticket item is primarily behind us.
In terms of frankly increased cost going forward I think the way I will answer that is if you look at this year to last year so '14 to '13.
The one area where you see a fairly sizeable increase is in our R&amp;D spend.
If you look at our guidance for the year now we just tightened it to 6.9 to 7.2.
You take midpoint of that range just for analytical purposes compared to last year our R&amp;D spend year-over-year is up $0.5 billion.
So the late-stage assets that we talked about plus the business transactions we did with Cellectis and MedGenesis.
So you see some pressure on the R&amp;D spend at least in '14 versus '13.
Beyond '14 going into '15 we will obviously give the guidance on every line item when we get on our next earnings call where we close out '14 to provide guidance for 2015.
Thanks Frank I think you want to comment on the -- I think the comment was is there any ongoing expenses of setting up the two businesses… Oh yes.
So -- thanks Ian.
So in terms of optionality the short answer is there are and they haven't been material on a year-to-date basis but we are clearly incurring expenses give or take about 50 million this quarter roughly twice that year-to-date that will ramp-up as we go into 2015 and obviously I will call that out on a go forward basis.
Yes and there were two types of expenses of course one is just the ongoing which I think are very modest structural expenses of running and collecting information for two businesses and the other which is more one-off and one-time as you set up your structures and your tax planning et cetera et cetera.
Okay Albert on the… Oh yes Albert on… Palbociclib.
Yes.
Right now we are focused on getting in U.S.
registration based on our Phase 2 submission.
FDA has accepted this submission has given us priority review and a PDUFA date of April 2015 we are looking forward to bring the product to U.S.
based on this submission to the U.S.
patients as soon as possible.
In Europe as we have said we also plan to submit in 2015 with a similar packet.
I can tell you that there are several studies that are moving on and we have PALOMA-2 which is a Phase 3 study but it is expected to come to completion at the end of 2016 so the report sometime in the March 2016.
This is a replica of our Phase 3 study.
We have two additional studies that will give us additional registration indications which are in recurrent and one of them is expected to come to completion again next year.
And then we have one registration study that one Phase 3 study which is in the recurrent advance in early-stage with high risk of recurrence.
And this is expected to come into completion sometime in the ’19 timeframe.
So as I said our focus right now it is to bring the first indication which is first line advance metastatic in U.S.
based on our submission in -- that happened this August and has a PDUFA date of April 13.
I suppose David you know to your question that while we are working with the FDA to get approval in the April timeframe of palbo if they decide not to approve on that then we have the replica which we’ll report out towards the end of the year with interim look at some point in the year if they hit the number of events.
But I think the more important thing is that we have already started the trials to expand beyond advance breast cancer and intermediate and early.
And that lead is not a lead that will be eroded by the decision on when we get approval for advanced breast cancer.
Because the fact that we started those trials now that and our competitors are not in a position to start those trials because they don’t have the data.
So if you look at it from a competitive point of view there is a competition for advanced breast cancer which may become more intense if our approval is delayed until the end of our Phase 3 trial.
But I don’t see that having any implications on the competitive position on the intermediate or early breast cancer which is far larger percentage of the market longer term.
So I hope that explains how we see the dynamics of that market.
Next question please.
Ian just I want to go back to capital allocation.
I think the market is saying that you need to do something bold and just wondering if you agree with that? And if so how would you -- what would you define as bold? And what is your timeline? We've been talking about capital allocation and doing something bold now for several quarters.
How we thinking in terms of timing? Thirdly I think that the AstraZeneca deal was thought of as a potential carve out opportunity.
Would you consider -- I think the GEP business as a business that really has limited longer-term growth visibility whereas the innovative business we see pipeline assets that would drive future growth.
Can you describe your options options available to you in the GEP business? I think you've described incremental options.
But is there something you could do in that business that's on the bolder side? Thanks very much.
Well your characterization of something bold going back to the issue we have a great sense of urgency inside Pfizer to continue to accelerate returns to shareholders.
So to the extent that BD will allow us to do that then I am willing to take bold actions.
And I believe that the initial approach to AZ was a bold action.
One that we went one that we couldn’t get to the right value equation and so the deal didn’t progress.
But certainly I feel a sense of urgency on utilizing our balance sheet and our capital to do deals that are incremental add incremental value and certainly add revenue growth in the Innovative space.
And we’re looking at all alternatives and we’re aggressively looking at all alternatives.
Now in the GEP space I think we said that I think the GEP business is somewhat difficult to analyze I understand that but it’s made up of what is really a great emerging markets business which today represents about 30% to 35% of the total GEP business and is growing.
That business is based on brands and quality and out of pocket and I would model it more like I would model a consumer business frankly.
And then the rest of it is around clearly LOEs which are highly profitable and managing a pipeline that’s mature in the developed markets.
So we’re looking at ways to add additional growth levers to that business such as biosimilars which we’re investing in and we’re also looking at other types of acquisitions where we can use offshore cash so it’s highly efficient or even where we would do acquisitions that are in specific areas such as sterile injectables but I believe there are lots of opportunities to do BD in that area so is to add growth.
So I thank you for your encouragement to be bold we’re looking at bold ideas we’re looking aggressively at using BD and we have a sense of urgency.
Thank you for the question.
Thanks Ian.
Next question please operator.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
Just a follow-up on the biosimilar comments earlier.
Just at a higher level could you comment more specifically at the commercial opportunity? I think it's fair to say that expectations for biosimilars have come down recently.
How should we think about the process the commercial process for your meningitis B vaccine? Thank you.
I’ll ask John to talk about biosimilars and then Albert can talk about the mening B.
Thank you.
So thanks for the question Alex.
So I mean the first thing to say is obviously the biosimilars market is really one that is still evolving.
We’re still seeing regulators around the world put into place their guidance around biosimilarity and the development pathway for biosimilars.
And so must that is the first comment to make is that marketplace is still an evolution that said it’s estimated by independent analysts as being a market that is around about $100 billion globally.
Their biotherapeutics marketplace overall that biotherapeutics marketplace is going to grow to about $250 billion by 2020.
And so the market for biosimilars in that context potentially could grow as a market opportunity from around about $1 billion today to about $18 billion by 2020.
And those are the sort of general ranges that you actually see from independent analysts about the potential for this marketplace.
So I think beyond saying that we see it as being a significant opportunity and saying that we believe we’re well-placed with our first wave of biosimilar assets which is commented already we’re progressing as expeditiously as we can and we believe we’ll be well-placed in that marketplace.
I think the general comment would be that clearly there is much water to flow under that bridge but we’re continuing to be very actively engaged in both monitoring and also engaging with regulators in this space.
Albert? Yes mening B vaccine mening B disease is as stated is characterized by rapid onset has very high rates of fatality up to 20% of the people that mening B die from it usually within 24 hours mainly who have survived will have permanent long-term sequelae.
So this introduction it is an important product for the patients to start with and addresses a high unmet medical need.
On the commercial front we believe that will give us a modest contribution to our revenue plan given the magnitude of our Vaccines business.
Thanks Albert.
Next question please.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just going back to the capital allocation timing of business development for Ian really just wondering around what your thoughts are about a potential for tax reform now that this has become such a focus for everybody do you potentially get paid to wait on doing business development? It depends on what your view is around the likelihood of that happening into next year.
Just wondering of you could talk about some of that.
Thank you.
Jeff I think it’s an interesting question.
I mean clearly there is a dynamic going on about what’s you’re willing to pay for inversions vis-à-vis what you believe is the opportunity for fundamental reform in the U.S.
I think we’ll know a little bit more after the midterm elections but in historically you don’t get tax reform unless the President of the United States puts a lot of his credibility and ways behind it they are just too many fractions and too many ways of dividing the cake and the need the -- you really need the White House to take a lead in that.
And so if you were betting man you would suspect that fundamental tax reform would not occur until post the 16 Presidential elections.
But in politics you never know it’s day-to-day so we’ll look at that after the November 4th and continue to factor in the elements you comment in what we think the value of an inversion is worth.
Thank you for the question.
Thanks Ian.
Next question please.
My first question is on the BD side.
You touched on a couple of things like sterile injectables and maybe immuno-oncology.
Are there any other areas that you highlight in terms of where you are looking to do more investing in? Do you really have a preference between investing on the innovative side of your business as opposed to the more established side? My second question just following up on your comments around Xeljanz earlier you mentioned as being using more now in methotrexate-free regimens I believe so have these patients actually tried TNFs or is it before TNFs? And anything you can update on your latest timelines around resubmitting into EU? Thanks.
Okay so on the business development I think in the GEP business there is a wide range of opportunities that stem from local investments using offshore cash to larger type of investments to have capabilities and how to make generics we just did a small acquisition in that area on InnoPharma.
So there are multitude of opportunities and that’s what John is looking at and going through and trying to isolate what the best opportunities would be from a point of view of do we have a preference between GEP or Innovative everything is driven by value and portfolio balance and you would expect a larger scale acquisition to potentially cover both businesses it may not do so those are all the things we factor in.
And then there was a question on Xeljanz.
And so on Xeljanz about half the patients on Xeljanz have gone from methotrexate to Xeljanz and about half of them have been on a biologic one or more biologics so it's a mix and then in terms of resubmitting in Europe we intend to resubmit late in 2015 to the Europeans.
Thank you Geno.
In interest of everybody’s time operator if you can take one more question please.
Thanks for the question.
So just wondering if Mikael could talk to us a little bit about the differences in the bococizumab clinical trial design versus competitors and your views on the -- on how that is differentiated from competitors and why you think bococizumab is going to be a competitive offering in that space.
Okay.
Seamus we -- Geno tried to do it so I’ll give Mikael a chance to make it clearer this right around.
And Geno should feel free to add anything if he thinks Mikael hasn’t covered it.
I’ll build on Geno’s excellent description why we think that the way we are developing bococizumab and importantly the learnings we did in Phase 2b to be that was very extensive that allowed us to design what we think is a very comprehensive broad Phase 3 program so a couple of key takeaway messages.
One our Phase 3 program includes population for both primary and secondary prevention.
We think there will be a growing opportunity for patients that are at high risk in primary prevention such as diabetics with a high risk equivalent for cardiovascular disease and to the best of our knowledge we had only see outcome trial program that includes primary prevention.
Number two restructured it in two different trials one addressing individuals that cannot get down to 100 or below and that allow us to show most likely a substantial risk reduction in cardiovascular disease since this is the segment where we expect a strong correlation between lowering cholesterol and lowering risk for CV events.
The second trial really focusing on bringing patients in the 70 to 100 segment with high risk both primary and secondary prevention patients down really low in cholesterol and we think that will allow us to open up unmet need in that area further by generating data.
I should say that the dose regimens that we developed in Phase 2b is really crucial for the study design and we developed the dosing regimen that allow us to start with a high dose and get immediately down patients to low levels.
And only if necessary do a dose titration with lower dose of bococizumab.
We do think bococizumab is one of the most potent antibodies that showed really pronounced lowering of cholesterol that performs well in every two weeks and we have said earlier that through a partnership with Halozyme we have in our longer life cycle management plan exploration of once a month after first ensuring generating good data in the current regimen.
Yes that Halozyme to us I think the exclusivity on that technology.
Thank you John.
Thank you Mikael and John so thank you and everybody this morning for your time.
Thanks for your time everybody.
Bye bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Operator.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth quarter 2014 performance.
I am joined today as usual by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D Amelio our CFO; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler our General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Fourth Quarter 2014 which is located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand corner of this page.
Before we start I’d like to remind you that our discussion during this call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today January 27 2015.
We will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to the Question-and-Answer session.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck and good morning everyone.
We finished 2014 with another quarter of good performance and met or exceeded every element of our financial guidance for the year.
Frank will take you through the numbers but before he does I want to reemphasize how our four key imperatives have guided the actions we’ve taken and the decisions we’ve made and will continue to guide us going forward.
These imperatives are about the steps we're taking to create a sustainable high-value pipeline; effectively and in a disciplined way deploy our capital and ways to create shareholder value; create a culture where colleagues take appropriate risks and accept accountability for their actions and own the respect of society.
My remarks today will primarily focus on two of these imperatives; the evolution of our pipeline; and how we're creating shareholder value.
When we started this journey at the start of 2011 we said improving the performance of our innovative core will be a multi-year endeavor.
Over this time we’ve significantly changed the composition of our pipeline to have a clearer focus on the therapeutic areas that have strong commercial and scientific potential.
We’ve improved progress in the pipeline.
Since undertaking this effort we’ve received 16 approvals as of the end of last year 10 of which were new molecular entities.
Today we’ve a total of 86 programs in clinical development with 29 programs in late-stage development or registration.
We continue to grow in key areas most notably in some of our recently launched new products.
Eliquis is winning share amongst cardiologists and moving towards the leading position in the new-to-brand share and several markets including the US and Japan.
We grew our Xeljanz market share so that it is now ranks number three in new-to-brand prescription share with rheumatologists and we are seeing good uptake of our Prevnar 13 Adult vaccines following the CDC’s Advisory Committee on immunization practices recommendation.
This is good progress and over the course of the next four years we expect to have more than 20 Phase 2 and Phase 3 registration starts and hope to have more than 15 potential approvals many of them new molecular entities.
These numbers do not include study starts and approvals as a result of our Merck KGaA partnership in immuno-oncology.
Many of the new molecular entities have the potential to be first-in-class assets that give us growth platforms.
These include the CDK 4/6 platform in oncology with [Ibrance] or the generic name palbociclib.
And its potential for indication is being studied in the broad spectrum of breast cancer as well as lung prostate head and neck melanoma ovarian renal and brain tumors in young children.
We expect to have a competitive immuno-oncology program.
We believe we’ve a comprehensive program with all the elements to be an industry leader.
Through our partnership with Merck KGaA and their anti-PD-L1 Avelumab we're able to accelerate our participation in the immuno-oncology space enabling both companies to participate in the first wave of potential single-agent monotherapy treatment regimens of several tumor types some of which we expect to be first or second to market.
Additionally through this partnership we're positioned to be a potential leader in the next wave of I/O combination therapies.
We expect to be amongst the first three companies in certain cancer indications with monotherapy and a leader with combinations of PDL-1 Avelumab with targeted agents.
For example Inlyta Xalkori and second generation ALK; or dual I/O combinations for example for 4-1BB OX40 ADCs etcetera and in various cancer indications.
This year we’ll be collaborating on up to 20 studies with Merck KGaA with registrational intent on up to six of these studies.
In addition through the collaboration we expect to have five different I/O drugs in the clinic this year and up to 10 by 2016.
This strategy includes checkpoint inhibitor maps small molecule immunomodulators cancer vaccines bifunctional anti-bodies CAR-T cell-based therapy and anti-body drug conjugates.
Our partner expects to present data from their PDL-1 study at ASCO in June.
To the best of our knowledge it is one of the most comprehensive I/O platforms in development in the pharma industry today.
We also have leading research on [indiscernible] biology with potential new indications with Xeljanz in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis with our old product.
Atopic dermatitis with a topical formulation new GA indications and Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn’s disease and [ankylosing] spondylitis.
We’ve what we believe is a differentiated approach within the PCSK9 area for hyperlipidemia.
Our lead asset bococizumab has a differentiated clinical [indiscernible] design which includes high-risk patients and also assesses primary prevention for patients.
In addition to this large module approach we’ve both a small molecule and a vaccine in development nearing first in human.
We’ve made progress with anezumab and plan to submit preclinical data to the FDA this quarter in a complete response to potentially lift the clinical hold on that program.
In the rare disease area we're seeing good progress with enrolment in cardiomyopathy Phase 3 programs with Tafamidis and are advancing towards Phase 3 with Rivipansel pending our discussion with the FDA on the final optimization of the formulation.
We’ve just announced a collaboration with OPKO for a long-acting growth hormone product that we believe could also be first in class if we were to expend that market.
We’ve a broad biosimilars portfolio of complex monoclonals.
Of the current pipeline of five assets three are ongoing we're enrolling Phase 3 trials and include potential biosimilars to Herceptin Rituxan and Remicade.
We’ve completed the Phase I trial for Avastin and expect to initiate our Phase 3 study later this year.
And we've an ongoing Phase I proof-of-concept for [indiscernible].
We believe we can become one of the world’s pre-eminent biosimilar companies.
We’ve also several potential acceleration opportunities in the pipeline and that includes a next-generation ALK ROS1 inhibitor that holds the potential to significantly extend the lives of the patients who no longer respond to Xalkori.
We expect to start a pivotal study this year.
As you know our Staph aureus vaccine is currently in Phase 2 clinical trials and was granted Fast Track Designation by U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in February 2014.
A Phase 2b study that could be registrational is scheduled to start around the middle of this year.
I am pleased with the progress we’ve made in a relatively short period of time in terms of the quality of the assets in our pipeline and the potential for delivering breakthrough products starting in late 2017 and 18.
Turning next to how the prudent deployment of capital has yielded significant returns to our shareholders.
Over the last four years we’ve maintained our operating margins and have taken approximately $5.5 billion out of our operating expenses.
During a period where we lost significant revenue to LOEs and co-promote expiries from several high margin products like Lipitor Enbrel in Canada and US and the loss of Spiriva.
This year and for the next couple of years ongoing expense reductions will result from continuous improvement efforts.
However given that the largest opportunities have already been realized the amount of potential reductions is more limited.
Also there are certain areas where we’ll continue to invest in such as R&amp;D and new product launches.
Further we have returned just over 64 billion to shareholders with share repurchases and dividends over the last four years.
And we’ve worked to -- as we have worked to transform Pfizer business development has been an important enabler of our strategy.
We’ve entered into a series of partnerships and license agreements and made some acquisitions that bolstered our vaccines portfolio enhanced our established products portfolio strengthened our oncology pipeline expanded our consumer portfolio and fortified the set of actions we’ve across our key therapeutic areas.
Given the strength of our late and mid-stage pipeline we’ll evaluate business development opportunities biased towards deals with a potential for creating value in the near term.
Beyond business development here is what you can expect to see from us in terms of additional actions we plan to take in 2015 to create shareholder value.
We’ll continue to invest in the launch of new products.
We're excited about the potential revenue and continued growth prospects primarily for Eliquis Xeljanz Prevnar 13 Adult Trumenba Inlyta Xalkori and Nexium 24HR.
We expect these products along with a few others Vyndaqel [indiscernible] and vaccines acquired from Baxter including pipeline’s pending approval will generate nearly $2 billion in incremental operational revenue growth this year compared to last.
So while we expect product launch costs will increase approximately 25% year-over-year we're seeing good leverage from the investment we are making in these products.
In addition to new products in new launch products the Innovative business will be focused on growing market share in inline brands like Lyrica Enbrel outside the US [indiscernible] in the US Chantix and the Prevnar franchise.
In our consumer business we are focused on growing its core brands Advil and Centrum.
Growing Nexium OTC market share and continuing to pursue our Rx OTC switch opportunities.
For our established business we’ll build on our success in 2014 in providing high-value high-quality low-cost treatments in emerging markets.
We expect to see operational revenue growth of mid to high-single digits in the emerging markets this year by focusing on opportunities in key growth markets which is China Brazil India Russia and Turkey.
In 2015 we will continue our efforts to reach the groundwork required to be in a position to operationalize a potential to the company and we’ve made good progress on this work.
For 2015 we anticipate the efforts that will be required for this work will result from approximately 400 million of one-time cost on a pre-tax basis.
Let me remind you at this point in time we’ve not yet made a decision with the company.
We’ve said the final decision will depend upon how our businesses perform in their markets having a high degree of confidence that the businesses will be successful as stand-alone entities.
And how our shareholders value these businesses if the sum of the parts is greater and whole.
And in 2015 we’ll again be in a position to reduce our adjusted effective tax rate.
We expect it will decrease from 26.5% in 14 to approximately 25% this year.
We’ll continue to manage our tax line as we do any of our expense line and look to be as efficient as possible.
I would note that foreign exchange is one of those items that can either work for us or against us.
Most importantly it is not indicative of how the business is performing in a fundamental manner.
As always all of our decisions will be rooted in how best to strike the right balance in terms of capital deployment dividends buybacks and business development.
One of the reasons I'm confident that we can accomplish all of this is because we’ve an employee body that is motivated and engaged in the successful execution of the initiatives we’ve undertaken to drive results.
Over the past four years we’ve created a culture engrained in a strong ownership environment.
In summary we'll build on a performance of the past four years to create sustainable high-value pipeline; to have market-leading strong commercial businesses; to manage our cost structure; and continue to be disciplined in how we deploy our capital.
Collectively these elements of our strategy it will allow us to generate results that continue to create value shareholder value.
And it will enable us to bring the patients innovative medicines that best meet their needs.
Now I’ll turn over to Frank for additional details in the quarter the year and our financial guidance for 2015.
Thank you.
Thanks Ian and good day everyone.
As always the charts I am reviewing today are included in our webast.
I want to remind everybody that as a result on the full disposition of Zoetis on June 24 2013 the financial results of the animal health business and the gain associated with its full disposition are reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statements of income for the twelve months ended December 31<sup>st</sup> 2013.
Fourth quarter 2014 reported revenues of approximately $13.1 billion which reflects a slight operational increase of $9 million year-over-year.
It was mainly driven by the strong performance of Lyrica Prevnar and Eliquis in developed markets and Xeljanz which grew primarily in the US.
And 7% operational growth in emerging markets driven by Lipitor mainly in China as well as Prevnar and Enbrel which were offset mainly by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of approximately $249 million or 3% the loss of exclusivity for Celebrex in the US desperation of the co-promotion term the collaboration agreement for Enbrel in the US and Canada determination of the Spiriva collaboration in certain countries and other product losses of exclusivity in certain markets.
Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.54 versus $0.56 in the year-ago quarter.
The decrease is primarily due to a $0.01 negative impact in the foreign exchange a 4% aggregate operational increase of adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses driven by an unfavorable change in product mix and increased R&amp;D expenses due to incremental expenses for the ongoing Phase 3 program of bococizumab of palbociclib ertugliflozin and certain other new drug candidates as well as potential new indications for previously approved products especially for Xeljanz.
Adjusted SI&amp;A expenses however decreased by 2% operationally because of continued benefits from cost reduction of productivity initiatives partially offset by investment to support several recent product launches and other inline brands.
Adjusted diluted EPS is favorably impacted by a lower effective tax rate and few diluted weighted average shares outstanding which declined by 159 million shares versus the year-ago quarter due to ongoing share purchases.
Reported diluted EPS was $0.19 compared with $0.39 in the year-ago quarter due to the previously mentioned factors and the unfavorable impact of the charge for the 850 million upfront payments associated with the Global Strategic Alliance formed with Merck KGaA in November of 2014 and an additional amount of approximately $300 million reflecting the fair value of certain co-promotional rights for Xalkori granted to Merck KGaA.
Higher charges related to certain legal matters as well as the higher effective tax rate all of which were partially offset by lower restructuring charges and purchase accounting adjustments in the fourth quarter of 14 versus the prior year quarter.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter adjusted revenues by $453 million or 3% and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses and the aggregate by $351 million or 4%.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01 compared with the year-ago quarter.
Now moving on to the financial highlights of our business segments.
In the fourth quarter Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 6% operationally year-over-year due to the strong operational growth from Lyrica primarily in the US and Japan; and the performance from recently launched products including Eliquis globally and Xeljanz primarily in the US all of which was somewhat offset by the previously mentioned expiration of the co-promotion term for Enbrel in the US and Canada.
Income before taxes declined 5% operationally due to a 5% operational increase in cost of sales; a 25% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses due to increased investment in new products such as Eliquis and Xeljanz and certain inline brands; and a 25% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses due to incremental investments in late-stage pipeline products namely bococizumab ertugliflozin and additional Xeljanz indications.
Fourth Quarter VOC revenues increased 14% operationally due primarily to strong performance of Prevnar 13 Adult in the US and Xalkori globally Inlyta in most markets and [indiscernible] in emerging markets as well as Nexium 24HR in the US.
Income before taxes increased 13% operationally mainly due to increased revenues which were partially offset by a 12% operational increase in cost of sales driven by increased sales volumes.
As a percentage of revenue cost of sales decreased by thirty basis points due to a favorable change in product mix.
A 13% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses due to investment in Prevnar Adult as well as launch and pre-launch expenses for Trumenba and Ibrance and a 17% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses due to increased investment in the Ibrance and Trumenba development programs and the global alliance with Merck KGaA.
In the fourth quarter Global Established Pharmaceutical revenues decreased 7% operationally year-over-year due to loss of exclusivity of Celebrex in the US Detrol LA in the US and Aricept in Canada as well as determination of the co-promotion agreement for Spiriva in most countries including the US.
All of these were partially offset by a 7% operational growth in the emerging markets and the strong performance of Lyrica in Europe.
Income before taxes declined operationally 9% due to the decrease in revenues a 5% operational increase or a 2.3 percentage point increase as percentage of revenues and cost of sales due to LOEs and unfavorable changes in product mix; and a 5% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses primarily due to our biosimilars development program partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses.
All of which were partially offset by a 17% operational decrease in SI&amp;A expenses driven by cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
As you can see in 2014 we met or exceeded all components of our annual financial guidance.
Now I would like to walk you through the 2015 guidance ranges for reported revenues reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS relative to our 2014 actual results.
First it's important to note that the 2015 reporting revenues incorporate an anticipated 3.5 billion negative impacts due to continuing product losses of exclusivity and declining Alliance revenues which will be partially offset by expected operational growth in certain other products.
In addition we expect foreign exchange to have an additional $2.8 billion negative impact on reported revenues.
Consequently we expect 2015 reported revenues to be in the range of $44.5 billion to $46.5 billion.
Before moving on I want to point out that the actual mid-January 2015 rates used to determine our 2015 guidance do not include the impact of a potential devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar or any other currency.
Reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS also include the negative impact from product losses of exclusivity a $0.17 negative impact from foreign-exchange rates and a negative $0.03 impact from the pending transaction of OPKO.
As a result we expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of a $1.37 to a $1.52 and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2 to $2.10.
In addition I want to remind everyone that guidance ranges for both reported and adjusted diluted EPS incorporates $6 million of anticipated share repurchases in 2015 including 715 million of our shares repurchased to date.
These repurchases were more than offset by the potential dilution related to employee compensation programs.
In summary if you exclude the FX impacts and the impact of the pending OPKO transaction our fiscal year 2015 adjusted diluted EPS guidance midpoint is in line with full-year 2014 actual results despite the $3.5 billion negative impact from expected product LOEs and declining alliance revenues.
Now I’ll review the remaining elements of our 2015 financial guidance.
We expect cost of sales and percentage of revenue to be in the range of 18.5% to 19.5%.
We expect adjusted SI&amp;A expenses to be in the range of $12.8 billion to $13.8 billion.
We expect adjusted R&amp;D expenses to be in the range of $6.9 billion to $7.4 billion which includes a planned upfront payment of $295 million to OPKO expected in the first quarter of 2015 upon completion of the transaction announced in December of 2014.
We also expect adjusted income to be approximately $500 million.
And we expect our tax rates on adjusted income to be approximately 25%.
Moving on to key takeaways we achieved or exceeded all elements of our full-year 2014 financial in an environment that continues to be challenging.
We advanced our strategy through pipeline advancement and business development.
The FDA approved Trumenba our meningitis B vaccine and we announced that we are in labeling discussions with the FDA for Ibrance.
And we entered into a collaboration with Merck KGaA which positions us well to potentially compete in the first wave of immuno-oncology therapies and be a leader in the second wave of combination therapies.
Our full-year 2015 reported revenue guidance range includes the anticipated negative impact of $3.5 billion with the product losses of exclusivity of $2.8 billion due to adverse changes in foreign exchange partially offset by nearly $2 billion of anticipated operational revenue growth in certain products.
And the adjusted diluted EPS guidance range includes a $0.17 negative impact from foreign exchange and a $0.03 negative impact from the planned upfront payment to OPKO.
We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.
Overall in 2014 we returned nearly 12 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
From 2011 through 2014 we returned more than 64 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In addition in 2015 we anticipate returning approximately $13 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
And finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2015 and beyond.
Now I will turn it back to Chuck.
Thank you sir.
Operator can we please poll for questions.
Thanks.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you very much.
Ian just a question for you sort of high-level.
Based on all of the press reports that we are all reading everyday it sounds like you're intensely focused on landing a large target and these articles are all saying those companies are rebuffing you.
I think this is a great opportunity for you to sort of remind us what are your strategic objectives? Do you have to make a large transaction and if so is it -- I mean it would seem to me that it's the GEP business that would need the biggest growth drivers or is it the other areas of the business? If you could just sort of prioritize for us which of the areas of the business make most sense for you for a large transaction if indeed that's what you believe you need? And then just a second question and may be this is for Frank.
On the GEP business is it permissible for you guys to buy a foreign company and use it as a new address when you potentially go to spin out if you decide to do so in your GEP business is that actually an option? Thanks very much.
Thank you Jami for the question.
You know rumors are rumors.
We don’t comment on rumors or speculation or what they write in the press.
I will go back to my comment on BD and neighbors strategy.
Our strategy is to deploy our capital the way that is shareholder friendly.
We’ve been doing that we’ve done some buybacks and we have been doing BD.
You know I would look at BD as a potential always to accelerate incremental value to shareholders.
That's the purpose of deploying that capital strengthening our businesses and we look at all opportunities to do that.
But we do that in a disciplined manner.
You know we did not push we only did what was reasonable to do the AZ deal.
I don't feel that we need to do a large deal.
I do believe though that we can deploy capital in a way that it can improve return to shareholders.
And then Jami on the second question where you were specific to the GEP business and I think the question was buying a foreign company and potentially changing the address.
Now my answer is it’s kind of one of those things that's almost impossible to speculate upon.
You know it's very situational.
It depends on lots of things valuations markets and the like and tax reforms is an ongoing area where I think that's still subject to change.
So I don't want to speculate on that you know it may or may not happen as a result of some hypothetical acquisition I would say.
Operator can we move to the next question please? Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Great thanks very much just a couple of questions here.
It’s first for Ian.
I believe you mentioned that your business development is now focused on creating value in the near-term given the way of stage pipeline.
I guess if it’s a shift from the prior focus of what we are thinking about in 2014? And then the second question on business development when you look at valuations resetting kind of across the biopharma space is that reducing the opportunity set as you look at these targets given the valuation discipline you piloted for Pfizer? Well I think you know if we would have seen -- we would have been concerned about the state of our research and if we hadn’t strengthened our research as we did with the deal with Merck on the immuno-oncology asset then we may have felt we needed to do more business development in acquiring assets in our research.
But I feel our research pipeline middle-stage late-stage is strong and I would rather take our capital right now and direct it to opportunities to accelerate the EPS growth as I think we’ve got the right balance of capital allocation in the medium to long-term and on the innovative side.
So it’s just with your balance of where you are deploying your capital and where you think you’ve areas you want to strengthen.
That been said if there was a piece of intellectual property that added huge value we thought we could develop it and we would not be shy in acquiring that intellectual property.
I do think that the values are high at the moment in many sectors.
We're disciplined but you know when we find an appropriate deal that will meet our strategies of strengthening our businesses and accelerating shareholder value we feel very comfortable that we’ve the ability to do those deals.
Operator next question please.
The next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from Evercore ISI.
Thank you very much for taking the question.
First of all congrats to Frank great P&amp;L management this quarter and also for the guidance.
If I may ask some R&amp;D questions on the PCSK-9 program could you just update us if you would be willing to do so on the timelines and the enrolment status for the outcomes trials on the PCSK-9 program.
Number two I was intrigued by your comments during the prepared remarks on immuno-oncology where you -- I think you mentioned that how you thought you would be among the first three companies to launch in several or a few tumor types.
I’ve been wondering if you would be willing to tell us what tumor types you think that could be.
And then finally on palbo and I suppose this is more of a commercial question.
And just as we all contemplate a near-term launch as a clear possibility can you help us frame the initial market opportunities.
Do you expect this to be a very rapid cancer watch or something with a little bit more tempered since these women have a standard of care today.
Thank you.
Thank you Mark good questions.
Perhaps Geno can address the PCSK-9 status and then I’ll ask that we -- we’ll then move to answer your questions on palbo and which products that we can give you first or second in from Albert.
Geno? Sure thanks Mark.
Regarding the PCSK-9 program our outcomes trial we're in the process of ramping up you know site initiation enrolment.
This is something we monitor frankly on a daily and weekly basis.
So we are making good progress there.
We expect to be competitive with the other programs from Amgen and Sanofi in terms of timing for a completion of those outcomes trials you know which we currently see occurring in late 17 or 18 timeframe.
Thank you Geno.
Albert? Yes on the question on the initial Ibrance launch update we're very excited about this initial launch for two main reasons.
First we have not seen an approval of a new therapy in the first line advanced cancer in more than ten years so there is a great unmet need.
And secondly Ibrance has demonstrated not only a statistical significant improvement but more importantly a clinically meaningful benefit to patients.
Because that would be our first and added 10 months to respond to [indiscernible].
As a result we expect the uptake to be robust.
Having said that as with [indiscernible] there will be some oncology but it will [indiscernible] adapter.
But while others will wait for additional data or more experience in the field.
But for this group we already have four Phase 3 trials ongoing two of which are expected to complete this year.
When you say that we're working to build a broad franchise on breast cancer.
We're starting with first line metastatic breast cancer.
But then we're moving fast to the current breast cancer and then to early breast cancer.
And we would like to remind everyone what we're currently running Phase 3 pivotal registration enabling studies for all of these indications.
Now to your question on immuno-oncology.
As Ian said the deal is transformational for our immuno-oncology program for two reasons.
And the first it is that they enable us to quickly move into the first wave of potential monotherapy treatments.
You asked for some examples of that the examples would be ovarian or gastric for example.
And this is where we're going to see to put our emphasis rather than on indications that are more crowded as melanoma for example.
But then for the second also benefit which enable us to accelerate our combinations program by more than 2.5 years.
This accelerates in conjunction with our broad range of combination assets Xeljanz Inlyta Ibrance our gross inhibitor OX40 4-1BB would enable us to be the leading player in the second wave where we see also a much greater portion of the bite.
Operator next question please.
The next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Deutsche Bank.
Thanks good morning and a couple of unrelated questions.
Firstly and to slice the M&amp;A question a different way.
It's clear you have a sense of urgency to find deals that could be if there is shareholder enhancing.
Can you care to comment on the sense of urgency that supplement the innovative versus the established products? You’ve made it clear that you’ve got near-term sort of accretion or value accretion versus long term.
But I want to make sure we understand that you are so committed to both or is one taking precedence.
Secondly can you comment on Lyrica CR obviously a large product that gets almost no focus? Are you planning to attempt the filing there to protect some of that franchise longer term.
And lastly Albert can you comment on Prevnar Adult versus pediatric in progress there? And maybe share some color around the split between those two important buckets.
Thank you.
Okay Geno do you want to talk about Lyrica first and then Albert can talk about the vaccine and I will come back on our BD preferences or priorities.
Yeah so Gregg on the Lyrica program we continue to advance the CR program for Lyrica.
We’ve completed several trials and seen positive outcomes.
So we will continue to move towards a registration and we expect to see registration potentially ahead of the expiration of the exclusivity in the United States.
Yes Gregg on the adult although early we're very pleased with the launch.
And we believe this is potentially a very large and doable opportunity given current demographics and the aging trends.
The adult sales in US were around $250 million which was driven by higher penetration during the high flu season and of course also some inventory stocking with new customers.
Our market share down to almost four times to 45% from 12 originally.
Growth moving forward we still expect to be strong throughout the year.
Of course keep in mind but this quarter is influenced by seasonality and some inventory build and that can vary quarter by quarter.
On the pediatric that you asked pediatric in fact was down this quarter due to the timing of the CDC purchase but last year occurred in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter and the [indiscernible].
Thank you on the urgency to do business development let me stress.
The urgency I’ve is to create shareholder value and if business development can do that then we will move on business development with urgency.
I don't really have a preference between strengthening either of our businesses.
I think we can use this development to improve and strengthen both of them and we will look at the deals and if the deals make sense we’ll attempt to execute them.
Thank you.
Operator next question please.
The next question comes from Tim Anderson from Bernstein.
Hi I am sorry.
It’s the same line of questioning but on inversion.
So is that in your view pretty much off the table at this point for Pfizer? Is that still something that you think you can pursue and then also on inversion any visibility on when or whether Treasury might come out with a second round of regulations? And then on the pipeline apart from palbo if you had to take two compounds that excite you the most what would those be? Okay so on the inversion Tim.
You know inversions have not been stopped.
So what the potential rules of the government have done is delayed the value or potentially delayed the value realization of the inversion.
So you know inversions I think are being tempered by the ability to pay the target price given the slow realization of the inversion values.
You know I think it's an area that will remain fertile while there is no change in the US tax laws.
I think it's -- we are in a very uncompetitive situation with our tax code.
And inversions will continue to be important as an instrument increasing shareholder value just depending on the price you need to pay to the inversion.
And the exact conditions of the inversion which are very technical depending on how you can manage your subsequent cash flows.
So it’s a very -- it's not an easy general answer to what type of inversion you would want to do.
And apart from palbo you know I think we’ve a lot of exciting products.
I would probably talk about the ability to bring the staph aureus vaccine to market as quickly as possible.
I think you know bococizumab clearly has a huge potential.
I think we are well placed with the clinical trial design.
[indiscernible] is well positioned.
Adult vaccine which we’ve just launched has a huge potential.
So I find it difficult to really take just two assets.
I think we have a lot of assets that we can create value from and especially the total life cycle of palbociclib.
So the new Treasury regulations you know I don't know.
I mean I'm not in Washington I can't comment.
They have published a rule they haven't finalized a rule.
And you know clearly there is an intent to do that.
There is an intent to make it somewhat more problematic or for people to plan inversions and we will just have to work around that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Operator moving on please.
Your next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
Yeah thanks for taking the questions.
So I have two one I guess the first one is more for Ian.
Obviously a lot of discussion around the M&amp;A and what you guys are looking to do.
I guess just strategically you know some comments earlier about valuations and people you're approaching and maybe not you know wanting to go ahead with the deal.
I think strategically isn’t it tougher for you to consummate a deal when you are being so public talking about the need to do something and the near-term focus that you are mentioning.
Now doesn’t that make it tougher to get a deal done and doesn’t it just raise the prices higher.
And then second one is more on the pipeline.
If you could talk about I/O I appreciate the comments you gave earlier and thanks for all that.
Can you talk a little bit about kind on the biomarker side and if there’s anything you can share but how you are planning to incorporate biomarkers at least into the first wave of study that you’ve outlined for this year? Thanks.
Yeah Vamil I am sort of intrigued by your comments.
I don't think I’ve ever said we’ve to do a deal.
I think you are reading the press rather than what I've been saying.
If I felt there was a pressure to do the deal we would have done the deal and we're trying to do it last year.
We're very disciplined.
We don't feel we need to do a big deal.
I do feel we have the ability and we have the balance sheet that we can use if business development can further our basic strategies which is to strengthen either one of our businesses or to acquire in an area like immuno-oncology which we did to strengthen where we see we can create synergy and values.
So you know I am a little mystified about this -- your comment about you know that Pfizer sort of needs to do a deal.
I think there’s a lot of rumors running around.
We as like any management team look at opportunities.
We have the capital and the wherewithal to do the deal should we so decide.
I don’t think it’s a matter of is there a value and if there is value we can get the deal done.
So I'm a little you know I hope that puts in perspective for all of where we fit on business development deals.
Good to do if they create shareholder value disciplined if they don't we are not doing them.
Yeah Biomarkers.
Yeah so you know that's a great question on how you bring immuno quality to the next level.
And first as you know we’ve considerable experience in selecting and developing biomarkers from Xalkori we’ve obviously linked that to the drug’s efficacy and we’ve also learnt how to drive uptake of that diagnostic to very high rates in the marketplace specifically for immuno-oncology.
So in our partnership on avelumab we certainly are looking at PDL-1 high versus low tumors.
And the data we see really correlates as expected with high response in the PDL-1 high.
But we also see responses in the PDL low.
We had a second wave as you heard from Albert on the 4-1BB and OX40 for combination.
We’ve seen that the 4-1BB is unique in amplifying cytotoxic cells CD8 cells.
So we certainly will look for expression of those cells in the tumor.
Similarly for OX40 we think it’s more under CD4 side and that will be another marker to monitor.
But we also have programs coming on board for T-regulatory cells that may limit the overall immuno-oncology response and tumor suppressing macrophages.
And we’ve assets coming within the next year or so on each of those particular subset of immuno-oncology.
And of course our ADC portfolio is very much supported by diagnostics.
We’ve now two ADC in Phase 1 that show interesting responses and we stocked enriched pile of diagnostic for those.
So I hope you get the sense that we go from standard diagnostic to more next-generation diagnostic.
And we will also deal with the kind of future diagnostic looking at circulating tumor cells to make it even more easy to integrate in medical practice.
So we really see us being a driver of this change and the pioneer in this area.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.
Thanks for taking the questions.
The first question just going back to business development as an enabling strategy.
Ian I think you indicated that one of the primary reasons for the AstraZeneca transaction was the tax considerations obviously around the inversion and being able to unleash the value of the cash that you have trapped offshore.
If you go back and look at the last transaction your tax rate around that time was around 22%.
You know it's gone as high as 27% not enabling you to bring that cash back.
How much consideration is there that when you do a transaction how much impact on the tax rate are you willing to absorb if it is an US asset that you're looking to acquire? The second question is for Frank you’ve disclosed what the impact of foreign exchange is can you articulate or quantify what the impact is on volume and price on growth in 2014.
And then the last question on R&amp;D and Xeljanz in EU any update on your ability to file Xeljanz in Europe and then the implications for the Enbrel field force over there? Especially in light of Samsung filing their SB4 and anticipating to be commercializing at least [indiscernible] commercializing Enbrel in the back half and how are you going to be adjusting for that resource if you don't have Xeljanz there? Thanks.
John thank you.
As always good questions.
Why don’t you Geno deal with the issue of Xeljanz in Europe and Frank can look at the volume question and I’ll come back to your rather complicated question on inversions and tax rates and in that Frank will also help me out there a bit.
Yeah so John regarding Xeljanz and the Enbrel inflammation business in Europe.
You know we remain committed to resubmitting for approval an RA for Xeljanz in Europe.
We’ve had recent interactions with regulators there and a discussion on our chance for resubmission.
We were encouraged by those discussions.
We continue to collect additional clinical data to support that resubmission and our expectations are that we will resubmit by the end of the year in 2015.
Regarding Enbrel and potential competition you know we see the introduction of biosimilars into the marketplace in Europe as something that's more evolutionary than transitionary.
And we expect to continue to support Enbrel through the near term and realize you know continued support from that franchise.
So I don't see a disruption at this point with the timing that we are anticipating and the impact that we see projected for biosimilars.
And of course that market in Europe is very under-penetrated given their reluctance.
So you know there is a lot of volume there that can be accessed via biosimilars as well as the original.
Frank? So John for the quarter and this is companywide so price is +1% volume was -1% foreign exchange was -3% FX drove the -3% for the quarter at.
And as I mentioned on my comments we are actually up operationally by 9 million excluding foreign exchange for the quarter.
For the full year price was +2% volume was -4% FX was -2%.
You put that together and you get the -4% I reported for the year.
Thank you and on the BD you know I think my comments on AV have always been that we looked at three components of value.
One was the pipeline; two was the amount of operational energies that could be achieved; and third was the financial synergies.
And you know we were disciplined in our approach because the financial synergies were the most risky part of the equation and in fact were made eventually more difficult to achieve by the proposals.
I think the net-net answer to your question about tax rates is it all goes into the value.
What is the value of the acquisition we're trying to achieve? What’s the value we create to shareholders? And the tax rate just like the synergies just like expenses just like everything else is part of that value equation.
If it works the value works we will do the deal.
If the value doesn't work we won't do the deal.
But of course undeniably the foreign companies as you seen for most of the acquisitions that have occurred in the last year foreign companies do have an advantage given their tax rate.
And this is something that you know should be of a concern to the US economy.
I think the only thing I would add Ian is John in your question you mentioned before we announced live it was 22% and we took it up to 27%.
We actually took it up to 30%.
When we announced live we took the tax rate from 22% to 30%.
And we’ve been you know I think in an effective way being able to step it down through a combination of changes and jurisdictional mix and tax planning.
We’ve gone from 30 to 29 to 28.
This past year we’ve had said approximately 27 we printed 26.5 on adjusted results.
And now we’ve got it for 2015 to approximately 25%.
Thank you.
Next question please operator.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Yes thanks very much.
I have two questions.
Frank in the context of a potential split up in the future you have obviously set up the financials but could you please discuss the dissynergies and the risk of pro forma total cost being higher due to step-up cost if a separation were pursued in the future.
And then second for Mikael could you please discuss the top three or four pipeline readouts to watch in 2015 so specifically what clinical trial readouts are most important to focus on? Thank you.
Please Frank.
So Dave the way I think about the split question you asked me is in my mind there will be basically three key determinants to obviously whether or not we separate the company.
One is the performance of the businesses.
The second one would be our confidence level and as businesses continue to perform successfully on a standalone basis.
And then three would be how the market values of those businesses and quite frankly is there an opportunity to create a tax efficient way of incremental value.
So is the sum of the parts creating the whole is there an ability to unlock that value? That value part of the answer in my mind would factor in the items you raised like the synergies.
That's all part of the value of the question that we would have to factor in to get to a net-net positive along with the aforementioned standalone performances.
Yeah and let me mention a couple of readouts.
So obviously from [indiscernible] we are you know excited to also get to readout from our recurring study combining with [indiscernible] that Albert spoke about.
Avelumab our partnership with Merck Serono around ASCO will be the first time we start to share and update the data set.
And I think there will be opportunity also later to hear about how combinations are progressing.
And possibly late in the year that we will also share some date on the 4-1BB our own trial as we're running in lymphoma.
We also have the readouts in ulcerative colitis and mid of the year or so we’ve topline results from induction study with Xeljanz.
And please remember in Phase 2 Xeljanz has very strong induction data among the best that has been really presented in the field.
And at the JPMorgan I also shared very robust and really interesting data from our MAdCAM antibody in UC.
So you could really look upon UC as a space where we’ve multiple interesting data sets.
More near term you also have an opportunity to look at Inotuzumab in [ALL] which we’ll have an analysis for complete respond or complete response with the incomplete hemitological recovery.
Our next question please operator.
Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.
Oh thanks very much for the questions.
You know first off maybe Frank can you just walk us through when we’ve an increased spending coming in -- well maybe not increased spending but you know good cost controls overall.
But is there a more to achieve or be taken out of the business from here where you can be opportunistic as we’ve towards you know the potential loss of Lyrica and some incremental pressures? Are we off an overall growth of trajectory on the business including the expense base as we think about 2015 plus? And then separately as we think the PCSK-9 opportunity I think there has been a real emphasis on the outcomes from Pfizer.
But Pfizer has also demonstrated an ability to succeed in the statin space without outcomes.
So just wondering despite being third to market how you would anticipate completing before perhaps outcomes are available and could you be as a third to market product -- how would you expect to compete without outcomes you know versus other competitors who likely won’t have outcomes data either? Thanks.
Okay Frank on spending.
So our spending Seamus I’ve said this before.
Clearly we're in the late innings in terms of having cost reduction.
There is still opportunities.
I think there’s always opportunities.
I think there continues to be opportunities and G&amp;A for example continues to be opportunities with our portfolio as the portfolio ebbs and flows.
So there’s clearly opportunities related to the portfolio.
And that said it’s hard.
You know Ian mentioned in his comments that we’ve taken out 5.5 billion in expenses in operating expenses over the last four years.
There’s not another $5.5 billion for example to take and so it’s getting harder.
And then if you look at our results for 2014 I’ll give you the full-year numbers operationally.
COGS was up 2% SI&amp;A was down 2% R&amp;D was up 9%.
You know clearly that upward pressure in R&amp;D we printed 7.2 billion in that 2014 as an actual number we got it to $6.9 billion to $7.4 billion for 2015.
That includes the 300 million upfront to OPKO.
But I think R&amp;D you know OPKO aside is going to be in the low 7s kind of you know going forward.
So that's good upward pressure in my mind in terms of the late stage portfolio progressing in a good way.
So I think I am probably more than you need but I think the short answer is there is always opportunities.
But you know we don’t have the same opportunities we had several years ago from the base we’ve done a much better job I think in managing the base.
I’ll just add to Frank’s comments.
You know that -- that what we're looking is sort of transition from dealing with some $26 billion of LOEs from 2010 through 2015.
And the need to rationalize our cost base to one of the investing in the future growth which I think is basically the most desirable state to be in as the topline growth.
And we're investing in our Phase 3 pipeline and our innovative products.
But this management team is very good at managing our P&amp;L and our investment and where we invest.
And you know are prepared to do what’s necessary if business circumstances change on our expense base.
With that the other question was for Geno on [indiscernible].
So Seamus just to respond you know clearly we -- you know Pfizer has a long history and heritage in the cardiovascular space.
And I think that you know we can leverage that knowledge and obviously the data from our clinical trials to determine the best approach in the marketplace.
Frankly we really expect the PCSK-9 market to you know emerge as a large and attractive market with the occurrence of the outcomes data and we're kind of most focused on that.
We’ve obviously put our best thinking forward in our protocol designs.
And should we have you know stronger data then the other companies in the cholesterol management and we will leverage that.
But at this point we’ll have to wait and see how the data turns out.
And again our focus is mainly on the outcomes on our trails.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
Thank you I have two questions.
First for Frank is the 400 million in spend for a potential company split in non-GAAP guidance and what happens to this number in 2016? Is it the same is it higher or is it lower? And then the second question is on pablociclib has the FDA taken a look or do you expect it to take a look prior to April 13 at the Phase 3 trial which is underway? Thank you.
So on the 400 million Steve it’s in GAAP it’s not in adjusted.
We actually called that out in the release.
It’s in the bridge we give you all that bridge is from adjusted EPS to GAAP EPS.
I think the bridge shows it starts at the top.
It shows $2 to $2.10 and then we’ve three takeaways from that.
There is purchase accounting adjustments for $0.41.
There is restructuring and implementation cost that has a range of $0.13 to $0.18.
And then there is a business and legal entity alignment cost which is the $400 million you allude to which is $0.04.
And that's the bridge from $2.10 $to 2.20 the 137 to 152.
So in GAAP not an adjustment.
And we give you a bridge that breaks out how we get from point A to point B.
In terms of 2016 quite frankly as we get towards the end of the year early next year we will call that number out to you because a lot of that depends on how we will progress through the year how the businesses perform.
And so that's something that we will call out obviously later in this year or early in 2016.
Albert on pablociclib [indiscernible]? Yes for Ibrance I don’t want to speak [indiscernible] what the FDA would like to do but from a timing perspective we don't expect to have the results of even if the interim review of Phase 3 before the PDUFA date.
And as you know we're already in the late-stage discussions for [indiscernible].
Next question please operator.
Your next question comes from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
The first one is for Ian which is really what do you think about business development the way you used the US cash on US targets.
There is one inversion just straight M&amp;A type deal as a potential pragmatic way to deal with the tax situation on those overseas cash assets? Do you see potential opportunities to do that and then just a few financial questions.
As you want to be able to allow investors to see the value in the two separate pieces what do you think about giving mid-term guidance on the true potential separate pieces for investors to help them reach that decision and how you reach that decision.
And do you think it’s reasonable to assume that this is now the flow and in 2015 another flow inside the revenues and EPS going forward? And then lastly are you happy that we just extrapolate this year’s tax rate going forward are there any of the factors that we should consider? Okay you know I’ll let Frank answer your modeling questions.
On the BD in using offshore cash for offshore deals once again it comes down to value it comes down to you know the offshore deals often price in the fact that there is offshore cash.
So you have to look at the price tag on the deals and see if they make sense.
But certainly conceptually you know you have a point that it just comes down to the quality of the asset and the deals you're trying to do.
And Frank on the other question? Yeah so let me let me hit the -- Jeff let me hit the extrapolation of the tax rates first.
I think the way I will answer your question is we step it down this year to approximately 25%.
That's down from 26.5% in 14.
So a nice decrease and please know that when we reduce the rate like we do in for 2015 our intention is that that rate is sustainable for the foreseeable future.
You know so that that's how I would answer your question.
In terms to trying to provide guidance beyond 2015 for tax rates.
Given all the uncertainty in the tax environment you know I think that wouldn’t be a prudent thing to do.
In terms of your question on BUs and providing midterm type of guidance -- I think we are getting more and more transparent I think relative to our business units.
This year we started providing a very detailed income state information.
Come 2015 we are going to start to provide -- you know so then we’ll start to provide some balance sheet information so we are providing more and more information.
And I think it enables a lot of good extrapolation work.
In terms of you know taking our guidance and peeling it down to another level I just -- I think it's hard enough to provide annual guidance total company.
You then start taking and slicing it by sub ledger detail I think.
It just really creates a level of complexity that I don't think we are inclined to do.
Next question please operator.
Next question from Marc Goodman from UBS.
Good morning.
First of all can you give us an update on China? How did it perform in the quarter and how you are expecting it to perform in 2015 you know give us some trends there? Second just update on palbo overseas and what the timing is there.
And then on the MAdCAM you did provide some data.
And I was curious if you could comment on the dose response.
And on why it would take some while to move into Phase 3? I think you said you're going to move into Phase 3 in 2016.
And then I think the Phase 2s are done so I was curious about that.
And then lastly just on Lipitor over-the-counter? I know there was one study that remains before you can go back and talk to FDA.
I was curious where we stand on that and when you think you’ll talking to FDA again? Thanks.
Okay let's try and put it together.
So if Albert can answer the palbo one and the Lipitor questions? Yes we’ve had discussions with European regulatory [indiscernible] on the clinical data.
And it is our intention to file in the EU this year.
The anticipated filing packets will build off of what was submitted to the FDA but it’s too early to provide more details on that.
Coming to Lipitor you are right.
The actual use trial was completed in December of 2014 and the results are expected in the second quarter.
So once we see the results then we’ll define our next steps in our efforts to being [indiscernible].
Okay John China.
So thanks for the question Marc.
So we continue to perform strongly in China.
I’ll comment on the GEP segment which is the largest segment of our business in China.
Overall for the quarter we had a growth of 13%.
Overall for the year we’ve had a growth of roundabout 18%.
You know we continue to see as we always do in the American markets quarter to quarter fluctuation and we continue to be very satisfied by our performance in China.
The segments that are you know strong for us are particularly our cardiovascular franchise with Lipitor and Norvasc performing strongly.
And also a very strong performance our anti-infective business.
Thank you now MAdCAM.
Yeah so thank you for noticing the very interesting dose response that we shared with you.
We do think it represents possibly through human biology that at the mid-doses 22 to 75 milligram.
And in that range we possibly inhibit the autoimmune cells causing disease.
While at the higher doses you may also start to interfere with -- T-cells that have a protective effect.
So it is very important to have done a very thorough dose response that can allow you to select the optimal dose.
And we think it may distinguish our opportunity MAdCAM versus other endocrine antibodies that may not have been able to do such a thorough dose response and pick the sweet spot.
And that actually if you look at our remission dates they really perform well versus either other published comparison although it’s historical comparison.
Concerning the timelines so we certainly see if we can accelerate it but that relates to production of clinical trial manufacturing for potential registration study.
And also to really understand how to design a study where you could best develop a drug that has this really unique tolerability profile both for induction and maintenance therapy and how it could play as an anchor drug across many IBD like conditions.
And that's why we gave a little bit of a extended time period.
And we maybe able to shorten that as we go forward.
Thank you Mikael and operator if we could take our last question please.
Your final question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital.
Good morning and I apologize if I ask redundant questions.
I got disconnected briefly.
Ian from your perspective could you comment on the M&amp;A landscape in general? Based on your conversations with management teams are you finding willing sellers out there and is it just a matter of price? The follow up for Frank and just following up on your earlier comments how should we think about your margins for the next couple of years? You are losing some high margin products.
You’ve said most of the cost cutting is done and you are investing in launches.
So is it fair to expect somewhat stable or perhaps slightly declining margins going forward? Thank you.
So you know Alex on the price you know willing sellers.
Price always determines whether you’ve a willing seller or not normally.
It’s just a matter of what value you want to transfer.
And what I would say is I think the starting point of the prices are somewhat buoyant shall we say given where the market place is.
So that does give you some concern when you look at paying the type of prices there are premiums you need off what we see as high valuations to begin with.
So we're being disciplined in how we look at that and then would you like to answer the margin question? Yeah so Alex I think a very good question in terms of -- I’ll call it the rhythm of the margins.
There is some -- I’ll call it some downward pressure on our operating margins.
So we’ve got $3.5 billion LOEs next year and some high margin products clearly putting some downward pressure in the operating margins.
And we’ve given guidance where you can obviously go through the line items and compute the numbers.
That said all of that’s factored into our EPS guidance.
And I want to reiterate what I said before if you exclude foreign exchange in the outcomes transaction the midpoint of our guidance for the next year is roughly what we printed in 2014 despite that $3.5 billion in LOEs.
So we’ll continue to manage our cost structure obviously the opportunities aren’t what they used to be.
But there is some slight -- [Abrupt End] Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer’s first quarter 2015 performance.
I am joined here today by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D’Amelio our CFO; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler our General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance First Quarter 2015 which is located in the Investor Presentations section in the lower right hand corner of the page.
Before we start I’d like to remind you that our discussions during this call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer’s 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions in the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer’s current report on Form 8-K dated today.
We will now make some prepared remarks and then we will move to a Q&amp;A session.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck and good morning everyone.
During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter provide some thoughts about the pipeline and close with a few comments about actions we’ve taken to strengthen our core businesses.
Starting with the quarter our performance for the quarter was solid with good performance on both top and bottom-line.
Overall revenues grew by 2% operationally even with a negative impact from the loss of exclusivity of Celebrex in U.S.
and the end of Spiriva co-promotion agreement also in the U.S.
In addition we saw 12% operational growth in emerging markets driven by both our GEP and Innovative businesses.
While majority of LOEs and co-promote expiries are behind us we still face some LOEs this year and next making it difficult to generate revenue growth despite the strong performance of our newest products.
That said we believe the impact from any remaining LOEs will diminish over time as we continue to see a building revenue base resulting from investments we’ve made in key growth areas and recent product launches.
I’ll touch upon some noteworthy areas.
Prevenar 13 had a very strong quarter particularly in the U.S.
where revenues increased 80% this was primarily due to strong uptake amongst adults 65 years of age and older following the positive recommendation from U.S.
Center for Disease Control and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices as well as the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication compared to the year ago quarter.
Revenues for the adult indication were approximately $300 million in the quarter.
Physicians’ response to Prevenar 13 continues to build steadily and our strong Q1 sales suggest these physicians are actively vaccinating adults who have never been vaccinated as well as those who were previously vaccinated with PNEUMOVAX from Merck.
Each year several million people in the U.S.
turn 65 who are eligible to receive Prevenar 13.
And of those adults in the U.S.
who are already 65 there are many millions eligible that have never been vaccinated or were previously vaccinated.
We are increasing awareness amongst adults about the seriousness of pneumococcal pneumonia and the importance of talking to their physicians or pharmacists about vaccination to protect them from its devastating effects.
We believe our efforts are increasing the sense of urgency to vaccinate and driving consumers to request the Prevenar vaccine.
In December CMS changed their guidance to cover both pneumococcal vaccines which ensures coverage for senior 65 years and older under Medicare Part D aligning with a positive ASIP recommendations from August 2014.
Eliquis is gaining significant momentum worldwide as it continues to increase share amongst cardiologists who recently -- and recently has become the number one oral anticoagulant that’s NOAC prescribed by cardiologists for new to brand patients in the United States and Japan.
In addition Eliquis is now the number one NOAC prescribed by cardiologists for new to brand patients for the nonvalvular atrial fibrillation indication in the UK and Spain and we’re continuing to see increasing uptake in Germany.
We are pleased with the continued progress Xeljanz has made towards becoming a key product based on approvals in 40 countries in rheumatoid arthritis launches and revenue growth of the RA indication and the initiation of filing for the potential second indication in plaques psoriasis.
In the U.S.
rheumatologists’ satisfaction with the product continues to be positive Xeljanz now ranks number three amongst rheumatologists in new to brand prescription share of self administrated rheumatoid arthritis therapies and is on track to become the third new to brand therapy overall in the U.S.
We have put significant focus and resources behind building our oncology business.
The portfolio was strengthened with some recent advancements.
In February we received accelerated approval from the FDA for Ibrance and have quickly launched in the U.S.
While it is still very early I’m extremely pleased with its performance.
Physicians have been embracing the product; the number of new patient starts have been increasing since the FDA approval and we are seeing early success of reimbursement to date.
The Ibrance team has done a remarkable job in ensuring we were able to get the product to patients as quickly as possible following approval.
We also announced this month a Phase 3 trial of Ibrance for recurrent breast cancer had met its primary endpoint of progression-free survival.
We will be presenting detailed efficacy and safety results from PALOMA-3 at the upcoming ASCO.
In addition we have several presentations at ASCO including oral data presentations for our immune-oncology asset 4-1BB and avelumab the PD-L1 being co-developed for alliance with Merck KGa.
Also last week we announced another encouraging development in our oncology pipeline a Phase 3 trial for inotuzumab met the primary end point of demonstrating a higher complete hematological remission rate in adults who relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia compared to that achieved with standard of care chemotherapy.
We’re discussing these data with the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
The trial will continue to evaluate overall survival which is a separate primary end point; the data will be submitted for presentation at upcoming medical meetings.
I believe our recent accomplishments and news flow in research and development demonstrate that we are in one of the most productive times for our pipeline.
We have strong presence in the areas where the science is quickly moving where there is market potential where we believe we have clinical differentiation most importantly where the patients’ needs are the greatest.
Today we published a comprehensive update of the pipeline; you will see that we have a rich modality mix across small and large molecules and vaccines novel mechanisms and potential new indications.
This includes the development of bococizumab; the ongoing development of Xeljanz; a CDK 4/6 platform with Ibrance; a comprehensive immune-oncology program with our partner Merck KGa for the first wave of potential single agent mono-therapy treatment regimes with several tumor types and assets to position us for the next wave of potential I/O combination therapies including 4-1BB OX40 and ADCs.
Vaccines for Staph aureus and C difficile a next generation ALK/ROS1 inhibitor a world leading kinase capability with unique JAK drugs in development a strong rare disease portfolio in the areas of hematology neuroscience inherent to metabolic disorders and pulmonology our novel neuroscience work in Parkinson’s and our development portfolio of monoclonal biosimilars continues to progress well with full products now in Phase 3 development.
In total we have 88 programs in clinical development with the 30 programs in late stage development or registration as of today.
Over the last several years we have rebuilt the pipeline and transformed our approach to R&amp;D and we believe we’re well positioned to bring forth over the next several years therapies that will significantly improve people’s lives.
Now for a few comments on how we continue to take steps to expand our sources of revenue and strengthen our core businesses.
As always we continue to look for business development opportunities that will create value with the bias towards deals with a potential for creating value in the near-term.
M&amp;A activity in the pharma space has been very active recently and Pfizer regularly reviews potential opportunities but remains disciplined with our shareholders’ capital to ensure transactions we may pursue generate an appropriate return for our shareholders.
That is why this quarter you saw us announce two transactions one to drive greater sustainability of GEP business over the long-term and one to expand the vaccines portfolio.
Hospira is an excellent strategic fit in attractive and growing market segment including sterile injectables and biosimilars and we expect the acquisition to accelerate the growth trajectory to GEP business.
We remain on track for a closing in the second half of this year.
And our deal for Redvax expands our vaccine development portfolio by giving us access to a promising vaccine in preclinical development of human cytomegalovirus a virus that can lead to serious disabilities in infants when passed from newly infected mothers to their new borns.
We now have a broader marketed vaccine portfolio for preventing serious illnesses which includes the most widely used conjugate vaccine in the world Prevenar 13 with more than 750 million doses distributed.
Remember recently approved to prevent invasive disease caused by group B meningitis in people age 10 to 25 and vaccines to protect against disease caused by group C meningitis and to help prevent tick-borne encephalitis through acquiring Baxter International’s market in vaccines.
As you’ve heard us say on several occasions business development is not a strategy it is one lever of several we have available for strengthening our two basic businesses innovative product business and established products business.
This year’s off to a good start with momentum in the pipeline growing market penetration for our newest in line products and strategic additions to the portfolio.
Our focus for the year will continue to be on supporting our recent new product launches in particular Ibrance and Prevenar 13 adult accelerating and differentiating key programs in the pipeline to deliver breakthrough products continuing to look for attractive business development opportunities that strengthen our businesses and doing all of these things while we deploy our capital in a way that yields the greatest value to shareholders.
I’ll now turn it over to Frank.
Thanks Ian good day everyone.
As always the charts I’m reviewing today are included in our webcast.
First quarter 2015 reported revenues were approximately $10.9 billion and reflect operational growth of $250 million or 2% year-over-year mainly driven by the strong performance of Prevenar 13 and Eliquis in developed markets and Lyrica Nexium 24HR Xeljanz and Viagra primarily in the U.S.
The launch of Ibrance in the U.S.
is February of this year and 12% operational growth in emerging markets which were more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of approximately $739 million or 7% the loss of exclusivity in immediate multi-source generic competition for Celebrex in the U.S.
in December of 2014 other product losses of exclusivity and the termination of the Spiriva co-promotion collaboration in certain countries.
Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.51 versus $0.57 in the year ago quarter.
The decrease was primarily due to a $0.04 negative impact due to foreign exchange and a $0.03 negative impact due to the 295 million upfront payment to OPKO during the first quarter of 2015.
Adjusted diluted EPS was favorably impacted by a lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding which declined by 148 million shares versus the year ago quarter due to ongoing share repurchases which includes the partial-quarter impact of our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement effective February 2015.
Reported diluted EPS was $0.38 compared with $0.36 in the year ago quarter due to the previously mentioned factors and the favorable impact of lower legal charges which were partially offset by a higher effective tax rate.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted first quarter reported revenues by $739 million or $0.07 and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses in the aggregate by $462 million or 7%.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.04 compared with the year ago quarter.
Now moving on to the financial highlights of our business segments in the first quarter Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 7% operationally year-over-year due to the strong operational growth from Lyrica primarily in the U.S.
and Japan and the performance from recently launched products including Eliquis globally and Xeljanz primarily in the U.S.
Although operationally revenues increased 7% and cost of sales decreased 1% income before taxes declined 9% operationally mainly because of a 59% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses primarily due to the previously mentioned upfront payment to OPKO Health and to a lesser extent an 11% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses due to increased investments in new products and certain in-line brands.
First quarter VOC revenues increased 29% operationally due to the 51% operational revenue growth from our Global Vaccines business as a result of Prevenar 13 which grew 80% in the U.S.
and 15% internationally and the inclusion of Baxter’s market of vaccines in Europe Nexium 24HR in the U.S.
the launch of Ibrance in the U.S.
in February and Xalkori and Inlyta globally.
Income before taxes increased 41% operationally mainly due to increased revenues with an associated improvement in gross margin partially offset by a 19% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses due to investment in Prevenar 13 adult indication Nexium 24HR and the Trumenba and Ibrance launches and the 7% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses due to increased investment in the Ibrance development program and the global immuno-oncology alliance with Merck KGaA and other oncology products.
In the first quarter Global Established Pharmaceuticals revenues decreased 10% operationally mainly due to the loss of exclusivity and immediate multi-source generic competition for Celebrex in the U.S.
in December of 2014 and to a lesser extent from the loss of exclusivity of Lyrica in certain developed markets in Europe during the first quarter of 2015 and Zyvox IV in the U.S.
in January 2015 continued generic competition for Lipitor in developed markets and determination of the Spiriva co-promotion agreement in most countries including in U.S.
in April of 2014.
All of these were partially offset by strong operational growth of 10% in emerging markets driven by Lipitor; Viagra and Norvasc.
Income before taxes declined 14% operationally due to the decrease in revenues and 1% operational increase or 2.1 percentage point increase as a percentage of revenues and cost of sales due to an unfavorable change in product mix.
Flatter R&amp;D expenses primarily due to increased spending in our biosimilars development programs offset by lower clinical trial expenses all of which were partially offset by 9% operational decrease in SI&amp;A expenses driven by cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
Now I would like to walk you through the updated full year 2015 guidance ranges for reported revenues reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS relative to our 2014 actual results.
I want to point out that there are no unfavorable changes to our operational outlook; we’re only updating the 2015guidance ranges for these elements solely due to the negative impact of recent changes in foreign exchange rates in relation to the U.S.
dollar from mid-January to mid-April primarily driven by the weakening of the euro.
This updated guidance assumes an FX rate for the euro of approximately $1.06.
As a result we are lowering our reported revenue range by $500 million and now expect the range to be $44 billion to $46 billion.
It’s important to note that the actual negative impact of foreign exchange in our full year 2015 revenues is actually greater than $500 million.
However the operational strength of our revenues is allowing us to absorb this.
In addition we are lowering our reported and adjusted diluted EPS ranges by $0.05 and now expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.32 to $1.47 and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.95 to $2.05.
Before moving I want to point out that actual rates in mid-April 2015 do not include the impact of a potential devaluation of the Venezuela and Boulevard.
We’re reaffirming the remaining elements of our 2015 financial guidance which we issued on January 27 2015.
Moving on to key takeaways we recorded solid financial performance in the first quarter.
While we have no one favorable changes in our operational outlook for the remainder of 2015 we have updated our financial guidance solely to reflect the negative impact of recent changes in foreign exchange rates.
We entered into an agreement to acquire Hospira for a total enterprise value of approximately $17 billion.
Subject to the appropriate regulatory approvals we continue to expect to complete transaction in the second half of 2015.
We achieved several key R&amp;D milestones so far in 2015 including receiving accelerated approval from the FDA for Ibrance with letrozole for first line advanced breast cancer our Phase 3 PALOMA-3 study for Ibrance with fulvestrant met its primary efficacy end point the FDA lifting the partial clinical hold on our tanezumab development program and we’re preparing to resume Phase 3 activities with our partner Eli Lilly and the EC approved an expanded indication for the use of Prevenar 13 adults aged 18 years and older.
We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation; in the first quarter of 2015 we’ve returned $7.8 billion to shareholders through dividend and share repurchases.
It’s important to note that after repurchasing $6 billion of our common stock the first quarter 2015 including our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase we have already met our 2015 share repurchase target and do not currently expect to repurchase additional shares this year.
We continue to expect to return approximately $13 billion to shareholders in 2015 through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2015 and beyond.
Now I’ll turn it back to Chuck.
Thank you Ian and Frank.
Operator can we please poll for questions now? [Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from Evercore ISI.
I will use my question please to ask about use of capital if I may.
I know it’s something you’ve discussed a lot but I think we’re always interested in even subtle changes in how you answer these questions.
But Ian I was just wondering when you think about use of capital are you at this point I think in the past you remarked that if the numbers make sense you would be open to a large deal similar to the AstraZeneca proposal last year; just wanted to take your temperature on that.
And then also would you in theory be interested in buying a company that in adding small molecule and DA capabilities to the established products business or do you feel that the acquisition of Hospira kind of filled the gaps that -- the main gaps that that business may have had? And finally as you look across the landscape in biotech do you have general thoughts on biotech valuations and opportunities there? Thank you.
I think the organization is agnostic to the size of BD; it has to be BD that will move the needle.
And I’m not concerned about doing a large transaction if the value was there for shareholders vis-à-vis between adding to Innovative or adding to GEP adding to Consumer we’re driven by value; does it create value for shareholders; we have the capacity to add businesses in any one of those areas.
And the last part of the question was I think valuation; I think I said last quarter I thought that the valuation of biotech was bland; I still believe it remains there.
So it means we’re very careful as we evaluate deals we -- there’s probably no deal that actually occurs that we haven’t looked at and evaluated but we have a strong focus on creating shareholder value and that’s what guides us.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you very much.
Ian in your prepared remarks you failed to mention tax conversions.
I’m just curious to know how much of a priority a tax conversion still is or unlocking the value of your overseas cash flows.
And if you were to abide by the current IRS laws today doesn’t that mean that there are fewer large targets available to you than before; can you confirm that and really just your appetite? And then secondly you’ve said before that the earliest you can break up the company is in 2017; I’m assuming that’s day one 2017 because we will at that point have three full years of financials.
And if that’s correct are you targeting a decision sometime next year I would think that once you make the decision it’s going to take about a year or so before you actually execute on the split or maybe it won’t take quite that long but are you targeting a decision next year and if so what at this point are you waiting for to make that decision? Well taking the first question -- the last question first I believe what we said is that we would be in a position to -- if we so took the decision to effectuate or start the split in ‘17 which probably means we’d have to take a decision in latter part of ‘16.
We do need three years of financials; we will get those three years of financials by the end of ‘16.
And what are we waiting for as we said before Jami I want to see how these two divisions operating inside of Pfizer are they on their own sustainable businesses.
So I’m waiting to see our pipeline develop; I’m waiting to add as we have done with Hospira more attractive assets into established products and then I’m also looking to see how does the street value the Pfizer as it is today does and what -- and we’ve given you a lot of information on our segments; so is the sum of the parts different from the whole and we will make that decision around that latter part of ‘16.
So I think that answers that question.
We are as always focused in our decision making on creating shareholder value.
And I think those three elements I laid out to you would describe how we would judge whether any such action will create shareholder value.
On the issue of lowering our tax rate or re-domiciling tax is one of our largest expenses.
We as any management should be are focused on trying to prudently manage our expenses.
The new proposed rule change does make it more difficult to immediately realize any benefits from being re-domiciled but it really depends upon the target very complex issues of where the assets and where the cash and the tax position of the target.
And so really it’s very very different for say what the universe of possible targets are but rest assured then when we look at those type of BD deals we’re looking at the creation of value.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
So with respect to the potential separation of the businesses I’m guessing that you’re not willing to disclose the relative cash flow of the two segments.
But my assumption is that the cash flow of the Innovative business is an even smaller percentage of the total company cash flow than the earnings that you disclosed from the Innovative business would suggest.
So anyway Frank I was just hoping that you could speak to that and help us understand whether that’s accurate and whether the lack of cash flow in the innovative business is something that could potentially constrain your ability to separate or monetize that business.
So a couple of comments David.
Let me just start by saying reminding everyone this quarter when we file our 10-Q we’ll be including balance sheet information for this segment but we won’t have debt or cash for example by segment; we’ll have on the asset side accounts receivable inventory tax assets and other assets and then on liability side we’ll have on accounts payable accrued compensation and other liability.
So we’ll start providing balance sheet information but we won’t be providing debt or cash by various segments since those are really enterprise assets enterprise liabilities at this point.
What I would say is this that I don’t see capital structure.
So I’m going to raise it up a little bit.
You asked about cash but I’ll answer the question by saying I don’t see capital structure and somehow impeding our decision making.
So let’s hit to whether or not to execute a split of the company.
We believe I believe we can clearly manage our way through capital structure so that’s not in any way shape or form some sort of impeding factor relative to our decision.
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Just a few here first on Ibrance; can you just discuss a little bit more about the launch and commercial plans from here for the asset? And as part of that can you just give us a little bit of color on the importance of PALOMA-3 for the market opportunity and the ramp of the product; and how big of an opportunity does this open up for Pfizer? My second question was coming back to GEP.
Do you have the capacity to pursuing the large deal here or are you primarily focused on Hospira integration at this point not so much financial capacity but just you have -- but personnel in place of another big deal where available could you pursue it? So let me just talk about the deal.
We’ve done several large integrations.
We’re working well with Hospira.
We expected to close in the second half of this year.
Should value be there this organization has a capability of undertaking our deals independent of size if it was important for our shareholder.
So I’m not concerned about that.
I would pass it over to Albert to talk about Ibrance.
Overall we are very pleased with the results.
And so far Ibrance is being well received by oncologists.
We have over 800 healthcare practitioners prescribing it.
We have over 2000 patients in one quarter and we have approximately 3000 total scripts written so far.
First line market share is already approaching 10% that’s way ahead of previous analogues.
And also we see strong reinvestment so far.
Now expectation is that Ibrance will gradually grow to become a new standard of care a first line treatment of this group of patients.
But over time momentum in breast cancer will build beyond first line as other studies read out positive.
For example you mentioned the results of PALOMA-3 which will be presented at ASCO but we plan to work with the FDA to expand the label to other lines of therapy based on these results.
And also as a reminder there are several other breast cancer studies running in early and recurrence settings.
And needless to say but also we have many non-breast tumor studies including head and neck lung melanoma et cetera.
Now for your particular importance of PALOMA-3 as I said so far there is limited medical use in second and third line given that the label is in first line.
So as I said we will work with FDA to expand the label to other lines of therapy.
But beyond label amendment I think we should see the PALOMA-3 in the way that adds to the level of confidence in the mechanics of action and of course is also confirmation of an additional effective Ibrance combination but this time with Faslodex before we had with flat fulvestrant.
[Ph] And we are at Pfizer and very focused on speed and maximizing the opportunity of Ibrance and getting this great product to patients as fast as possible.
And I believe we will be filing in the EU in the second half of this year.
Is that right? This is correct Ian.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Bernstein.
Enbrel was down 8% operationally in Europe; I am wondering how much of this reflects the impact of biosimilar Remicade and if you can talk about expectations for that product going forward in Europe both in terms of volume growth and pricing.
And then going back to this topic of splitting up looking to see if you could give us odds of the possibility that Pfizer chooses not to split up you consistently leave that open as a possibility for the last several years that we’ve talked about this topic.
And as I am sure you’re aware most investors want you to do something beyond just buying more targets and getting bigger.
So it would be helpful to know with odds of that hope not being delivered on our -- is it less than 10% less than 20% less than 50% or what exactly? Let me try and deal with split before we ask Geno to deal with Enbrel.
What I would say Tim is that I think this management team has established a reputation of focusing its actions on shareholder value.
So I don’t really think it’s useful to give odds; what I think is useful is to say we will do what’s best for shareholders in creating value for them.
And some of our transactions when we were looking at previous once last year at times we talked about getting bigger to get smaller.
Because by getting bigger we could add and strengthen the independent businesses and then get smaller if it made sense.
Frankly we’re focused on creating value for shareholders.
And if a split or getting bigger and then splitting make sense we will execute that because the prime driver of this management team is to create shareholder value.
With that I’ll pass it over to Geno to talk about Enbrel in Europe.
Tim the situation in Europe with Enbrel was that we implanted a new distribution model in the UK.
We started at the end of last year where we moved away from the retail channel into just the hospital channel and directed patients.
So we saw in the first quarter this year was some inventory work down in the first quarter and that affected our sales in the UK.
We had good strong sales in Italy and France and Spain.
So we really didn’t see anything more widespread than the distribution change.
In terms of effective biosimilar Remicade on the Enbrel business we really haven’t seen an impact there either.
So we’re expecting to see continued modest growth to very large base of business; it’s a very well accepted product throughout Europe and the rest of the world.
And we anticipate continuation of modest growth for the brand outside the U.S.
Your next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Deutsche Bank.
First Frank just mechanistically how would a very large transaction if you did one affect the timing of a potential split? Clearly the Hospira deal did not affect your timeline but I imagine certain deals could.
And secondly for John; it’s good to see another strong quarter from Hospira.
Is it fair to say that the addition of Hospira in your mind takes gap from flat to declining in sales in the out years to pretty squarely into growth territory? Thanks.
Just to reiterate what I said before and then I’ll answer the question specifically.
We’re doing all the things we need to do in particular the three years of prospective audited financials so that we’d be in a position to exercise our option in 2017 if we chose to do so.
And as I said before the Hospira acquisition does not impact that timeline.
But then Gregg specific to your question if we were to do a large transaction and as Ian said before we’re agnostic to size it’s really all about we believe we create shareholder value for our shareholders it could it clearly could impact our timeline.
If we were to do a transaction and if it were to impact our timeline please know we’ll proactively tell you all that as soon as we know.
So first of all just to reiterate as you know we obviously don’t provide guidance by individual business.
But obviously we’re very pleased to see the continued positive strong momentum for the Hospira business this quarter.
The GEP business has been subject to some LOEs which I think Ian mentioned in his script and as we’ve -- it applies.
We knew that in the short-term that will therefore impact the revenue trajectory of the base GEP business over the next year or two.
But overall the transaction certainly represents an immediate incremental source of revenue growth with products that can be expanded into additional markets given Pfizer’s global reach.
And I think the excitement that I think we’ve seen in the financial community that certainly we share really is around the transaction bringing together two excellent businesses that will deliver not only near-term profitable revenue growth but also provide a platform for future growth that can be enhanced through Pfizer’s global reach and infrastructure.
So we remain very positive about the combination of the two businesses.
Your next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.
First one just has to do with the Hospira transaction.
Can you give any clarity on when you might anticipate HSR clearance? Most notably one thing that we noticed was that on medium and broad spectrum antibiotics and beta-lactams that there’s some overlap and then certainly the overlap in the biosimilars so any kind of commentary on product divestitures would be helpful.
And then second question on your oncology business if you look at Xalkori you have number one number two competitors in oncology launching all positive compounds globally; Inlyta in light of I/O data that potentially is becoming available can you maybe discuss the OS benefit Inlyta has potentially to being able to compete with I/O? And then on Ibrance just potentially competitive threat since competitors are indicating that could have data in the ‘16 to Ibrance just your thoughts on your competitive positioning of that franchise going forward here.
Okay John thank you some very optimistic questions there.
Why don’t we deal first of all with Hospira; Doug can you do that? Sure.
So we’re looking at all the aspects relative beyond obviously biosimilars as well we’re working closely with regulators and we’re pleased with the progress that we’re making.
We continue to expect to close the transaction during the second half of 2015.
And on the oncology issues would you like to comment upon what we expect the competition launching and then our second generation or third generation ALK/ROS and then perhaps Mikael may want to comment on some of the competitive dynamics.
Absolutely and thanks John for the question.
In Ibrance I spoke a little bit before; and right now we are really the only company that has randomized data out there so we can make any comparison.
We have the most advanced and the most broad program in CDK 4/6.
I say more advanced because we are the only one so that we have registration to start with and we have already announced positive results of a second study in a different population and of course we are having already initiated right now we have in this year running already four Phase 3 studies on the breast cancer.
And we’re running beyond breast cancer over 30 studies in multiple tumor indications.
So I have a lot of respect for competitors but I think in that one really we are way ahead.
I think one competitor just demand that they may be finishing their Phase 3 in ‘17 is that right? In ‘16 second half of ‘16 yes.
What we expect -- we have already registrations and for the same type we expect the confirmatory study to come to completion at last the quarter this year in August.
And as Ian said before also we have discussions with EU authorities and we plan to file for Ibrance in the second half of this year as well.
Mikael any comments? Yes I want to just briefly comment on your discussion about our ALK franchise.
I think we should look up on it as an ALK franchise where Xalkori is most experienced drug with a very much recognized stable profile.
We shared at recent conferences including presentation at AACR our third generation ALK inhibitor with 3922 number name.
And it’s really unique compound that hits all known ALK mutations including the G1202R.
And to the best of my knowledge it’s still only compound so far that have shown strong effect across all mutation independent whether the patient has experienced several of the currently available ALK inhibitors.
Moreover several responses also against brain metastases have been reported for this drug.
So I think the combined ALK franchise from place that will over time be very strong.
Inlyta can nicely also be combined with a immune-oncology product as per our strategy.
So we shouldn’t see Inlyta as alone facing other entrants but we and Merck Serono are exploring immune-oncology avelumab Inlyta and other agents.
So I think you will see us building a strong position in renal cell carcinoma.
And John I sort of see the competition coming in and extending the survival time of patients with the ALK mutation s very positive for our third generation when it comes to market.
As you’ll have of all patients that have gone through our first line as Xalkori increases second line on products of competitors and creating a more substantial patient base for our third generation ALK.
So thanks for the questions.
Next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
I got two quick ones on the product side and one of the expense side.
So just on to products just if you can kind of give us a sense of your optimism on tanezumab at this point.
I know you’re talking about the Phase 3 now.
But just given the kind of safety issues that have been before do you see that’s potentially a blockbuster to products or is it more of a niche product just given some of the safety questions.
Lipitor quick question on the real world study there I know it’s completed has been completed over some time; any update on when we might see the data there? And then just on the last on the expense side if I read the release correctly you had quite a bit of expenses allocated to the other bucket as opposed to being allocated to one of the three specific business units? In other words are five quarters in to the company operating as three separate units; how should we think about in terms of your ability to actually split into two entities if we want to without having significant amount of dis-synergies as given there is some -- there will be a lot of overlap in how the expenses are being expected? Geno tanezumab? Tanezumab look we see this as a real innovation; one of the first real breakthroughs in pain management in many many years and a significant unmet need over use of opioids being a big problem and a substantial number of patients with the conditions that we’re pursuing osteoarthritis chronic low back pain and cancer pain.
So we see that this drug has significant potential.
We know a lot about this medicine; we’ve completed quite a number of studies and we’re anxious to see it advance through this next phase of development and enter the market.
Albert real world real life study Lipitor? The actual use trial was completed in December.
So the results are expected this quarter.
The results of study will inform next steps and timelines for potential NDA filing.
And we will continue to update you as we have more news on that.
And Frank on expenses? The major items in that other bucket are WRD.
So Mikael’s organization and I’ll call it corporate.
We think about corporate as what we call the enabling function.
So it’s IT; finance; legal; HR; facilities; public relations all those functions basically are what are in our corporate bucket there.
Last year in the Q we gave you all percentages on how to allocate those various items to the segments.
The key there is in terms of the basis of what’s underpinning those percentages that we gave you.
There is really three buckets of allocations there; I’ll call it specific assignments regional allocations and general allocations.
The specific assignments are about 40%; the regional allocations are about 20%; the general allocations are about 40%.
So we provide all that details so that you can basically drive it to segment.
And what that tells you is much of it the specific assignment and the regional allocation is very specific to an individual segment.
Your next question comes from Seamus Fernandez from Leerink.
Just a few quick questions couple on the pipeline and then one for Ian.
On the pipeline maybe just to start off maybe we could talk a little bit about when we might see data with your 4-1BB and what combinations we may see.
Interestingly we’d love to hear your thoughts on AstraZeneca’s deal with Celgene and their comments on the challenges of getting into hem tumors.
The second question just given the broad success of Opdivo in second line lung cancer when and how do you see your recently announced study recruiting in the U.S.
or perhaps even in Europe over the next 12 months as approvals are likely received? And then lastly for Ian when you say that you are agnostic to the creation of shareholder value I think everybody has asked the question of the possibility that you go out and buy more assets.
However I do think that there certainly is the possibility of lowering your tax rates with the willingness to perhaps merge with an overseas entity with that entity being the controlling entity.
How agnostic are you truly to that kind of an outcome? I’ll ask Mikael to comment on the 4-1BB.
I don’t really think it’s appropriate first to comment on AZ strategy and how they go about financing their pipeline.
And then on lung cancer perhaps Mikael or Albert can deal with that.
Then I’ll come back to on how agnostic I feel.
As you know we believe that the field of I/O combinations is going to increasingly be prominent.
And we have invested in a broad number of I/O combinations; we’ll have up to five I/O drugs in the clinic this year and expect every year probably two new entering.
Specifically for 4-1BB we will share additional data at ASCO.
We have growing experience with 4-1BB in lymphoma on rituximab background that said yes the stable activity and good volatility profile.
And I think suggest that this class of combining check point activators with check point inhibitors may be the route to go as we have learned combining multiple check point inhibitors as CTLA-4 and PD-1 mainly to decreasing therapeutic window while 4-1BB we’re very encouraged that the therapeutic window will be large and the drug is an interesting part of this new I/O combination.
I also wanted to make a pitch that we actually are now entering the clinic with our OX40 antibody that also will be planned to explode as mono-therapy and later in combination with avelumab.
Briefly just on second line lung cancer as we announced avelumab into several solid tumor indications we expect over the years of ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 and ‘20 to see multiple pivotal trials readout and opportunities for drug registrations across several of the solid tumors including lung cancer.
Thank you Mikael.
Now Seamus I think you mentioned; I think you perhaps misquoted me there.
I’m not agnostic on value; I’m agnostic on size and I’m totally focused on value.
And I think it’s sort of alluding your questions about the -- whether you’re 80-20 or 60-40 to maximize your benefits.
And once again I’m open to any sort of combinations that when we look at it produces clear value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
I have a couple.
First for Frank isn’t the full year share count guidance 6.2 billion shares versus Q1’s nearly 6.3 billion; that difference is 3.2 billion in share repurchase? And related to that I’m surprised the share count was not much lower in Q1 versus Q4 given the 150 million share repurchase.
I guess the answer might be that you weren’t expecting the stock to be so strong but maybe you can clarify.
And then secondly how much of the 300 million in Prevenar sales in adults in Q1 would you consider catch up versus the cohort of people that just turned 65 and are receptive to vaccination? So on the share repurchase Steve our projection for the end of the year is a little bit higher than the number you quoted and we obviously factored that into our guidance.
And then in terms of the shares from Q4 to Q1 remember on that accelerated share repurchase we got a partial quarter benefit for that in the number because we didn’t put that in place until February so kind of think about it as a mid quarter impact.
But if you go to the full year we’re a little bit higher than the 6.2 and what’s really been driving that and it’s a good issue is stock price is higher than we thought it was going to be.
From a share repurchase assumption perspective in terms of what we assumed in our planning it’s higher than what we had planned for but net-net it’s all factored into our guidance.
Al if you’d like to sort of try and dissect it interesting market for adult vaccines in the U.S.
and potentially internationally.
I don’t have specific data yet as to how much is catch up or not but it’s an indication of the 300 is an indication of the significant potential of this market.
Let me run some numbers for you.
Every year 4 million adults in U.S.
alone are turning 65.
There are 27 million adults that have been previously vaccinated with PPV 23 and additional 20 million adults that have never been vaccinated that’s a pool of 47 million adults in U.S.
Both of these cohorts are now recommended and reimbursed to receive Prevenar 13.
And the same comes with Europe.
In Europe we have already received the label the prevention of pneumonia for adults 18 and older.
We are working country by country to ensure recommendations and after that reimbursement which will take some time but typically it’s happening.
And in general we are very pleased with the first quarter the results.
They were driven of course by the broad recommendation.
We had the severe flu season that also played a role and also our commercial efforts were very successful.
Going forward in the spring months we expect the revenues to moderate given the seasonality of the business but we expect strong revenue growth will resume in the fall.
And overall we expect very strong growth for the year.
Your next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi.
A question on your immune-oncology portfolio; do you have any evidence to date to conclude that the ADC enabled properties of your PDL-1 are positively significantly differentiated versus the other non-factor enabled PDL 1s that aren’t clinically approved.
Second is it still the case that you haven’t shared any solid tumor responses with your anti-CD-137 or is that changed? And then lastly perhaps you could comment on the strategic outlook of your consumer health business given it’s a very active market out there with numerous potential buyers who I’m sure would be interested in your assets? Mikael could you take us through the immune-oncology questions? I think you asked briefly about ADCs and then mainly around differentiation for our immune-oncology assets.
Maybe I’d just say a few words on ADCs.
We have built up seven ADCs in the clinic.
You’ heard recently about our clindamycin ADC inotuzumab showing positive and good data for the first of two primary end points hematological remissions.
We have next wave in Phase 1/2 studies; I can particular mention one that you think you should keep an eye on that we will also believe will continue to established ADC as an important modality.
And we are indeed quite encouraged by the idea of combining the selectivity of ADCs with immune-oncology.
So I think your question was really good by asking about those modalities.
Our PDL-1 as you know our view is that data available to-date suggests that it will have a similar profile to that on other advance PD-1 and PDL-1 antibodies that are presented data in unselected patient.
And as you continue to explore enrichment of patients such as increase level of PDL-1 it’s expected that response rate will further increase as well as with a drug combination.
There’s been some suggestion as from a reported ASR that avelumab may also on the positive end pick up some ADCs to rank itself; it remains to be proven what tumor types this could potentially be a differentiation.
But so far we have said that avelumab has a competitive profile similar to the PD-1 PDL-1 and we are very excited to advance the molecule and we’ll share an update at ASCO.
And on the Consumer business it actually had a very quarter very good growth.
And so it’s a business that we like to be in.
I think it’s a strategically important business for us.
And we will continue to develop it and if we have opportunities to do acquisitions to grow we’ll also look at those.
So it’s a good business to be in.
Your next question comes from Colin Bristow from Bank of America.
Couple of quick questions on the biosimilar Avastin; what’s your view with regards to what agencies were required for approval? Do you think response rates will be sufficient would you anticipate meeting survival data? And also do you see any issues with recruitment here given there is question of more incentives to trial the biosimilar versus the innovator? And then last question on Xeljanz; I see you’re filing based on 5 and 10 milligrams data in plaque psoriasis; is that potential for this data set to assist any approval of the 10 milligram data in RA? Biosimilar Avastin Mikael comments on that? I would say that for each of the biosimilars we negotiate end point with the regulatory agencies.
And we expect that data that indicate you have equivalence analytical on the drug pharmacokinetics and clinical profile in general will lead to registration across multiple indications.
I can’t specifically speculate on what would be required for Avastin but I will in general be optimistic that readout such as response rates or PFS will be likely confirm by equivalence if you do have also strong robust data on the other aspect by equivalence.
We have now five antibodies working closely with GEP in the pipeline and we are very pleased so far with all of those; four are in Phase 3 studies.
On the 10 milligram data in psoriasis; as you know the psoriasis patient population is a much different patient population then RA.
However as we accumulate more and more data on the 10 milligram in both in RA post marketing surveillance studies in the additional indications including psoriasis and ulcerative colitis and other indications the data base continues to grow.
And that will serve as our support for continuing to evaluate the 10 milligram across all of the indications as time goes by.
Your final question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.
A follow-up on biosimilars on your outlook; could you comment on some of the intellectual property barriers that you might face in bringing biosimilars to the market and specifically I am wondering about the Humira biosimilars that you have in development.
What’s your expected time line for that product given some of the IP that AbbVie [ph] keeps referring to? I think what we’d say is obviously we’re looking at full range of considerations when we develop our portfolio of biosimilars.
As Mikael just said and answered to the previous question we engage very strongly with the regulators to make sure that have an appropriate clinical program and clearly we’re very mindful of the IP landscape which frankly varies by asset is very complex ranging from base patents to a range of other patents.
So we work very closely with our legal team to assess the likely time of entry to the marketplace for all of our biosimilars and we take that into full consideration when we’re constructing our development program and making our forecast for the long range.
Thanks John.
And thank you everybody for your attention this morning.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s Pfizer’s first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's second quarter 2015 performance.
As usual I'm joined by: our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide R&amp;D; Albert Bourla President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler our General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our home page Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Second Quarter 2015 which is located in the Investor Presentation section in the lower right-hand corner of this page.
Before we start I'd like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially from those projected in these statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our current report on Form 8-K dated today.
We'll now make some prepared remarks and then we'll move to a Q&amp;A session.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck and thank you for joining our call this morning.
During my remarks this morning I will briefly recap the highlights from the quarter provide some comments on key areas of focus in the pipeline and close with a few words about business development and the pending Hospira acquisition.
Starting with the quarter it was another quarter of strong operational performance.
For the third consecutive quarter we saw operational revenue growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange and despite LOE headwinds.
We continue to see solid revenue growth from our newer products as a result of the investments we are making R&amp;D and our commercial operations.
Specifically in the second quarter as compared to same period last year ELIQUIS alliance revenues nearly tripled on a global basis and XELJANZ revenues nearly doubled.
PREVNAR 13 revenue in the U.S.
increased 87% primarily due to continued strong uptake in PREVNAR 13 in adults with most of the growth in the overall PREVNAR 13 franchise coming from the adult indication in this quarter.
We have done an excellent job for the first half of this year of getting to patients and capturing the potential of PREVNAR 13 in adults in the U.S.
as evidenced by the outstanding year-to-date performance which has been primarily driven by the catch-up opportunity.
Over the next few years we believe this catch-up opportunity in the U.S.
will be robust.
However we will likely need to expend more effort to reach these individuals and the opportunity will moderate over time as the catch-up opportunity becomes fully realized.
Given current demographics and aging trends approximately 4 million Americans will turn 65 each year and a part of these adults will be part of our immunization effort.
As we move through the catch-up population and get to a more normalized adult immunization rate domestically we will be expanding our efforts to capture expected new growth outside the U.S.
Given the Asian demographic trends we expect to obtain several pneumonia recommendations and reimbursements between 2016 and 2018 in many international markets.
IBRANCE continues to be well received by oncologists treating post-menopausal women with ER-positive HER2-negative advanced breast cancer.
There are approximately 3 000 healthcare practitioners already prescribing IBRANCE.
This is up from 800 at the end of the first quarter.
Our current first-line market share in this patient population was approximately 22% during the quarter up from 10% during the first quarter.
We look forward to filing for approval in the EU later this year and are working to add the data from the PALOMA-3 study to our U.S.
label for women with HR-positive HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer whose disease has progressed during and after endocrine therapy.
I would note that all of these products I just mentioned are now meaningful contributors to our business.
We also saw quarter-over-quarter operational growth from several of our inline key products including LYRICA SUTENT XALKORI and INLYTA.
In our Consumer business we saw quarter-over-quarter operational growth from several brands including CENTRUM ADVIL ROBITUSSIN and EMERGEN-C.
We are seeing strong performance from NEXIUM OTC despite a decline this quarter due to the non-recurrence of initial retailer stocking associated with the launch last May.
Since its launch NEXIUM has generated revenues of approximately $300 million making it one of the largest and most successful Rx-to-OTC switches.
Regarding other Rx-to-OTC opportunities we received the top line results from the LIPITOR actual-use trial that was completed last December.
Results show that co-primary endpoints were not achieved.
Based on our analysis of the data and recent feedback from the FDA on the overall program we have decided to terminate the program.
That said we continue to evaluate other products for potential Rx-to-OTC switches.
Moving to emerging markets revenues increased 6% operationally compared to the year-ago quarter driven by operational growth in PREVNAR LYRICA and LIPITOR.
This quarter was a further example of our track record of solid operating performance.
Given our strong execution across the businesses during the first half of the year coupled with an improved operational outlook for the remainder of this year we are raising the midpoints of our 2015 financial guidance for reported revenue by $500 million and for reported diluted EPS by $0.03 per share and adjusted EPS by $0.04.
As we enter the second half of this year our strategy focus and priorities remain unchanged.
Top line growth remains a priority.
Over the last three quarters we have seen top line operational growth on a total company basis.
Recent product launches in key inline products are performing well while the impact from the remaining LOEs has diminished.
For example the impact from the CELEBREX LOE will be annualized after another two quarters and ZYVOX shortly after that.
Once this happens we will have put the most significant LOEs behind us and expect to return to a more measured cycle of product loss of exclusivity.
We remain steadfast in our efforts to deliver the next wave of potential new innovative therapies over the coming years.
The areas where we see the largest potential to benefit patients and where we are focusing our resources include building a strong immuno-oncology portfolio.
Per our agreement with Merck KGaA we believe we have one of the most comprehensive bio platforms in development in the pharma industry today.
We expect to have five different IO drugs in the clinic this year and up to 10 different drugs by 2016.
The key targets include avelumab the anti-PD-L1 OX40 4-1BB our vaccine-based immuno-therapy regime CCR2 IDO1 and several bi-functional antibodies.
We believe that these combinations are the key to better patient outcomes in IO.
And given the breadth of our assets we think we are well positioned to win here.
We'll be collaborating on up to 20 studies with Merck KGaA and we plan to have up to six immunology Phase 3 trials ongoing by the end of the year across several tumor types including non-small-cell lung cancer ovarian renal bladder and gastric.
Our second-line non-small-cell lung cancer registration study is currently recruiting.
And where possible we will be looking to accelerate these studies.
For example we are planning to move quickly into a registration study with avelumab in combination with INLYTA in kidney cancer later this year.
We also continue to build our palbo [palbociclib] franchise moving our R&amp;D efforts into early stages of the treatment paradigm as well as in non-breast cancer indications.
In cardiovascular we have a comprehensive Phase 3 trial program for bococizumab our investigational PCSK9 inhibitor for its potential to lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and improve cardiovascular outcomes.
We anticipate our LIPITOR low-end trials will complete in 2016 and we estimate that our CV outcomes data will be available in the first half of 2018.
The outcomes studies are timed to event trials so it is difficult to predict exact dates but we anticipate that this will be consistent with the timing of other industry outcome studies expected by our peers.
Our ertugliflozin Phase 3 program is well underway.
And given JANUVIA's recent positive CV outcomes in clinical trial results we remain enthusiastic about the demand potential for the ertugliflozin-JANUVIA combination in an area of significant patient need.
In vaccines we recently started a Phase 2b study for our staph-aureus vaccine.
And depending on final results it could serve as a registrational study.
Also this month we initiated a Phase 2 study to evaluate the safety tolerability and immunogenicity of our investigational C.difficile vaccine.
Both of these vaccines could be key to stemming the spread of the leading causes of serious healthcare associated infections.
In immunology the FDA accepted review for a supplementary new drug application for XELJANZ once-a-day modified release tablets.
Our PDUFA date is February of next year.
If approved it would bring us one step closer to offering the first and only once-a-day oral JAK kinase inhibitor treatment for those living with moderate to severe RA who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate.
We believe this will be an important product modification.
In rare diseases we enrolled the first patients in Phase 3 clinical trials assessing the efficacy and safety of rivipansel for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease who are six years of age or older.
And additional clinical studies are underway for prevention of sickle cell crisis disease.
We believe this will build on our strength in researching and bringing to market therapies for hematological rare diseases based on our deep history in hemophilia.
In biosimilars we started a Phase 3 clinical trial of our potential biosimilar to bevacizumab making a total of five monoclonal biosimilars now in Phase 3 development.
In sterile injectables we're excited about the opportunity to combine Pfizer's branded portfolio and global commercial organization with HOSPIRA's demonstrated R&amp;D capability and manufacturing capacity of sterile injectable products and this will occur upon the close of the acquisition.
Overall as a result of the work we have done to focus our R&amp;D efforts in the areas we believe offer the greatest potential for therapeutic benefit and chance of commercial success we are building a stronger portfolio on behalf of our patients that we believe will create value for our shareholders.
Turning now to a few words on business development it remains an enabler of our strategies and as I said before is not a strategy on its own.
While we have seen strong performance from our recent product launches over the next few years we are looking at business development as a way to invest in generating sustained near-term and future growth knowing that the next wave of our potential major registrations or launches won't happen until 2017.
In the interim we have the financial capacity to actually seek out the right deals at the right price that will create value for our shareholders.
We are optimistic that we can find these deals as we go through the period to 2017.
In keeping with this philosophy we have proactively evaluated virtually all of the deals announced this year and have chosen to pursue only those that efficiently use capital to strengthen the business drive growth and accelerate value.
For example we have entered into several agreements year to date that have bolstered our scientific and technical capabilities and provided us with the potential for new growth opportunities.
Of particular note are the two most significant transactions with Merck KGaA in immuno-oncology and the pending acquisition of HOSPIRA.
Regarding HOSPIRA we are proceeding on track and are awaiting regulatory approval from several jurisdictions.
We continue to expect the transaction to close in the second half of the year.
In closing I am pleased with our strong financial position new and inline product performance pipeline advancements and recent business development activity.
We are performing well.
And for the remainder of this year we will focus on further strengthening both our innovative and established businesses to best position them for their long-term success.
I will now turn it over to Frank to take you through the financial details of the quarter.
Thanks Ian good day everyone.
As always the charts I am reviewing today are included in our webcast.
In the second quarter of 2015 reported revenues were approximately $11.9 billion and reflect year-over-year operational growth of $125 million or 1% mainly driven by: the strong performance of PREVNAR 13 adult ELIQUIS IBRANCE and XELJANZ all of which are early in their life cycles; the addition of vaccines acquired from Baxter in 2014; and operational growth of 6% in emerging markets mainly due to LIPITOR and PREVNAR 13.
Reported revenues were unfavorably impacted by the loss of exclusivity of CELEBREX and ZYVOX in the U.S.
and LYRICA in certain developed European markets.
Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.56 versus $0.58 in the year-ago quarter.
The decrease was primarily due to the $0.06 negative impact of foreign exchange and partially offset by a lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding which declined by 201 million shares versus the year-ago quarter due to our share repurchase program which includes the impact of our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in February 2015 and completed in July.
I want to point out that excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange adjusted diluted EPS would have increased by approximately 6%.
Reported diluted EPS was $0.42 compared with $0.45 in the year-ago quarter due to the previously mentioned factors and the unfavorable impact of higher legal charges and acquisition-related costs associated with pending acquisition of HOSPIRA versus the year-ago quarter as well as charges incurred during the second quarter of 2015 for legal entity alignment activities partially offset by lower restructuring and other charges associated with cost reduction and productivity initiatives lower purchase accounting adjustments and a lower effective tax rate versus the year-ago quarter.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter reported revenues by approximately $1 billion or 8% and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses in the aggregate by $518 million or 7%.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted second quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.06 compared with the year-ago quarter.
Now moving on to the financial highlights of our business segments.
In the second quarter Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 8% operationally year-over-year due to the strong performance of recently launched products including ELIQUIS globally and XELJANZ in the U.S.
and the continued strong performance of VIAGRA in the U.S.
and LYRICA in the U.S.
and Japan which were partially offset by declines of RAPAMUNE and BenefiX in the U.S.
Income before taxes increased 9% operationally due to the operational increase in revenues and a 2% operational decrease in cost of sales partially offset by a 6% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses primarily due to additional promotional investment in certain in-line and recently launched products and a 21% operational increase in R&amp;D reflecting incremental investments in our late-stage pipeline primarily for bococizumab.
Second quarter VOC revenues increased 29% operationally due to the 52% operational revenue growth from our Global Vaccines business as a result of PREVNAR 13 which grew 87% in the U.S.
due to continued strong uptake in adults and 10% internationally and the inclusion of Baxter's marketed vaccines in Europe.
A 36% operational increase in oncology revenues driven by the launch of IBRANCE in the U.S.
in February and to a lesser extent by SUTENT INLYTA and XALKORI.
Income before taxes increased 51% operationally mainly due to increased revenues and the associated improvement in gross margin and a 16% operational decrease in R&amp;D expenses as a result of lower clinical spend for TRUMENBA PREVNAR 13 Adult and certain oncology products which were partially offset by a 15% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses due to increased investment in both the PREVNAR 13 and IBRANCE launches.
In the second quarter Global Established Products revenues decreased 14% operationally mainly due to the loss of exclusivity and immediate multi-sourced generic competition for CELEBREX in the U.S.
in December of 2014 generic competition for ZYVOX in the U.S.
and LYRICA in certain developed markets in Europe beginning in the first half of 2015 and to a lesser extent from continued generic competition for LIPITOR in developed markets and the termination of the SPIRIVA co-promotion agreement in most countries including the U.S.
in April of 2014.
All of these were partially offset by operational growth of 2% in emerging markets primarily driven by LIPITOR.
Income before taxes declined 17% operationally due to the decrease in revenues a 1.5 percentage point operational increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues due to unfavorable change in product mix a 3% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses reflecting increased spending in our biosimilars and sterile injectables development programs largely offset by lower post-marketing clinical trial expenses all of which were partially offset by an 11% operational decrease in SI&amp;A expenses driven by cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
Because of our strong operational performance and improved operational outlook for the remainder of the year we are raising the midpoint of our 2015 guidance ranges for reported revenues by $500 million and the midpoint of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance by $0.04.
We now expect reported revenues to be in the range of $45 billion to $46 billion and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.01 to $2.07.
We also now expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.38 to $1.47.
In addition based on our year-to-date results we now expect cost of sales as a percentage of revenue to be in the range of 18% to 18.5% versus our previous expectation of 18.5% to 19.5%.
To reflect incremental expenses for ongoing Phase 3 programs we now expect our R&amp;D expenses to be in the range of $7.3 billion to $7.6 billion versus $6.9 billion to $7.4 billion previously.
It's important to note that any changes in foreign exchange rates since mid-April which exclude the impact of potential devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar did not materially impact our latest guidance.
I also want to point out that we are continuing to absorb an estimated $3.4 billion negative impact due to continuing product losses of exclusivity and declining alliance revenues and an estimated $3.3 billion negative impact of unfavorable changes in essentially all foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S.
dollar compared to foreign exchange rates in 2014.
Moving on to key takeaways.
We achieved another quarter of solid financial performance primarily driven by products that are in the early stages of their life cycles: PREVNAR 13 Adult ELIQUIS IBRANCE and XELJANZ.
Also I want to point out that this is the third consecutive quarter of operational revenue growth.
We raised the midpoints of our 2015 reported revenue and EPS guidance ranges to reflect our strong operational performance and improved operational outlook for the remainder of 2015.
We achieved several key R&amp;D milestones since our first quarter update including FDA acceptance of our NDA for XELJANZ once-daily the anticipated PDUFA date of February of 2016 and the presentation of data from our immuno-oncology portfolio at ASCO which included 10 abstracts on avelumab with our partner Merck KGaA as well as results from a Phase 1 study of our anti-4-1BB antibody.
We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.
To-date in 2015 we've returned $9.6 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and we continue to expect to return approximately $13 billion to shareholders in 2015 through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2015 and beyond.
Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.
Thank you Frank and Ian for the summary.
With that operator can we please poll for questions? Your first question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
First on the immuno-oncology franchise.
While you're somewhat behind Ian can you comment on some of the aspects of your strategy in IO that might not be fully appreciated by the investment community? And my second question perhaps for either of you on the subject of what you call business and legal entity alignment activities.
Those costs are growing strongly.
Can you offer any color as to when those activities might wrap up or at least what some key mile markers are along the way on that process? Thanks.
Thank you Gregg.
We believe that we will be first in some tumor types with the PD-L1 from Merck but we also feel it's very important to understand that we're just at the beginning of this immuno-oncology wave.
And we have as I commented previously a substantial number of assets that can be combined and added both with immuno-oncology assets and with the backbone targeted therapies or chemotherapy or with INLYTA or with XALKORI with IBRANCE potentially.
So we feel that as this market develops what's going to be really important is the ability to have combination products and the ability to have a more full control of the total value of the total pricing of those combination products to the payers.
So we believe that Pfizer will be very well positioned with multiple combinations of immuno-oncology assets and combinations of its own inline assets to be very very effective in those combinations.
Frank do you want to talk about the...
Sure.
So on the business and legal entity alignment let me run the numbers first and then I'll answer the question which is for the quarter we spent $63 million year to date $164 million in business and legal entity alignment cost.
I said previously we forecasted a spend of approximately $400 million for the year.
We'll be give or take in that range of approximately $400 million.
The spend will continue obviously for the rest of 2015 through 2016.
We've talked about a decision on alignment in the fourth quarter of 2016 by no later than the fourth quarter of 2016 suspending obviously we've continue through then at which point we make a determination going forward based on the decision that we make.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please operator? Your next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.
First question is can you give us your latest thoughts on what's going on in China as well as just the broader emerging markets? Second in the press release it talked about for PREVNAR the Gavi shipments and emerging markets had some special programs.
Can you just give us a sense of how much of that was one-timers versus what we should expect ongoing? And then I think you mentioned how much FX hit your expenses.
But can you carve out the gross margin specifically and how much that had an impact? Thanks.
Okay look.
We remain as we've said optimistic about the long term in China and the emerging markets.
We continue to see a secular movement to the middle class and wealth creation.
I would ask John Young who manages the majority of our business in the emerging markets to make some comments specifically on China and perhaps his view of the opportunities more broadly in emerging markets.
Global Established Pharma Pfizer Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks for the question Marc.
So I think Ian hit on our view in summary form.
It's obviously a significant population 1.3 billion people.
We continue to see strong economic growth albeit moderating economic growth but we envision that the economic growth will continue.
And I think as Ian has already flagged we see a continued commitment from the Chinese government to expand access to healthcare to quality healthcare to its citizens.
We don't see that trend halting in the short to medium even the longer term.
And so we believe that actually for manufacturers such as ourselves who are positioned well in China with a strong existing base a strong network of joint ventures and a portfolio frankly that is well suited to the needs of Chinese patients ranging from our innovative portfolio with oncology medicines and vaccines in the future as well as today's portfolio such as LIPITOR which is obviously a leading treatment to help to manage cardiovascular disease which is a growing concern for Chinese patients.
So when you sum all of that up we know that we will continue to see some pressures on our business in China and pricing.
We've factored that into our forward-looking views and we will continue to see China being a significant opportunity for future growth.
Okay.
And similar stories played out in most of the emerging markets too and in differing forms.
Albert do you want to talk about the Gavi shipments and those items that were raised? Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Yes I wouldn't call them one-time.
What is happening with the Gavi businesses is there is volatility.
Volatility depends on when the CDC places an order or when Gavi will place an order or where or when an IP will occur.
So this volatility will continue.
This is the normal course of the vaccines business.
But in general pediatric is doing very well this quarter with 5% overall growth.
Thank you.
Frank on the FX? Sure.
So Marc lots of moving parts obviously that impact gross margin.
Favorable items would be things like our oncology and alliance revenue growth.
An unfavorable item would be our U.S.
LOEs.
But maybe the easiest way to do this macro level with the numbers Q2 last year our cost of sales as a percentage of revenue 18.9% this quarter 17.9%.
If we remove foreign exchange from this quarter which reduced cost of sales by $255 million that 17.9% becomes 18.4% so roughly flat year over year.
If you go year to date last year year to date 17.9%; this year year to date 17.3%.
If we remove foreign exchange that's 17.3% becomes 18.2% once again relatively flat year over year with a lot of moving parts impacting the number.
Thank you Frank.
Operator next question please? Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Bernstein.
Thanks.
If I could go back to the topic of M&amp;A and Ian I know you made some comments earlier.
Watching the big pharma industry for almost 20 years it seems like big pharma companies have very often not participated in biotech M&amp;A because there has been this longstanding sense that the valuations are too high.
And if I listen to what several companies say now at the current point in time several big pharma companies again – and I raise that concern if I look at what Pfizer has bought over years it's generally been either big pharma companies or other types of targets like Hospira.
So my question to you is how do you currently view valuations in the biotech space? And have you loosened up at all in your valuation framework such that you think you can find value in the biotech landscape at the current levels of valuation? And then second question is on ENBREL and whether you expect to see any pressure caused by biosimilar REMICADE now being available in Europe or do you expect pressure in year 2016 or 2017 or maybe even in the current year? Okay.
I'll make some comments on M&amp;A and then I'll ask Geno to comment on ENBREL in Europe.
Tim I believe that the marketplace is extremely efficient and that the valuations in biotech are in many ways price perfection.
But all the deals that have been done we have looked at them.
The deals work for some companies because of their portfolio because of their ability to achieve synergies in ways that perhaps we couldn't.
We do remain disciplined on our cost of capital.
We think long term that's important that people who invest in Pfizer expect a risk-adjusted return on the cost of capital.
That means that we don't expect to find value in the marketplace.
There are always opportunities.
We stand ready.
We have the cash.
We have the capability.
We have the management team.
We are continually looking for those opportunities.
As I say I'm optimistic that we'll be able to deploy our capital in a way that will increment value to shareholders.
I would say further that if you look at the Established Products business and the Innovative business if there were two projects and both of them were risk-adjusted equal our inclination would be to do for portfolio reasons something in the Innovative space rather than the Established space given that we've done the Hospira acquisition for Established.
So once again I'm very well aware that there is an active market for business development.
We think we've done the ones that are prudent.
We evaluate all opportunities and we're optimistic that we're going to find and have sufficient courage to find those opportunities that come into the marketplace.
So with that I'll pass it over to Geno to look at ENBREL.
Sure Tim.
ENBREL continues to do well.
We had good 2% operational growth this quarter outside the United States on a very large base so the business continues to deliver for us.
With regard to REMICADE biosimilars we're not seeing a significant impact on the ENBREL business.
Given the different administration routes REMICADE being an infusion and ENBREL and HUMIRA and others being self-injected therapies we don't see a lot of overlap there.
There's a lot of experimentation going on country by country so there's always the possibility that we'll see some new things happening.
But overall we're not seeing or expecting a major shift in the ENBREL business related to the REMICADE biosimilar.
Thank you Geno.
Operator can we move to the next question please? Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Ian in your prepared remarks you signaled M&amp;A activity focused on top line growth bridging the gap to 2017 filings so I have two questions related to that.
Are you backing off from breaking up the company a strategy you outlined or certainly outlined the optionality for a couple years ago? Where are you on that? And number two how big would you consider going? Can you throw out some parameters there in terms of size? Is it all about top line growth? Is synergies a big consideration? And just also you had talked before about tax inversions being an important part of that equation too.
So if you can put that in perspective.
And then my last question relates to Lipitor OTC.
Now that that product doesn't appear to be going forward would you consider putting your Consumer business up for sale? Thanks.
Okay Jami as always pretty big questions.
Okay on the breakup we have not changed our views on wanting to have the optionality of the breakup.
We continue to spend considerable amounts of money preparing and putting ourselves in a place to trigger that optionality if we take that decision.
And as I said we've laid out the criteria for that which includes are the businesses doing well do we think they could do well on their own is there trapped value and is there after-tax value that could be achieved? And we will make that decision by the latest the fourth quarter of 2016 on whether to trigger that optionality.
On your question about big small growth opportunities we look at it from the point of view of as a pharmaceutical company we want to buy – the ideal of course is to buy a pipeline and also products that are growing.
These products and opportunities you have to have a belief in the future – often the future potential of the products you're buying.
There's a lot involved in an acquisition this large.
It's a combination of what you think the portfolio will do what you believe the synergies that will come through on the operational side and of course tax and tax planning plays a role in that.
So to a certain extent the discussions that are going on in Washington right now about potential international tax reform does affect the way we look at the different opportunities we have in the marketplace.
You would expect us to be looking at that very carefully.
Certainly any acquisition we do make will have a bias on the near-term revenue opportunities and on accretion.
OTC look the Consumer business is a tremendous business a tremendous store of value.
We took NEXIUM OTC and it has been an incredible success.
We continue to invest in the Consumer business.
We always look at our businesses all of them on a regular basis and our strategic plan vis-à-vis what part they play in the total value to Pfizer shareholders.
We're always reviewing that.
At this moment I think the Consumer business is a very valuable and growing asset for Pfizer.
Thank you.
Thanks Ian our next question please operator? Your next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum from Evercore ISI.
Hey guys.
Thank you for a very clear opening statement from all of you.
It's always very helpful.
I want to go back and build on some of the questions that have already been asked.
But the first one is just Ian I know you get asked this every quarter and I'm sure Chuck tells you you're going to asked this every quarter but this quarter I think it's become a little bit more of a focus for investors.
There are widespread Wall Street rumors that you might be interested in something like an Allergan.
I understand you wouldn't comment on that.
But can you just comment in general on your interest in inverting at this point? What kind of thresholds would need to be versus what the official thresholds right now to make you comfortable that such an inversion could be completed? Is inversion still a priority I guess for Pfizer? The second question was for Frank.
Maybe you've disclosed this.
I'm not sure so shame on me if you have.
But I've heard from little birdies that money that you've already spent preparing for separation this might have been embedded into an earlier answer it wasn't clear to me.
But the money that you've already spent preparing for a separation of Pfizer is on the order of $1 billion.
I'd just like to know if that number is – if you're willing publicly to talk about whether or not that number is realistic.
And then the final question and this is a tougher one.
I don't know if you'll be able to answer it.
But some of us have been now thinking about if and when Pfizer splits perhaps instead of floating one or more of these companies they might be a strategic acquirer for one or more of these companies.
I think we're all trying to get a sense of what the cost basis is for these companies so that we could understand if it's realistic that someone could buy them or would the tax burden on such a transaction be prohibitive? I don't know if there's any kind of even finger in the wind words of wisdom you can give us Frank.
Thank you.
So Mark on the inversion question the reason you do any deal is as we said before and it sounds like mother putting up a pie but it's that we believe it's going to create value for shareholders long term.
And so we can remain interested in the potential of an inversion because it would facilitate and enable wealth creation for shareholders.
It would certainly also position Pfizer on the current tax laws to be – it would liberate our balance sheet and would position us to be far more active in the M&amp;A space and competitive which is why there's always a push to have tax reform because at the moment the American companies are not as competitive as the European companies given the different tax rate.
So the inversion is attractive both because it creates immediate value and enables you to meet the premiums to acquire the company.
And it's attractive because it will liberate your balance sheet for future activity and spending and cash flow.
And that in its turn informs you as to what level of inversion you find acceptable whether you want an inversion that is between 60% and 80% or below 60%.
So it's a complex issue.
And we're not focused totally on inversions.
It's only a component of the business development strategy and only comes in when you believe you need that value that's created by the inversion to get to the premium to buy the company.
But inversion is not our one-track business development strategy.
With that I will pass it over to Frank who will answer the other two difficult questions.
The little birdie question.
The little birdie question.
So Mark year to date cumulatively to date because that's what you're asking not year to date cumulatively to date we've spent give or take approximately $300 million.
And I include the $164 million year to date this year.
The thing to remember about these kinds of optionality projects think about carve-outs as I said.
There's a massive amount of work that needs to be done.
And when you're looking at I'll call it the total cost structure these kinds of projects they do run into the low billions of dollars.
That's the nature of what they do.
But here's what you've got to remember.
In that number there's tax leakage.
Now you do everything you can to minimize tax leakage but you've got to create multiple legal entities.
Anytime you're creating multiple legal entities or more than one in a country you create tax exposure tax leakage.
There's potential leakage regarding debt and the decision making you make around whether or not you're going to repurchase debt.
And then there's all that I call blocking and tackling that needs to be done in areas like systems legal entity and tax planning regulatory work supply chain.
It's a massive amount of work.
And think about the visual.
This is a company that's been restructuring for a decade integrating putting things together.
And now you want to do something where you're taking a major piece of the company and you're going to carve it out in a sense undo much of the work that you've done previously.
It requires a lot of effort.
It costs a bunch of money.
But year-to-date which is what you asked me cumulatively to-date it's been about $300 million.
That being said we do see the logic because there are two different businesses and we do feel that the amounts we will need to spend to put ourselves in a position to complete optionality as being money well spent for shareholders given the potential upside of what optionality could produce.
Essentially the cost of having the option is really what it translates to Mark.
It's really the cost of having the option.
And then the last piece about tax basis obviously it's premature to get into tax basis of the businesses.
But what I would say is to just punctuate what Ian said the fourth criteria is being able to unlock that trapped value assuming there is some in a tax efficient way.
So obviously anything we would do with that extensive tax planning would maximize the after-tax return to our shareholders.
Thanks Ian and Frank.
Next question please operator? Your next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citigroup.
Hi.
Three questions please.
Firstly just revisiting the tax question.
Could you give us some sense over the next three years to five years where your effective tax rate is going as the business currently stands given the change in mix of the business particularly the increasing U.S.
contribution? And second on the tax how do you feel the ongoing debate in Washington what the probability you feel of any meaningful change may improve the effective tax rate that you pay? Second could you comment how the recent Teva-Allergan deal impacts the M&amp;A landscape from a Pfizer perspective? And then finally you obviously reported a very strong quarter for PREVNAR 13.
To what extent should we expect an inventory destock in the following quarter i.e.
how much of this is industry stocking given I imagine that most of the vaccinations are going to happen (44:10)? But please correct me if I'm wrong.
Thank you Andrew.
On the tax question we don't project our tax rate.
There are just too many variables in there including business development including where we make our earnings including potential changes in U.S.
tax law and we give guidance on a yearly basis on our tax rate.
Frank do you want to add anything to that? Just that year-to-date our tax rate is 25%.
Our guidance for the year is 25%.
So for 2015 we're running pretty much right according to our guidance.
And then just to punctuate what Ian said there's just too many moving parts to try to project out tax rates beyond the current year.
But we'll obviously include the 2016 rate when we provide our 2016 guidance.
Thank you.
On DC look it's too difficult to speculate on what would happen on tax legislation.
I do think I am heartened by the conversations that are occurring and the acknowledgment in Washington that something has to be done to allow global U.S.
corporations to become competitive given the nature of the U.S.
tax system.
And hopefully they will take action earlier rather than later to allow us to be competitive.
And I think we will see that unfold in the next five months as to whether Washington will take any action on that or not.
On the Teva-Allergan does it change the landscape for us? I don't think it changes the landscape for Pfizer in any material way.
We continue to have our own strategies and pursue our own BD objectives and this doesn't impinge upon that.
Frank do you want to talk about anything else? Oh yeah and then it's Albert on the PREVNAR 13.
Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Yes Andrew.
I'm monitoring the inventories and there was no significant inventory build in the quarter.
So inventories didn't materially affect the Adult performance also.
So I think Andrew what we need to do on PREVNAR 13 Adult is you have three influences or four influences going on.
One you have the underlying rate of U.S.
citizens becoming 65 which is about 4 million a year.
You have then in the U.S.
the bolus of catch-up which is significant and we believe will last certainly this year and next and maybe into the third year.
And then you have the progress in the G6 countries as we get and have had per our registration and labeling changes to enable adult vaccine to be sold to the 65 and above.
And there of course you have a huge cohort of probably substantially larger than the U.S.
probably twice the size of the U.S.
And that's going to take market development.
We're going to have to work on that country by country.
But we see there also the movement of the population to over 65 plus the catch-up opportunity.
So overall when you look at those waves of opportunities we feel that the adult vaccine is an interesting ongoing large franchise for Pfizer.
Thank you.
Next question please? Your next question comes from Colin Bristow from Bank of America.
A couple of quick ones.
On your AVASTIN biosimilar you started the Phase 3 trial with a primary endpoint of objective response rate.
Can you talk about the discussions you've had with regulators and whether you anticipate objective response will be an approvable endpoint? And then just two on the IO pipeline can you walk us through the key readouts we should be paying attention to over the next 12 months? Thanks.
Okay.
Technical question there Colin on that.
I don't know if Mikael you want to address that question? All of our Pfizer biosimilars have been evolved in their development strategies in close consultations with the major regulatory agencies in particular the FDA.
So they all reflect input and robustness in trial design and what should be predicted the best choice of endpoint for approval opportunity.
So I think we feel satisfied that we have an agreement with the major agencies and the endpoints will be the ones necessary to get approval.
IO pipeline.
Mikael do you want to run through that or tell them what you think are the significant things coming forward and when we're likely to be issuing results? So I am really excited about our IO pipeline.
And starting with anchor drug avelumab we have now more than 1 000 patients that have been on avelumab.
And we feel that we see a consistent good response rate substantial clinical durability in responses and a robust safety profile.
And we reported some studies at ASCO and now we have positive readouts in lung gastric ovarian and bladder.
You're aware and Ian alluded to that we've started a second-line lung cancer trial.
We expect in the relatively near term opportunity to move to first-line in that setting.
Our experience across the various indications will lead this year to numerous announcements of Phase 3 up to six pivotal studies that include several in lung gastric ovarian bladder and renal.
We also at ASCO communicated favorable data on 4-1BB already seen in the Phase 1 in follicle lymphoma showing good tolerability and together with rituximab favorable responses.
We are expanding that study.
4-1BB which is a unique molecule one of the few I think in this industry this advanced is also in studies with katuda (50:41) as well as soon to be in an extensive program with avelumab.
We also have recently entered clinical studies with OX40 as another positive event for our immuno-oncology pipeline.
And we have communicated favorable data with our CCR2 in pancreatic cancer.
And later this year we expect a vaccine to start dosing for prostate cancer and we have numerous compounds NMEs that will also enter next year.
So you see really us evolving a very comprehensive monotherapy and a combination therapy.
We will over time share more data.
There is an ESMO conference that we'll give you an update on avelumab and will include particular lung cancer ovarian and also some bladder we expect and we'll continue to inform you about the progress of 4-1BB.
Thank you Mikael.
Next question please? Your next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
Great thanks so much for taking my questions so two if I could one building a little bit on what you talked about earlier around the amount of cost around planning for a potential split.
Do you have a sense of what the dyssynergies would be to actually execute a split of the company at this point if you're trying to split it into two parts? I just think you may have some sense of that by now.
And as more of us view Pfizer as a sum of the parts basis it would be helpful to have a sense of how you think the dyssynergies would be.
And then the second question I had was just on the vaccine side with the VOC business a lot of focus on oncology obviously.
But can you talk a little more generally about your strategy in vaccines? You're obviously making good progress with PREVNAR in adults.
Staph is moving along and that obviously looks promising but maybe a little more broadly where you see other potential areas for value there.
You've obviously made some deals.
You have maternal vaccines.
You talk about C.diff.
What do you think people might be underappreciating with your vaccines business as opposed to how you see it internally right now? Thanks.
Okay on the cost of dyssynergies Frank do you want to make a comment on that? From my perspective we've obviously been looking at this.
We've been analyzing it in detail.
I think I'd summarize it by saying we don't see it as being a material dyssynergy relative to optionality based on all our current analysis.
So your question the vaccines I'll try and do a summarized answer and then I'll ask Albert if he wants to add anything to it.
I think you're seeing us continue to drive and maximize the PREVNAR 13 opportunity both in infants and adults.
We believe that the opportunity in adults is broad and deep and durable so we're confident in that.
We continue to work on PREVNAR on the PREVNAR family to look at further enhancements.
We believe there's a real opportunity to accelerate as long as the Phase 2 trial on the back surgery performs as we expect we think there's an opportunity to accelerate the staph-aureus vaccine.
We're in Phase 2 with what we believe is a very good vaccine with C.difficile.
And then we've made acquisitions of other vaccines like the Baxter (54:08) acquisition to add some critical mass to what our field force carries.
We have TRUMENBA which we think will develop over time as an important vaccine.
And then we've done acquisitions and licensing of vaccines for infants.
So do you want to add some more detail to that Albert? Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Very few things to add Ian.
I think in vaccines we have substantial scientific capabilities and significant substrate research substrate that allows us to see optimistically into the future and we've had a very good track record of delivery.
With staph we have already initiated as Ian said the Phase 2b study and that's in 2 600 patients.
If the Phase 2b data show considerable efficacy we will consider requesting an accelerated approval from this product and the study that we are running now could potentially serve to support registration.
And have breakthrough status right? Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> And have breakthrough status.
And the same as it was for C.difficile.
That has breakthrough status but also as you recall we had outed recruitment and vaccinations in a previously initiated Phase 2b study as a result of some cases of redness that we observed at the injection site.
Now we have already recently received approval from the FDA to initiate a new Phase 2 program with a different formulation.
So we are moving full speed in materializing that as well.
Okay thank you.
Thanks next question please? Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Great thanks for the questions.
The first one was just a little bit more color on PREVNAR 13 adult.
I appreciate the earlier comments but can you just give us little more color? When you think about the U.S.
catch-up bolus how large is that bolus and how far through are you at this point? Do you have any numbers on that front? It would be pretty helpful.
Second on your PD-L1 you highlighted in the past the high disease control rate that we've seen with some of the studies.
I guess when can we see more survival data that could help us assess that disease control rate versus maybe some higher overall response rates we're seeing from other products as we just think about this as a combinable agent longer term? And the final one was just coming back to business development.
It does seems like we're just seeing a significant consolidation in the industry at the same time we're seeing an uptick in innovation.
I know Pfizer has priorities in terms of what it needs to do given its product cycle.
But could you just elaborate a little bit more just how this rapidly changing environment is impacting your business development priorities either in terms of further sense of urgency willingness to broaden the scope of what you're looking at? I'm just trying to understand how the backdrop of the sector affects how you're pursuing deals.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
PREVNAR 13 Albert why don't you give us – yeah.
Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Again I will express my excitement about the success that they're having so far with PREVNAR in the U.S.
And basically we're able to make pneumonia vaccination for adults an age-based event so people would get vaccinated when they come to age of 65 rather than a seasonal event.
But of course we were very successful in catching up a lot of previously vaccinated.
To give you a sense of the numbers in the U.S.
as Ian said approximately 4 million people are turning 65 every year.
In 2014 when we started with PREVNAR there was a large cohort of approximately 27 million people that that were previously vaccinated with an old technology vaccine.
And there was also another cohort of 18 million people that had never received a vaccine; so in total 45 million people.
Usually there are 2.6 million deaths also that are happening per year in that cohort.
So main we don't have exact split of how much is catch-up and how much is normal business in the U.S.
But given the massive number of vaccinations that are occurring a big part is coming from catch-up and this is large as we said.
That's why we said that this year we'll continue growing and will be very big.
Next year also will be substantial very big might not grow versus 2015 but will be very big.
And then we move internationally.
Internationally the age and demographics are more compelling than the U.S.
because the percentage of people that are living above 65 is much higher.
Countries like Japan for example is almost double than in the U.S.
in terms of percentage 14% approximately in the U.S.
to 26% 27% 28% in Japan.
And this is where we expect in the G7 to start getting a wave of recommendations now that we've got approval in Europe for pneumonia.
But as long as we get recommendation then reinvestment comes and then we start commercially penetrating very aggressively as we did in the U.S.
Thank you Albert.
I believe the cohort in the G6 countries are around 94 million.
Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> That's correct.
It's double the U.S.
Double the U.S.
okay.
PD-L1 data yeah that we are in partnership with Merck KGaA...
So at a more higher level we can say when we carefully go through data from lung ovarian gastric and bladder where we have extensive number of patients for six months or more we see response rates that are very comparable to other PD-1 PD-L1 agents.
Of course it depends on how you cut your data.
We have generally looked at response rate including all patients and not solely PD-L1-positive and that's part of our long-term strategy that it seems that patients that even have low expression of PD-L1 will benefit particularly when you later develop combination therapies.
So we accumulate experiences across all PD-L1 spectrum but will of course in various endpoints look at PD-L1-positive.
That was the strategy in our second-line lung cancer which is all-inclusive for lung cancer patients in second-line but the primary endpoint is on PD-L1-positive.
Disease control rates are very high in our studies in general 50% or higher across several indications.
And when we again compare to others where do we look at disease control rate six months progression-free survival et cetera we are very pleased with avelumab both for efficacy and tolerability and you will get further data update at the ESMO oncology conference.
Thank you.
Going back to BD look we look at BD probably in two large ways in Pfizer.
One is when we're looking at individual needs of the business units which can be like a smaller tuck-in or can be an acquisition of an individual product.
When we look at individual products it tends to have normally – because very often you're buying the product at the beginning of it either before it's approved or after it's approved but you're looking at opportunities to expand indications.
And so we look at the risk-adjusted return and we make a decision whether to participate in that franchise.
And that can be influenced by the ability to combine it with our existing therapeutic areas if we can get also additional synergies through operational savings.
So that's one way we're looking at BD which is more opportunistic product related.
Second type of BD is trying to buy technology like perhaps gene therapy or selectors when we're going to CAR-T technology.
Those tend to be longer-term investments.
And the third type of BD is what you would say is a more traditional BD where we look at total companies.
And there the driver of value often is existing pipeline existing products potential pipeline product opportunities synergies and potentially tax savings and future liberation of the balance sheet because you are no longer are constrained by the U.S.
tax situation.
So I think what you've been seeing in the marketplace is foreign companies with significant tax advantages taking advantage of acquisitions in the U.S.
and building up their organization.
You've seen a refocusing by some companies and you've seen with the Allergan-Teva transaction where one company needs to strengthen its portfolio and focus by acquiring the generic of the other company.
So look we are actively monitoring this process.
I don't think we've lost out to any opportunities that would have made sense for our shareholders.
We're determined if an opportunity is there we will not lose out.
We have the world.
We have the capability.
We have the capital.
We have the management team.
So I feel that frankly our BD strategy and philosophy and approach is appropriate for this point of time in the value cycles.
Thank you Ian.
Next question please? Your next question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks gents and congratulations on a strong quarter.
First on biosimilars you have five antibodies in development.
You're obviously making a significant investment there.
Can you update us on your updated views on the potential of Pfizer in the biosimilar market in light of what we're seeing in Europe and how we should think about the opportunity for Pfizer? To follow up on that given these investments how should we think about some of the overlapping assets that you're getting from Hospira? And then finally could you comment on the recent PCSK9 approval and potential implications for your bococizumab? Thank you very much.
Global Established Pharma Pfizer Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the question Alex.
So first of all in terms of your question about the size of the market we continue see around about $100 billion of currently patented biologic medicines that will lose patent protection over the next five to ten years.
That's a significant market opportunity for companies that have the technology platform capability and current biosimilar portfolio to be able to capitalize on that opportunity.
So we continue to think that we are very well placed.
And in relation to your question about Hospira we continue to see that our portfolio and Hospira's are highly complementary and we're very excited about the opportunity that that presents post-close.
On the PCSK9 approval by in Europe from Amgen in the U.S.
by Sanofi Regeneron I think we expected on LDL lowering.
I don't see substantial – I see modest use of these products until the outcomes data comes through.
We don't think we would be that far behind on outcomes data.
I think the size of the market is difficult to predict at this time.
It really depends on how the CETP development comes through.
If the CETPs which are oral come through I could see a market that is segmented three ways; i.e.
statin use that sees you get to goals statin plus a CETP or a CETP alone if you're statin intolerant; and then potentially PCSK9 being held in reserve if the CETP can't get you to the goals of the statin.
So it's very very difficult to predict how this market will shake out in value.
And I think it's interesting to see what will happen in 2016 if the CETPs are approved and what type of label what type of pricing they come into the market with and what type of pricing we see develop on the PCSK9s as negotiations occur with managed care.
Thank you Ian.
Next question please operator? Your next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the quarter.
Just back to PREVNAR 13 can you quantify the shipments that you made into Gavi and the vaccine alliance and also provide some additional color on which national immunization programs included PREVNAR 13 into their program? And then secondly on your XELJANZ filing in the EU can you remind us what led to the rejection and what remedies that you've made to the filing? I believe you mentioned you're on track to file before the end of the year in the EU.
That would help enhance the ability to secure approval on XELJANZ in Europe.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Geno can deal with the XELJANZ question and then I'll see if Albert has any data at hand that's pretty specific on your question John or we'll just have to answer in generalities right now.
But let's get to Geno first.
Thanks John.
I think the questions from the CHMP revolved a lot around the immune system effects of XELJANZ understanding the safety profile primarily.
So we have done some additional pharmacology studies we've done a study with the herpes zoster vaccine to demonstrate a lack of interference with the immunogenicity of the vaccine and of course collected longer-term follow-up data from our long-term extension trials and our post-marketing surveillance trial.
So it will be a combination of these data points that will comprise the resubmission that we're planning on for later this year.
Okay.
Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> John I don't have handy the numbers so I will have to come back to you.
But in general in emerging markets the growth was 18% for pediatric approximately for the quarter.
And this volatility will continue to exist.
Yeah because it depends on the timing of NIP the timing of Gavi.
Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Correct.
And it's not something that we are particularly focused on.
We have a full-year forecast which takes into account all these fluctuations and we've built that into the change in our guidance.
That's all part of our revenue guidance.
Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Yes right.
Okay.
Okay thank you.
Next question please? Your next question comes from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.
Hi.
Thanks very much for taking my questions.
So the first one is just around business development.
If you can follow on here so do you have a bias towards OUS-domiciled companies when you're looking at opportunities to help grow the GIP business given where your cash is held? Second because of your focus on doing BD in the next two years to bridge to 2017 does that mean we should expect much less cash to be diverted towards share repurchases? And then lastly just on the BD given your want or desire to help boost the business prior to 2017 doesn't that mean given time for antitrust review or any other reviews of a transaction that we should be expecting you to announce additional deals during the second half of this year for them to come into that timeframe? And then last question just on a separate area.
Can you maybe outline for us just a couple of the biggest OTC switch opportunities that you see for the business potentially in the next two years to three years? Thank you.
Okay on the OTC switch I don't want to get into that because it's confidential and helps competitors prepare along with us in the marketplace.
So I think you can look at our portfolio and make assumptions on your own as to which products are more likely to be switched or not.
On the BD I have no bias towards a U.S.
or a foreign company.
I have a bias to value creation.
I have a bias on our portfolio if valuations are equal and opportunities are equal I'd prefer to do a BD deal that strengthens our Innovative business as I think we've done quite a bit to strengthen the Established business.
On less cash depending on an acquisition I think it depends on the type of acquisition and how it's structured and I think it's too early to say.
But of course any deal we do we'll be looking at total shareholder returns and we would factor that in to the type of deal we're structuring.
I think that's the most you would say at this time frankly about that.
And then on timing when I talk about 2017 I'm talking about – frankly I use that as a marker given conversations I had with our owners about the fact that you've got great inline momentum you've got these new products you've got ELIQUIS and you've got IBRANCE an adult vaccine and all the other inlines that are moving well.
I'm just looking at ways of increasing our revenues as we develop our pipeline and we start to see that pipeline come to fruition in 2017 and launch in 2018 and we'll see those launches 2017 through 2018 through 2019.
So I think it's important to get any BD we do right and I don't feel pressurized to get it right by 2017.
What's important is to get it right to create value for our shareholders.
And I don't think frankly there's a timing pressure on us to do BD.
We're going to look at it.
We want to do BD.
We're going to be opportunistic but we're also going to make sure that we make the right decisions for Pfizer shareholders.
Great.
Thank you Ian.
Next question please? Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
I have two questions.
First could you just remind us about the ex-U.S.
ENBREL exclusivity loss timing and expectations for timing of biosimilar competitor launches? And then with respect to IBRANCE could you please discuss potential indications outside of breast cancer and what key trials we should be watching on that front? Thank you.
Okay thank you.
Geno could you do the ENBREL? ENBREL exclusivity expires at the end of this year and so we expect to see biosimilar penetration beginning next year in Europe.
Okay.
IBRANCE indications outside of breast cancer? We are very excited about the potential of IBRANCE.
And I think we have real unique proprietary knowledge in understanding how to use science around IBRANCE combination new indications.
So we have an extensive collaborative research clinical programs that you may be aware of.
But in addition to that I'm pleased to say that we are starting a number of Pfizer-sponsored new studies.
And very soon we'll start one study in head and neck cancer HPV-negative patients that are recurrent metastatic combining IBRANCE with ERBITUX.
We have prior experience of that combination in a collaborative study and are launching a Pfizer-sponsored which could have a very interesting path forward if data is strong.
In addition to that we have generated very compelling pre-clinical data on human tumors for pancreatic cancer where particularly the combination of IBRANCE with nab-paclitaxel or ABRAXANE was very promising.
And we are soon starting a Phase 2 study preceded by a safety lead-in with IBRANCE and ABRAXANE in pancreatic advanced cancer.
We also have significant effort in understanding patients that progress on IBRANCE after having had long significant benefit in breast cancer.
And you will learn more about Pfizer's program in double and triple combination that also can further expand our stronghold and leadership in IBRANCE.
Thank you Mikael.
If we could take our last question please operator? Your final question comes from the line of Seamus Fernandez with Leerink.
Frank maybe could you remind us the threshold for completing an inversion? And I ask the question particularly since some smaller deals appear to have gotten as low as 20% after the treasury update.
So it would just be helpful to know what your thoughts are on the threshold for inversion because I think previously you had said it was really 40%.
And then separately as part of your optionality calculus with the split do you also consider Pfizer as a potential target in that calculus since this would appear to be a value-add option for shareholders? Thanks.
Are you saying Pfizer or the split of Pfizer? Seamus can't reply.
Okay look it's probably the split.
We think that in the optionality both companies will be robust and strong and would have the ability to be successful companies on their own.
And we really cannot comment on whether it would be BD activity to try and buy those companies.
They would be companies that would be independent and continue to try and progress their own business strategies.
On the inversion? Prior to the – I'll call it the September 22 proposed rule changes by the IRS the hurdle was less than 80%.
So our shareholders had to own less than 80% of the newly formed company that we acquired to get the full benefits of an inversion.
That hurdle was lowered to less than 60% which means we'd have to do a larger acquisition to get the full benefits.
So it went from less than 80% to less than 60%.
The issue with this Seamus is that the full benefit or non-full benefit is very idiosyncratic depending upon the company you're doing the inversion on and the complexity of the tax rules.
So it may be that if you're in below 80% but not below 60% you still have substantial benefits from an inversion.
And therefore despite the proposal changes or maybe on different targets you need to be below the 60% threshold.
So the universe is not constricted or reduced to only 60:40.
It's very dependent upon the type of assets debt structure where the cash is et cetera et cetera.
Very company specific.
Very company specific.
Thank you very much.
Thank you and thank you all for your attention today.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Pfizer's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's third quarter 2015 performance.
I'm joined today by as usual by: our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer [VOC]; Geno Germano President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young President of Established Pharma [GEP]; and Doug Lankler General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on the call can be viewed at our home page Pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance – Third Quarter 2015 which is located in the Investor Presentation section on the lower right-hand corner of this page.
Before we start I'd like to remind you that our discussion during this conference call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2014 Annual Report as well as on Forms 10-K and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Reconciliation of those non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our Current Report on Form 8-K dated today October 27 2015.
We will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a question-and-answer session.
With that I'll turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck and thank you for joining our call this morning.
During my remarks I will briefly recap highlights from the quarter provide a brief update on the pipeline and close with a few thoughts on the issue of drug pricing.
To begin I would note that we have had another quarter of strong operational performance and we have grown revenues operationally every quarter this year.
This top line growth resulted from several factors including: the strong performance of in-line brands such as LYRICA in the U.S.
ENBREL and CHANTIX; the uptake from our new products that are early in their life cycle including PREVNAR 13 adult IBRANCE and ELIQUIS; and growth in emerging markets.
We remain focused on continuing to generate this type of performance where a greater proportion of our EPS growth is generated from top line revenue growth.
Just a brief word regarding PREVNAR 13 we continue to see a very attractive worldwide opportunity for the adult indication.
In the U.S.
we have done an excellent job finding and protecting 25% to 30% of the eligible population older than 65 and we did this more quickly than anticipated.
As a reminder on our last quarter's earnings call we said we expect to continue to focus on the remaining population over 65 in the U.S.
although this will require sustained effort as this group is more difficult to reach.
Also of note during the quarter we closed the Hospira acquisition.
And I'm pleased to report that the integration is progressing smoothly and we're beginning to see the expected value contribution to our GEP business.
In terms of revenue we are now the leading global player in the fast growing sterile injectable business and we're the number two biosimilars company in the world.
Through the acquisition we now have three marketed products and more than seven years of in-market experience with one of these products.
Our biosimilars pipeline is now one of the largest pipelines globally with seven additional molecules in our portfolio under development.
We recently received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA for Retacrit a biosimilar epoetin.
We are working closely with the FDA to address the concerns of the letter and at this time we do not believe any further clinical trials are needed.
We are confident that the additional evidence we provide will support approval and remain committed to bringing this important medicine to patients in the U.S.
as quickly as possible.
A few comments about the pipeline I see our pipeline momentum continuing to build and remain particularly encouraged by our growing strength and presence in immuno-oncology.
Regarding the anti-PD-L1 avelumab partnered with Merck KGaA the FDA recently granted Orphan Drug and Fast Track designations for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma a rare and aggressive type of skin cancer.
If successful the first potential commercial launch of avelumab is anticipated in 2017 and our goal is to have at least one or more additional launches each year through 2022.
Beyond avelumab we have a broad immuno-oncology portfolio across numerous mechanisms including 4-1BB OX40 a vaccine-based immuno-oncology regime and CCR2.
All of these assets are already in the clinic 4-1BB OX40 CCR2 and avelumab.
And we expect to have up to 10 different I-O drugs in the clinic by 2016.
We continue to see combination therapy as having the greatest potential within immuno-oncology.
And our broad portfolio of I-O small molecule and ADC oncology assets will afford us the opportunity to test a wide range of combination regimes on our own and with our partner Merck KGaA.
We continue to grow our footprint in I-O through other collaborations such as CAR-T with Cellectis and in IDO with iTeos.
And we entered into a collaboration with Kirin to combine our 4-1BB with their anti-CCR4 antibody and started a Phase 1 study in May.
We believe this portfolio along with our skilled scientists should enable Pfizer to be a formidable player in this high opportunity area.
Turning to vaccines.
In early July we announced the first patient was enrolled in a Phase 2 clinical trial of our investigational Staphylococcus aureus vaccine.
We anticipate this study will complete in late 2017 with an interim analysis planned for late in 2016.
Also in clinic (6:51) with the FDA we restarted the Phase 2 trial for our Clostridium difficile vaccine which has previously received Fast Track designation in August 2014.
Enrollment in this program is now complete and we expect to review data from it by the end of the year.
In chronic pain there remains a significant unmet need with nearly one in five adults affected.
To address that opportunity Pfizer and Lilly have resumed the Phase 3 chronic pain program for tanezumab.
This program consists of six studies in approximately 7 000 patients across osteoarthritis chronic lower back pain and cancer pain.
The study results projected to begin reporting out in 2017 and 2018.
Of note in the prior clinical studies of more than 11 000 patients tanezumab demonstrated clinically meaningful efficacy versus placebo and other commonly used pain medicines.
In inflammation and immunology we are focusing our future investments in development programs on indications for XELJANZ in rheumatoid arthritis psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative colitis while deprioritizing further development in Crohn's disease and ankylosing spondylitis.
Additionally we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA on psoriasis.
While we have yet to meet with the agency to discuss their concerns we recognize that overcoming the issues raised may be difficult especially in light of the evolving marketplace.
We will reconsider our investment in the psoriasis indication for XELJANZ following this discussion with the FDA.
I would note that a new generation of potential therapies including oral selected JAK inhibitors and IRAK4 are planned to enter Phase 2 studies in 2016 for inflammatory bowel disease atopic dermatitis and rheumatic diseases.
We have a once-daily filing for XELJANZ under review at the FDA with a PDUFA date in February for the treatment of moderate to severe RA in patients who have had inadequate response or intolerance of methotrexate.
And if approved we believe once-daily dosing will add to its competitive profile.
In addition we intend to resubmit a Marketing Authorization Application to the European Medicines Agency by the first quarter of 2016 for the treatment of moderate to severe RA.
In assessing the current profile of our pipeline I believe we have a competitive mix of compounds and modalities across the therapeutic areas I just spoke about in addition to cardiovascular diseases rare diseases and neuroscience where our expertise matches the potential we see.
I'm pleased with our rate of progress.
Before turning the call over to Frank I would like to offer a few thoughts regarding drug pricing.
There has been a lot of attention on the issue of drug pricing.
And given the upcoming U.S.
elections it will continue to be discussed and debated.
Ultimately I believe good public policy will prevail ensuring the best outcome for patients while preserving a market-based system that enables the industry to continue developing new treatments and cures.
However that policy discussion must take into account the role of medicines and the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system.
Medicines are among the most effective and efficient use of private and public healthcare dollars.
They represent around 10% of total healthcare costs and are expected to remain the same percentage over the next several years.
This is because the price of medicines drop significantly once the patent expires.
Today about nine out of 10 prescriptions in the U.S.
offer generic drugs which lead to significantly reduced costs in the healthcare system.
For example 12 million people take atorvastatin and the cost has declined around 90% since 2005.
So given the high use of generics many patients have access to medicines with low copays.
What's difficult is when individuals cannot afford the increases in their copays when their treatment is on a specialty tier.
No individual should have to bear the full cost of their treatment when they become sick.
The increase in copay stems from healthcare policies that have a short-term focus with limited incentives to pay for treatments or cures.
Having an efficient and an affordable healthcare system requires incentives where insurance plans can be successful when they invest in long-term outcomes and provide for that success by ensuring wellness and prevention rather than treating the sickness.
And to sustain the most vibrant innovative biopharma community in the world we must preserve the market-based system in the U.S.
that enables us to continue to develop breakthrough treatments and cures for the benefit of patients.
In summary we had another quarter of solid execution on all fronts product launches cost and expense management and the continued successful integration of Hospira into our business.
We are on track to have a solid finish to the year.
We remain focused on creating value for our shareholders and continuing to research and develop new treatments to help patients live longer healthier lives.
Now I will turn it over to Frank who will take you through the numbers for the quarter.
Thanks Ian.
Good day everyone.
As always the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our webcast.
As you know on September 3 2015 we completed the acquisition of Hospira.
Consequently and in accordance with our U.S.
and international reporting periods our results for third quarter 2015 and nine months ended September 27 2015 include approximately one month of legacy Hospira U.S.
operations but do not include any financial results from legacy Hospira international operations.
Third quarter 2015 reported revenues were approximately $12.1 billion and reflect year-over-year operational growth of $795 million or 6% mainly driven by: the strong performance in developed markets of PREVNAR 13 adult IBRANCE and ELIQUIS all of which are early in their life cycles; LYRICA primarily in the U.S.; one month of legacy Hospira operations in the U.S.; and 5% operational growth in emerging markets mainly from Innovative Products.
Reported revenues continued to be unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of $1.1 billion or 9% and the loss of exclusivity of CELEBREX and ZYVOX in the U.S.
and LYRICA in certain developed European markets.
Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.60 versus $0.57 in the year-ago quarter.
The increase was primarily due to revenue growth of certain new in-line and acquired products a lower effective tax rate and fewer diluted weighted average shares outstanding which declined by 160 million shares versus the year-ago quarter due to our share repurchase program which includes the impact of our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in February 2015 and completed in July.
Adjusted diluted EPS was unfavorably impacted by $0.06 due to foreign exchange and the continued product losses of exclusivity in certain geographies.
Reported diluted EPS was $0.34 compared with $0.42 in the year-ago quarter due to the previously mentioned factors and the non-recurrence of a one-time charge associated with the Healthcare Reform Fee versus the year-ago quarter as well as the unfavorable impact of increased purchase accounting adjustments restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs associated with the acquisition of Hospira and higher asset impairment charges.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted third quarter reported revenues by approximately $1.1 billion or 9% and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses in the aggregate by $601 million or 8%.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted third quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.06 compared with the year-ago quarter.
Now moving on to the financial highlights of our business segments in the third quarter Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 10% operationally year over year due to the strong performance of recently launched products including ELIQUIS globally and XELJANZ in the U.S.
and the strong performance of VIAGRA and LYRICA in the U.S.
and ENBREL in most international markets which were partially offset by continued generic competition for RAPAMUNE in the U.S.
Income before taxes increased 14% operationally due to the operational increase in revenues and a 7% operational decrease in cost of sales partially offset by a 6% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses primarily due to additional investment and recently launched products and certain in-line products and a 7% operational increase in R&amp;D reflecting increased investments in our late-stage pipeline primarily for bococizumab tanezumab partially offset by lower post-marketing trial expenses.
Third quarter VOC revenues increased 37% operationally due to the 50% operational revenue growth from our Global Vaccines business as a result of PREVNAR 13 which grew 77% in the U.S.
and 10% internationally; a 54% operational increase on oncology revenues driven by IBRANCE in the U.S.
and to lesser extent by SUTENT XALKORI and INLYTA in most markets; and a 7% operational increase in Consumer Healthcare revenues due to NEXIUM 24HR in the U.S.
Income before taxes increased 52% operationally mainly due to increased revenues with an associated improvement in gross margin which were partially offset by a 26% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses due to higher promotional expenses for PREVNAR 13 adult and IBRANCE and an 18% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses due to increased costs associated with our oncology programs primarily our alliance with Merck KGaA partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses for certain vaccine programs.
In the third quarter Global Established Pharmaceutical revenues decreased 8% operationally mainly due to the loss of exclusivity and immediate multi-source generic competition for CELEBREX in the U.S.
in December of 2014 and generic competition for ZYVOX in the U.S.
beginning in first half of 2015 and LYRICA in certain developed markets in Europe beginning in the first quarter 2015 which were partially offset by the $330 million contribution from one month of legacy Hospira operations in the U.S.
and 1% operational growth in emerging markets.
Income before taxes declined 11% operationally due to the decrease in revenues and a 3.2 percentage point operational increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues due to unfavorable change in product mix an 8% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses reflecting the increased spending in biosimilars and legacy Hospira development programs partially offset by lower post-marketing clinical trial expenses all of which were partially offset by an 11% operational decrease in SI&amp;A expenses driven by lower expenses for products that have recently lost exclusivity and cost reduction productivity initiatives.
I want to remind everyone that on September 30 we updated our 2015 financial guidance ranges for reported revenues and reported and adjusted diluted EPS solely to reflect the anticipated impact of legacy Hospira operations on Pfizer's financial results from September 3 2015 through fiscal year end 2015.
Today we are updating the ranges for certain components of our 2015 financial guidance to reflect the following factors: standalone Pfizer strong performance to date coupled with an improved operational business outlook for the remainder of the year; the anticipated impact of legacy Hospira operations from September 3 2015 through fiscal year end 2015 on components other than reported revenues and adjusted diluted EPS; and the minimal favorable impact from foreign exchange rates since mid-July.
Consequently we now expect reported revenues to be in the range of $47.5 billion to $48.5 billion mainly driven by performance of PREVNAR 13 adult and IBRANCE in the U.S.
as well as ELIQUIS globally.
I want to point out that this range continues to absorb an anticipated $3.3 billion negative impact from product loss of exclusivity and losses of alliance revenue this year and a $3.1 billion negative impact from foreign exchange versus 2014.
We also anticipate adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue to be in the range of 18.7% to 19.2% adjusted SI&amp;A to be in the range of $13.6 billion to $14.1 billion and adjusted R&amp;D expenses to be in the range of $7.5 billion to $7.8 billion.
Finally we expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $1.37 to $1.43 and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.16 to $2.20.
Now I'd like to walk you through the 2015 guidance ranges for reported revenues reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS.
Specifically what I'm pointing out on the chart is impact of standalone Pfizer's operations on these three guidance ranges.
With respect to reported revenues we're raising the midpoint of the previous guidance range provided on September 30 by $1 billion and we're increasing the midpoint of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance range by $0.11.
With respect to reported diluted EPS as a result of Pfizer's standalone operations we've increased the midpoint of the range by $0.09.
This increase includes a $0.02 negative impact from restructuring charges associated with the Hospira acquisition that are incremental to our previous guidance provided on September 30.
Moving on to key takeaways we achieved another quarter of strong financial performance despite product LOEs.
I want to point out that this is the fourth consecutive quarter that standalone Pfizer achieved operational revenue growth which are driven by products early in life cycles including PREVNAR 13 results IBRANCE and ELIQUIS.
We raised the midpoints of our 2015 reported revenue and adjusted diluted EPS guidance ranges by $1 billion and $0.11 respectively to reflect both our year-to-date strong operational performance as well as our improved operational outlook for the remainder of the year.
We closed our Hospira acquisition on September 3 which was immediately accretive to adjusted diluted EPS upon closing and expect it to be accretive by $0.10 to $0.12 in first full year after the close with additional accretion anticipated thereafter.
And we continue to expect the transaction to deliver $800 million in cost savings by 2018.
We continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.
To date in 2015 we've returned $11.4 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
And we continue to expect to return approximately $13 billion to shareholders in 2015 through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2015 and beyond.
Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.
Thank you Frank and Ian for the commentary.
Operator can we please poll for questions? Your first question comes from David Risinger of Morgan Stanley.
I have two questions.
The first is on IBRANCE.
Ian could you just talk about the first-mover advantage for IBRANCE and how you see that playing out in the marketplace? And also if you could comment on expectations for breast cancer survival data and then any comments on the timing of readouts in other cancers.
And then separately with respect to your pursuit of M&amp;A in Innovative Pharma maybe both you Ian and Frank can comment on your current focus and how you want to set expectations for investors.
And also Frank if you could just talk through the difference between the benefits of a 60:40 inversion versus an 80:20 inversion and just characterize how the economics would differ in those two different scenarios.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Albert could you answer the IBRANCE questions please? Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Yes certainly.
Let me start with the competitive environment and the first-mover advantage.
I believe speaking about our program we have the most advanced and a much broader program than any other competitor so far.
And I say the most advanced because we are the first one and the only one that have registration right now in the U.S.
a product that has been prescribed with over 4 000 physicians and has been received by more than 15 000 patients so far.
And we have also filed in Europe and our file has been validated by the European authorities.
Also I say that we have a much broader program because we do have right now already two studies in first-line.
We have two studies in recurrent metastatic breast cancer and we have three studies clinical running in earlier phases of breast cancer.
And in addition beyond breast cancer we have already 30 studies that are – excuse me – 22 studies that are running in other indications of solid tumors.
So we have a clear – not first-mover advantage but we have a much broader program as we see palbociclib as a major franchise going forward.
In terms of timing on readouts that depends on the studies.
The two studies we have already reading out the PALOMA-2 study which is a confirmatory study will read out next year.
We have the early breast cancer studies.
That pilot will read around 2017 or will come in completion in 2017.
And the other two PENELOPE-B and PALLAS will come around 2020.
And as regards to the survival data we don't have any news on survival data which is expected because the median survival in this type of population is approximately four years.
So it will take some time until all these events will be accumulated.
Thank you Albert.
On Innovative Pharma and BD I think I'll limit my comments to something similar to the previous quarter where we looked at BD as a way of accelerating value to shareholders.
We feel that if all things are equal on returns strengthening the Innovative part of the company will give a more balanced business between both Established and Innovative especially in a potential split scenario if we were to split the company.
And we continue to be active looking at BD and looking at sources of value which are both pipeline which are operational synergies and potential financial synergies.
And certainly I'll ask Frank to expand upon and talk about the 60:40 or 80:20 space and about how potentially wide the targets are for this type of innovation.
And so Dave the way to think about this is less than 60% full inversion less than 80% but call it greater than 60% kind of an in-betweener a tweener inversion.
The way we think about this is there's four buckets of cash in a hypothetical transaction like this.
So there's our existing overseas cash and then there's our going-forward operating cash flow.
And then there's the targets existing overseas cash and then their going-forward operating cash flow.
The targets existing overseas cash and going-forward operating cash flow would be unencumbered.
Our existing overseas cash and going-forward operating cash flow would be encumbered.
And then the question becomes in a tweener situation how much of our encumbered existing overseas cash and how much of our encumbered going-forward operating cash can become unencumbered and that's based on tax planning and those kinds of actions.
And that is really I'll call it on a case-by-case situation-by-situation company-by-company basis.
But we think of it in those four buckets.
Thank you Frank.
So when you look at doing BD you have to trade off what's the price what's the value what's the pipeline and what's the risks you see in a case-by-case basis of sitting in the 80:20 space or the 60:40 space so thank you.
Thank you.
Operator can we move to next question please? Yes your next question is from Jami Rubin of Goldman Sachs.
Can you hear me all right? Yes loud and clear Jami.
All right great.
Ian just to follow up on that question on M&amp;A the last time we met you had highlighted the attractiveness of a tax inversion deal.
In fact you signaled a preference for a tax inversion deal over an outright say U.S.-based acquisition.
And now with Congress looking less and less likely to act on tax reform and your stock holding up exceedingly well in this volatile healthcare space particularly given how much specialty pharma has pulled back where are you in your quest to deploy capital? Can you give us a sense of timeline? It just seems to me like a phenomenal time to use your stock.
Thanks.
Thank you Jami.
I'd have to check the transcripts.
I'm not quite sure that I expressed a preference either way.
I think I expressed a preference for an Innovative deal and I think I expressed a preference for any deal that creates greater shareholder value which would have to be a combination of as I said pipeline operational synergies and financial synergies.
I do think there has been an adjustment in the price of some of the specialty companies.
There has been an adjustment in their price.
I'm not so sure there has been an adjustment in their expectations of what they want to sell the company.
But I do agree with you that BD is – we do have the ability to do BD.
It can be an important way of adding value.
This management team is not afraid of taking bold steps and we're looking at opportunities.
And when we make our decision as to what is the best way of enhancing value we will move.
Thanks Ian.
Can we move on to the next question please operator? Your next question is from Gregg Gilbert of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Gregg.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I've heard the two CEOs use the word bold in the last couple of months so we'll see how telling that is but a quick three-parter.
First is the PREVNAR franchise.
How big could that become and how durable do you think that could be? Secondly Merck seems pretty excited about the SGLT2 program they licensed from you especially in light of Lilly's outcomes benefits.
So can you remind us what the economics are there and anything you said about the profile of that product? And lastly on Retacrit on that CRL Ian are there any signs that the FDA is grappling with policy or legal or precedent issues there or is it simply just about the application and some data they want non-clinical data? Thanks.
I'll ask Albert to talk about PREVNAR and then Frank will give you an idea of the contractual relationship on SGLT2 which I think is an underappreciated asset and a huge opportunity for us and Merck in that marketplace.
And then perhaps John could talk about what we're experiencing with the FDA on the biosimilars approval.
Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Thank you Ian.
Gregg thanks for the question.
We are obviously very pleased with the results so far and we continue to be excited with the opportunity.
In the U.S.
let me start.
Two things stand out.
The first is that we were able to make pneumonia vaccinations innate-based rather than a seasonal event that used to be until now.
And the second of course is that we were very successful catching up adults previously vaccinated with the old technology product.
For 2016 we continue to believe that the catch-up opportunity will still be robust although it may not grow versus 2015.
To give you some greater context there were 45 million eligible adults when the recommendation was issued.
We estimate that we have penetrated approximately 25% to 30% of this population so far and that were mostly previously vaccinated with the other product with PNEUMOVAX.
Why there are still many adults remaining this cohort as Ian said is much harder to capture and will take more work to reach.
But we do have programs to reach them and also have programs to reach the population below 65 that is immuno-compromised and that can benefit from PREVNAR 13.
Now in Europe we received approval for pneumonia and we continue to work with technical committees country by country to obtain recommendations and reimbursement.
These will be phased over the next two-year period depending on the country.
But in general I expect Europe to demonstrate strong growth.
Thank you.
So in summary we think it's a durable franchise and we're very very enthusiastic by continuing to invest in it and develop that marketplace.
Frank would you like to talk about the economics of the SGLT2 contract with Merck? Yes so I think just a summary is think about it as a 60:40 split on profit.
We get the 40% of the profit.
Okay.
And then on the biosimilars? Global Established Pharma Business Pfizer Inc.</span></strong> Retacrit thanks for your question Gregg.
Just as you heard in Ian's opening comments we received a Complete Response Letter for the epoetin Hospira BLA from the FDA on October 16 of this year.
I think importantly our initial assessment indicates no additional clinical studies are required at this point.
So obviously we come to your wider question comment on what the FDA or the position they're taking with other companies' biosimilars.
We don't have any insight into that.
What we can say is that we are currently reviewing our CRL preparing our responses.
We expect submission of our response sometime during the first half of 2016 with an expected six-month review under the BsUFA Biosimilars User Fee Act.
Thank you John.
Thanks John.
Can we move on to the next question please? Your next question is from Mark Schoenebaum of Evercore ISI.
Good morning Mark.
Operator we seem to be getting a lag on the questions coming in.
Is this better? This is Mark.
Yes I can hear you now Mark.
Okay I'm sorry about that.
First of all congratulations on all the great share performance and fantastic shareholder communication over the last year.
So a lot of my questions have been answered but I thought I'd ask for a couple clarifications.
Number one Ian I think – and again please correct me if I'm wrong.
I think you've said before that if you were to do – if you were to find a value enhancing deal that wasn't an inversion that you would like that deal to close before the end of 2016 because after the end of 2016 risks of policy changes legal statutory changes increase.
I'd just like to know if you still feel that way.
And then on the R&amp;D side I heard a remarkable number and I wanted to make sure I understood the number.
The number was 16.
What was that number? I heard it as you will have 16 immuno-oncology drugs in the clinic next year.
Or is it something else? And if that's really true...
We'll have 10 novel drugs in the clinic next year Mark that are different and we can ask Mikael to run through those in a moment.
There are just too many for me to remember now.
And on the comment on taxes given the proposed rule by the Treasury which has not yet been implemented but has a retroactive date clearly anything around this area you need to be – one needs to be very careful on legislative changes.
So if there was a deal to be done I'd prefer it to be done under the present Congress and then you're at a risk for the new Congress coming in and making changes in the rules.
And of course you don't know what the conformation of the new Congress will be so you'd rather do it in a Congress what you do know who are setting the rules and what the rules are.
So if we could go to the 10 products Mikael? Yes.
So Mark we have said that we'll have up to 10 by next year and they include already in the clinic avelumab 4-1BB OX40 CCR2.
We're just now starting to enroll for our first triplet based on the vaccine VBIR-1.
We are moving swiftly with an additional PD-1.
We have started to file an IND that we'll be dosing next year for our first bi-functional against P-keratinin (37:50) another small molecule immunomodulator IDO-1.
We have an M-CSF antibody which brings it to nine.
And then we have a couple of programs that are running towards likely end of 2016 or early 2017 which include platforms such as additional bi-functional CAR-T additional vaccines and further checkpoint inhibitors.
So I think you've got the sense it's very robust.
It touches multiple modalities and gives us unprecedented opportunity for combinations.
Thank you Mikael.
Next question please operator.
Your next question is from Marc Goodman of UBS.
I guess on IBRANCE I think I heard the metric that there are 50 000 patients on the drug.
Can you just confirm that and tell us how that's changed over the past quarter? Second maybe Frank you can talk about the gross margin and just some of the underlying dynamics and movements in the gross margin so we can understand how to think about it going forward.
What's sustainable and what's one-time? And then third maybe some of the pipeline Phase 2 assets that you haven't talked about before but something that we should be keeping an eye on as we move into 2016.
Thanks.
Okay.
I'll ask Albert to clarify the number of patients on IBRANCE.
Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Yes the number that I mentioned was 15 000 one-five not 50 000.
And compared to the previous number in Q2 we've had 9 000.
So it's 15 000 up from 9 000 in Q2.
And also to give you another statistic it is 4 000 healthcare practitioners up from 3 000 at the end of Q2.
Thank you Albert.
Frank? On the gross margins so the way I'll answer it is just I'll do cost of goods sold just the reciprocal.
So last year Q3 18.3%; this year Q3 17.4% so down 90 bps.
What really drove that was operational improvement.
There's a lot going on there Marc.
So think about foreign exchange in terms of cost of goods sold as a percentage is a good guy it lowers the cost of goods sold.
Our LOEs particularly Celebrex are a bad guy so it hurts our cost of goods sold in terms of it will be increasing it.
Those mitigate each other.
And then for quarter operational improvements really drove the number.
Our guidance for the year 18.7% to 19.2% so what's really going on there if you compare that to the year-to-date number the 17.3% year-to-date cost of goods sold is foreign exchange.
If you adjust for foreign exchange that 17.3% becomes almost 18.5% which is close to the guidance range.
And then when you add in Hospira some of our projected sales for the remainder of the year you get a little bit of a lift in the number which gets you to the 18.7% to 19.2%.
Okay.
So I'd ask Mikael if he'd run through some of our near-term opportunities and then take that and extend it a bit to the third of our Phase 2 opportunities.
Thank you very much.
So nearer term maybe a way to look upon it is we have really a few really exciting oncology platforms.
You're well aware and we discussed IBRANCE in breast but also moving into head and neck and pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
The second platform oncology obviously avelumab with I-O combination 4-1BB OX40 and we'll actually soon share date on 4-1BB in various combinations and also INLYTA that's used in I-O combination.
In this case we have Merck KEYTRUDA.
We have two breakthrough drug designations that are moving towards registration planning elotuzumab for ALL and XALKORI for ROS-positive lung cancer an indication where you have long duration of treatment.
Now these were four oncology platforms.
In non-oncology in near term are ertugliflozins that we briefly touched upon today tanezumab in pain bococizumab PCSK9 in cardiovascular and XELJANZ in UC psoriatic arthritis.
Coming towards the earlier pipeline we have – let's touch upon we have a real exciting rare disease pipeline starting to emerge with recently Phase 3 for rivipansel in sickle cell disease.
We have another PD-9 inhibitor for prevention of sickle cell disease.
And we have studies ongoing in Duchenne's and Huntington's with drugs that are touching these orphan diseases.
And if these stay very strong there are potential to consider path for accelerated approval.
We heard from Ian mentioning that our C.
difficile Phase 2 study is now completely enrolled.
We're really looking forward to see that data come next year.
And then coming back to oncology we have a new ADC PTK-7 that showed interesting data in Phase 1 going towards Phase 1b/2.
We have the (42:50) rights to XALKORI 392 (42:52) that have shown real robust (42:58) in this part of the pipeline.
And we're starting next year multiple Phase 2 for our emerging immuno-kinase platform with IRAK-4 where we think we may be industry-leading highly selective JAK-3 dual-acting JAK-1 to JAK-2 and also JAK-1 inhibitor.
It will touch carefully selected indications where we think each profile has a unique purpose and fit to feel for the needs of patients.
I hope that gave you a little bit of flavor of an exciting both near and midterm pipeline.
Thank you for that.
Thanks Mikael; next question please operator.
Your next question is from Tim Anderson of Bernstein.
Thank you a pipeline question a non-market question and then a strategy question.
Earlier in the year when we talked to you you mentioned you have an oral PCSK9 in development.
And if I remember right you said we might see data in 2016 human data.
I'm wondering if that's still the plan.
Second question goes back to PREVNAR in adults.
When we've I think looked in the past at benchmarks healthy penetration into the adult population might be something like 60%.
I'm wondering if you can say what you think realistic penetration of PREVNAR in adults is likely to be in U.S.
and Europe.
And then last question is on potentially splitting up.
Investors are obviously assuming that you'll do this at some point in 2017 or maybe later.
But looking at it from the other end what would be the counter-arguments to splitting up? In other words why might it make sense that Pfizer would not want to go down the route of splitting up? What are some of the biggest hurdles to overcome? On the split as we've said before we haven't made a decision.
We said we'll make a decision.
The latest we'll make it is in the fourth quarter of 2016.
And the four criteria we've set up is are the businesses doing well inside Pfizer? Are they likely to be successful outside of Pfizer? Is there trapped value and do we believe we can realize that trapped value? From the other end of not doing a split if we were to do a major acquisition in the intervening time period then it would certainly change the timelines of a split.
It wouldn't necessarily change the logic of it to the extent that that logic proves out.
It would certainly – it may even strengthen the logic for it.
But that would be a decision that would be taken post any type of acquisition and post understanding the timelines that involves.
And the answer to all four of the questions that Ian summarized needs to be yes.
In terms of if we were to go down a split path the answer to all four questions needs to be yes.
So on the pipeline question Mikael? So thank you for remembering our exciting small molecule program against the PCSK9 target.
And obviously we are increasingly excited about that space as we have seen some of the struggle around the CETP drugs.
And we are on track for dosing patients end of this year and we have collected our IND documents so it's perfectly on track.
And I should say it's a novel mechanism that we have identified in our discovery work to intervene with the PCSK9 function and we're very excited to get it into humans and see its impact.
Thank you Mikael.
And Albert on the PREVNAR 13 adult penetration question? Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Yes it's a very interesting question.
Let me say that it seems that previous benchmarks or analogs of adult penetration have become somehow irrelevant after the very successful introduction of PREVNAR adult.
And this was – I will give you just some data to support my statement.
But right now we have achieved a market share of 87%.
That's extremely high as you can understand.
In pharmacies right now we are having a market share of 90%.
And keep in mind that pharmacies also their overall share of participating in vaccinating and catching up patients has increased dramatically.
I would say that we have disrupted this channel with our introductions.
Also our consumer activation and information campaigns have become very successful and our commercials have run very very high.
As a result the awareness among healthcare practitioners for example in the U.S.
has exceeded 90% according to market research that we have run which of course is exceptionally high.
So I cannot predict what eventually will be the overall penetration of adults in this country.
But I would say that we are very optimistic with the success of this first year as to how much we can achieve for the benefit of the patients in the U.S.
Thank you Albert.
Next question please operator.
Your next question is from Seamus Fernandez of Leerink.
Thanks very much for the question so just a couple quick ones.
Historically you guys have provided some numbers around your thoughts on the size of the biosimilars market.
Where do you see that? Can you just update us on your thoughts on the size of the overall biosimilars market and where and when you really see the acceleration in that market occurring? And then the second question can you just give us a sense again of the level of penetration that we're at with 15 000 patients? What does the IBRANCE label currently approach? And then ultimately with the adjuvant setting in breast cancer can you remind us again how much of the market that would open up? Thanks.
Thank you.
Size of the biosimilars opportunity John would you like to comment on that please? Global Established Pharma Business Pfizer Inc.</span></strong> Yes sure so thanks for the question Seamus.
Obviously as you know the biosimilars market is still in the process of forming in different regions of the world.
We're very excited to be playing a leading role in the formation of that market with the portfolio that we now have both of our own legacy Pfizer pipeline of biosimilars but also the in-market portfolio of products from Hospira.
Overall the market opportunity that we see is around about $100 billion worth of revenues from currently patented branded biologics that will lose patent protection over the next five years.
The global market for biosimilars looking at many analysts is expected to grow from around about $1 billion today to somewhere on the order of $17 billion to $20 billion by 2020.
Clearly there are a number of factors that will drive and influence the evolution of that marketplace such as substitutions such as the labels that – extrapolation of labels that products that come to market will have.
Overall I would just say that we believe that we're really well placed to draw on the heritage as a really strong biologics company in R&amp;D and in manufacturing which we believe will leave us to be very well placed in that market as it forms around the world.
Okay.
So Albert perhaps you can take us through a little bit the layers of opportunities we see in number of patients or potential patients probably talking about the U.S.
for IBRANCE.
Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Yeah and I will also speak a little bit more generally.
Let me start by saying how excited we are of course with this opportunity.
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women worldwide.
There's 1.7 million diagnosed every year with breast cancer.
And approximately 60% of them which means approximately 1 million are ER-positive HER2-negative an area that IBRANCE has demonstrated efficacy so far.
Now with IBRANCE we are working to build a broad franchise and this is how you succeed around breast cancer and beyond.
Speaking about breast cancer we are starting with the first-line and then we move to recurrent and then to early breast cancer.
In the U.S.
we expect to expand first of all as the opportunity goes our market share in the first-line.
Right now we have a market share of approximately 27%.
And moving to next quarter next year we expect to expand that even further.
We also expect to have an accepted filing by FDA of our PALOMA-3 data this year.
We expect it will give us registration for later lines of therapy in the metastatic setting.
In Europe we have filed and our filing was validated.
The filing in Europe was based on both PALOMA-1 and PALOMA-3 data which means that covers the entire metastatic population not only the first-line as was our submission and current label in the U.S.
We are also working to expand our label to earlier phases of breast cancer as I have indicated earlier with currently three major Phase 3 studies running.
That includes basically thousands of patients.
The PENELOPE-B is a study that includes more than 1 000 patients.
With the PALLAS it is a study that will include almost 5 000 patients 4 600 patients.
And the pilot (52:36) study which is the first one that was introduced in that setting is expected to come into primary completion around 2017.
Thank you Albert.
Thanks Albert.
We'll move on to the next question please.
The next question is from Chris Schott of JPMorgan.
Great thanks for the questions.
I just had two here.
The first if we think about business development potentially addressing three broad areas of your business.
It seems like you're talking about improving top line growth driving operating synergies and/or improving your tax rate or financial synergies.
I know these are all important.
But how would you rank order those three in terms of importance? Are some of those must-haves and some of those nice-to-haves? I'm trying to understand as you're looking at the landscape of what you can go after how you're weighting those three broad categories.
My second question was on inversion which has been talked about a lot.
But just in the current political environment where there's a lot of negative headlines around pharma already out there how do you think about political risk of inversion just in this election season and with a lot of noise around the drug industry already out there? Thanks so much.
So I think Chris the best way to think about this is that we want to target the maximum return on investment.
And this is a mix-and-match combination of as you said financial pipeline growth financial synergies cost synergies.
And the puzzle is to find the target company whose price and those three combinations allows us the highest rate of return on the disposition of precious capital.
So I won't – and then on the negative issues of pharma I'm a little – I'd like to hear a few words about that.
I think there has been some negative press on particular pharmaceutical companies.
I don't see that society is saying they don't want innovation and society is not looking for cures for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and cancer.
And so I think our industry continues to remain firmly in good stead in the sense that we remain a low percentage of the healthcare cost.
We are I believe the most efficient way of dealing with costs in the healthcare system.
And so I think public policy is squarely behind having an innovative industry.
Certainly I think we can make the case that this industry risk-adjusted is appropriately profitable.
Its P/E and its return on capital and return on investments are I think appropriate inside the averages of the stock market.
So I think the returns of pharmaceutical companies are reasonable in that context.
So I do believe that we have a lot of positive arguments to make when having this dialogue with society.
So around the political ramifications the shareholders of Pfizer expect us to maximize their return and the employees of Pfizer want to have a robust successful company in the future.
Their jobs and their careers depend upon it.
So part of the leadership of this is to ensure this company can be successful in the future.
To be successful in the future we need to have a competitive tax rate.
So that is why it's an important issue for us.
Thank you.
Thanks Ian.
Next question please operator.
Your next question comes from Colin Bristow of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
...questions.
I think a lot's been covered but a couple more on the SGLT2.
How should we think about your positioning here given you'll be fourth to market and you won't have any CV data until the 2019 – 2020 timeframe? The feedback we've been getting is it's largely a JARDIANCE-specific benefit until proven otherwise.
And so to what extent do you rely on a competitor showing CV outcomes data to confer class effect given you'll potentially be the last to have a CV readout? And then just second question last quarter you stated that you see biotech valuations as priced to perfection in many ways.
Clearly there has been a significant adjustment since then.
In light of this it would be great to get your current thoughts on valuations.
And how is this changing how you're thinking about your strategy with regards to M&amp;A and the potential geography of targets? Thank you.
Colin on the biotech I think there has been a readjustment in pricing.
As I said I think it's been a readjustment in the stock price.
I'm not sure yet there's been a readjustment in what investors and the leaders of these companies believe their company may be worth in a transactional situation.
So I think we'd have to wait a little while to see if the new stock valuations settle in in the reality of management's belief in the value of the companies.
And then the second question was on...
SGLT2.
SGLT2.
So I think Geno can take us through some of the logic on that.
Sure.
Colin we're very pleased about the SGLT program and the recent findings from the BI-Lilly program on cardiovascular outcomes.
We have a cardiovascular outcome trial underway.
In fact it's fully enrolled already with our SGLT partnership with Merck &amp; Co.
In light of the new findings from BI and Lilly we are considering additional work that we may do to further augment the package that we're pursuing with our program.
We have in addition to the single entity development program a fixed-dose combination with JANUVIA and with metformin.
And of course with the market position of JANUVIA in the diabetes market we think that we'll be very competitive with our data package and we look forward to entering that market.
I'd like to say I'm extremely pleased that Pfizer is doing a partnership with Merck &amp; Co.
two great companies with great heritage in this space and we look forward to being very successful with this combination product.
Thanks Ian and Geno; next question please.
Your next question is from Steve Scala of Cowen.
Thank you I have three.
The JAVELIN trial of avelumab in second-line non-small-cell lung cancer has a primary completion of 2021.
So I imagine there are interim looks between now and then.
Maybe you could tell us when those interim looks are or when the first one is perhaps.
Secondly on the CDK-4/6 inhibitor landscape I think the general view is that the Novartis agent is not differentiated but the Lilly drug does look quite unique and potentially a threat to palbociclib.
I think the recent Breakthrough designation was notable.
I would like your view.
And then lastly thoughts on the recent baricitinib versus HUMIRA study and its potential impact on XELJANZ.
Why isn't this a risk to XELJANZ? Thank you very much.
Okay.
Perhaps we'll ask Mikael to talk a little bit about the CDK-4/6 competitive space and what we know and don't know.
Yes thank you.
So I think I will start and a little bit punctuate what Albert said that palbociclib IBRANCE is the only CDK-4/6 inhibitor studied in multiple randomized control studies and has such a profound program for advanced recurrent early breast and multiple indications also beyond breast.
It's a highly selective drug for CDK-4 and CDK-6.
We do think hitting both CDK-4 and CDK-6 is preferable.
And it's very tolerable which is important for a drug that is playing in patients from first-line up to early breast cancer.
What we have seen from the edema type of (01:00:58) drug is data from an analog (1:01:00) in very advanced patients to multiple chemo almost a salvage line.
And that's obviously positive for patients being at that very difficult advanced stage.
We know that it's a drug that is much broader than the CDK-4 and CDK-6 that characterizes as you're right fully said palbociclib and rebociclib.
So for me it's a different drug class broader less specific and may play very well in this more advanced setting where the data has been currently.
And obviously there have been some tolerability issues reported which may reflect this broader profile.
It's very difficult to comment on competitor drugs.
So like always we say let's have data over the next few years and experience from patients guide us.
But I thought that maybe gave you an opportunity for us to summarize the status today.
I think one of the competitive positions we're taking is to accelerate a very broad in-depth clinical trial program behind IBRANCE to ensure that physicians have a broad experience with multiple indications and get in early and establish the standard of care there.
So I think that's our answer to if there is a competitive threat that's how we are dealing with it.
Would you Geno talk about XELJANZ? Sure.
So Steve the baricitinib data that was recently released showed superiority on ACR20 and the DAS28 endpoints.
In our own program as you know we had a trial including HUMIRA where we showed strong numerical separation not only on ACR20 but on ACR50 and ACR70 more difficult endpoints to demonstrate a difference.
Now that trial was not designed as a superiority trial.
It's more of a comparative trial.
But that led us to initiate a head-to-head superiority study with XELJANZ in RA compared to HUMIRA where we're testing both monotherapy and XELJANZ with methotrexate against HUMIRA with methotrexate.
So it's a robust study.
We'll be reading out in the first quarter of 2017.
We think that that will help shed more light on the performance of this drug in this setting this clinical setting.
The endpoint for our head-to-head is ACR50.
As you know Ian mentioned before we have the once-a-day dossier filed with the FDA now with a PDUFA date of February 2016.
And then we have our post-marketing safety study that also has arms with ENBREL and HUMIRA in.
So we'll have really good comparative data over the short and medium term to put these drugs into perspective.
Frankly I think that the JAK pathway is a powerful pathway that offers the potential for strong efficacy and we think that that will play out with both baricitinib and XELJANZ in the long run.
Thank you Geno.
We like our position of having the opportunity to look at it with and without methotrexate as well which if any of you have ever had to take methotrexate they'll understand why people don't like to take it.
Albert would you like to discuss the JAVELIN question? Oncology &amp; Consumer Healthcare</span></strong> Yes I do not have handy the date of when the interim analysis will happen in this study.
And anyway as you know these are event-driven so you never know what eventually will happen.
What also I can tell you this is as you know a second-line lung cancer study.
We are planning to initiate a first-line study this year hopefully.
That will have an expected readout much earlier so around 2017.
Thank you very much.
Next question please operator.
Your next question is from Vamil Divan of Credit Suisse.
Great thanks so much for taking my questions.
I just had a couple one building on what you were just talking about with the JAK inhibitors and XELJANZ.
Can you just give a little more detail on the decision you made to focus your priorities? You said you're stopping development in Crohn's ankylosing spondylitis focusing on other indications.
Was that something specific to the product? Was it safety or efficacy of the product in those indications or was it more of a view of the commercial competitive dynamics in those other indications? And then second just one if I could on ELIQUIS.
I just wondered if you can give a little more color on what you've been seeing there.
We haven't really touched on that on this call yet.
And I'm wondering if you expect any negative impact given the approval of PRAXBIND the reversal agent for PRADAXA recently.
I'm just wondering.
Do you think that might impact physician-prescribed here over the next year or so prior to having an antidote for ELIQUIS in the Factor Xa available? Thanks.
Geno first two questions please.
Sure so let me start with XELJANZ.
As we continue to see the studies read out obviously we become more informed about how this agent is working in these various patient populations and various disease states.
Our decisions on prioritization are made on the basis of the data that we're seeing the emerging profile of the drug again across different patient populations and also the timing of and the amount of work that's required to continue these programs.
So it's a number of factors that has led to the decisions that we've made.
We are very excited about continuing in the RA and the psoriatic arthritis and the ulcerative colitis areas.
We're very encouraged with what we've seen so far.
And these are very large robust market opportunities.
So we're looking forward to a bright future for XELJANZ.
With regard to ELIQUIS frankly we're continuing to see ELIQUIS take share in the NOAC market around the world.
We're a leading product now in a number of countries.
We're a leader with cardiologists in many more countries.
We established our foothold in the stroke prevention market and now in the thrombo-embolism market.
We're continuing to make inroads in primary care.
So that engine just keeps rolling.
With regard to the antidote the feedback that we've gotten from the physicians in the marketplace is that it's a nice-to-have and they welcome it.
We don't expect it to have a major disruptive effect on the marketplace.
Thank you Geno.
Thanks Geno next question operator.
Your next question is from Andrew Baum of CRTI (sic) [Citi].
It's Andrew Baum from Citi actually three questions short ones.
First Mikael do you have a SERD anywhere near the clinic? Second with regard to biosimilars I'm interested in Pfizer's view on interchangeability.
Is it economically desirable within the U.S.
landscape given the much likely rapid erosion of revenue as a consequence? And then finally for Ian in relation to inversion I note that Medtronic after inverting inside Covidien seemingly have had to import $10 billion worth of offshore cash with only a $500 million tax bill.
Given this did not fall at the 60% level does this mean that there's still a surprising amount you can do despite being higher than that threshold? Let's answer the questions in the order they were taken.
So I assume you're considering what else in our pipeline could combine with IBRANCE.
And we do have as you know the PALOMA-3 with a SERD fulvestrant.
We have some internal activities on porel SERD (1:09:04) but nothing that allow me to give you a date when it could or could not get to the clinic.
I wanted though to say that we have exploration in the clinic with a PI3K/mTOR inhibitor that we have ourselves that have a unique tolerability profile because it's given intermittently.
So we do explore with internal and potential partner drugs how you could combine.
But I would probably be more keen to go beyond the estrogen receptor blockade and look for a mechanist that could be more much additive synergistic when we develop the CDK-4/6 franchise further.
Thank you Mikael.
John could you discuss the interchangeability issue? Global Established Pharma Business Pfizer Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
So first of all let's just say that we view biosimilars as playing a key role in the future of healthcare and they can address the evolving needs of patients physicians and payers.
On the interchangeability question specifically I think our view as a company is that interchangeability should be based on science and under physician supervision.
Since biosimilars are not the same as the reference products the traditional paradigms that you might see in a small molecule of interchangeability and automatic substitution just don't apply.
So we believe that regulators and also payers should and will look at the data specific to each individual biologic molecule.
That's why we have comprehensive development programs for our biosimilars so that we can actually help physicians and patients to be able to make informed decisions about how to appropriately use those molecules.
And so our key point here is that there really is a need for more scientific progress to make interchangeability feasible and for that to really be driven by the data for individual molecules.
Thank you.
Frank on the various flavors of inversion? I think the best way I'll answer this Andrew is your question I think is actually a good example of what I said before which is it's really target-to-target specific in terms of how much of the benefit you can preserve of an inversion if you're an in-betweener in terms of less than 80% then greater than 60%.
And the example you gave is I think a good example of where benefit is being preserved.
But it just punctuates my point before about it's really target-by-target company-by-company specific.
And I'd like to point out that these rules are proposed rules.
They have not been triggered.
Operator if we could take our last question please.
Yes your final question comes from Alex Arfaei of BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning and thank you for taking the questions and congratulations on the strong quarter.
Ian just building up on your earlier comments on trapped value and the split decision is it fair to say that the ongoing strong performance of your Innovative business strengthens the split argument since there does appear to be significant trapped value there? So in terms of a go/no-go decision I guess is it fair to say that the split argument is strengthened from your perspective? And then on immuno-oncology given your focus on combinations how are you thinking about pricing in the current environment given how the first-generation products are priced? Thank you.
So I think on the split to the extent that both businesses are doing well and can command premium P/E ratios if those P/E ratios aren't being seen in the combined stock then it would be an argument to say that this tracked value could be released via split.
So I think we'll look at that and look at how the market is pricing the Pfizer Inc.
stock compared to what the individual stock should trade at if their P/Es were unfettered so to speak by being on their own.
And then I do think you're right that I believe that one of the competitive advantages will be if a company owns the sequence of treatments and the combination products.
So I really see in oncology it's becoming a chronic disease where you move from one combination to the next to the next to the next.
And so the ability to both price those combinations individually and price if you have enough in your portfolio while also price a longer period of different treatments is going be extremely important as a competitive ability.
Thanks Ian and thank you everybody for your attention on the call.
This concludes today's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may all disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to Pfizer's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chuck Triano Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth quarter and full year 2015 performance as well as 2016 financial guidance.
I am joined here today as usual by our Chairman and CEO Ian Read; Frank D'Amelio our CFO; Mikael Dolsten President of Worldwide Research and Development; Albert Bourla President of Vaccines Oncology and Consumer; Geno Germano President of Global Innovative Pharma; John Young President of Established Pharma; and Doug Lankler General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our homepage pfizer.com by clicking on the link for Pfizer Quarterly Corporate Performance Fourth Quarter 2015 which is located in the For Investors Section in the lower right hand corner of the page.
Before we start I'd like to remind you that our discussion during the call will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projected in the statements.
Factor that could cause actual results to differ are discussed in Pfizer's 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as on our reports in Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today.
Also today's call is not intended to and does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for or buy securities of Pfizer or Allergan.
We will now make prepared remarks and then we will move to a question-and-answer session.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read.
Ian? Thank you Chuck and good morning everyone.
We finished 2015 with strong financial and operational performance.
For the full year we exceeded our 2015 revenue guidance and met the top-end of our adjusted diluted EPS guidance.
Excuse me; and we achieved our first year of operational revenue growth in five years.
Frank will take you through the numbers.
Before he does I have a few brief comments about what is driving our performance some thoughts regarding where we expect to see pipeline advancements during the year and I will close with a few comments about Allergan.
Throughout the year and especially in the fourth quarter our business executed flawlessly despite a challenging operational environment.
We ended 2015 with solid momentum in both developed and emerging markets.
Specifically in developed markets during the year we gained incremental market penetration driven by continued success of products that are early in their life cycles including Prevnar 13 adults Ibrance Eliquis Xeljanz and we still saw steady growth from key inline products in 2015 specifically Lyrica in markets where it remains patent protected.
And during the year in emerging markets we saw operational revenue growth primarily due to the performance of Prevnar Lipitor and Enbrel as well as from the addition of legacy Hospira products.
The integration of the Hospira business into Pfizer Global Established pharma businesses is on track and we look forward to this business being an attractive potential growth driver.
This acquisition is indeed proving to be an excellent strategic fit and we are seeing the expected value contribution to our GAAP business that we anticipated.
Frank will speak to our 2016 guidance in a moment.
We expect to deliver operational revenue growth in 2016.
Our key growth drivers will continue to be Ibrance Eliquis and Xeljanz.
And we believe that Prevnar adult global revenues will be comparable to the strong results we achieved in 2015.
Additionally we believe our near-term pipeline will help accelerate this ongoing growth forward.
In looking at the year ahead we expect our businesses will continue to execute well.
They are competitively positioned to win their markets and are performing strongly against their competitors' set.
Regarding the pipeline we anticipate advancing many of our Phase III programs during the year.
For Bococizumab we reported today that the first of our six Phase III efficacy studies achieved its primary endpoint and we expect readouts of the remaining five Bococizumab lipid-lowering studies [technical difficulty] during 2016.
For [indiscernible] this year we and our partners Merck will begin to deliver results from our comprehensive Phase III clinical program.
In 2016 the alliance expects to submit applications to regulatory approval in the U.S.
for both monotherapy and two fixed dose combination tablets using data from eight clinical trials.
For Dacomitinib we expect results in the second half of the year for a Phase III study in first-line EGFR mutant non-small-cell lung cancer and we'll discuss our regulatory strategy with the FDA.
So Xeljanz in the first half of this year we expect top line results for our Phase III program in psoriatic arthritis.
We believe Xeljanz can potentially fill a significant unmet need in the psoriatic arthritis when non-biologic DMARDS do not have proven success and where there are currently few alternatives for patients who have inadequate responses to anti-TNF therapy.
In addition in the first half of the year we anticipate the decisions from the FDA for a once-a-day daily Xeljanz formulation for rheumatoid arthritis and we remain on track to re-file our application for RA in the EU.
For Ibrance we expect to see the top line PALOMA-2 study results in first-line advanced breast cancer in combination with letrozole and we have an April PDUFA date for second and third-line treatment for advanced breast cancer based on the PALOMA-3 data.
We could also see a regulatory decision for Ibrance in the E.U.
by year end.
Additionally in the oncology business we have a PDUFA date this year in the U.S.
with Xalkori in ROS 1 non-small-cell lung cancer and we expect to file for approval of Inotuzumab for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in the U.S.
And in immuno-oncology we now have a broad portfolio of compounds that we believe has the potential to support the development of a strong deep competitive market position.
We now have five immuno-oncology assets in the clinic and expect to have up to 10 in the clinic by the end of 2016.
As a result of our partnership with Merck KGaA as of the end of 2015 we had 28 ongoing clinical development programs for Avelumab with seven of them being pivotal registrational studies.
We anticipate some of these studies will give us potential registrations in areas like Merkel cell ovarian bladder gastric and lung cancer.
Of these seven studies we expect to present data in Merkel cell this year and to see data from the other tumor types in the following two years.
And we continue to believe that the winners in this space will be those that have a breadth of portfolio assets to support rational combinations.
We have a range of assets to combine with Avelumab when compared to other companies' assets and we have already initiated six combination studies with Avelumab.
In 2016 we expect to see data from 4-1BB in combination with Keytruda and in combination with Avelumab in various tumors 4-1BB in combination with Rituximab in lymphoma a combination of Lorlatinib our next generation ALK inhibitor with Avelumab and ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer and data from [indiscernible] with Avelumab in renal cell carcinoma.
Finally we may see data from OX40 as a single agent this year.
Taking of all of this into account we believe we are well on our way to being a leading player in this space.
And now a few comments about our proposed combination with Allergan.
We're excited about bringing two great companies together that have a strong strategic fit.
The transaction is about acceleration growth potential in our innovative businesses and strengthening our established business and more efficiently allocating our capital around the world.
We are confident that we are taking appropriate steps so that we can achieve the key milestones needed to complete the transaction and continue to expect close in the second half of 2016.
Since the announcement we have been working closely with Brent Saunders and his team at Allergan and have been delighted by the engagement and rapport that is occurring.
We see a number of potential opportunities after closing as we continue to learn more about each other's portfolio.
For example we see complementarity in information in gastroenterology and we have a -- when we will have a broader presence in cardiovascular disease with Eliquis and Bystolic.
In neuroscience Allergan's work in Alzheimer's schizophrenia and major depressive orders will be highly complementary to Pfizer's promising early work in such areas as Parkinson's Alzheimer's and Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
When you look at over the next few years we expect both companies will continue -- contribute sorry several potential new drugs to launch.
We'll also continue to be excited about the international potential.
And by coming together we are enhancing category leadership throughout our complementary inline portfolio and a combined pipeline with great late-stage and mid-stage assets across each of our key therapeutic areas.
Both companies bring a great deal of scientific and product expertise to the provost combination and a shared philosophy in our approach to research and development.
Upon the close of the transaction the combined company will be an influential player in the industry with a competitive product portfolio with several leadership positions robust pipeline compelling capital structure and financial position and aligned cultures that are based on ownership and entrepreneurial spirit creating shareholder value and meeting patients' needs.
This combination is about investing in our business.
It's about accelerating our existing strategy while preserving our options as putting the company into an innovative business and an established business.
If we determine that is the best way to unlock the most value for our shareholders.
By the end of the current quarter our integration teams will be fully engaged and we anticipate announcing post-closing leadership positions.
Throughout the year we will continue to keep you updated on our progress.
In summary we're looking at a year ahead we have a sound strategy and a strong business.
Our outlook and financial guidance for the year takes into the account the benefit of anticipated positive organic growth from key products as well as the impact from foreign exchange.
We have a solid portfolio of market-leading inline products a healthy pipeline.
We expect to further strengthen the growth potential of the business with the pending addition of Allergan.
We will continue to have the means by which we can create value for our shareholders and bring innovative medicines to patients by producing expected top line growth progressing key pipeline assets pursuing strategic business development and returning capital to shareholders through dividends and buybacks.
Now I'll turn it over to Frank for additional details on the quarter and our 2016 financial guidance.
Thanks Ian.
Good day everyone.
As always the charts that we're viewing today are included in our webcast.
As a reminder because we completed the acquisition of Hospira on September 3 2015 Pfizer's full year financial results for the year ended December 31 2015 include four months of legacy Hospira U.S.
operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations.
Financial results for the fourth quarter 2015 include three months of legacy Hospira Global operations.
By comparison financial results for full year and fourth quarter 2014 do not include any contribution from legacy Hospira operations.
Now moving on to the financials; fourth quarter 2015 reported revenues were approximately $14 billion and reflect year-over-year operational growth of 1.9 billion or 14% mainly driven by the addition of legacy Hospira operations.
The continued strong performance of products that are early in their lifecycles such as Prevnar 13 adult Ibrance Eliquis and Xeljanz Lyrica primarily in the U.S.
and 5% operational growth in emerging markets mainly from legacy Hospira operations Prevnar 13 and certain other products.
Reported revenues continued to be unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of 934 million or 7%.
Excluding the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations of 1.2 billion the negative impact of foreign exchange and to a much lesser extent the inclusion of 35 million of revenues associated with vaccines acquired from Baxter Pfizer-standalone achieved operational growth of 646 million or 5% while at the same time absorbing a 720 million negative operational impact from product losses of exclusivity.
Fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS was $0.53 versus $0.54 in the year ago quarter.
The decrease is primarily due to an aggregate operational increase and adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses or 1.8 billion or 21% $0.07 due to foreign exchange and the continued product losses of exclusivity in certain geographies.
These were partially offset by revenue growth of certain new in-line and acquired products lower effective tax rate and few diluted weighted average shares outstanding which declined by 125 million shares versus the year ago quarter due to our share repurchase program which includes the impact of $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in February 2015 and completed in July.
Reported diluted EPS was $0.10 compared with $0.19 in the year ago quarter due to the previously mentioned factors and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency losses related to Venezuela increased purchase accounting adjustments acquisition related cost restructuring charges and asset impairment charges versus the prior year quarter and non-recurring charges related to pension settlements which were partially offset by the non-recurrence of a charge associated with the global strategic alliance formed with Merck KGaA in November 2014 to jointly develop and commercialize Avelumab lower charges for certain legal matters and a lower effective tax rate.
Foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter reported revenues by approximately $934 million or 7% and positively impacted adjusted cost of sales adjusted SI&amp;A expenses and adjusted R&amp;D expenses in the aggregate by $435 million or 5%.
As a result foreign exchange negatively impacted fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.07 compared with the year ago quarter.
Now moving on to the financial highlights of our business segments; in the fourth quarter Global Innovative Pharmaceutical revenues increased 10% operational year-over-year due to the strong performance of recently launched products including Eliquis globally and Xeljanz in the U.S.
and the strong performance of Lyrica in the U.S.
and Japan.
Income before taxes increased 17% operationally due to the increase of revenues and a 5% operational decrease in cost of sales.
Cost of sales as a percentage of revenue decreased 1.7 percentage points operationally because of low royalty expenses and increased alliance revenues with no associated cost of sales.
IBT was unfavorably impacted by a 4% operational increase and SI&amp;A expenses as a result of additional investment in Eliquis Xeljanz and Chantix and 11% operational increase in R&amp;D reflecting investments in our late-stage pipeline primarily for Bococizumab and Tanezumab.
Fourth quarter VOC revenues increased 38% operationally reflecting operational revenue growth in each business.
Global vaccine revenues grew 53% operationally driven by 102% increase of Prevnar 13 U.S.
revenues to the strong uptake among adults.
Global oncology revenues grew 61% operationally driven by Ibrance in the U.S.
and to a lesser extent by Sutent and Xalkori globally.
And consumer healthcare revenues grew 4% operationally due to Nexium 24HR in the U.S.
Income before taxes increased 33% operationally mainly due to increased revenues and associated improvement in gross margin which were partially offset by a 66% operational increase and SI&amp;A expenses as a result of higher promotional expenses in the U.S.
for newly launched consumer healthcare products Ibrance and Prevnar 13 adult.
And the 46% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses due to increased cost associated with oncology oncology programs primarily our alliance with Merck KGaA and Ibrance.
Fourth quarter Global Established Pharmaceutical revenues increased 5% operationally mainly due to the previously mentioned inclusion of legacy Hospira revenues contributing $1.2 billion which was partially offset by loss of exclusivity and generic competition for Celebrex in the U.S.
and certain other developed markets Lyrica in most developed markets in Europe and Zyvox in the U.S.
Emerging market revenues were flat operationally which reflected the positive impact of the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations and continued strong growth in China offset by declines in certain markets in the Middle East.
Income before taxes declined 12% operationally reflecting the unfavorable impact of a 4.7 percentage point operational increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues due to the inclusion of Hospira operations and the impact of losses of exclusivity a 24% operational increase in SI&amp;A expenses driven in part by the addition of Hospira operations and the 53% operational increase in R&amp;D expenses due to increased legacy Hospira development programs.
We exceeded the top of our guidance range of expectations for 2015 reported revenues by approximately $400 million.
Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues was 18.5% versus 18.7% at the low-end of our guidance range due to increased Alliance revenues and sales volumes and we exceeded our expectation for our effective tax rate on adjusted income as a result of the favorable change in our jurisdictional mix of earnings.
We met our expectations for adjusted R&amp;D expenses and achieved the top-end of our adjusted diluted EPS.
Adjusted SI&amp;A expenses are $14.3 billion or higher than our guidance range due to increased expenses for recently launched products such as Prevnar 13 adult and Ibrance other inline products and certain Consumer Healthcare brands.
We recorded adjusted other income of $409 million versus our expectation of approximately $500 million.
Finally reported diluted EPS was a $1.24 versus our expected range of a $1.37 to a $1.43 mainly as a result of increased purchase accounting adjustments acquisition-related costs and restructuring charges primarily related to the acquisition of Hospira the negative impact of foreign currency losses related to Venezuela and non-recurring charges related to pension settlements.
Now I'd like to walk you through the 2016 guidance ranges for reported revenues reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS relative to our 2015 actual results.
First it's important to note that our 2016 financial guidance excludes the impact of our pending combination with Allergan.
Our 2016 reported revenue guidance range reflects anticipated strong growth of certain new inline and acquired product that is partially offset by an anticipated $2.3 billion negative impact due to continuing product losses of exclusivity.
I want to point out that that would be in this range and consistent with our previous comments we expect full year Prevnar 13 adult global revenues to be comparable with its full year 2015 global revenue level.
We expect adverse changes in foreign exchange based on mid-January 2016 rates relative to the U.S.
dollar compared with actual foreign exchange rates in 2015 to have an additional $2.3 billion negative impact on the reported revenues including an estimated $800 million negative currency impact related to Venezuela.
Consequently we expect 2016 reported revenues to be in the range of $49 billion to $51 billion.
Reported diluted EPS and adjusted diluted EPS guidance also include the negative impact from product losses of exclusivity as well as an expected $0.09 negative impact from foreign exchange rates and the $0.07 negative currency impact related to Venezuela.
As a result we expect reported diluted EPS to be in the range of a $1.54 to a $1.67 and adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range $2.20 to $2.30.
In addition I want to remind everyone that guidance ranges for both reported and adjusted diluted EPS incorporate $5 billion of anticipated share repurchases in 2016 which consists of our previously announced intention to execute a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program in the first half of 2016.
These repurchases are expected to more than offset the potential dilution related to employee compensation programs.
In summary to exclude anticipated foreign exchange impacts including the negative currency impact related to Venezuela full year 2016 revenue and adjusted EPS guidance midpoints are 7% and 10% greater than actual full year 2015 levels respectively.
The remaining elements of our 2016 financial guidance are set forth on this chart.
Now moving on to key takeaways we had a very strong financial performance in 2015 and we achieved operational revenue growth every quarter including 14% operational growth in the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2015 we achieved 6% operational revenue growth that was mainly driven by new products that are early in their lifecycles and we achieved this growth despite a 3.2 billion negative impact from product losses of exclusivity.
Our full year 2016 reported revenue guidance range of 49 billion to 51 billion absorbs a 4.6 billion combined negative impact of product losses of exclusivity adverse changes in foreign exchange rates and the negative currency impact related to Venezuela.
And the adjusted diluted EPS guidance range includes an anticipated $0.16 negative impact from foreign exchange including Venezuela.
We announced our proposed combination with Allergan and continue to expect the transaction to close the second half of 2016.
And we continue to create shareholder value through prudent capital allocation.
In 2015 we returned $13.1 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
And we expect to execute a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program in the first half of 2016.
Finally we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2016 and beyond.
Now I'll turn it back to Chuck.
Thanks Ian and Frank.
Operator can we please poll for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Colin Bristow from Bank of America.
Good morning and congrats on the solid finish for the year.
So a couple of product-specific questions if I may on the Prevnar franchise you've posted strong 4Q numbers.
Could you just talk about your expectations for the trajectory going forward? On Ibrance there's been a lot of discussion around [indiscernible] and the potential there for a threat to Ibrance.
What's your view here? And then just lastly on Biosimilars can you update us on the status of your Biosimilar candidates and when we should expect any data readouts? Thanks.
Thank you Colin.
I'll ask Albert to manage the Prevnar and Ibrance and then pass it over to John for Biosimilars.
Thank you very much for the question Colin.
Let me provide some insight to help you understand the situation moving forward.
In the U.S.
obviously we have done an excellent job with the catch-up opportunity.
We have achieved 86% markets there 92% at retailers.
We have 90% awareness of the recommendation at healthcare practitioner.
And as a result over the 45 million adults eligible at the time of recommendation for vaccination we have already captured about a third [ph] of them.
Now while many adults remain this cohort is more difficult to capture as the low-hanging fruit is gone.
It will require more innovative strategies that we all have in place but even if we assume a similar or higher penetration rate this year it will be on a much smaller pool of adults.
However we expect this will be mitigated by Europe which has a very different growth profile.
Even with prices lower than U.S.
the demographics are very favorable with much larger eligible population and who have already received pneumonia in our label in 2015 and we are working to obtain broad recommendations and following that reimbursement from the authorities.
Now this will be phased likely over a two-years window period because in Europe this is done country-by-country and sometimes region-by-region within the same country.
But all in all we expect very strong growth in Europe next year.
Now let me move on Ibrance and your question about competition or particularly [indiscernible] drug.
Look [indiscernible] drug while in the same class is for any [ph] indication.
The refractory patient population what we have received breakthrough designation is a very small population with few options available.
In fact the average refractory patient undergoes seven lines of treatment.
So it's -- they are in high-mid.
Now speaking generally on competition there is only limited clinical data on the public domain and we need to see more efficacy and safety data to make comparisons.
What I can tell you is about our strategic position.
We are the only company with a registered product in U.S.
and six other countries and an accepted filing in Europe where we may obtain registration as early as next year.
We have very good clinical experience with the product.
Ibrance has been prescribed by 5 000 physicians in more than 20 000 patients.
And so far feedback is very positive particularly on patients' quality of life.
We are having a very heavy clinical program.
We have two pivotal studies in first-line metastatic breast cancer two studies in recurrent metastatic breast cancer and three in early breast cancer PENELOPE-B PALLAS and PEARL [ph].
Ibrance is part of 88 investigational initiated trials approximately 50 in breast cancer and 38 in other tumor types.
So as you can see we are investing heavily to stay ahead of the competition.
Thank you Albert.
I think just on Ibrance you mentioned next year for Europe you meant this year late this year we may be able to get registration… Correct in '16 I mean.
Sorry.
I apologize.
Yes thank you.
Go ahead.
Okay.
So thanks for the question on Biosimilars Colin.
So I think we're obviously very excited to being able to bring together the combination of Hospira's current inline biosimiliars which are already in the market.
So we have three assets as you know which are already in the market in Europe Nivestim Retacrit and Inflectra.
And to bring that together along with the legacy Pfizer monoclonal antibody pipeline plus some additional assets that Hospira have.
So in total when you look at the pipeline we have nine distinct biosimilar molecules in different stages of development.
Infliximab outside of the E.U.
Adalimumab Trastuzumab Bevacizumab Rituximab Pegfilgrastim Ranibizumab Denosumab and Ustekinumab.
So overall we have a very strong pipeline.
A number of those assets are in Phase III late-phase development.
And the first dataset there you'd be seeing from our Phase III studies would come from the legacy Pfizer Infliximab program where we would expect to produce data from our Phase III towards the end of this year.
Thank you John.
Thanks John.
Operator can we please move to the next question.
Your next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Jami? Okay Jami.
We may come back to Jami if she's -- if we can correct the technical issues.
If not let's go to Alex.
Your next question comes from Alex Arfaei from BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning and thank you for taking the questions.
Frank your gross margin for 2016 is better than we expected considering you're integrating a lower margin business in Hospira and losing exclusivity on some high-margin products.
Can you help us understand what's driving that and how we should think about -- and should we expect traditional margin expansion going forward given that your Innovative business is growing at a faster rate? And then on Hospira's contribution this quarter it doesn't seem to reflect much revenue synergies.
Obviously it's too early but how should we think about Hospira's contribution next year and possible revenue synergies going forward? Thank you.
So Alex on the gross margin let me run the numbers and then I'll answer the question.
So we ended the full year at 18.5% in terms of cost of sale.
So I'll do the cost of sale.
The reciprocal obviously is gross margin.
We got it for next year across the sales number of 21% to 22%.
So if you take the midpoint of that 21 to 22 just to make the math easy that's 21.5% from our 18.5%.
That's a 3% 300 basis point increase in our cost of sales as a percentage of revenues.
By the way that's being driven by a few factors but one of which clearly is Hospira.
In terms of -- I think your question which was why wasn't even more I think the answer is our ongoing productivity and cost reduction initiatives.
When you think about our factories our manufacturing capabilities we really manage that from a cost perspective.
First of all we focus that on quality service and cost.
If you think about that as a triangle quality is at the top of the triangle.
But there's four major buckets right? There's the number of facilities there's the numerous quality initiatives we have within each facility.
There's the purchasing that we can get from a leverage perspective and then finally there's the center cost that resides outside of the factories.
We manage all four of those very aggressively to basically -- to manage our cost structure in manufacturing but that gives you a feel for what the numbers were and why they are what they are.
Please John.
So thanks Alex.
So obviously again we are very excited by the opportunities afforded us by the combination of our two businesses.
And I think I've talked about biosimilars already and the opportunities we see in that marketplace.
So let me just touch briefly on sterile injectables.
Obviously it's a very -- it's a large it's a growing market.
It's somewhere between $50 billion to $70 billion currently globally and one of the sort of features of that market is it's very concentrated particularly in the U.S.
but also in a few ex-U.S.
markets such as Western Europe and particularly China.
So one of the things that we are very focused on is going to be revenue synergy.
We obviously have a strong commercial presence in China and also in the hospital segment in developed Europe and emerging Europe.
So essentially the lag time since September when we closed this transaction we've been focused really on making sure that we have our blocking and tackling in place to be very systematic with our highest value molecules that really sort of meet market needs most appropriately.
To be very focused on registering and brining those molecules to market.
So in the biggest opportunity that we have in China that is going to take time as you are very well aware.
Drug lag in China is a significant issue but we're very encouraged by the progress that the CFDA are making to accelerate access to important new medicines in China.
But that will take time.
But we do see opportunities both in the short-term as well as medium and long-term to deliver significant growth ex-U.S.
through the sterile injectable business and the combination of Hospira's portfolio into our commercial footprint.
Thanks John.
And operator see if we can get Jami Rubin back.
The next question comes from Jami Rubin from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Sorry about that.
Don't really know what happened on my end but anyway just a few questions.
Frank can you tell us what the Venezuela revenues are? I guess we are in consensus we're surprised by the size of the hit; can you all hear me? Yes we can hear you.
You're a little static but we can hear you.
Okay sorry about that.
Anyway so Frank if you could just provide more color on Venezuela? And why such a big hit? And then Ian just a couple of questions for you just back on this whole breakup thesis and the timing I think investors initially were disappointed by the timing that you laid out at the time that you were announcing Allergan deal.
I think you said you would make a decision by the end of 2018.
I just want to put out there that the stock has pulled back quite a bit since you announced the Allergan deal and I would think despite clearly the market is excited about this but I would think that that would -- that the difference in -- even growing gap in valuation between where your stock is in an SOTP should help you to accelerate your decision to move in that direction and if you could just comment on that please.
And then just thirdly on revenue growth.
I mean clearly there have been tons of pushes and pulls in your numbers mostly currency and patent expirations.
Can you remind us when you expect and this excludes the acquisition from Allergan but when you expect your reported revenue growth -- or just talk about operationally revenue growth when we should start to see a positive inflection point because it has when I look at my models revenues have been in decline for many years and some of that's divestitures and spins but really since 2013 we've had revenues sort of flat to down.
When is that going to change and what's going to drive that change just talking from Pfizer's standpoint? Thanks very much.
Let me just do the revenue growth first.
Well you know as I said '15 was the first year when we saw revenue growth; '16 we expect it to be around operationally narrow.
We expect it to be Hospira and Allergan we expect it to be flat and that's because we had a huge growth from adult vaccine in '15 and we'll hold that franchise.
We won't grow it again.
We'll have good growth from our inline products and our newly launched products but we'll still deal with a couple of billion of LOEs.
So I think you can begin to see as we launch -- as we begin to get more traction with more clinical trial in Ibrance as we begin to see the launch as we begin to see our next wave of products get approved you'll see us returning to a very robust growth.
But obviously Jami one of the reasons for doing the Allergan deal was in fact to ensure that we had robust growth in our innovative business.
So we're aware of that issue.
Now this is the breakup timing.
Number one I point out that while the stock is down I don't think it's specifically down more than a DRG.
In fact I think it's roughly the same as a DRG and in fact given the our pressure that one would expect in a stock I'm actually -- well never like to see the stock go down.
It certainly was expected to come under pressure from the odd community.
Now the breakup timing is an issue of -- we are focused on integrating this company and the two companies together and we have laid out the full questions that we need to answer.
And I think shareholder would want those questions answered.
So can we run the businesses successfully insider Pfizer? And we bought Hospira.
You are seeing the sterile injectables.
You have got the Biosimilars.
You're beginning to see if you strip out the LOEs and stabilization of the core business which we expect to return to growth but that being said we can run it well inside Pfizer.
Can it be run better outside Pfizer? Is there trade value and can we unlock trade value in tax efficient manner? And these are the very serious questions.
These are very large companies.
And I think that by innovating we will be well positioned to make that decision in the best interest of our shareholders.
And frankly don't particularly see a way of short-circuiting that just because of the amount of work that has to be done and integration and getting the transaction of Allergan right.
I do understand your wish for more speedy decision but I think we are taking the right approach for shareholder value here.
Venezuela? Yes.
So Jami the Venezuela revenues for -- I'll call it initially projected for 2016 were about $800 million roughly the same size as 2015.
If you look at the adjustments we took -- we changed the exchange rate from 6.3 Bolivar to a dollar to 200 Bolivar to dollar.
We went to the SIMADI rate for Venezuela.
That change in the translation is what causes the adjustment that we made for 2016 and we thought that the timing of that adjustment was appropriate given oil prices given what's going on in Venezuela economically given the dollars that are coming out of Venezuela we thought the timing for this was appropriate.
But it's really the 6.3 to 200 to the dollar conversion that's really causing the adjustment to 2016.
Now Jami ongoing when Venezuela passes through this crisis and they re-establish a normal economy we would expect Venezuela to grow back to be in the -- between 200 and 400 million a year.
So the actual delta medium-term is for the 400 million between what was an overvalued currency.
Thank you.
Thanks Ian and Frank.
Can we move to the next question please? Your next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi.
Hi.
Three questions please two of them of very short.
Firstly perhaps you could just outline sequential growth for China say [technical difficulty] last quarter? Second do you anticipate extra notice from Treasury on conversion and obviously [technical difficulty] how restricted do you see any measures to impact the Allergan transaction? And then finally just returning to [indiscernible] the patients in the ongoing Phase 2 trial which accelerates approval that have not seen Palbociclib in early line of therapy is that an approval possessing given the design of that trial given the fact you are approved for indication or does that include any regulatory approval for the drug? Thank you.
Okay.
I am going to do the notice first.
We at the moment understand that the Treasury are working on formalizing and regulating the first two notices they issued which are not in many ways applicable to our transaction as we're at the below 50% ownership.
I really can't speculate if there is going to be a third notice or not.
We feel confident the transaction is fully within the U.S.
law and fully within accepted interpretation of that law and expect the transaction to close in the second half of next year.
With that I'll go to growth to Frank and I would ask Mikael to talk about Palbociclib.
And with China.
On China for the quarter China grew 10%.
Full year China grew about 10%.
Nice numbers.
Somewhat moderated from 2014.
In 2014 China grew to about 15%.
So we saw some moderation in the growth in China.
That said Andrew we remain very bullish on China.
Has an increasing population increasing personal wealth government is committed to healthcare.
We see increased spending in the government and the GDP rate is still very healthy.
Not as high as it has been the past but still quite healthy.
So we remain very bullish on the China market on going forward basis.
Mikael? Yes.
Thank you Andrew for a good question here.
Two things; first I want to just to point out that Abemaciclib is somewhat different from Palbo and Novartis drug in that it seems to be less selective and has a different resident profile likely due to hitting multiple CDKs particularly been reported significant GI issues.
So it's a different profile and we as Albert very well pointed out have been extremely pleased with the favorable profile that allow patients to benefit from Ibrance with very good reliability.
Now you asked about this late stage population studies Abema [ph] and how that population in the future will evolve.
We anticipate as Ibrance is having a very nice uptake in the marketplace in first line metastatic and some also more advanced lines and hopefully with Prevnar 3 approval Ibrance is likely to be used in multiple lines.
Hence monotherapy with another CDK will of course have the potential to face patient population that have seen CDK inhibitor and that's why we are developing a strategy for how we can see patients benefit from drug like Ibrance at various stages with different anti-hormonals.
And we are also now studying Ibrance in triple therapy.
So I think you can see that multiple drugs is likely to be the preferred as patients become more advanced.
Thank you Mikael.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
Great.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the questions.
So… Good morning.
Hi good morning.
Just again on Biosimilars front I know there has been a couple of questions but just a couple of more if I could.
One is specifically on Enbrel and if you can discuss in terms of 2016 how you are viewing the impact of Biosimiliars to your performance for that product? And then second now that Hospira has closed I am just wondering I guess this is a question for John or whoever wants to jump in in terms of the value having a Biosimilar business under the same broad umbrella as your innovative business so you can leverage that commercial infrastructure areas like oncology and autoimmune disorders.
Is there any way sort of maybe make more sense than to keep Pfizer as a single entity as opposed to splitting up and then needing to rebuild the commercial infrastructure for your Biosimilars in those similar areas where you do have innovative products? Thanks.
Vamil I'll ask Geno to talk about Enbrel and the impact of Biosimilars in Europe.
Sure.
So the first Biosimilar for Etanercept has been approved in Europe.
And we've watching the situation very closely and evaluating adoption of Biosimilars across each of the countries throughout Europe for awhile now.
Our overall expectation is that there will be somewhat modest impact in 2016.
The Biosimilar landscape is clearly still developing.
There are different approaches taken by different countries.
And we have a very clear detailed roadmap for how to address each of the dynamics that exist in these different countries.
So we are fairly confident that we are going to continue to have a strong Enbrel business throughout Europe.
We think that the new patients would be probably most at risk of being exposed to the Biosimilars and hope that the availability of lower cost biologics will expand the market.
So overall we see this as again a modest impact to our business in the initial period of time.
And Vamil maybe a very interesting question on the connectivity between the Biosimilars and the other space.
I would say that that would be taken into account if there was any such linkage that was positive in our TSAs the setup the separate companies to ensure that that as overall we maximize value of that between both companies in the contracts we would sign if we decided to split.
Thank you.
Thanks Ian.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Steve Scala from Cowen.
Couple of questions.
First apologizes if I missed the explanation but the 2016 guidance includes roughly an incremental 4 billion in revenue and $0.08 in earnings from Hospira implying down to significantly down underlying sales for the legacy Pfizer and flattish to down EPS and it seems that generic exposure in currency cannot be the explanation because the predicted 4.6 billion hurdle in 2016 from these factors is well less than the 6 billion plus predicted in 2015 at this time last year.
So actually the comparison on generic exposure in currency is improving and more than offsets the year-over-year increase in Prevnar.
So any thoughts on that would be appreciated.
And one more how should we think about the long-term outlook for Sutent particularly given the competition from immuno-oncology agent.
You think Sutent will soon become a defining asset or do you see growth in the future? Thanks.
I'll ask Albert to talk about Sutent and its possible combinations and the other studies we have already had on Sutent.
And then I'll ask Frank to come back on your questions about growth rates.
We remain very confident in our position in the RCC space and that includes both Sutent and Inlyta because they are very well known by physicians and other stakeholders.
The recent approval in RCC for immunotherapy but this does not affect Sutent.
It is in the second line.
Sutent is used primarily in first line.
And s we have previously disclosed we are studying Inlyta and Inlyta plus other PD-1 inhibitors pretty aggressively so that we can achieve better result in monotherapy in RCC second line.
Frank? Yes.
Let's see if I can answer the question.
Just first we don't give a specific number for Hospira revenues for 2016.
But that said I believe I could still answer the question.
So the way I think about this is if you enter the midpoint of the guidance prior to foreign exchange in Venezuela which is part of the basis of your question the midpoint for guidance would be 52.3 just to use midpoint.
We take 50.3 compare that to the 48.9 that we printed in 2015 are all now at the same foreign exchange so clearly operational.
That's an increase of about $3.5 billion.
We said -- Ian said when he answered Jami's question that revenue excluding Hospira on a year-over-year basis was essentially flat operationally while absorbing 2.3 billion in LOEs for 2016.
The other data point I think to help you answer the question is remember we did 1.5 billion in Hospira sales this year.
So when we say that the bulk of the growth is from Hospira you understand it's incremental growth on top of the 1.5 billion that we printed in 2015.
So that's how I think -- that's how you get to numbers we said and why we said operationally the numbers were essentially flat if you left Hospira out of the equation.
Thank you Frank.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please.
Your next question is from Mark Schoenebaum from Evercore ISI.
Hey guys.
How are you doing? Thanks for being so clear on the communications in the quarter.
I have one question that's been danced around but maybe let me just ask you it again and hope so I won't annoy you but I'll try again.
So first is do you believe that there is anything Ian under the current U.S.
statute that would allow treasury to block and/or materially delay the closing of the AGN deal? So I am asking you if there will be third proposed notice.
I am asking you under the current law are you very -- do you remain I guess very comfortable there is nothing that treasury legally could do to block the deal or to materially delay it like in the 2017 when there will be a new a congress and a new president.
And then I would also just for Frank perhaps just like you talked a little about your leverage ratio if my math is right the leverage ratio of the combined company the NewCo should closer to be around 1? By my math you could take that to maybe 3 without affecting credit ratings in a big way I would like to hear -- that's my math and I am not very good at math so I would love to hear your general thoughts around leverage ratio of the NewCo where you might be willing to take that should the deal close.
Thank you.
Thank you Mark.
And thank you for the compliment on the clarity to communications.
We strive to make them clear.
So on your question which I don't think on the current law I do not believe there is any reason why this deal will not close; full stop.
Mark let me run some numbers.
So on leverage let me run the Pfizer numbers based on third quarter.
We haven't issued a balance sheet yet for the fourth quarter.
We will do that when we file the K.
We had about 37 billion of cash in investments.
We had about 39 billion of debt short and long term debt.
So to your point call that one to one essentially and what we said when we announced the Allergan deal what I said was we could take the leverage ratio at yield point up to about 2.5 to 3.
And then obviously once took it there we would want to see what kind of rhythm that created relative to the company the operation supporting the company in that we take it there but that we still want access to commercial paper.
We would be willing take a one notch downgrade but we would still want to have access to commercial paper.
But in terms of your math and your calculation 2.5 to 3 that's right.
That's basically what I talked about when we announced the Allergan deal.
So your math was good.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Marc Goodman from UBS.
Yes few things.
One is can you tell us what the key products are in Venezuela if there are any massive ones that we need to be hitting the model on? Second Frank maybe you can go through some of the push-pulls on SG&amp;A and how you are thinking about the spending this year? And then third can you just give us an update on the IL-6? Thanks.
So key products I don't think there's any outstanding product but the Enbrel is the biggest product that contributes.
John would you want to add anything to that? Yes I think the Enbrel is the biggest product.
I think in addition to that we have a portfolio of matured established product Lipitor and Norvasc would be other key products for us in Venezuela.
So really just think about the basket of established products and the fit in that marketplace.
Okay.
The SG&amp;A? Yes.
So Marc on SG&amp;A let me just talk to the quarter and then I'll talk to the rhythm of the numbers.
So if you look at the quarter we had a big spend in SG&amp;A.
It's 4.6 billion all in.
Three major factors there right one obviously the inclusion of Hospira which added a couple of hundred million.
Two sequentially if you think about the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter we had a lot more selling days in the quarter.
So internationally we had six more selling days.
Domestically we had two more selling days.
So sequentially Q3 of '15 to Q4 of '15 we had more selling days.
So obviously it helps revenue but also increases the spend on our line items.
And then we had obviously I alluded to in my comments increased promotional spend in many areas of the business.
Now if you take that 4.6 and you annualize it times 2 is what? 9.2 times 2 is 18.4.
If you look at the guidance we gave for next year on SI&amp;A it's 13.2 to 14.2 billion.
So you can't take that Q4 number and annualize it.
You get to a number that's nothing close to what our guidance is for 2016 which is a combination of Hospira numbers the selling days and then the increased spend in the quarter.
But we look at it for next year we get a number that our annual basis is significantly lower than what that annualized number would be.
And Mikael do you want to discuss IL-6? Yes.
Thank you for your question.
So we tested IL-6 antibody in Lupus and [indiscernible] and while antibody did show some activity we found that overall profile did not compete as well as many other real interesting immunology agents and other opportunities we have in our very rich pipeline of 90 clinical programs.
So this is part of prudent portfolio prioritization within Pfizer.
Thank you Mikael.
Can we move to the next question please? Your next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.
Thanks for taking the questions and for all the clarity that you've given on the '16 guidance.
Ian first question on the timing around the breakup I think you've indicated that integration of Allergan is very important.
You've also indicated that you had time to look even deeper into the Allergan portfolio.
As you think about integration can you give us some more commentary around how you are thinking about mapping out integration? Some look at Wyeth and look at the massive amount of synergies that you are able to extract out of Wyeth transaction and are somewhat puzzled as to why you can't do that here.
So any commentary around that? Two additional questions; one on CDK 4/6 this one is for Mikael.
Mikael when you look at preclinical models is there any argument or hypothesis around a drug that has to be given intermittently that it might have less efficacy than one that's given on a continuous dosing? And is that supported by any preclinical models? And then the last question just has to do with Xeljanz.
Obviously a very important asset for you not only in the U.S.
but on the EU timing for filing I think you indicated you wanted to have that filed before the end of the year.
Just any update on what Europe is looking for within that filing to secure approval in Europe? And then on psoriasis in the U.S.
any developments there on the modified release from a regulatory standpoint and then obviously with Enbrel seeing generic competition what have you done with your infrastructure in Europe to still keep some infrastructure in place to support Xeljanz if and when it gets approved? Okay.
So let me just -- quickly the last one first we still have very strong expectations from Enbrel in Europe as Geno was discussing.
We are not removing our support from Enbrel.
So we expect to have full support for Xeljanz when it launches in Europe.
There was a somewhat of a slippage from -- as you say the end of the year to the beginning of this year on the Xeljanz application in Europe.
We wanted to get it right and make sure that it was in the best shape we could and these things happened.
So there was a slight slippage on time on that.
Mikael do you want to deal with this hypothetical on CDK 4/6? Yes thank you for the questions.
Of course always we would caution you can speculate on things that haven't been studied in humans in comparative aspects but you know we think it's important to hit CDK 4/6 hard for breast cancer and when you do that with high doses you will get efficacy on the tumor but also see some neutropenia and that's we why chose the intermittent schedules.
Particularly it seems very effective for combination therapy with multiple agents such as [indiscernible] in breast cancer.
For other tumor types we may explore various schedules for various combination of drugs but for breast cancer we think to show some schedule with the combinations we have studied is very effective and works well.
Thank you.
Geno you want to deal with the other questions that John asked on Xeljanz? Yes.
John I think the question -- as Ian had already alluded to we are now expecting our filing to be in the first quarter of this year.
We're actually meeting with [indiscernible] at this point.
We did generate additional data on immune function as a result of the discussions that we had with the regulators in the first submission.
So we feel that we have a strong package that we have responded to the information requests that they had and we're just tidying up the kind of last few details and expect to put that filing in imminently.
And psoriasis and -- so question on psoriasis? In the U.S… So psoriasis -- well as you probably know we have a -- we received a complete response letter from the FDA on psoriasis.
We have provided a backgrounder to the FDA and we expect to meet with them also this quarter to follow-up on the components of the complete response letter and once we know in more detail what their issues and concerns are then we'll determine best way forward from there.
Thank you.
Frank do you want to deal with the… Synergy number? Yes.
Yes.
So we have certainly announced the deal more than $2 billion.
We gave you the timing in terms of when we would get that.
A couple of comments John to your question I think first why more than $2 billion why not a higher number? I think these are two companies that have done a lot on the cost reduction front; significant reductions at both companies I think efficiently run companies.
Two not a lot of therapeutic area overlap which is always seeing a kind of a trigger for synergy opportunities.
Third if you look at the Allergan cost of goods sold two-thirds of that from my perspective from a synergy perspective was unaddressable.
It's their end of business and then royalties.
So really not a lot we could do there but all that said and done we're working now with the Allergan teams with Brent with Bob Steward with Tessa.
Ian and myself our leadership team here at Pfizer we've already launched a couple of operational teams and we're starting to dig into this in much more detail.
If there is more there please know we're going to get it and we'll tell you about it.
So I think on a synergy front just more to come.
Yes.
And you know John the process from this deal was not huge cost synergies it was about driving revenue growth in the innovative business driving reasonably young portfolios taking the products internationally and then getting excellent capital allocation over the world.
So we will get the synergies we can get but our focus is on growth and a lot of the questions on the call have been about growth.
So this is part of the solution to that and also really a good capital allocation.
Thank you for the questions.
Thanks Ian.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Bernstein.
Thank you.
If I could go back to the revenue guidance the midpoint is about $2.5 billion below consensus you flagged FX was a major headwind.
I know that we spend a lot of time trying to incorporate FX and I imagine consensus does too yet that's still a very big delta.
So my question on this is when you look at analyst models are there particular revenue line items for products or divisions where you think consensus is too high unrelated to foreign exchange? Second question you mentioned the 4-1BB with Merck and I'm showing foundation data with Keytruda.
That's Phase I data so as such I'm blinded -- I'm wondering if you can give us a preview of the tumor types here you think are most promising and also any preliminary safety findings? And then last pipeline question last year you mentioned having an oral PCSK9 approaching human development and I'm wondering if that is now in the clinic when I look at your pipeline chart I see a new compound has been advanced on the Phase I? Okay.
Frank if you could deal with the first question and Mikael will have remaining two.
Sure.
So Tim let me run the numbers in then I'll answer the questions.
So your numbers are right.
So consensus numbers give or take on revenue for 2016 about 52.4 billion the midpoint of all guidance $50 billion the net there is roughly 2.5 billion that you alluded to just to kind of nail the numbers.
I think two major pieces in terms of the GAAP; one is clearly the Venezuela adjustment we made in 2016 wouldn't have been at the 52.4.
So that's an $800 million adjustment.
That would take a 52.4 to 51.6 and then I think when you look at the line items I think the big difference [technical difficulty] if you ask me to point out one single place it's Prevnar 13.
Significant results and the growth expectations in Prevnar 13 -- '16 versus our modeling for '16 where I said in my comments and Albert punctuated in some of his detailed remarks about we're expecting that to be essentially comparable to 2015 levels.
Those are the two things that I would point out that will make up the majority big piece of the difference in terms of your 2.5 billion.
Thank you.
Mikael? So thank you for asking about 4-1BB and as you know we believe that the combination therapy moved immuno-oncology feel to the next level.
We are very pleased with the 4-1BB one of tumor antibody that we have.
We have started eating combination with Rituximab in lymphoma and with PD-1 Keytruda in a small study across various tumor types and have also initiated combination study with Avelumab.
The 4-1BB antibody the Pfizer antibody shows very good tolerability when combined with other biological agents and it's clinical performance suggest also very interesting favorable clinical activity on top of other biologicals such as Rituximab and PD-1 Keytruda.
We will share the date from this first cohort this year likely at ASCO.
We are quite excited about 4-1BB and also OX40 that's in our pipeline and you will see 4-1BB Avelumab data likely late this year as well OX40 monodata and early next year several doublets and triplets which makes me very enthusiastic as I look forward how we advanced the strategy of combinations therapy.
We have an oral PCSK9 in Phase I.
It's too early to have any definitive interpretation of that data and we also have a PCSK9 vaccine in late preclinical development.
Thanks Mikael.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Richard Purkiss from Piper Jaffray.
Oh thanks.
I have a couple of questions for Mikael just on Ibrance can you flag any upcoming data for tumor types outside of breast cancer that we should look out for? Also can you update on how well the Adjuvant breast cancer studies are enrolling? Thanks.
Mikae would you like to… Yes.
I could say a few words so as Albert alluded to there is a large number of Ibrance study the great majority by investing in initiative research.
So we will have to see as these studies result report emerging.
I can say that we also have sponsor-led studies outside breasts that includes pancreatic cancer and head and neck and we're also looking at triple therapy in breast cancer.
I remain optimistic and excited about Ibrance performance and think we will see interesting datasets coming from several of these new tumor types.
Enrollment? It's going well? Yes actually I can only add here.
But likely the Mantel cell lymphoma and the neck we may see data even this year.
And then many of the areas that Mikael discussed including small-cell-lung we may see next year.
Okay thanks Albert and Mikael.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Geoff Meacham from Barclays.
Good morning guys.
And thanks for taking my question just a couple of quick ones.
On Bevacizumab given Pfizer's experience in cardiovascular I was just curious what your thoughts on the demand trends were looking peripherally at the PCSK9 class today.
I know a lot looking forward depends on outcomes data but just curious about whether there's a tipping point and the position adoption.
And then just on Biosimilars in the U.S.
just wanted to get you guys to view on where you think the FDA is with respect to extrapolation when we're looking at the upcoming senior panel next week.
Thanks.
Geno any comments on that? Yes I mean I think I would just reinforce the comment that you made.
I mean it's been our contention all along that this class becomes a real class in managing these patients with the cardiovascular outcome data that we'll be seeing either late this year or starting next year.
Our program is advancing nicely.
We have as you know two cardiovascular trials.
And the SPIRE-2 trial which is in the high-risk patient population we've now reached the point where we've discontinued screening.
We're almost completely enrolled.
And that trial is moving along very rapidly.
And the SPIRE-1 trial will be completely enrolled by the end of this year or early next year.
So we're looking forward to these data and the impact that we think they're going to have on the marketplace.
So on the Inflectra AdCom as you know it's scheduled for February 9 next week.
I think it would probably be premature to speculate on the view that the FDA will take.
We certainly think that this will be extremely informative as to the FDA's views and perspectives on extrapolation.
I think obviously their product is being filed by Xeljanz.
So specific questions about the AdCom really should be directed to Xeljanz but I would say is that while we obviously await the resolution of the advisory committee and certain other factors.
We're certainly moving ahead with the preparation for launch plans in 2016.
Thanks Geno and John.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Yes thanks very much.
I have three questions.
First Ian besides the likelihood of closing what do think investors most under-appreciate about the Allergan merger? Second I guess these are two financial questions.
One is with respect to Enbrel ex-U.S.
Could you just give us a sense for the percentage of revenue that is in countries where Biosimilars are launching in 2016 so that we have a sense for the percentage of Enbrel revenue that's exposed to Biosimilar threat? And then finally Frank if you could just run through the cash flow outlook for 2016 the operating cash flow and then the planned use of funds.
Thank you.
David again on your question on Allergan our interactions with the shareholders both sell side and buy side have been very positive.
I don't think in reality there's anything underappreciated other than the Street's perception of risk around the close.
I would direct you back of course to the excitement I have about the products that Allergan have that they just launched about their phase III products both in depression and in diabetic gastroparesis.
And they just got breakthrough status so -- and the combination of our information knowledge and RTAs with Xeljanz around their area.
Our jacks around their expertise net area.
I think perhaps the Street is just -- is right now hung up on this close issue.
So bio John? Yes David on the question regarding percentage of Enbrel business potentially exposed to Biosimilar competition I don't have a figure on the top of my head.
I would say more than 50% of the ex-U.S.
business would be in the European Union where we expect to see biosimilars.
We won't -- we're not expecting to see it in Japan Australia and several of the Latin American countries.
But I would say it's more than 50% of the business.
And then the last question was on '16 operating cash flow.
The way I'll answer this David is if you look at our operating cash flow through three quarters it was about $10 billion.
We expect the fourth quarter to be healthy in terms of the operating cash flow for the year.
And then obviously 2016 we expect -- we want to obviously continue to grow that operating cash flow number.
And then in terms of the uses from my perspective the uses of how we deploy our capital haven't changed obviously investing in our business returning capital to shareholders.
I mentioned in my remarks we returned 13.1 billion to our shareholders in 2015 through a combination of dividends and share buybacks and obviously looking at some bolt-on acquisitions if those make sense.
So -- but no change.
It would be how I'd answer the question on capital allocation.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Gregg Gilbert from Deutsche Bank.
Thanks also a three-parter.
First Frank what level of detail should we expect in the proxy in terms of your long-term projections similar to the Pfizer Wyeth documents or any difference and any caveats you'd like to order to let us know about before folks start slapping accretion percentages on those numbers? Secondly going back to something you said earlier.
Taking your leverage to two-and-a-half to three times for Newco and if you were to apply that capital to buybacks that would create EPS accretion that's far beyond what you've suggested.
So just would like your thoughts on what you'd be doing with that leverage or is that just kind of a hypothetical.
And third for John do you still see the benefit of the Hospira device business alongside the drug business as you originally thought? Thank you.
Okay John could you deal with Hospira first please? Yes sure.
I think we would say that in the Hospira infusion systems business which comprises pumps consumables large volume solutions.
We believe we acquired a very valuable asset.
It provides novel capabilities in an adjacent area.
And that adds significant value to customers and their patients.
And we are committed to ensuring its success in the short medium and longer term.
Okay Frank on the leverage and then the loan level of detail.
Level of detail and the proxy.
Yes.
So I think on level of detail we'll be providing revenue details EPS details.
It would be directed out I believe it's several years five years.
So there'll be information out there relative to projections on the company; on the leverage number the 2.5 to 3 in my mind that's what's possible.
In terms of what we did on buybacks we tried to provide information when we announced the deal to give you all the data you needed.
So that when you connected the dots you could model what at buyback numbers would be right.
So we started out with the accretion dilution.
We said neutral in year one modestly accretive in year one more than 10% in year three and then high teens in year four.
We gave what the beginning share count number of the combined company would be.
It was 10.6 billion shares.
We said we'd have 5.5 billion and Allergan would have 4.7 billion.
And then we gave the tax rate which was 17% to 18%.
So with those data points we felt we provided the information that you needed in order to model what the buybacks would be.
And then just to the two-and-a-half to three now clearly there could be some extra juice if we took the leverage ratio up to that level.
Thanks Frank.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Great thanks just two quick ones here.
First just more broadly on emerging markets can you talk about the growth outlook here maybe beyond China just given the current economic environment we're seeing? Has there been any change in your growth expectations there? And then the second question for Ian.
I know you've obviously had a very large deal pending right now.
But how are you thinking of business development given the recent volatility and kind of valuation reset we see in the market.
I guess what's the size and scope of assets that you could be interested at this point given the upcoming Allergan transaction.
And maybe how quickly post the Allergan transaction could this company start considering larger deals if there was an attractive opportunity in the market.
Thank you.
John you want to talk about China? Yes sure.
So I mean I think as we always say Chris on the emerging markets.
We're always going to see courses and course of volatility.
But at the same time we continue to expect to see growth numbers in the mid-single digit mid to high single-digit range.
Frank's already talked about China.
We continue to be very positive about the prospects in the short medium and longer term in China.
It's obviously not just the world's largest country with 1.3 1.4 billion population but we continue to see a strong government commitment to expanding access to to quality healthcare.
We are very encouraged by steps that we see the government taking in the regulatory environment to really enhance quality standards in the marketplace.
And whilst there are few headwinds GDP growth is slowly but still positive still mid single-digit percentage.
We are seeing some pressure on pricing.
But overall when you put all of those factors together we can continue to see China being a very positive growth driver.
Thank you John.
On BD Chris we see we would be more focused to smaller deals than larger deals right now.
But once we close we'll look at the opportunities.
And we know we still have substantial flexibility and of course it will be measured against the alternative usage of that cash which right now are scheduled for buybacks and the accretion equation.
So we'll make the decisions that we believe are best for shareholders and we will take it into account the -- what the asset priced at the time when we close.
And Chris the only thing I would add is we Pfizer-standalone today generate a lot of operating cash flow.
The combine new company we said by 2018 would be generating in excess of $25 billion a year in operating cash flow.
So new company will generate significant amounts of operating cash flow.
Thank you.
All right.
And can we take our last question please operator? Your final question comes from Manoj Garg from HealthCo.
Hi it's Manoj.
Thanks for taking the question.
A couple on the pending Allergan transaction and one on next Tuesday on Allergan one I guess if maybe just if you can highlight what are some of the levers that would dictate whether the deal would close in early second half of '16 versus later in the second half? Two is for Frank on the $2 billion synergy number if you can just quantify as we fine-tune our pro forma model if that's a gross number or an net number? Okay.
On the lever Doug Lankler would you indicate what you see the levers are for the close? Sure.
So Manoj we're working closely with regulators.
We are pleased with the profits that we are making.
We like the standpoint from the complementary nature of the businesses.
And as a result we continue to expect to close the transaction during the second half.
Thank you.
It's a net number.
Synergy number is a net number? Right.
Yes you asked whether it was gross or net.
And the answer is it's a net number.
Okay.
That should do it.
That should do it.
Thank you very much for your questions.
Thanks for your time everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.