Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group First Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator  Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and additional investment portfolio detail are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following the reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement and Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Norman Sorensen Principal and Financial; and Julia Lawler Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during the conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
I would like to now turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I will briefly discuss first quarter 2011 results.
Second I'll discuss the ongoing implementation of our strategy and the long-term potential of that strategy and I'll close with some comments about our financial position and our outlook for the rest of 2011.
Then Terry will cover the financial results in more detail.
We view our first quarter financial results as very solid.
Total company operating earnings are up on a nominal basis 8% over fourth quarter 2010 and 5% over the year-ago quarter.
On a normalized basis adjusting for the ownership change of our Brazil joint venture and our decision to scale back our Investment Only business our operating earnings were up 18% over the year-ago quarter while average assets under management increased 12%.
We've mentioned in the last 2 earnings calls that we have begun to see increasing signs of growth across our businesses.
That trend picked up further momentum in first quarter and we view our growth metrics as being very positive.
Let me highlight some of those growth metrics.
Full Service Accumulation sales of $2 billion were very solid.
And when combined with the fourth quarter sales of $3 billion our total sales of $5 billion in the past 2 quarters is the highest consecutive quarterly sales total since early 2008.
We had another record quarter for mutual fund sales of nearly $3 billion.
Strong net cash flow with $870 million for Full Service Accumulation $620 million for Principal Funds and $1.3 billion for Principal International.
First quarter mandates awarded to Principal Global Investors were $2.1 billion as compared to $2 billion for all of 2010.
While Principal Global Investors unaffiliated flows were negative due to the loss of a large core fixed income mandate the new mandates bode well for unaffiliated flows in the next few quarters.
Individual Life sales up 35% from a year ago with the business market representing 70% of Life sales compared to 54% in first quarter 2010.
Record sales for our Specialty Benefits businesses this quarter with loss ratio staying well within our targeted range.
First quarter sales are up 56% from the year-ago quarter.
In summary we saw a good growth across our business portfolio driving company assets under management to $327 billion which is a company record.
Assets under management are a good leading indicator for revenue and profitability for the rest of 2011.
While we're pleased by these signs of improving growth we know that the recovery is still fragile.
But we are seeing early signs of employee growth in our employer-sponsored businesses with participation and participants salary deferrals showing small improvements.
We expect the ongoing recovery to be slow but we do believe it is sustainable and is gaining momentum.
Now let me move to some comments on the ongoing implementation of our strategy and its long-term potential.
We know that 30% to 40% of the Retirement business is sold on an unbundled basis involving a third-party administrator platform as compared to a bundled offering.
Several years ago we began initiatives to capture an increasing share of the third-party administrator market as well as continuing our leadership within the bundled portion of the market.
The third-party administrator initiative has begun to gain real traction with record sales this quarter along with strong sales using our Total Retirement Suite platform which remains best-in-class among retirement providers.
Our investment performance remains very competitive with 78% of funds above median for the one-year period.
This performance was recognized by Barron's annual rankings of best fund families by naming Principal Funds as the third best fund family for investment performance across all asset classes for the one-year ranking and the seventh best fund family for the past 10 years.
Our focus on the emerging middle class in key developing economies of the world continues to fuel growth for Principal International.
Two examples of this we saw new sales within our Brasilprev joint venture increase 75% and net cash flows increase by 92% both over first quarter 2010.
In short we believe we have exactly the right strategy involving a hybrid model of asset accumulation asset management and risk businesses positioned in the best markets in the U.S.
and developing countries to drive consistent growth over many years.
This hybrid model will produce increasing amounts of free cash flow that will allow us to continue to build our businesses over time as well as return capital to investors while maintaining a strong financial position.
The highlights of our ongoing strategy implementation in first quarter were the announcements of our acquisition of HSBC's Mexican AFORE pension company and the acquisition of a majority stake in Finisterre Capital an emerging market fixed income specialist in London.
As we have said for several years our priorities for deploying capital are to first add mass or scale to an existing business or second to add new capabilities which we believe will provide substantial growth opportunities in the future.
The HSBC acquisition gives us the scale to be a leader in the Mexico AFORE business.
We will be the #4 in number of customers and #6 in assets under management.
We expect to close the deal in the third quarter and it will be immediately accretive to earnings.
With the acquisition we also gain the exclusive right to distribute AFORE products through the 1 100 HSBC branches for the next 5 years which is the fourth largest bank network in Mexico.
The AFORE business compliments our mutual fund and voluntary pension savings businesses in Mexico adding further growth to our existing businesses.
Finally as the regulators in Mexico begin to allow AFORE assets to be invested outside Mexico it will create an opportunity for Principal Global Investors to provide the needed Global Asset Management expertise.
We expect the same trend to occur in other emerging markets including China Brazil and India which will create increasing synergy between Principal International and Principal Global Investors.
Now a few comments on Finisterre Capital.
They are an emerging market fixed income specialist based in London with a strong track record.
While we already have a substantial position in managing emerging market investments with Principal International and Principal Global Investors managing a combined $67 billion the interest in emerging market securities is enormous.
Finisterre Capital adds to this capability with their unique and proven approach and we expect substantial growth for Finisterre as we help them build through our global distribution platform.
Now let me close with some comments on our financial position and our outlook for 2011.
In terms of financial position our book value per share was at another record level this quarter with book value excluding AOCI increasing to $28.38 up 6% over first quarter and book value including AOCI at $30.02 up 20% over a year ago.
Total common equity stood at $9.6 billion another company record.
In short we are at the strongest financial position in our 132-year history.
As mentioned previously we expect that we will have approximately $700 million in deployable capital in 2011.
With the HSBC and Finisterre acquisitions we still have approximately $400 million of deployable capital for the remainder of 2011 for a combination of acquisition and return of capital to shareholders.
As always we'll be disciplined in our capital deployment staying mindful of accounting or regulatory changes that could impact our capital position.
Looking forward we are pleased with our first quarter results and are excited about the rest of 2011.
Our general account investment portfolio continues to perform well.
Our competitive position remains strong and our employees are excited about our future.
In the past 2 months I've attended sales conferences in the U.S.
Latin America and Asia and I have never seen the enthusiasm as high as it is today.
It is clearer than ever that aging populations global competition among employers to attract and retain top-notch employees and financially constrained governments together drive an unprecedented need for our businesses.
We're in the right businesses in the right markets with employees that have proven their ability to deliver.
Before I turn the call over to Terry let me comment briefly on our new branding and educational effort called Dream Again with the Principal.
Our educational effort provides the tools advisors need to help employers and individuals consider their dreams and rebuild their financial futures.
The early indicators say this message continues the positive response to our integrated America Rebuilds campaign as people move on from the financial crisis.
In fact the Principal was recently named Investment Brand of The Year in the 2011 Harris Poll EquiTrend study.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
We start out 2011 where we left off 2010 with strong diversified earnings good sales momentum across the board and flexible capital position.
First quarter results reflect the continued momentum that started to build in the second half of 2010.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter net income including the continued solid performance of our investment portfolio and the strength and flexibility of our capital position and continued implementation of our capital management strategy.
Starting with total company results.
Once again we ended the quarter with record assets under management now at $327 billion.
Total company earnings of $232 million are up 5% from a year ago quarter on 12% higher average assets under management.
There are 3 main items influencing comparability between the first quarter 2011 and first quarter 2010: the reduced economic interest in our Brasilprev joint venture that began on June 1 2010; the fees due to the opportunistic early retirement of Investment Only liabilities and associated recovery of the receivable in the year-ago quarter; and variances between the periods for the recognition of deferred acquisition cost amortization expense and dividends received deduction.
Adjusting for these items first quarter 2011 earnings were up 18% on a 12% increase in average assets under management compared to first quarter 2010 a very solid result reflecting strong operational leverage.
Let me quickly identify the items impacting first quarter 2011 reported earnings per share of $0.71.
A prior year dividend received deduction accrual true-up and stronger than expected DAC amortization true-up negatively impacted Full Service Accumulation by $0.02.
Stronger than expected net investment income benefited Individual Annuities by $0.01 amortization expense true-up for rising interest rates in Mexico negatively impacted Principal International by $0.01 and favorable mortality experience benefited Individual Life by $0.01.
On an adjusted basis we consider the EPS run rate for this quarter to be $0.72.
This continues the steady trend of normalized EPS improvement.
Now let me discuss the business unit results.
Retirement and Investor Services earnings of $159 million in the first quarter are the segment's third highest quarterly earnings.
The segment had record account values of $185 billion at quarter end.
Full Service Accumulation operating earnings at $76 million were flat with the year-ago quarter on a 13% increase in average account values.
As I mentioned the current quarter was negatively impacted by a lower dividend received deduction accrual true-up than in the year-ago quarter and higher DAC amortization from experience true-ups.
Adjusting for these items operating earnings are in line with the 13% growth in average account values.
Full Service Accumulation sales in the first quarter were very strong at $2 billion up 16% over first quarter 2010 as we continue to see an increase in proposal activity and improvement in our close ratios.
Contract withdrawals moderated from fourth quarter 2010 as we expected.
Combined these items drove net cash flows of $870 million contributing to record account values of $113 billion at quarter end.
In addition our pipeline continues to build giving us momentum for strong full year sales which we expect to be 15% to 20% higher than full year 2010.
Principal Funds continues to deliver a series of excellent quarters.
Operating earnings at $12 million in the first quarter were up 18% over a year ago quarter on a 19% increase in average account values.
Principal funds delivered record sales of nearly $3 billion in first quarter and strong net cash flows of $620 million the second highest quarterly net cash flow.
During the past 3 quarters combined Principal Funds has achieved nearly $2 billion in positive net cash flows.
We continue to benefit from the strength of our multi-channel distribution model with strong growth across our national proprietary and defined contribution Investment Only channels.
Continued strong investment performance also contributed to the results.
As of quarter end 87% of our asset allocation funds were in the top half on a one-year basis 78% on a 3-year basis and 69% on a 5-year basis.
Individual Annuities achieved record operating earnings this quarter of $37 million driven by strong net investment income and record account values of $19 billion.
The stronger-than-expected net investment income for the current quarter benefited from prepayments and gains on sales of assets.
Bank and trust services had operating earnings of $9 million and net income of $7 million for the quarter.
On a near term go-forward basis we expect bank and trust services to deliver quarterly net income of $2 million to $4 million which is better than previous estimates due to the improving fundamentals and continued paydown and overall improvement in the home equity portfolio.
Earnings from Principal Global Investors at $17 million improved 38% from a year-ago quarter on a 6% improvement in average assets under management.
This reflects the improving fees for an actively managed funds increased real estate mandates and strong operating leverage.
Of the $3 billion net outflows of unaffiliated assets under management at Principal Global Investors this quarter $2.1 billion was due to the state of Florida rotating from a core-plus fixed income mandate to an internally managed passive account.
This asset allocation decision was part of the reallocation of billions of dollars away from multiple core-plus managers.
The state of Florida remains a client of Principal Global Investors and other asset categories.
We are optimistic about revenue growth and net cash flows in Principal Global Investors for the remainder of the year.
Mandates awarded in the first quarter 2011 were greater than full year 2010 and we see an increase in searches and specialized investment strategies where we have expertise such as real estate currency high yield and international equities.
As Larry mentioned we're excited about the growth potential that our acquisition of a majority stake in Finisterre Capital brings us.
Assuming a third quarter close we expect the transaction to be EPS neutral in 2011 and accretive in 2012.
Combining our global distribution platform with the expertise of Finisterre Capital and capitalizing on anticipated synergies we expect Finisterre's assets under management to grow 3 to 5x over the next 5 years.
This level of growth is consistent with that achieved following our acquisition of other boutique managers such as Columbus Circle Investors and Spectrum Asset Management.
Moving to Principal International.
Operating earnings at $29 million were down 25% from first quarter 2010.
Adjusting for the lower economic interest in our Brazilian joint venture Brasilprev and an amortization true-up in Mexico earnings were up 20% over the prior year quarter.
Our run rate for the current period earnings is $32 million to $33 million.
Principal International finished the quarter with record assets under management of $49 billion driven by strong net cash flows of $1.3 billion.
Given the rapidly growing middle-class populations we're excited about the organic growth opportunities for defined contribution pensions and mutual funds in the emerging markets where we already have a presence.
The acquisition of the HSBC AFORE in Mexico is a perfect example.
This is the fourth AFORE transaction.
We have proven success in efficiently merging these acquisitions and quickly gaining synergies.
We've seen a compounded annual growth rate in assets under management of 33% from the 3 previous acquisitions.
We expect the transaction to be immediately accretive as we add HSBC's assets under management to our existing infrastructure.
Assuming this transaction closes in early third quarter of this year we expect an increase of earnings per share of $0.02 to $0.03 in the second half of 2011 and $0.06 to $0.08 in 2012.
This deal is projected to have an ROA of between 70 to 80 basis points which is consistent with our existing Mexican AFORE business.
U.S.
Insurance solutions operating earnings of $60 million is an increase of 35% compared to first quarter 2010 driven by favorable claims experience and increasing momentum in the underlying businesses.
Individual Life had operating earnings of $37 million up 20% over the prior year quarter due to improved mortality experience.
The business market accounted for 70% of the total sales in the first quarter 2011 highlighting our success in serving the needs of business owners and key executives.
Reflecting growth in the business the run rate for Individual Life operating earnings is in the range of $31 million to $33 million per quarter.
Turning to Specialty Benefits.
Operating earnings of $23 million were up 69% over the year-ago quarter driven by investment performance and an improved loss ratio that remains comfortably within our targeted range.
The decline in the sequential earnings is due to a normal seasonality in dental claims.
Specialty benefits had record sales of $113 million this quarter up 56% over a challenging first quarter 2010.
Metrics such as premium in-force lives and existing case membership continues to build momentum.
Shifting to total company net income we delivered $196 million this quarter up 3% over first quarter 2010.
After-tax net realized capital losses of $53 million are lower than a year-ago quarter.
We continue to see improvement in corporate credit-related and commercial mortgage whole loan losses.
CMBS losses also improved and continue to be manageable.
Our investment portfolio performance continues to reflect the benefit of broad asset diversification.
The strength of our balance sheet reflects the ongoing improvement in the credit markets as the U.S.
economy rebuilds.
At $1.2 billion in net unrealized capital gains we were up $300 million from fourth quarter 2010.
During the quarter we had a $700 million gain due to tightening of credit spreads offset by a $400 million loss from the impact of rising interest rates.
Let me remind you that because of our strong asset liability management changes in net unrealized gain or loss due to interest rate movement did not result in an economic impact.
Moving to capital adequacy as of quarter end we estimate our risk-based capital ratio to be 425%.
This improvement from year-end 2010 reflects current period statutory net income and a $200 million distribution from the life company to the holding company in the first quarter.
Relative to a 350% RBC ratio we have approximately $1.9 billion of total excess capital.
$1.1 billion of excess capital is at the holding company with $280 million committed to our recent acquisitions that we expect to fund in the third quarter.
In addition to our capital cushion we still have more than $400 million left to deploy in 2011 for appropriate acquisitions and return of capital to shareholders.
As we continue to shift to a more fee-based business model less capital is needed to support organic growth which results in an enhanced stability to generate free cash flow.
This furthers our ability to increase shareholder value over time through strategic capital redeployment.
The strength of our balance sheet gives us good financial flexibility and we look for opportunities to grow the enterprise in 2011 and beyond.
Again we're very pleased with the financial results of our businesses this quarter.
Momentum continues to build as does our long-term growth potential.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Market.
So on FSA.
Appreciate the sales guidance there but if transfer deposits I guess were lower than our expectations just from a timing perspective and for modeling purposes I want to get a sense of kind of how those sales work their way in.
I guess last year the first quarter was good and then it kind of dipped down and ended the year strong.
Should we kind of expect a similar pattern this year? Randy this is Larry.
I think just to reiterate sort of the longer-term sort of guidance we've given around that I think we've generally talked in terms of sales about 65% of that turns into transfer deposits within that particular quarter.
And then it sort of rolls out roughly 20 10 and 5.
I don't think that there's anything necessarily that has changed that.
I would say that the fourth quarter sales -- the first quarter sales didn't quite turn into deposits of that same 65% rate but these are all within the normal variations.
Let me see if Dan's got any more he wants to add on that.
No.
The only other thing I would call out is we did have a large case over $100 million in the fourth quarter of '10 and a $1.5 billion total.
Whereas in the first quarter of '11 it was $285 million.
So what we're seeing in the first quarter is a significant increase in the number of cases partially due to our third-party administration rollout and fewer larger cases.
And again as Larry said one of the larger cases deposit will actually come in the first part of the second quarter as opposed to funding in the first quarter.
Hopefully that helps.
No it does.
Absolutely.
Just one other question I'll go on the queue.
On the DRD can we go through specifically what affected that true-up and if that could possibly be recurring? Well yes the DRD true-up again is more a comparison Randy of what the true-up was this year as compared to what it was a year ago.
So this year was a little bit unusual in that the DRD true-up has historically been a small positive so it's typically been in the range.
Last year it was about $4 million positive $4.5 million positive.
This year was a little bit unusual in the sense that it was actually slightly negative about $1.5 million negative.
So that swing is a little over $6 million $6.5 million.
So that's the item that you kind of need to take into account when you're thinking about what the true return is within the Full Service Accumulation.
I guess why was it negative is the question.
Well it's just a matter of estimating it.
So you estimated in one quarter and so again whether you're estimating what dividend flows are going to be coming out of the portfolio as we hold within our -- generally speaking within our group annuity contracts.
So it's just an estimation issue.
But Terry do you want to add anymore to that? No.
No you're absolutely right Larry.
At each quarter we're required to look at our estimate of our effective tax rate for the entire year and have to adjust accordingly.
And so you have to make an estimate of the dividends that you'll receive as Larry mentioned in the first quarter and then throughout the year you true that up as you go along.
However once you get into the first quarter of each year you have to true-up for the prior year and that's where the estimate comes into play.
The next question will come from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
I had a couple of questions.
The first one is just on your FSA plans.
They've been going down steadily over the last several quarters.
I think you're down about 7% from last year.
So what's causing that and what your outlook is? And then second and maybe for Jim in the PGI business obviously your performance has been good and you cited that on the call but you haven't had the positive quarter in terms of flows I think since the first quarter of '09.
So what your outlook is for flows what do you think is holding you guys back and do you expect to turn positive flows at some point in the next few quarters? Thanks.
Okay let me just make a couple of high-level comments on both of those.
Again I think the plan counts while it is still a negative story that is primarily due to the economic environment involving a combination of fewer start-up plans as well as a few more plan terminations and I'll turn it to Dan in a second to talk about sort of the outlook.
And then as it relates to PGI I'll have -- again I'll have Jim comment when Dan gets done.
But again the real story there is that the momentum at least in terms of mandates is now beginning to pick up and we saw good activity in Q1.
So we're optimistic.
But again I'll have Jim comment after Dan talks about the plan count.
Thanks Larry.
So we actually did see in that group from 100 to 500 they go up 1%.
1 000 or plus actually went up 5% and we're a little bit down in that 500 to a 1 000 range.
And as Larry pointed out there's fewer start-ups which is the largest contributor in the under-100 life market.
As we said in the earlier comments on the script if we look at just case counts it's up 29% through our TPA model.
We hit $384 million in sales in the first quarter.
You can roll back a few years ago and that would have been an annual sort of number.
So again 23% improvement in case count sales from the first quarter of '11 from the fourth quarter of '10.
If we look at first quarter of '11 versus the first quarter of '10 it's up actually 29% from 640 plans day 28.
So the momentum is coming back in terms of the small group marketplace where we're focusing our sales force in addition to the TPA strategy.
And I would just make one closing comment we're one of the very few TPA solutions out there that actually is inclusive of our TRS model.
So they can use DB DC nonqualified deferred comp and ESOP along with a third-party administrator which is unique in the marketplace.
Larry I'll turn it back to you.
Okay.
Jim you want to comment on PGI flows going forward? Yes.
Thanks for the questions Jimmy.
I think the point to make really here is that this quarter the loss of the large mandate for Florida $2 billion that is a large core very low fee mandate.
10 or 11 basis point is typical for that sort of mandate.
And you'll recall that we lost one of these large loan low fee mandate last quarter as well.
I think it's symptomatic of the fact that institutional buying behavior is somewhat changing and we're seeing a lot of institutions move to passive and in some cases liability-driven investing for their large core mandates.
That is obviously negative for our flows.
However at the same time they are committing to high added value satellite mandates in a number of areas.
You've seen more of a bifurcation of buying behavior.
And we are seeing a lot of interest because of our multi-boutique structure in these high added value mandates.
This would include high yields and other niche-fixed income; international including emerging equities as Terry mentioned; real estate.
So we're extremely well-placed to supply in these higher added value at smaller mandates.
And do bear in mind that the mandate we lost this time would have been a very low fee.
This satellite mandates are more like 50 60 70 basis points.
Or in some unusual cases with performance fees they can be 1 and 20 or even 2 and 20.
So I think what I would sum it up by saying is I have become more optimistic if anything about revenues even as the asset potential looks less than I thought it was maybe 6 months ago when we talked at Investor Day.
So I think this changed buying behavior is -- is actually we'll have to see how it goes.
But it does make me quite confident about the revenue outlook.
Larry and Terry both alluded to the fact that our sales activity our awarded mandates has picked up very strongly in the first quarter.
It's been a long time coming.
It's kind of odd that the very sophisticated institutions seem to have taken longer to get their confidence back in a way than many of the defined contribution investors.
But I can tell you it is happening.
Our pipeline is looking very buoyant right now.
I hope that helps.
Okay sure.
And then Dan another one just on FSA.
If you look at the past couple of years the first quarter your flows have been higher than the full year numbers.
So could you talk a little bit about the quarterly better than you expect should we expect the same this year and that the first quarter will be higher than the year? Or should you -- are you expecting more of an improvement in the second half? Yes.
Well yes I think we're actually off to a good start.
And as we said in the script we would anticipate sales being up about 15% to 20% over last year's sales and note 2010 sales were 32% higher than the 2009 sales.
In terms of the pattern that we cited to the earlier question some of the first quarter actual receipt of the cash is spilling over into the second quarter.
We won't get into the gory details on a couple of cases with that that transpired but I would anticipate actually fairly up into the right sort of movement for the balance of 2010 transfer deposits.
I'll give you just 2 quick factoids that might be helpful relative to recurring deposits.
In the first quarter Jimmy we saw participant deferrals actually increase about 6% in first quarter over first quarter a year ago.
And I think one thing that I think shows how profits are coming back is we saw employer matches were 32% higher in first quarter '11 over first quarter '10.
So I think It gives us a bit more confidence around the recurring deposits stream.
And we you then add to that the transfer deposits Dan talked about I'd hope we'd end up with net cash flow for '11 back closer to what it was for 2009.
The next question will come from Colin Devine with Citi.
A couple of questions.
First Larry why don't we just pick up on your comments here about deferrals and employer matches.
And perhaps you can put some numbers behind that because if I'm looking at recurring deposits year-over-year they were flat.
And I think we'd all appreciate understanding a little bit more what's going on underneath that.
Second with respect to capital management I appreciate you did the deals but you certainly I think given the very strong indication you'd be in the market buying in shares sooner than later and nothing happened this quarter.
And sort of what's going on there? Clearly some in the quarter given the market reaction to your stock this morning something seems to be a bit of a disconnect with what you've been saying and how the markets read again.
Okay well let me -- I'll comment on both of those and Dan may want to comment on the recurring deposits as well.
Again when you look out comparison to a year ago as Dan said there was some -- a little bit of noise in what was recurring deposits a year ago because we have some ESOP plans who will occasionally do some pre-funding and we had a little bit of that going on in first quarter '10.
That's actually a positive sign relative to the economy picking up in 2010.
But it makes the comparison in 2011 recurring deposits a little more challenging.
As I said we are seeing deferrals up.
We're seeing matches up.
So again we're optimistic about that going forward.
In terms of capital management Colin certainly again we have been clear that we believe we'll have approximately $700 million to deploy in capital during the entire year of 2011.
I think it's always been true that it never -- we'd expect that to be a mix.
We expect that to be a mix of acquisitions as well as some sort of return of capital to shareholders.
And we knew a quarter ago of course we knew that we were highly likely to be closing the acquisitions that we announced.
So it would be reasonable that we couldn't be in the market doing any sort of share repurchase if we knew we were on the verge of closing a couple of acquisitions.
Now as we go forward again we continue to look for appropriate acquisitions and we'll always do that.
But we also recognize it's unlikely that there's probably that level of acquisition out there.
But we also need to be cognizant about some of the carrying and regulatory changes.
But I do expect over time we will have enough capital to distribute both in the form of acquisitions as well as return of capital to shareholders.
And I expect that to happen during 2011.
Okay just -- again it would be helpful to get some actual numbers behind what deferrals and company matches are.
But also tied to that you've put out what I thought was certainly a fairly aggressive goal this year for FSA net flows of up to 3% to 5%.
Are you reaffirming that this morning or how do we look here today? Again just to be clear as far as deferrals the deferrals right now are running at about an annualized rate of about 7.4% of salary.
So that's up a little bit over what it has been the last couple of years.
So again I think that's an optimistic sign.
I'd say in terms of net cash flow as I said it's awfully hard to predict it off of one quarter.
But if you look at flows in 2008 they were about 5% of beginning balance.
If you look at flows in 2009 they were about 2.5% of beginning balance.
If you look at flows in 2010 they were basically flat.
And I would expect that what we'd end up with for 2011 would be something that looks like 2009.
So it would be more in that 2% to 3% of beginning of period account value.
The next question will come from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.</strong> A couple of follow-ups.
Jim could you -- going back to the passive investment that moved or the core that moved to passive of last quarter the core that move to passive it this quarter how should we think about -- what kind of exposure you have there? How much in assets could you see that possibly occurring to? Sorry I'll take that straightaway if that's all right Larry? Yes go ahead.
It's difficult to say because what has happened with the Florida mandate is it's a move from active core to passive by the client.
So it's very hard to know how much of our active core is liable to move in that direction.
Having said that with the investment performance we've talked about we are certainly not the first target when most of those clients increase their passive element.
They will tend to part with the weakest performing core mandates.
And so I think that there are a lot of other asset managers and you're seeing some with very large institutional outflows I don't know how they're explaining it but I think what's happening to them in industry terms is that the weaker core mandates are being transferred rather more aggressively to passive.
So our exposure I think should be modest.
By this stage in the quarter we would probably know if we're going to lose another big one this quarter.
As of now I'm not aware of one.
So I think that the sort of phenomenon with one large mandate that happened last quarter is pretty unlikely this quarter.
But you know anybody who's got a lot of core mandates when there is a cyclical moved towards passive has a certain degree of vulnerability.
I just think where we are in the lead tables insulates us somewhat.
But the more important thing that gets us really going is these smaller satellite mandates where the opportunities are increasing.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you.
That's good info.
And then Terry if I may just kind of a geography question if you will.
Looking at the -- it sounded like you're suggesting $2 million to  $4 million quarterly run rate for bank and trust.
For modeling purposes how would we get there from the close to $9 million that you put up in the -- I'm sorry I'm looking at operating earnings forget that question.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks guys.
The next question will come from Mark Finkelstein with Macquarie.
I just wanted to get through -- Larry I think you touched in your earlier comments you talked about 30% 40% of industry-wide total business being sold on kind of an unbundled platform if you will and that you're kind of moving more into that area through your TPA platform at least trying to access that.
I guess I'd be curious about what percent of your sales are actually unbundled or on a TPA platform or however you want to characterize it? And how does that number compare to say a year ago? I think we'll just let Dan go ahead and cover that.
Dan? Yes if you look at total sales for FSA of say $6.6 billion a year ago total TPA sales would have been kind of closer to that $600 million to $700 million range.
Right now you'd think about increasing sales by 15% to 20%.
My expectation is the TPA will make up a lot of ground on that and it wouldn't surprise me to start seeing that number start getting up to say 15% 16% 17% of total sales coming through third-party administrator.
And again I would emphasize that to make sure you're not comparing samples in arduous because a lot of these opportunities on our full service platform tend to be more TRS in nature.
And although we provide TRS solutions to the TPA marketplace a lot of those would be stand-alone 401(k) sorts of mandates so it's not directly comparable.
Does that help Mark? It does.
I mean I guess how should we think about the differences in terms of margins.
If more of this business is being sold on kind of a TPA platform how should we think about in terms of a 30 to 32 basis point margin target? We think they're very comparable between full service and TPA.
Remember this is a smaller block of business.
We're making investments in distribution.
We're making investments in some of these TPAs.
We're doing some programming that enhances our technology to support them.
So we've got some higher cost deploying the TPA strategy over the next few years.
But I would say as we target long-term 30 to 32 basis points after-tax ROAs we would anticipate both the TPA and the full service to be in the same zip code.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up on PGI.
I mean if you look at PGI margins call it revenue margins they've trended up nicely over -- as the markets have improved.
This quarter they actually went down a little bit.
And I'm just curious if there's anything specific that occurred in this quarter or why didn't we see some operating leverage in that business? The point about this quarter is the first quarter has a lot less incentive fees than the fourth quarter.
And to be precise on incentive fees it has about $8 million in gross in the fourth quarter of last year and under $1 million this year.
These incentive fees tend to be back-end loaded in the calendar year.
So if you look back at the quarterly pattern you'll see in the last 3 or 4 years that the fourth quarters tended to be the strongest earnings one for PGI.
That's really all that's going on.
If you look at it on an annual basis our margins obviously took a bit of a dropping in the financial crisis.
In the worst year they were down to sort of 14% or 15%.
We are rebuilding towards -- our belief in the next 2 or 3 years is we can get the pretax margins up to 30% or a bit more.
We won't be there in 2011.
But with increasing scale and with therefore increasing operating leverage we think that's where the margin should go over the next 2 or 3 years.
The next question will come from Ed Spehar with Bank of America.
I want to follow-up on the margin question in TPA.
I guess one of the arguments for TRS has been that the number of competitors you go up against with the bundled solution is a handful versus I think you said in the past I don't know 10 20 players you might go up against when it's a stand-alone 401(k) plan.
I guess it doesn't seem to me that you could have as much confidence that the margins would be the same considering that the number of competitors you're up against is multiples of what it is in TRS.
So could you expand upon that a little bit? Yes this is Larry and I'll have Dan comment.
I would -- I wanted to quickly follow-up on your comment about TRS metrics because I think we have commented from time to time in the past as we've launched TRS that we had a belief that because of the multi-product relationship that we have on TRS where it's defined benefit defined contribution nonqualified and ESOP or some combination of those 4 we felt like over time that was definitely going to create a stickier relationship.
We know that our close rates are about twice as high when we're quoting a TRS set of planned solutions rather than stand-alone 401(k).
But obviously it was going to take some time before we could begin to measure the stickiness of those relationships.
And I would say that we've now begun to do that.
It's becoming more credible certainly as we've had now TRS for 4 or 5 years.
And in rough terms what we had expected to see is exactly what we are seeing.
We're seeing about a 20% improvement in lapse rates on our TRS block than we are on our if you will our regular block or a non-TRS block or our stand-alone 401(k) block.
So I just wanted to comment on that because you had mentioned it and I think we're seeing some good things develop.
And I think it certainly is worthy of mention as again we think about that 30 to 32 basis point ROA margin.
So I'll let Dan talk about TPA.
Yes.
So just a couple of quick comments Ed about our TPA differentiators relative to maybe the other similar competitors in the space.
The reality is we do have TRS available which resonates in the sales process to talk about that.
Even if it's a stand-alone today it has the ability to be upgraded at some later date.
Our technology is very refined very custom.
As you know we have a proprietary platform.
We rolled out a very comprehensive automated Form 5500 solution not only to our full service platform but also to our TPA so they've got that upgrade.
Again I won't go into gory details today but it suffices to say it's a very robust tool.
We still make retire secure available through our local sales and service offices which as you know is the workplace enrollment and cross-sell initiative to drive assets to the platforms so retire secure is available for TPA.
Local service is available if they choose to have it which again is a differentiator relative to the competition.
And then lastly I would tell you that our investment lineup resonates to strong proprietary competitively priced investment lineup.
You heard in the script some favorable comments about our Barron's ranking.
So I wouldn't let it just always get boiled down to price when you're talking about TPA.
And again our sales people and service people are very astute in recognizing what it is that the advisor wants to compete in a marketplace.
Hopefully that helps.
It does Dan but I guess still going back to I think a core message from you guys has been that the TRS model dramatically reduces the number of competitors you're going up against.
So I appreciate that you have selling points beyond price.
But I think from the outside looking in it's a little hard for us to sort of agree that the ability to get the same margins in TPA is evident.
And maybe what we're missing and maybe you can help us with this is do you see a higher percentage of the deposits from TPA going into PGI funds versus under TRS? Well I think -- this is Larry Ed.
I mean I think you are now on what is really going to be among other things first of all I think there's going to be 2 things that are going to ultimately tell the tale relative to the margins in a third-party administrator-type situation.
One is will TRS add value to the point that we're going to see the same improvements in lapse rates that we're seeing on our full service block? And of course again we don't know enough yet.
It will be a couple of years before we know that.
But the second one is exactly what your question is talking about which is can we still drive that 65% to 70% of TPA assets into a proprietary platform? So I think that's what's going to be -- at the end of the day is going to be a significant relative to getting that same margin.
I don't know yet if we have enough experience.
We don't.
But generally again those TPA plans tend to be smaller plans.
It's generally fewer than a couple of hundred employees.
The local advisor has a lot of control working with the plan sponsor.
Generally they like the idea that the TPA is locally -- is local.
There's strong working relationships there.
We enjoy very strong relationships with advisors.
And again on smaller plans is where we tend to see higher percentage of the dollars in total go to proprietary investment options.
But that's worthy of noting Ed.
We'll make sure we'll be able to address this in more detail on future calls as we get a larger block of TPA business.
You said 65% to 70% would be kind of what you would hope for and how does that compare versus TRS? That is what TRS is Ed.
So TRS is in that entire bundled block is in that 65% to 75% of account values being proprietary.
The next question will come from Suneet Kamath with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick follow-up to Ed's line of questioning on the 65% to 70%.
I know that you're still sort of trying to figure out how this is going to play out over time but how much of a swing factor is that in the 30 to 32 basis points? In other words if you got maybe half of the 65% to 70% with the TPA how much would that change that margin that you kind of guided us to? This is Larry Suneet.
It would not -- in sort of the next year or so it's unlikely that it would have any significance on our ability to achieve a 30 to 32.
I would answer your question this way however.
If we ended up let's say 2 years from now we ended up with the proprietary assets within our TPA block in our third-party administrator block being in let's just hypothetically say 35% to 40% of account value we have to rethink the entire kind of TPA strategy.
I would again say if you look at our investment performance where 78% of our entire platform is above median and 87% of our asset allocation funds are above median that gives us a strong opportunity to drive those proprietary assets.
So it is sort of a foundational part of our TPA strategy that we're going to be driving assets at that same level or we're -- then we're not interested in investing in growing that part of the business.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I guess a couple of questions for Terry if I could on capital.
First in terms of the $700 million of capital that you're looking to redeploy this year does that include expected 2011 operating earnings generation? Suneet this is Terry.
No we said at the beginning of the year and actually at Investor Day that we felt we had $700 million of deployable capital in 2011 of which we've already deployed about $280 million of that.
Earnings will be generated throughout the year on top of that and we'll be able to look at that in future years.
Inc.</strong> But I guess as we get towards the end of the year and we think about your I think you'd pay your dividend in the fourth quarter you're talking about around $400 million of additional capital redeploy.
I think the dividend is somewhere in the neighborhood of $200 million which would suggest $200 million of available capital for buybacks and other things.
As we get towards the end of the year if that doesn't include the earnings generation that you're doing this year why couldn't that number be higher than $400 million? Well the $200 million that you've mentioned the hypothetical number for the common stock would be part of the earnings that were generated throughout the year.
You asked about the $700 million that we said at the beginning of the year and we felt that we have that at the end of 2010 and we felt we would deploy it in 2011.
We will continue to generate additional amounts of capital throughout the year and we'll look for other ways of deploying that in future years as well.
But we put the $700 million as an appropriate metric for 2011.
And Suneet this is Larry.
Just to be -- to try to add a little bit of clarity around this.
The whole -- as I commented or as I mentioned in my comments at the opening of the call I mean there still remains a lot of uncertainties in the environment relative to capital standards and accounting changes and other issues that are going to continue to play out from Dodd-Frank relative to things like systemically significant.
So we have purposely tried to be I would say reasonable but if you will slightly conservative in our $700 million.
So again I think that's really what Terry is trying to say.
And those uncertainties relative to changing capital standards or accounting changes I'd say those uncertainties while we would have hoped they would begin to be clarified over time I'd say they would still remain uncertainties.
I think as you know as well as anybody a lot of the implementation around Dodd-Frank is dragging.
I think it's going to continue to drag.
So we're not going to have as much clarity around that as soon in 2011 as we would frankly had anticipated at Investor Day.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
If I could just throw in one quick follow-up just on the capital.
Some of your competitors have sort of been pretty vocal about perhaps prioritizing common stock dividend increases going forward more so than share repurchases at least relative to what we've seen in pre-crisis years.
Can you just maybe give us your thoughts on how you think about those 2 levers? Thanks.
Yes absolutely.
Again as I said -- Suneet this is Larry.
So as I've said over time and time would be let's just for the sake of discussion say 4 to 6 quarters I would expect that our capital deployment would include all 3 levers of organic growth which of course is always there acquisitions as well as return of capital to shareholders.
So when you look at it over a 4 to 6 quarter period you would see reasonable proportions going into all 3 tranches.
We knew a quarter ago.
We knew a quarter ago when we had the earnings call that we were very very close on some possible acquisitions that we're strategically very important to us.
And the good news is is that we were able to do those deals.
So consequently in terms of the prioritization that takes priority.
Now as we sit here today of course it doesn't mean that environment is isn't still allowing us to do our acquisitions.
It is but obviously we've now closed those.
So now it's more likely that again it would be a blend of something involving acquisition or some sort of return to shareholders.
So again it's going to be a blend over time.
Its front loaded toward the acquisition and we'll see how the rest of the year plays out.
The next question will come from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Just a couple of quick ones to round it out for me anyway.
Just in follow-up to Suneet just to clarify when we think about the $700 million of deployable capital for this year is that including the expected common dividends? Yes this is Larry John.
What I would say is that the $700 million wouldn't necessarily be taking account of what we might expect to pay as the common dividend.
As Terry said we have the earnings during the year to sort of help guide us as to where we are with our capital position towards the end of the year so we didn't necessarily budget.
Within the $700 million we didn't necessarily budget an amount for any common stock dividend inside of that.
Understood.
I'm glad to hear that.
It was my expectation that that was over and above the dividend.
And I think many on the street expected the same.
So thanks for that.
And then just a quick question on the Florida mandate that was lost and maybe some similar things that we've been hearing.
I'm curious and maybe a bit naive here but losing -- why would like a state of Florida choose to leave a mandate that has cost only 10 to 11 basis points.
How much are they actually saving switching to a more "passive" strategy.
Is there truly a cost savings involved there? That's a great question.
Jim do you want to help him out? Yes sure.
In the large passive mandates like that in either equities or bonds will typically have fees of 2 or 3 basis points.
So those are -- I mean it's a total scale business.
You have to run a trillion dollars to have a real business there and there's only 2 or 3 players.
I do believe though also in the case of some of the big state funds there have been hedge [ph] teams running in.
They would believe that their operating cost are down in the 2 or 3 basis points range.
I might wonder whether their belief is reality.
Okay and then just a question.
I think Steven started going here and stopped that.
But bank and trust I think I heard the same thing from you Terry $2 million to $4 million as a quarterly run rate.
Was that -- Did I hear that correctly? And what's the driver there and when do we expect that? Yes John.
This is Terry.
Yes you're absolutely right.
We think that operating earnings as Steven asked about was in the $9 million range.
The net income was around $7 million this quarter because of an improvement that we're seeing.
But we think that net income number on a quarterly basis would be more in that $2 million to $4 million range.
Earlier this year we talked about it breaking even because of the HELOC portfolio but we've seen a lot of improvement in that portfolio as it winds down.
So we think that the net income for bank and trust services over the next few quarters will be in that $2 million to $4 million range rather than break even.
Okay.
So that's not an operating earnings comment.
Okay.
And then just the last one for me really quick is just thinking about seasonality for FSA I know so much in the world has changed relative to the way things used to look pre the financial crisis but historically if we looked at your first quarter for your FSA business the seasonally strongest sales quarter seasonally strongest flow quarter.
Flows I think as I looked back pre-crisis were in the first quarter roughly 2x or maybe little bit more than that the full year flows.
I mean should we expect that historical relationship or historical seasonality to persist from here? Is there some reason why it wouldn't? I'll let Dan comment there.
Sure.
I think again as I cited earlier John that we're going to see some of the first quarter sales actually have rolled into second quarter sales.
So again I think it's going to be a little lighter at $2 billion than we historically would have seen.
And then again our view is today it goes up into the right from here.
But as long as we're on that topic something worth at least mentioning in the call today if you go back and look at just FSA sales on a trailing 12-month basis through the month of January through 2011 that number is $6.91 billion.
If you look at that same trailing month period of time through 1/31/10 that number was just short of $4 billion.
We've seen a $3 billion increase on a trailing 12-month basis through those 2 January periods which is a 76% increase during that time.
So I don't think there's any question that the momentum continues.
And again with the increase in pipeline of roughly 30% and we're seeing improvement in close ratios and we did come out with a relatively strong very strong Q4 of 2010 and a decent first quarter of 2011 we think the momentum is definitely in our favor at this point as it relates to FSA.
And frankly we're very excited about the latter half of 2011.
Okay.
And just a point of clarification the 30% growth in the pipeline that's year-over-year right? It is.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A session.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
Well I want to say thanks to everybody for joining us.
We appreciate your continuing interest.
As I mentioned in my opening comments we really believe our businesses continue to gain momentum as the recovery continues and we're very focused on continuing our strategy.
We think we have the right strategy and the right team to grow our business over time.
We look forward to seeing many of you in our visits over the next quarter.
Everybody have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 p.m.
Eastern Time until end of day May 10 2011.
54521548 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (800) 642-1687 for U.S.
and Canadian callers or (706) 645-9291 for international callers.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
There will be a question-and-answer period after speakers have completed their prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and additional investment portfolio detail are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following the reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement and Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Norman Sorensen Principal International; and Julia Lawler Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
I would now like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I'll briefly discuss second quarter and year-to-date results.
Second I'll discuss the ongoing implementation of our strategy and its long-term potential and I'll close with some comments about our strong financial flexibility and an update on capital deployment.
Then Terry will cover the financial results in more detail.
We view second quarter results as very good.
Total company operating earnings for the quarter are up 25% over the year-ago quarter on 15% higher average assets under management.
With 14% earnings growth on a year-to-date basis we've had a strong first-half of 2011.
Second quarter continued the trend of increasing momentum in our businesses.
Let me highlight some of the growth metrics that speak to the strength of our competitive position and success in attracting and retaining business.
At the end of the second quarter total company assets under management stood at $336 billion a company record and an increase of $8 billion or 3% over first quarter and up 18% over the year-ago quarter.
With 60% of our operating earnings now coming from fee-based businesses assets under management is the single best leading indicator for future revenue and operating earnings.
Full-service accumulation produced very strong sales growth through the first 6 months of the year up 40% over 2010.
With the active pipeline up 13% and close ratios improving we now expect to grow full-year sales by at least 20% over full year 2010 sales.
Principal Funds continues to drive strong sales improving 29% over the prior year on a year-to-date basis.
Strong quarterly net cash flows from the Retirement and Investor Services Accumulation businesses with net inflows of $1.4 billion as compared to $160 million of net outflows in the year-ago quarter.
Principal Global Investors had positive unaffiliated net cash flows of $400 million in the second quarter reflecting 27% growth in deposits from the year-ago quarter.
Deposits this quarter include strong flows of $180 million in the Dublin Series funds a global platform for non-U.S.
investors.
Total mandates won by Principal Global Investors and the affiliated boutiques are $5.3 billion year-to-date.
Principal International finished the quarter with record assets under management of $53 billion driven by strong net cash flows of $1.8 billion.
On a trailing 12-month basis Principal International had record net cash flows of $5.9 billion.
Momentum continues to build in U.S.
Insurance Solutions.
Individual Life sales are up 21% year-to-date with 62% of the sales coming from the business market.
Additionally Specialty Benefits continues to see strong growth with premium up 6% and sales up 42% over prior year on a year-to-date basis.
With our focus on small-to-medium-sized businesses in the U.S.
the elevated unemployment rate continues to put pressure on the pace of the economic recovery and on the growth of our U.S.
businesses.
Despite that we continued to see growth across our businesses which reflects the competitiveness of our product solutions and our strong alliances with key distribution platforms in the U.S.
market.
So while the economic recovery continues to be fragile we remain optimistic about our growth continuing in the second half of 2011.
Now let me move to some comments on the ongoing implementation of our strategy and how that positions us over the longer term.
We remain a leader in the U.S.
retirement market.
Our Principal Total Retirement Suite strategy continues to be a differentiator that captures assets and drives cash flows.
Total Retirement Suite close ratios are double the close ratios for single-product retirement sales and we see significantly better persistency in this block.
Plan sponsors and advisors like the breadth of best in class products that Total Retirement Suite offers as well as the ability to seamlessly integrate these retirement products.
Since launching this strategy in 2004 50% of all Full Service Accumulation assets are now from our Total Retirement Suite block.
Additionally and consistent with historical results Total Retirement Suite sales accounted for 66% of total Full Service Accumulation sales in the second quarter demonstrating the ongoing power of this strategy.
We also recognize that about 1/3 of the smaller plan retirement market prefers a third-party administrator or TPA arrangement.
We've intensified our commitment to this market by expanding our array of flexible solutions that meet the needs of TPAs in order to effectively capture market share.
Our ability to work with TPAs grows our advisor base by giving us access to advisors that prefer this solution and creates the opportunity for even greater success over the longer term as we execute our multichannel distribution strategy.
Year-to-date TPA sales were $350 million up 52% over the prior year.
This powerful combination of both bundled and unbundled solutions will allow us to extend our market leadership.
Investment performance is solid and longer-term performance continues to improve particularly in areas where plan sponsors and advisors focus such as in fixed income and domestic equities.
This bodes well for sales and retention going forward.
In a recent survey of retirement plan sponsors conducted by Cogent Research The Principal received a top ranking in plan provider brand equity.
Equally as important in the same survey Principal Global Investors is among the top defined contribution investment managers that garnered favorable impression scores from its clients.
According to the survey attributes where Principal Global Investors excels include outstanding service and support a strong understanding of global markets and understanding of the defined contribution market.
This recognition combined with our recent recognition as Investment Brand of the Year in the 2011 Harris Poll EquiTrend study further demonstrates our position as a leading retirement plan provider and asset manager.
These recognitions provide strong affirmation of The Principals leadership in the retirement industry and we remain very optimistic about our growth opportunities in the retirement market.
While our U.S.
retirement leadership is reasonably well-known we continue to successfully implement our International Retirement and Global Asset Management strategies.
We will strengthen our multi-boutique platform in Principal Global Investors with the acquisition of a majority stake in 2 asset managers based in London Finisterre Capital and Origin Asset Management.
The Finisterre acquisition closed as expected on July 1 and we expect the Origin deal to close in October.
These 2 asset managers have great track records and increase our investment capabilities in emerging market debt and in global equities where additional high-quality investment capacity is in high demand but in relatively short supply.
As a further expansion of our Global Asset Management business we also recently opened a representative office in the Netherlands and are in the process of opening one in Dubai further expanding our global distribution footprint.
Institutional Investors recent annual rankings of the top 300 asset managers reaffirmed Principal Global Investors at number 29.
The recently announced acquisitions and global expansion contribute to our ability to grow even further.
We continue to see exceptional growth from Principal International as we execute our international retirement strategy.
The announced acquisition of HSBC's mandatory retirement business in Mexico reflects our strategy to go deeper in the countries we're already in.
This deal which we announced in April and expect to close in August will be immediately accretive to earnings as we add scale to Principal International one of our higher margin higher growth businesses.
In short I am extremely pleased with our strategy implementation as we continue to build 2 significant growth businesses Principal Global Investors and Principal International alongside our U.S.
retirement leadership.
No other company is better positioned than The Principal for the opportunities created by aging populations all over the world and the need for private market solutions.
This is the strategy to drive consistent growth over many years.
Now let me close with some comments on our capital deployment strategy and our financial position.
Given our original goal to deploy $700 million in capital in 2011 I am pleased with the actions we've taken so far.
In addition to the strategic acquisitions which increase our earnings power going forward we also reinstated our share buyback program in May.
In early July we completed the $250 million authorization repurchasing 8.4 million shares in total.
These actions fuel both near and longer term earnings per share growth as we continue to focus on creating long-term value for our shareholders.
As we have said many times our hybrid business model which includes 60% of our operating earnings from high-growth low-capital intensive businesses continues to generate increasing amounts of free cash flow as operating earnings recover post the financial crisis.
This allows us to invest in our businesses and return capital to shareholders while still maintaining a strong financial position.
Given the strong operating earnings year-to-date along improvement in credit characteristics of our general account portfolio we now have up to $1 billion available capital for deployment in 2011.
This is a $300 million increase to the original full year estimate of $700 million.
Year-to-date we have announced acquisitions and a share repurchase totaling $600 million giving us up to $400 million of capital available for deployment in the second half of 2011.
This is in addition to capital we expect to use for our annual common stock dividend which we will announce in pay in the fourth quarter.
Of course given the uncertainties in the markets we will be prudent as we proceed with this deployment.
Our financial position remains at its strongest point in our 132-year history with $10.7 billion of stockholders' equity.
Book value per share excluding AOCI increased 7% to $29.20 and book value per share including AOCI rose 20% to $31.43 which are both record levels.
This includes $2.1 billion of excess capital as of midyear and a risk-based capital ratio of 445% for the life company which Terry will discuss in more detail.
Before I turn the call over to Terry I want to mention some additional recognition we received this quarter that I am extremely proud of.
First The Principal received a 2011 Freedom Award from the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Group a Department of Defense agency.
The Freedom Award is the Department of Defense's highest recognition given to employers for exceptional support of their employees serving in the guard and reserve.
The Principal was one of only 15 companies to receive the award out of more than 4 000 nominations.
Additionally The Principal was recently named a Best Place to Work in Information Technology by IDG's Computerworld magazine which marks a decade of consistent appearances on this list for The Principal.
We have an exceptionally talented and committed group of employees and I am very proud of the work they do every day.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
In second quarter 2011 we continued to create momentum across our businesses.
This momentum resulted in very good growth in the second quarter and more importantly will carry forward as we move into the second half of the year.
This includes strong diversified earnings and building sales momentum across multiple products as well as a strong balance sheet with tremendous flexibility.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter; net income including the continued solid performance of the investment portfolio; and some additional detail on our 2011 capital position and deployment strategy.
Starting with total company results once again we ended the quarter with record assets under management now at $336 billion.
Total company earnings of $237 million are up 25% from a year-ago quarter on 15% higher average assets under management.
There were a few items influencing comparability between second quarter 2011 and second quarter 2010.
Second quarter 2010 had a higher economic interest in our Brasilprev joint venture for 2 of the 3 months.
Reserve and amortization changes negatively impacted second quarter 2010 and model and assumption changes negatively impacted Individual Life in second quarter 2011.
Adjusting for these items second quarter 2011 earnings were up 21% on a 15% increase in average assets under management compared to second quarter 2010 a very good result reflecting continued operational leverage.
There can be volatility for many reasons on a quarter-by-quarter basis which levels out when you look at a longer time frame.
Therefore when we look at the first half of 2011 operating earnings are up 19% over 2010 when we adjust for the reduced economic interest in our Brasilprev joint venture.
This improvement in earnings reflects ongoing momentum of our businesses.
Let me quickly comment on the items impacting second quarter 2011 reported earnings per share of $0.73.
Principal International benefited in second quarter 2011 from gains on the sale of bonds in our Brazilian joint venture.
Individual Life was negatively impacted by model and assumption changes and unfavorable mortality.
The net impact of these items was negative $0.01 in second quarter 2011.
On an adjusted basis we consider the EPS run rate for this quarter to be $0.74.
This continues the steady trend of EPS improvement quarter-over-quarter.
Now let me discuss business unit results.
Retirement and Investor Services earnings of $161 million in the second quarter were driven by record account values of $187 billion at quarter end.
Full Service Accumulation operating earnings at $83 million were up 22% from a year ago quarter on an 18% increase in average account values.
On a trailing 12-month basis Full Service Accumulation return on assets was 30 basis points.
We maintain that the long-term run rate for return on assets for this business is 30 to 32 basis points though there will be volatility around this target as market conditions fluctuate.
In addition we continue to invest in our businesses to take advantage of future growth opportunities such as building out our TPA infrastructure and other technology enhancements.
Full Service Accumulation sales in the second quarter were very strong at $1.7 billion our highest second quarter ever and nearly double that of second quarter 2010 as we continue to see an increase in proposal activity and improvement in our close ratios.
Strong transfer deposits and favorable retention drove net cash flows of nearly $1 billion contributing to the record account values of $115 billion at quarter end.
As Larry mentioned we continue to see our sales pipeline build across all market sizes and all distribution channels giving us momentum for strong full-year sales which we expect to be at least 20% higher than full year 2010.
Principal Funds continues to deliver strong operating leverage.
Operating earnings at $13 million in the second quarter were up 28% over the year-ago quarter on a 24% increase in average account values.
Principal Funds delivered strong sales of $2.6 billion dollars in the second quarter and strong net cash flows of $530 million.
On a trailing 12-month basis Principal Funds delivered $11 billion in deposits demonstrating the strength of our multiproduct and multichannel distribution model.
Competitive investment performance also contributed to the result.
This includes particular strength in asset allocation where at quarter end 84% of our target date and target risk runs were in the top half on 1-year basis 78% on a 3-year basis and 77% on a 5-year basis.
Individual Annuities and Bank and Trust Services achieved solid operating earnings this quarter.
Both divisions finished the quarter with strong account values contributing to record overall account values for the Retirement Investor Services Accumulation Businesses.
Earnings from Principal Global Investors at $21 million improved 69% from the year-ago quarter on a 9% improvement in average assets under management as pretax margins expanded to 25%.
This strong operating leverage result was driven by improving fees for actively managed funds and increasing real estate mandates.
Principal Global Investors year-to-date mandates awarded grew to $5.3 billion.
As of quarter end approximately $3 billion of these mandates had funded.
In addition since quarter end a large Latin American Central bank mandate has funded giving a strong start to third quarter deposits.
We are pleased with improvement from the year ago quarter and sequentially in both deposits and redemption and look for flows to continue to improve over coming quarters.
As Larry mentioned our acquisition of Finisterre Capital an emerging market debt manager closed on July 1 as expected.
Integration teams are in place and the transition is going as planned.
We were also excited about the growth and potential of our announced acquisition of Origin Asset Management a global equity manager which is expected to close October 2011.
We expect both of these transactions to be neutral to earnings per share in 2011 and accretive in 2012.
Combining our global distribution platform with the expertise of these asset managers we expect the assets under management for both firms to grow 3 to 5 times over the next 5 years.
This growth is consistent with that achieved following the acquisition of other boutique managers such as Columbus Circle Investors and Spectrum Asset Management.
These acquisitions again demonstrate our commitment to reinvesting capital in our high-margin high-growth businesses with strong strategic fit.
Moving to Principal International operating earnings of $38 million are up 7% from the second quarter 2010 despite a lower economic interest in our Brazilian joint venture Brasilprev.
Adjusting for the lower economic interest and for a $2 million benefit in second quarter 2011 from gains on the sales of bonds in Brasilprev earnings growth is in line with the 38% growth in average assets under management.
Principal International finished the quarter with record assets under management of $53 billion driven by strong net cash flow of $1.8 billion.
The total exceeds $60 billion if you add the assets of our Chinese joint venture which are not included in reported assets under management.
We expect to close HSBC retirement unit acquisition in early August.
This transaction will increase our scale in the mandatory retirement business in Mexico.
We reaffirm that we expect an immediate $0.02 to $0.03 earnings per share accretion in the second half of 2011 and $0.06 to $0.08 for full year 2012.
This acquisition aligns with our existing platform.
We anticipate minimal integration risk and expect to capitalize on significant synergies.
U.S.
Insurance Solutions' operating earnings were $50 million for the quarter essentially flat compared to the year-ago quarter.
Individual Life operating earnings were $24 million.
Current quarter results were dampened by $7 million reflecting 2 items.
First a $3 million shortfall was due to unfavorable mortality experience in the quarter.
Second the remaining $4 million was due to model and assumption changes.
During the second quarter we performed a review of our integrated life reserve model and assumptions which created volatility within certain income statement line items that essentially offset each other.
We believe the run rate for Individual Life operating earnings remains in the range of $31 million to $33 million per quarter with expected volatility in any one quarter.
The favorable mortality experience that we saw in the first quarter of 2011 was offset by current quarter's unfavorable mortality experience.
With the exception of the model and assumption changes we feel that the first 6 months earnings are on track to meet full year expectations.
Turning to Specialty Benefits operating earnings improved 8% from a year ago to $26 million driven by membership growth and stable loss ratio results which are key drivers of profitability.
Specialty Benefits had sales of $60 million this quarter up 23% over second quarter 2010.
Additionally the wind-down following our decision to exit the Insured Medical business is progressing well and continues on plan.
Shifting to total company net income we delivered $258 million this quarter our best quarter of net income since before the financial crisis and nearly double that of second quarter 2010.
With credit-related investment losses of $39 million after-tax we continue to see improvement in corporate credit and commercial mortgage whole loan losses.
CMBS losses also improve and continue to be manageable.
Our investment portfolio performance continues to reflect the benefit of broad asset diversification.
The evolution of our hybrid business model creates a blend of less capital-intensive businesses as we derisk the organization over time.
It also helps us weather the current low interest rate environment.
Of our $57 billion of Principal Life's general and guaranteed separate account assets $19 billion or 33% includes a guaranteed minimum interest rate and only $6 billion or 11% is currently at those minimums.
For the remaining portion not yet at minimums we have an average of 75 basis points of cushion above the guaranteed minimum rate.
Given our active interest rate risk management we estimate a very modest earnings impact due to the low interest rate environment.
If the quarter end interest rate environment persists we would expect less than 1% impact on our 2011 and 2012 earnings.
Moving to our balance sheet in [ph] street reflects the ongoing improvement in credit markets as the U.S.
economy rebuilds.
And at $1.6 billion our net unrealized capital gains position increased $300 million from first quarter 2011 as a $500 million gain from the impact of decreasing interest rates was partially offset by widening spreads.
As a reminder because of our strong asset liability management changes in net unrealized gain or loss due to interest-rate movement do not result in an economic impact.
Now moving to capital adequacy.
As of quarter end we estimate our risk-based capital ratio to be 445% after a distribution of $300 million this quarter from the Life company up to the holding company.
This follows the $200 million distribution in first quarter.
Relative to a 350% RBC ratio we have approximately $2.1 billion in total excess capital as of the end of the second quarter.
$1.1 billion of the excess capital is at the holding company.
Of the $700 million we originally identified for acquisition and share repurchase in 2011 year-to-date we have committed a total of $350 million towards acquisition and $250 million has been used for share repurchase.
We still have $100 million available to deploy in the second half of 2011.
However due to improvement in our earnings and in the credit characteristics of their general account portfolio our available capital position has improved.
As Larry said we now have up to an additional $300 million to deploy for strategic acquisitions and additional share repurchases during the second half of 2011.
This is in addition to the deployable capital for our annual common stock dividend.
We're pleased with the financial flexibility our business model provides as we generate meaningful amounts of free cash flow quarter after quarter.
A couple announcements before I close.
First we announced a few weeks ago that we will host a Principal International workshop on September 16 in New York City.
At this event we will provide greater detail about our international businesses and show why it is a tremendous growth opportunity for The Principal.
Additional detail around the key drivers and metrics will also be provided.
We'll provide more information as the event gets closer.
Second our third quarter earnings call will be held Friday October 28.
To capitalize on efficiencies gained in our financial close process we will be moving up our earnings call to an earlier date starting next quarter.
Again we are very pleased with the strong financial results of our businesses this quarter.
Momentum continues to build as does our long-term growth potential.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
A question on FSA.
Could you give us a little bit more detail maybe color around where the real success in the quarter was from a sales perspective? I'm really thinking more about size of case.
Couple of comments.
In terms of large wins.
On the last 6 months we got 4 large wins worth about $1.2 billion.
For the quarter we had one large case that generated about $800-and-some-odd million.
If you compare that to the second quarter of 2010 through 6 months we had about $560 million.
So you saw nice increase in large wins but at the same time it doesn't tell the whole story because across our emerging and dynamic space we had really strong sales.
TPA sales were up 52%.
Our Allianz relationships were up roughly 37% TRS continues to be the lead offering from PFG.
So across-the-board TPA Allianz large and small we had a really really strong year.
And we're fortunate not to have all that falling in any one category.
The other comment I would make is we did not lose a single institutional case which speaks to our favorable contract retention for the period.
Okay.
So just a follow-up then.
I guess when we're looking at year-over-year sales in the first half of the year I think 40% little over 40% growth.
I guess it's sort of the -- maybe you're being a bit conservative thinking about maybe some of these larger case sales don't repeat in the back half and that's why sales growth is sort of at the upper end of your prior 15% to 20% as opposed to something better.
John just a reminder.
Remember in the second half 2010 that was really a strong year for us.
We really poured it on and we're off to a good start this year.
And again we feel good about that 20% number.
We're optimistic as Larry cited in his opening comments pipeline active pipelines up about 13% good activity and frankly we're just looking for this economy to continue to find some stability to start contributing in a more meaningful way to the reoccurring deposits as well.
Okay.
And if I could just sneak one more in you guys provided some information on peripheral European exposures in your investment supplement the total of $1.7 billion.
It was hard to tell from that disclosure how much of that is in the general account versus in Principal International.
And I guess -- I assume that it would be fair for us to think of the exposure in Principal International as really having no risk to shareholders maybe more of an earnings issue or a flow issue.
But can you split out the $1.7 billion between the general account exposure and Principal International? John I don't actually consider any of the $1.7 billion to necessarily be at risk relative to shareholders.
I hope you're right.
Well just to be clear on that.
Because again in many cases they may be cited there.
They don't necessarily have businesses there.
But the split in rough terms is about $1.1 billion or $1.2 billion general account and it's about $500 million in Principal International.
But most of the PI stuff really are the 2 large Spanish banks although we don't really see any particular risk there.
So hopefully that gives you a little better insight.
Your next question comes from the line Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
I had a question on FSA the draws.
In the past couple of years the draws have actually gone up in the second quarter.
This quarter obviously was much better than the first quarter was.
So maybe you could talk about what it is you're doing on the retention side.
And then secondly on the PGI you had very good flows this quarter.
Obviously the last few years have been weak.
You've had large withdrawals in the past.
So just talk about your outlook for flows in the PGI business and also if the large withdrawals youve seen in the past few quarters are done already.
Sure this is Larry.
I'll just make a high-level comment on the withdrawals.
I think we've commented in quarters before that our team has been working hard on that.
Frankly one of the things thats helped a lot is just the economic headwinds aren't quite as strong.
They remain but they're not quite as strong so at least we're seeing membership generally speaking membership is staying sort of flat.
Participant deferrals are actually up a little bit on a year-to-date basis.
So the key elements that sort of go into withdrawals some of that noise has gone away but the last thing I'd say as we commented Jimmy is we're seeing very very good investment performance.
Our service teams and our relationship managers are just doing an outstanding job of performing day in and day out.
As Dan said we've had no withdrawals from our institutional blocks so he may want to add a comment or 2 and then I'll have Jim talk about PGI flows.
Yes that really does capture it Larry.
We're very fortunate.
We had a lot of customer contact.
The other comment I might throw out and this is in large part due to Jim's strong investment performance within Principal Global Investors but we continue to see a rebound in our asset allocation investment performance along with our fixed income investment performance and that goes a long way towards aligning our interest with those of our customers.
Then lastly as you know we had that RESA queue [ph] in place.
That no longer's in place.
Those things kind of flushed out in the latter half of '10 first part of '11.
So we've got a lot of the investment noise out of the system and again it can stand a good overall customer service at this point.
And Jimmy on the Institutional Principal Global Investors withdrawals.
I'd remind you in the first quarter of this year we had the large withdrawal of $2.1 billion from core fixed income by the State Board of Florida.
I think I'm safe in mentioning that because it was widely covered in the trade press at the time and they allocated away from all of their core fixed income.
They remain a client for real estate and for international equities so actually they remain if anything a more important client than they were a year or 2 ago when we had that mandate.
This is very characteristic of what we're seeing in the industry which is core mandates are tending to be rebalanced away from with clients moving to passive and liability-driven investing.
In the fourth quarter last year we had a similar one with a mandate over $1 billion another a very low fee core mandate that we lost.
This quarter was mercifully free of that.
So what you're seeing is some degree of reallocation by clients.
But the merits of our high-added value strategy that really suits the tendency that clients have to move towards satellite and higher added value mandates.
And that's contributing both to the positive flows and to the richer revenues we're seeing.
As we sit right now we don't see any core mandates that are really at critical danger and we're pretty optimistic for flows given the investment performance that's been referred to and the change in client buying behavior that really suits our multi-boutique structure.
And lastly could I -- Larry maybe you could talk about the $400 million that you have to deploy for the rest of this year.
How does the deal pipeline look? And I'm assuming you're still looking within asset management or international and then just comment on how the environment is for acquisition.
Jimmy this is Larry.
So again I think the nature of our transition to fee-based businesses is what's giving us the additional flexibility here plus as we said some improvement in the overall for the credit conditions in the general account.
Having said that I'm obviously not going to comment on any specific deal.
What I would say is that we do think there continues to be some level of opportunity as we've done earlier this year with the HSBC acquisition and the 2 boutique acquisitions.
Our priorities remain exactly as they have been in the past.
Our priorities are around our international businesses both to add scale and add competencies as well as asset management.
So we will continue to be active and we would expect to hopefully have the possibility but it's probably going to be a quarter or 2 before you see that happen.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Just a quick one on the SFI thing.
It seems like Principal and some of the other midsize life insurers are at last a part of that conversation and even Met and Pru seem quite confident they would be non-bank SFIs if at all.
Your capital deployment comments certainly don't feel that constrained by it.
So just kind of wanted to get an update there if you've made any progress on how you feel about how that might affect your capital planning.
Sure Randy.
Just maybe a few comments on that.
There's still uncertainty around the whole issue of SFIs.
But having said that I guess I would personally have kind of an intuitive feeling that whatever the probability might have been at the start of the year that we would have fallen into that bucket I would say that my feeling today is the probability is lower than it was at the start of the year.
And I say that for several reasons.
Number 1 it seems a little bit clearer that the FSOC the Financial Stability Oversight Council it seems now more likely to want to have a relatively smaller number of institutions in that designation than perhaps I might have thought 6 months ago.
So I think that helps us.
Two I think they're starting to understand the insurance industry better.
As you may know they confirmed this week the insurance member to the FSOC so we think that will add further education and understanding to that.
So the last thing I guess I would say around that is that we have made efforts.
First of all our financial flexibility is high and our capital position is strong.
And weve made our best attempts to convert if you will our current capital ratios over to what they would be if we tried to apply sort of the banking interpretations to those.
And when we do that assuming again we've done that in a correct way and that's a bit of an assumption because there's a translation that's needed we would find ourselves already with capital ratios that would be at or above the level that Basel III would require.
So again we think as long as we're able to maintain the sort of high capital ratios and financial flexibility we have we don't see that as having a significant impact going forward.
But again there's more to come on that.
But that's the feeling today.
And if I could sneak one more in on international.
There's increasingly good sales there and there's a rule of thumb we've had for FSA where like 60% of sales drop down in the first quarter then 20% in each of the next quarter.
Is there a rule of thumb that we could think of that's similar to that for international? I think the rule of thumb is that sales equal deposits because there's not really across those businesses Randy there's not really anything that is sort of of any magnitude.
There's nothing that's really a kind of payroll-deduct business where there's a transfer deposit and some of that may come in over a period of time.
So it operates much more like our U.S.
Mutual Fund business pretty much where sales equal deposits.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kligerman with UBS Security.
First question I'm just curious with the potential for U.S.
credit rating downgrade.
What are you doing to prepare potentially for that in terms of liquidity and your investment portfolio if anything? Sure.
I'll make a few high level comments and then Julia can add to that.
On one hand certainly the disruption or uncertainty that has been present in the market over the last I don't know certainly several months as the debt ceiling debate has been discussed has been concerning to say the least.
And people smarter than me seem to be forecasting that whether the U.S.
would lose its AAA credit rating now or 2 months from now or 6 months from now or 12 months from now.
It's probably more likely that it's going to happen somewhere in the kind of near to intermediate term.
To your point I don't know that there's a lot that you can do about that and I'll have Julia give you some of the rules of the road.
But having said that we don't see it as being particularly disruptive given that we have a very very small percentage of our portfolio in anything that would be closely tied to that.
So we only have about 5% or 6% in treasuries or agencies that would be at immediate risk if the U.S.
were to be downgraded.
But I'll have Julia fill in some of the blanks.
Larry got that exactly right.
We would see very little capital impact to our portfolio.
Our liquidity position going into this is very strong.
So we're really not doing a lot different than we were doing.
We derisked the portfolio significantly in the last 2 years.
We've improved liquidity a lot.
So we see little impact really for a downgrade.
The bigger issue for me as I look forward is not so much the rating downgrade but looking forward to the economy.
So I'm much more looking forward to what could happen to the economy and that impact than the downgrade.
And then maybe just shifting back to FSA flows.
Clearly very good progress and on the positive side I'd be curious as to what you're doing in the TPA channel to get sales up more than 50% year-over-year there.
And then the transfer deposits have been big.
Why have they been so strong as well? You gave a few stats a little earlier.
But on the flip side it looks like recurring deposits are down about 7%.
So I'm curious what's going on on that front and whether that might shift in a positive direction as well.
Just quickly on recurring deposits don't read too much into one quarter.
If you look year-to-date recurring deposits are relatively flat.
Deferrals are actually up a little bit.
The profit-sharing contributions are a little bit lumpy.
So that's really where -- a slight bit of noise but I wouldn't draw any conclusions.
So my high-level takeaway is that on recurring deposits were fine and I'll let Dan talk a little bit about what we're doing around TPA because that's a really good story.
So on TPA as I cited last time we chatted we do extend to our TPA partners the same set of services that we make available to our full-service clients.
And that I mean that we provide Total Retirement Solutions in that we can provide defined benefit defined contribution.
ESOP as well as non-qualified deferred compensation -- recordkeeping for those TPAs.
We do make service reps available.
We can implement our retire secure [ph] which keeps [ph] at increasing the participation in local level.
I think there was some pent-up demand from Principal not having been out there in the past and frankly there's a few other competitors who have changed some of the way in which they're working with TPAs which is -- perhaps endear them to work with Principal and listen to our value proposition.
So pent-up demand and flexibility in services would be the main drivers Andrew.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Spehar with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
One question on FSA and one on PGI.
First on FSA there's a lot of focus obviously on the ROA and 30 basis points seems to be the magic number that you cross over and people get concerned.
I guess the question I have about the driver of FSA ROA if you were to be below your 30-basis-point target on a sustained basis what's the chance that that would come from the spread-based portion of FSA versus the fee-based? Everyone's focused on sort of the pressure on fees but you look at this quarter and I think you had pressure on the ROA because of the spread business.
So that's the first question.
Okay.
And I'll just comment quickly on that.
I do appreciate that observation.
I think we've commented in every earnings call for I don't know how long that you can't look at one single component of this and draw a conclusion.
And so to your point if you look at relative to a year ago if you look at over the last few years there has been sort of a steady lessening interest on the part of plan participants for if you will guaranteed-type options which is the spread-based earnings the spread-based revenue that you're talking about and that makes perfect sense when you're talking about interest rates that are essentially 0 or something in the order of 1%.
So if you look at relative to a year ago that share that percentage share that's in the general account guaranteed options down about 2% and so that alone is going to speak to about 1 basis point decline in revenue.
So to your point there is a shift going on from higher ROA more capital-intensive options to lower ROA higher capital flow options which again we view quite frankly as a positive.
So it's very very important not to over-read one quarter it's very very important not to over-read one metric like revenue.
I would say this block continues to get healthier and healthier and we're very very happy with the margins that we're earning.
Then the question on PGI.
If I look at the earnings run rate this quarter is this a sort of sustainable number that would grow based on AUM? And then if we're looking out next year adjusted up by let's say $5 million to $6 million after tax a quarter considering what you've told us about accretion from the HSBC feasibilities.
On the last point Ed note that the HSBC acquisition is in Principal International rather than Principal Global Investors.
Having said that I think the way to think about your question is actually to look at pretax margins which is how -- the return on revenue which is how most asset managers would look at it.
And during the financial crisis our really bad year was 2009 when that measure went down to 15%.
We're currently running at about 25% which I regard as a partial recovery to our long-term target which would be a little bit over 30% pretax margin.
So what I'm really saying is over the next 2 or 3 years absent another financial crisis like 2008 '09 absent that we should be able to build back to margins over or a little bit over 30% together with the accretion from the couple of acquisitions we've already done plus the acquisitions that we're hoping to do over the next year or 2.
So if you put it all together you're recall that I put a fairly aggressive or it looked aggressive at that time projection for Principal Global Investors earnings at the Investor Day last December.
The way I would put it is we are ahead of schedule and moving towards that 30% margin I talked about in December.
And with what we've said on flows what Larry and Terry said on flows we're feeling pretty optimistic about that.
So I hope that puts the current run rate into context.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> A lot were asked already but I do have 2.
Larry Terry maybe you could give us a -- remind us of the plan to cut expenses in corporate and other in light of getting out of the major medical business and how that is going.
And then maybe an update about what you're thinking about in terms of maybe looking at next year free cash flow to operating earnings how that might work out? I'm sure Terry will probably want to comment on both of those.
Maybe just a quick comment on the second one Steven.
We of course obviously do continuing projections on a regular basis.
We commented in our earlier comments that 60% of our earnings are now coming from our fee-based businesses.
So I would say in rough terms we would be in position again forecasting a little bit forward here.
But next year we probably need somewhere around 30% to 35% of our operating earnings to support the organic growth of our business.
So somewhere between 65% and 70% of our earnings would be available for free cash flow.
But the other comment I would make there is that as you well know there are some other pieces in there.
Primarily again issues around C1 credit that could add or subtract if you will in terms of cash flow that we can use for other purposes.
So over the course of the last couple of years we've incurred a fair bit of negative credit drift and this is really the first quarter where we started to see just a very slight turnaround in that.
It's probably too early to forecast that of any sizable magnitude given the problems with the U.S.
and the potential downgrade of U.S.
credit.
But that's just something to kind of keep your eye on as we go forward which could be some positive trends around credit drifts.
So I'll have Terry talk about the corporate and other.
Steven Id agree with Larry's comments on the free cash flow.
It does -- 2/3 of the net income is going towards free cash flow as we don't need as much to support the organic growth.
As terms of overhead that we are now seeing in the corporate segment we said at the beginning of the year that would be about $8 million per quarter.
And as we progress through the year we've reduced that amount and it is getting lower currently around $6 million in the current quarter.
Other businesses are growing into that overhead.
We're reducing some expenses as well.
So we are managing that and we're in line to remove that overhead over the 18 to 24 months that we'd mentioned last fall.
Inc.</strong> So on a quarterly run rate we're still talking about another $6 million to go? Yes probably $6 million this quarter.
We'll be working that down.
But for this year I would say $6 million is a pretty good number for overhead.
It actually will drop off reasonably quickly because the business in the second -- the Insured Medical business will really start dropping off more quickly in the second half when we'll have the ability to basically non-renew and they'll transition more quickly over to United or some other carrier.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Within FSA based on the number of plans we're seeing plan count at the larger employers increase while retracting in some of the smaller employers.
So can you talk about this shift maybe in the context of what you're seeing from competitors maybe your outlook for small medium businesses? And then any shift in strategy within the larger corporations? Yes I'll have Dan comment Chris.
Again I would say that our goal remains to be competitive and we are competitive at small medium and large.
One thing depending again on what your point of comparison is there and your question whether you're looking at just last quarter or whether you're looking at a year ago one of the things that you need to remember is the impact of the RESA queue [ph].
So the RESA queue [ph] had about 1 400 contracts in there in the year-ago quarter.
So you just need to be cognizant of that as you kind of make your analysis and comparison.
But I'm sure Dan's got more comments.
Yes just a couple Larry.
The first of which is just the lack of new plan formation that continues to be a drag in particular in that small to medium-sized market segment which is historically where about half of our growth came from.
And we're still seeing a fairly steady diet of plan terminations.
Not contract terms but plan terms.
They're eliminating their plans.
That's not unexpected in difficult economic times.
Larger employers more stability winning on transfer cases obviously and we're retaining those.
So we remain just as committed to the small- and medium-sized business marketplace.
We like it.
We have a lot of success.
We got good scale.
Weve got our TPA initiative.
We have our Allianz partners.
And so again we haven't lost our enthusiasm for the small- to medium-sized market segment.
Albeit it's been a difficult economic environment for those small employers.
Okay.
And then given the U.S.
debt issues how are you guys thinking about sort of the risk of some of the budget proposals we have seen in the life insurers over the years actually maybe getting pushed through? And what would the potential impact be on like DRD et cetera? I think a couple of quarters ago you talked around maybe in the around $0.20.
But I just wanted to see sort of how you're viewing that risk as we move forward.
Well I think it's a little early to tell Chris whether there will in fact be serious consideration of tax reform in the near future.
My personal belief would be is that between now and election in November 2012 it'd be highly unlikely that we would get into a debate that's going to be as confrontational as that one is.
I think if the election in 2012 provided some clarity either way relative to political party then there's maybe some possibility of that in say 2013.
So that -- my point is it would be a ways out there if there was going to be any discussion and it would be very much dependent on the election.
Having said that we are of course much less if you will life insurance than many of our peers.
So if inside buildup is an issue that's a little bit less of an issue for us.
And the last thing I'd say is that sort of DRD as we've said in the past that's somewhere in the range of a benefit of roughly $80 million a year.
Okay.
And then just one last quick one if I could maybe for Terry.
Have you done any sort of preliminary work around the EITF 09-G in terms of what the implications could be if you're going to look at it retrospectively or not? Chris we have looked at this and we're anticipating it will probably on a retrospective basis.
But we're working with E&amp;Y at this point in time to make sure that they're comfortable with our methodology as well.
And we'll probably discuss that later in the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I guess during the quarter one of your competitors in the Full Service business was I guess a lot less enthusiastic about it relative to the past.
And in follow-on discussions with them one of the things they cited was this trend towards increased unbundling sort of making its way into the small case market and perhaps that having an impact on the business.
So can you just talk a little bit about how you're viewing that? Is it a risk to your margins? Are you prepared to go to a complete unbundling strategy if that's what the clients want? Sure Suneet.
This is Larry.
Let me just assure you that our enthusiasm for what we do in terms of the U.S.
retirement space is as high or higher than it's ever been.
And I think that at a high level what happens here is people other companies look at that space they understand just how appealing it is they move into that space and then they discover that you know what there's actually a lot of issues around that.
And again having been in this business 35 years I've seen and I've commented before many competitors kind of come in and out and sort of -- we know who you're referring to that sort of has come in a couple of years ago and is finding that it's very very difficult.
So again I would just emphasize here our long-term record our very successful record our very successful platform the extent and depth of our service team our sales team our Allianz sales so our enthusiasm.
And I think frankly Suneet our opportunity is as high today as it's ever been.
But I'll let Dan talk about unbundling.
We do try to use a lot of discipline.
Our market segment strategy is helping us do that to make sure we're getting appropriate levels of margins regardless of the size of the case.
Tim Minard and his team have done a good job allocating resources facing off each one of those market segments.
We still are convinced that the TRS model is a great differentiator.
Weve got a very strong value proposition for our Allianz partners they value the local sales and services that we provide.
We continue to make investments in that.
We've leveraged those Allianz relationships not only to include Full Service but mutual funds and annuities.
So again it's a very comprehensive view.
It's inclusive of also asset management and our insurance products payroll deductions lack of government's commitment to retirement security means its going to go to the private sector.
So again we feel very optimistic about that.
And as we work towards fee disclosure and some of the issues around fiduciary there will be a few competitors that bail out.
We're committed to it.
We've got the scale and we've got the right people and the strategy in place to continue to be a strong leader in this area.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
So bottom line if we go to an unbundled business model it really shouldn't have an impact on your margins that's what you're saying? Exactly.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And then just the last question on the whole TPA strategy.
I get that that's where the market's going and that's obviously where you need to be.
But is there a risk in terms of your non-TPA distribution force your sales force of perhaps maybe alienating them or any risk like that as you start to move more towards the TPA channel? I just want to make one comment -- this is Larry.
I just want to make one comment here quickly Suneet.
First of all I don't think that there's any evidence that the market is moving toward a TPA solution.
Let me be very clear the market about 30% of the market has typically preferred an unbundled solution and you can track that going back literally decades and that continues to be about where that is.
The reason we've begun to talk a little bit more about it is because we PFG have begun to be more active in that TPA market than we have historically.
So it's not that there are more -- that there's more interest by advisors or by plan sponsors in TPA.
It's that we now have because of the investments weve made over the last couple of years and the distribution alliances we now have the capability to be competitive in that market.
So that's the difference.
And the only thing I would say in terms of competition its our Full Service Accumulation reps they've got the benefit of selling a bundled or a unbundled solution.
We don't have 2 competing wholesale sales forces out there competing with one another.
We're competing against the competitors.
And again back to what Larry had said we think this is about 25% to 30% of the marketplace.
So we look to make the pie bigger not to carve out and reduce the number of cases nor account -- assets for Full Service Accumulation.
And then a closing comment there again if you look at trailing 12-month sales for Full Service Accumulation it's up 87% through 6/30 of 2011 relative to 6/30 of '10.
And again it gets back to Allianz it gets back to TPA it gets back to TRS.
So it's just one of the drivers for growth for PFG.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
I just want to thank everybody for joining us and I do appreciate everybody's continuing interest.
As I said at opening part of the call we're very pleased with our results for second quarter and year-to-date but we know that there will continue to be a lot of challenges in the global economy.
We do think our transition to a fee-based company with higher levels of free cash flow is going to give us the opportunity for higher growth but also capital flexibility which is going to remain key in this uncertain environment.
So thank you very much.
We look forward to seeing many of you in our visits over the next quarter and hope everybody has a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 p.m.
Eastern time until end of day August 9 2011.
79538107 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (800) 642-1687 U.S.
and Canadian callers or (706) 645-9291 international callers.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Third Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and additional investment portfolio detail are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following the reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Norman Sorensen Principal International; and Julia Lawler Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us today is Luis Valdes President and CEO of Principal International.
Some of the comments made during the conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I'll discuss financial results.
Third quarter had more than the usual amount of noise associated with market events that may mask underlying growth which remains strong.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful implementation and execution of our strategy and I'll close with some comments on the regulatory environment as well as other items that demonstrate the growing strength of the Principal.
Then Terry will cover the financial results in more detail and discuss the long-term impact of low interest rates and impacts to the 2012 results from the new deferred acquisition cost guidance.
Overall while third quarter financial results were impacted by external market factors which I'll discussed briefly we are pleased with the continuing momentum of our businesses.
That momentum has been building throughout 2011 and is reflected in strong year-to-date results in all of our businesses.
Despite the economic and market headwinds we remain optimistic that the ongoing momentum and strong underlying fundamentals of our business will carry on into fourth quarter.
Let's look at the third quarter financial results in more detail.
As Terry will discuss we incurred approximately $22 million or $0.07 per share of market-related deferred acquisition cost impacts caused by the 14% decline in the S&amp;P 500 for the quarter.
In addition we saw the variable investment income on excess capital held at the holding company be reduced by $12 million or $0.04 per share due to negative marks caused by widening of credit spreads during the quarter.
Despite the impact of these on our quarterly financial results the growth metrics of sales and net cash flow continue to be outstanding for the quarter including Full Service Accumulation sales of $1.5 billion for the quarter up 72% over third quarter 2010 driving net cash flows to $350 million compared to negative net cash flows of $200 million in third quarter 2010.
Principal Funds' third quarter sales of $2.6 billion drove $180 million of net cash flows this quarter.
Principal Global Investors' unaffiliated net cash flows were $1.2 billion this quarter as a result of strong sales and $5.6 billion in deposits.
And Principal International net cash flows of $700 million in third quarter 2011 were down slightly from third quarter 2010 caused by slower growth in Asia.
Importantly pipelines remain strong across our businesses although continuing economic uncertainty may have an impact over time.
Because quarterly financial results are often impacted by short-term economic and market events it is more constructive to look at year-to-date results for both sales and financial results to see the health of the businesses.
Full Service Accumulation sales are $5.2 billion year-to-date and year-to-date net cash flow is $2.2 billion.
For full-year 2011 we expect Full Service Accumulation sales to increase 20% to 25% over 2010 sales.
Principal Funds' year-to-date sales are up 20% and year-to-date net cash flows have increased 29% over 2010.
For the full year we expect Funds' sales to be up approximately 15% and net cash flows to be approximately 5% of beginning account value.
Principal Global Investors' operating revenues are up 14% year-to-date and operating earnings are up 44%.
Investment performance remains solid and our unaffiliated pipeline continues to be strong.
Principal International continues to have another solid year with $3.8 billion of net cash flows year-to-date which are up 32% over 2010 and record assets under management of $55 billion which are up 29% over 2010.
In U.S.
Insurance Solutions individualized sales are up 14% year-to-date.
Premiums and deposits are up 11% year-to-date driven by sales in the nonqualified and business owner market which now account for 58% of Individual Life sales.
Specialty Benefits sales are up 29% year-to-date driving premium and fees up 6% year-to-date.
Importantly we have now had 5 consecutive quarters of growth with new sales premium exceeding client lapses.
This momentum across our businesses positions us for continuing growth in the U.S.
and the international markets where we operate.
We also benefit from the overall diversification in the sources of our revenues and operating earnings with 60% of operating earnings coming from fee-based businesses.
Next I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution of our strategy.
The key differentiator for Full Service Accumulation continues to be our Principal Total Retirement Suite with 51% of sales on the Total Retirement Suite platform.
Total Retirement Suite close ratios continue to be double those of single retirement product sales.
Persistency is better for this block as well with a 20% improvement in last rates compared to non-Total Retirement Suite plans.
Our focus on the Allianz distribution channel continues to drive strong Full Service Accumulation sales with year-to-date Allianz sales up 46% over the prior year.
We continue to gain traction with third-party administrator sales as well.
Our increased focus on this market gives us access to a broader base of advisors and helps us capture additional market share.
Moving now to Principal Funds.
Sales results are driven by good investment performance and demand for our innovative products such as the Principal Global Diversified Income Fund.
To further meet the growing need for retirement income solutions this month we launched the Global Multi-Strategy Fund which seeks to achieve long-term capital appreciation with an emphasis on positive total returns and relatively low volatility.
A couple of quick comments about the execution of our boutique strategy in Principal Global Investors.
We successfully closed on the acquisition of a majority stake in Origin a London-based global equity specialist on October 3.
Origin's strong performance track record combined with our global distribution network provides us additional capacity in international equities.
The onboarding of Finisterre an emerging market fixed income boutique also based in London has been very successful as well.
We've had tremendous support from Finisterre's key consultants and have retained all of their clients during this transition.
Finisterre's impressive track record combined with our distribution network sets the stage to attract a significant flow in the future as investors see opportunities for diversification in emerging markets.
We continue to see increasing demand for higher yield products as well as other areas where we have expertise such as preferred securities real estate and emerging markets which generate higher revenue and higher margins.
As we said at the Principal International workshop the carefully selected emerging markets in Asia and Latin America which we are operating in today have tremendous growth in middle-class populations and privatization of retirement systems is rapidly taking hold.
Our strategy is to export our retirement and investment management expertise to these key emerging markets to work with marquis distribution partners in these countries and to go deeper in these markets through organic growth and opportunistic acquisitions.
Our focused execution has resulted in rapid growth of the businesses.
We were early entrants into these markets and we continue to see growth in operating earnings of 15% to 20%.
We are well positioned to capitalize on the growth opportunities in these markets as we move forward.
Overall I'm very pleased with the continued execution of our strategy across the businesses.
With a strategy that is focused on long-term growth our outlook remains positive despite market volatility and continued choppy economic recovery.
Let me quickly comment on the impact of extended period of low interest rates.
The evolution of our business model towards fee-based businesses creates a blend of less capital-intensive businesses that helps us weather the current low interest rate environment.
Terry will go into more detail on the impact if low interest rates persist over time but let me simply say that the current low interest rates would have to continue for an extended period at least 3 years before they would have a meaningful impact on our operating earnings.
Moving now to some comments on the strength and flexibility of our financial position I'm very pleased with the capital deployment actions we've taken in 2011 which reflect execution of 3 acquisitions 2 share repurchase programs and as we announced yesterday a 27% increase in our annual common stock dividend which will be paid in early December.
Our shift to a more fee-based business model means we need less cash to support organic growth and enables us to deploy more capital towards strategic acquisitions and return more capital to shareholders.
As of the end of the third quarter we have $1.8 billion of excess capital.
This gives us continuing capital flexibility in what remains an uncertain environment.
Let me move to some positive regulatory developments.
Based on recent updates it appears unlikely that we'll be named a systemically important financial institution or be considered a major swap participant.
Therefore I remain confident in our ability to continue with our current successful business model.
In closing I'd like to take a moment to recognize a significant milestone for the company.
Last Sunday was the 10th anniversary of our initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange.
Becoming a public company set the stage for a decade of growth as the Principal continued its evolution from a once-largely insurance-based organization to its status today as an investment management leader.
The Principal was named Investment Brand of the Year in the 2011 Harris Poll Equitrend study which further demonstrates the transformation of our business model over the last 10 years.
As the first U.S.
company to go public after 9/11 we recognize the significance of moving forward while never forgetting the tragic events of that day.
In commemoration of the 10th anniversary of our IPO in 9/11 we'll be making charitable gifts to several programs in support of families of New York City police and firefighters and deployed service personnel.
As further recognition of our commitment to those that serve in the military the Principal was one of only 15 companies out of more than 4 000 nominations to receive a 2011 Freedom Award from the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve group a Department of Defense agency.
It's the highest recognition given to employers for exceptional support of their employees serving in the guard and reserve.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
The trend of strong business fundamentals continued in the third quarter.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings and net income for the quarter more detail around our modest exposure to a sustaining low interest rate environment an update on our capital position and deployment strategy and an overview over the projected impact of new deferred acquisition cost guidance starting in 2012.
Starting with total company results operating earnings of $192 million were down 12% from a year-ago quarter on 11% higher average assets under management.
There were a few items impacting third quarter 2011 operating earnings.
Two of the major items were: third quarter 2011 had negative DAC amortization true-ups due to the equity market performance which impacted Full Service Accumulation Individual Annuities and Individual Life by $0.07 in total; and in third quarter 2011 the Corporate segment was impacted by $0.04 from lower variable interest income on excess capital held at the holding company due to negative marks caused by widening of credit spreads.
Adjusting for these items we consider the earnings-per-share run rate for the third quarter to be $0.72 and third quarter 2011 earnings up 12% on an 11% increase in average assets under management compared to an adjusted third quarter 2010.
Now let me discuss business unit results.
Full Service Accumulation operating earnings at $71 million were down 12% from a year-ago quarter on a 12% increase in average account values as a result of higher DAC amortization from negative equity market returns.
With the recent market volatility looking over an extended period of time provides a more normalized view.
On a year-to-date basis adjusting for the equity market impact 2011 operating earnings are in line with the increase in average account values as compared to 2010.
We continue to see our Full Service Accumulation sales pipeline build across market sizes and distribution channels and close ratios that returned to pre-crisis levels.
This will help drive full-year net cash flow results that we now expect to be approximately 3% of beginning account values.
Principal Funds continues to deliver strong operating leverage.
Operating earnings at $13 million in the third quarter were up 47% over a year-ago quarter on a 16% increase in average account values.
Though the retail industry experienced outflows this quarter as investors pulled back a bit our innovative product solutions and multichannel distribution model continue to generate strong sales growth and positive flows.
Competitive investment performance also contributed strong fund sales.
This includes particular strength in asset allocation where at quarter end 84% of target date and target risk funds were in the top half on a 1-year basis 78% on a 3-year basis and 69% on a 5-year basis.
Individual Annuities' operating earnings at $15 million were lower because of higher DAC amortization due to negative equity market returns in the current quarter while a year-ago quarter saw a positive equity market returns and had positive true-ups.
Adjusting for this earnings are comparable between the 2 periods.
Earnings from Principal Global Investors at $19 million improved 27% from a year-ago quarter on a 6% increase in average assets under management reflecting the operating leverage in this business.
Client search activity continues despite current market volatility and because of this we remain optimistic about flows over the next few quarters.
Moving to Principal International operating earnings at $37 million were up 11% from the third quarter 2010.
Principal International finished the quarter with record assets under management of $55 billion $62 billion when including China despite recently strengthening dollar.
This growth was driven by organic net cash flows of $700 million and $3.1 billion of operations acquired with the HSBC Mexican AFORE business.
We closed this transaction in early August and fully integrated the companies in September.
This transaction increases our scale in the mandatory retirement business in Mexico.
Since this acquisition leverages our existing infrastructure it was immediately accretive in the third quarter.
The benefit of the third quarter was partially offset by acquisition costs.
We expect the benefit of $5 million to $6 million per quarter to be fully realized in the fourth quarter.
Individual Life operating earnings were $26 million.
Current quarter results were adversely impacted by higher DAC amortization due to negative equity market returns and slightly unfavorable mortality experience.
After adjusting for these items operating earnings remain in line with previously communicated expectations.
Turning to Specialty Benefit operating earnings declined 12% from the year-ago quarter to $22 million reflecting quarterly volatility in claims experience.
While third quarter 2010 loss ratios were at the low end of our 65% to 71% targeted range third quarter 2011 loss ratios were on the higher end of that range.
However the year-to-date loss ratio comparison between the 2 periods is equal and year-to-date operating earnings are up 14% on 6% higher premiums.
Corporate reported operating loss of $40 million driven by approximately $12 million earnings shortfall from lower variable investment income on excess capital held at the holding company due to negative marks caused by widening of credit spreads.
We view the quarterly run rate earnings for Corporate to be a $30 million operating loss with some volatility around this result.
Total company net income of $64 million this quarter was impacted by a court ruling regarding some uncertain tax positions and the estimated obligation associated with the New York State Insurance Department's liquidation plan for the Executive Life Insurance Co.
of New York.
We also experienced $38 million of credit-related investment losses during the quarter.
While the credit environment remains choppy the losses remain manageable and we continue to see improvement in our portfolio reflecting the benefit of broad asset diversification.
As Larry mentioned with the evolution of our business model we now have much higher portion of earnings coming from less capital-intensive businesses.
Of our $57 billion of Principal Life's general and guaranteed separate account assets $19 billion or 34% includes a guaranteed minimum interest rate and only $7 billion or 12% is currently at those minimums.
For the remaining portion not at the minimums we have an average of 70 basis points of cushion above the guaranteed minimum rate.
Given our active interest rate risk management we estimate a very modest earnings impact due to low interest environment.
If the quarter-end low interest rate environment persists we would a 1% to 2% impact on our expected 2012 earnings growing to 3% to 8% impact if conditions persist beyond that.
If the low interest rate period were to persist for an extended period of time it may result in a reduction in our long-term interest rate assumption used to model deferred acquisition costs and related actuarial balances.
If we were to lower our long-term interest rate assumption by 25 basis points for every segment across the company it may result in an additional onetime $25 million to $35 million after-tax reduction to operating earnings.
As part of our periodic review of assumptions we monitor the interest rate environment and do not expect an immediate need to lower our long-term interest rate assumption.
Moving to our balance sheet.
Our net unrealized gain position of $1.6 billion was unchanged from second quarter 2011.
Our $1.2 billion gain from impact of decreasing interest rates was offset by widening credit spreads.
As a reminder because of our strong asset liability management changes in net unrealized gain or loss due to interest rate movement do not result in an economic impact and it does not force us to sell assets.
Now moving to capital adequacy.
As of quarter-end we estimate our risk-based capital ratio to be 455%.
Relative to a 350% RBC ratio we have approximately $1.8 billion of total excess capital as of the end of the third quarter with $700 million of the excess capital at the holding company.
Including the Origin acquisition that closed on October 3 we have deployed $350 million for strategic acquisition and $450 million for share repurchase.
Additionally we have announced a $0.70 per share common stock dividend a 27% increase over last year's $0.55 per share common stock dividend.
This brings our total capital deployed year-to-date to $1 billion and reflects the improvement in the free cash flow generation of our business model that is more fee-based and the long-term commitment that we made to turn excess capital to shareholders.
As always we'll continue to evaluate additional capital deployment opportunities.
I'd now like to take a moment to provide an overview of the expected impact of the new deferred acquisition cost guidance on our businesses and starting in 2012.
In October 2010 the FASB issued an update that narrows the definition of acquisition costs that can be capitalized and deferred by insurance companies.
Starting in January 2012 only incremental direct costs of contract acquisitions can be deferred.
All other costs are to be expensed as incurred.
We expect to apply this guidance retrospectively.
This will result in less capitalization of acquisition costs resulting in increased current period expenses.
It will also result in a reduction of our deferred acquisition cost asset as well as eliminate any future amortization associated with deferred acquisition cost assets written off as of the beginning of the year.
For growing companies like the Principal the reduction in first year costs that can be capitalized could be greater than the reduction in the annual amortization of the lower deferred acquisition cost asset.
Consequently near-term operating earnings will be lower than under the current methodology.
However this is a change in timing of earnings recognition and the economic earnings of the underlying businesses remain unchanged.
We are still evaluating the full impacts of implementing this guidance but we currently estimate that our adoption will result in a reduction to the opening balance of retained earnings between $550 million to $750 million at January 1 2012.
We also currently estimate that adopting this new guidance will result in a net $35 million to $45 million full-year reduction to 2012 operating earnings.
These estimates are based upon our current operating assumptions and current interpretation of the guidance and are subject to change.
The majority of this impact will be in Full Service Accumulation an Individual Life with much smaller impacts on Individual Annuities Principal International and Specialty Benefits division.
On a positive note going forward we will have less earnings volatility in Full Service Accumulation since there will be a lower deferred acquisition cost asset subject to true-ups from equity market returns and experience adjustments.
Before I close I'd like to also announce that on December 1 we will provide our 2012 EPS guidance and an update on our capital deployment strategy.
We'll provide more details as the event gets closer.
In closing we are very pleased with the strong underlying fundamentals of the businesses as we look into 2012 and beyond.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to confirm one thing on the capital permit I thought I had it and then I got confused again.
The original was I think you were going to spend $700 million between acquisitions and share repurchase.
And then you went up to $1 billion.
What I'm not clear about is this extra $200 million of dividends.
Is that -- was that foreseen in the $1 billion initial guidance? Or are we still sitting here with $200 million of excess? Steve this is Larry.
I'll comment on that.
When we started 2011 we were sort of estimating that the budget that we would have for acquisitions and share repurchase was in the range of $800 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $800 million okay.
And at the second quarter call a quarter ago we estimated that we thought that $800 million was probably closer to $1 billion.
So those 2 numbers didn't necessarily include anything that we would do with the common stock dividend.
So as you know we now deployed $800 million for acquisitions and share repurchase as compared to the potential budget of $1 billion.
And in addition to that we've now declared a common stock dividend that is give or take roughly $200 million.
So there would be a potential of an additional amount up to $200 million that could still be in that strategic acquisition and share repurchase bucket.
But I would tell you that obviously the world looks a little bit different today than it did at the end of the second quarter so I think there's a little more caution that we'd want to apply around whether we would actually utilize that full $200 million in 2011 or whether some of that might in fact carryover and be looked at in 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I may one more.
On Group Life mortality that looked like a very high number on the loss ratio maybe 10 points higher than where it had been tracking the previous 4 quarters.
I know you think that that number for this quarter was in line but at the high-end can we take away from that that the last 4 quarters have just been running really really good? I'll have Dan comment on that Steve.
Yes I think -- I mean bottom line is we had a high quarter and we actually think that the previous run rate is actually closer to what we would expect relative to pricing.
It's a bit of an outlier and it's obviously not one of those things that allows the customer to gain the system.
So again we will look at this as an anomaly relative to a run rate.
Does that help Steven? Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have a question for Dan just on the FSA business.
I thought you had decent flows this quarter.
But just wondering if you could address why your FSA plan counts have been declining.
It's down I think close to 2 000 plans over the last year.
And it's especially down more in the smaller case sort of core-type market.
And then related to that if you could just talk about what you're seeing in terms of employer and employee behavior in terms of deferrals.
Have you seen any uptick in 401(k) loans? Or what are you seeing in terms of behavior both on the part of employees and employers in terms of matching and deferrals and stuff? Yes.
I mean...
Maybe just make a quick comment Jimmy.
The one thing that you need to take into account when you're looking at that plan count over the last year or so is that there were a number of contracts in there that were in the third quarter 2010 number that fell out in fourth quarter 2010 because of the unwinding of the real estate queue.
So the actual growth in contract count based on normalizing for that has actually been positive for a number of quarters.
But I'll let Dan get into the detail.
Yes.
When we just look at just startup plans if you go back to the era of '05 '06 and '07 there were 1 500 to 1 800 startup plans.
If we look at where we're at year-to-date startup plans was about 820.
If you annualize it you kind of get to that 1 100 or so plans for our full-year 2011.
So in terms of just contributing to positive case count growth we're only running about 65% or 70% of where we had historically been running for those startup plans.
The second negative impact that you have on plan counts are just the plan terminations.
Again we've talked about this on previous calls.
But it's businesses that have gone out of business and therefore they've terminated the plan.
When we look at the ongoing flow of new cases relative to those that we've lost we've had 6 consecutive positive quarters now of growth for case count.
So again I think this has far more to do with the external environment about the lack of startup plans and plan terminations due to going out of business than anything else.
In terms of deferrals and matches and participation participation is about where it has historically run recognizing there's a little bit of downside.
There's a bit of a positive upside on participation due to some of the plans having auto-enroll auto-escalate and those kind of come in at 25% to 30% range.
If we look at average deferrals it's up a little bit which is a very positive component when you think about the number of new people that might be -- being added at the low end of the range.
Hardship withdrawals are flat.
And then if we look at loans loans are up about 5% relative to a year ago but those loans again as a percentage of the total assets is still a relatively small number.
So again the fundamentals of the business both from case count participation deferrals look good.
My closing comment would be around matching contributions.
We've said in previous calls that about 80% of our plans are discretionary about 20% are stated matches.
And of those stated matches that someone had previously made a change in either decreasing or suspending their match about 1/3 of those individuals or those corporations have now put their match back in place either at the same level or increased it.
Hopefully that helps Jimmy.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to pick up on FSA.
The way we measure fees just as a percentage of overall assets seems to continue to tick down.
And I just wanted to get some color on I guess transparency changes with the product and competition and just get a feel for how we should try and model fees relative to assets in the FSA segment going forward? Yes I'll ask Dan to take that.
Sure.
So on the fees relative to Full Service Accumulation remember that about 75% to 80% of those fees are a direct correlation to the account balances themselves.
20% 25% of those fees are effectively based upon some more fixed amount either for administrative services.
So roughly 75% should track with account balances.
This year has been a very good year for us in the ESOP area.
About 23% of our new case sales have had an ESOP component.
And remember in the absence of having that as part of our TRS strategy we probably wouldn't have gotten the underlying 401(k) assets along with those.
So I would attribute to some of the decline this year in terms of fees tracking account values with the very positive results that we're having for our ESOP consulting division.
And maybe I'll just pause and see if there's a follow-up there.
Research Division</strong> Well yes.
I mean that's helpful.
I mean the flows are improving overall.
And then -- so perhaps it's hard for us to model it properly between the asset-tied and the fee-based.
But I guess on a go-forward basis as long as flows are improving would you expect fees to grow on a gross basis for FSA? Is that maybe an easier way of us to think about it? It is.
And of course you're looking at mix of the business too then depending on whether or not that goes into international equity account versus a money market or a fixed income accounts.
And we've talked about this in the past just in terms of geography of where the money lands in which buckets.
And some as you know have better revenue streams than others.
And certainly ESOP has lower revenue streams.
But recognize as I stated earlier it would if we have the underlying 401(k) assets without those.
And the other one is large case versus small case.
It's a little richer in the small size case versus the upper end.
But again when you look at where we're coming in on these margins this 28 to 32 range where -- which is where we've been these last 48 months or so is still a very positive place to be relative to our competitors and allows us to be very street competitive today.
And that's not only true for attracting new business.
I would attribute all the same characteristics to our ability to retain customers.
And you can tell from the withdrawals we've really improved that here in the last 12 to 18 months.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of quick ones.
Terry I was trying to keep up with some of those unusual items that you were mentioning but I may have missed it.
Did you quantify the court ruling impact the tax item and the executive life costs? And just a clarification were those in your operating income? Or were those below the line? They were -- this is Larry John.
They were below the line but I'll let Terry give you the breakdown between those 2.
Yes John this is Terry.
The run rate that we talked about the items we called out we said that we had $0.61 EPS.
But we thought that that was low $0.07 because of the DAC asset and the amortization the unfavorable impact of the equity markets.
And that was about $0.03 in Full Service Accumulation $0.03 in the Individual Annuities and $0.01 in the Life business.
And then we also had a $0.04 number we called out in Corporate because of the variable investment income.
That had a run rate that we feel is appropriate for this quarter of $0.72.
And as Larry mentioned those other 2 adjustments the tax decision the court decision as well as the Executive Life of New York went below the line as -- in part of our other after-tax adjustments.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
On that Corporate strategy the investment strategy is there some benchmark or some -- is there some external benchmark that we can look at to sort of get a better feel for how that tracks? Let me -- this is Larry.
I'll have Julia give you a little bit of color around that strategy and kind of how it's performed and why we do what we do.
So Julia? Let me give you a little bit of background first of all.
A couple of years ago we determined that we'd like to earn more than cash return on a portion of that excess capital before that excess capital got deployed.
So PGI manages a credit strategy and that's very simply they purchase investment grade bonds they hedge out the interest rate risk and then they more actively trade that credit.
And you know the PGI fixed income has a skill set at that.
Because the strategy is more actively traded then the rest of our portfolio all of that return including the marks run through net investment income.
The strategy worked very well for us since inception through third quarter so including this quarter.
And that has returned about 9%.
So clearly better than cash.
So third quarter's performance was clearly an underperformance relative to our expectation.
And the expectation again for any kind of active strategy is tough but we would expect that to be in that $3 million to $4 million range per quarter rather than the negative $7 million we had this quarter.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then just the last question is Larry can you give us some -- with the buyback authorization having been I guess exhausted any expectation on the timing for going back to the board? Sure.
Well as I kind of said it I think in response to Steven's questions the world looks a little bit different today than it did in June or July.
So we continue to have a very active dialogue with the board.
I think the good news is we have more capability to do capital deployment.
But again I think we're going to take a close look at that over time and make some decisions about how much of that budget do we really want to spend in 2011 versus 2012.
I would just say again one of the differentiating points I think for us was fee-based businesses now being 60% of the operating earnings of the company.
We're going to continue to be strong capital generators.
So I think that's really the key for investors over time and it's much less whether it's some incremental piece of that capital done in 4Q11 versus first quarter second quarter '12 it's probably really less of an issue for us over the long term.
We're going to be careful prudent.
We're going to work closely with the board as we always have.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know.
I apologize.
I wasn't trying to get at the exact timing of spending $100 million in this quarter or that quarter.
Just wondering the timing for getting yourself in a position that you'd have an authorization in place to be able to take advantage of if the market gave you some dislocations.
Sure.
I mean our tendency or our approach on this John is maybe a little bit different.
And again I'm not -- I don't know what's better or worse.
But our approach tends to be a little bit different than some other companies in the sense that once we say we're going to do something then we do it.
We're not as -- frankly we're not as comfortable with sort of the larger multi-year kind of multi-billion dollar.
Even though I think our business model gives us that capability I think we're just a little less.
Maybe it's our kind of midwestern conservatism John.
I don't know.
But I think we're a little less -- we're a lot less willing to make those kind of big big type programs.
So what you're going to see from us are going to be more incremental.
There are going to be programs that we announce and then we execute on on a consistent basis.
And we're going to be doing more of them at a smaller level than some sort of big multi-year authorization.
The next question comes from the line of Colin Devine with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First Larry I was wondering if we could talk a little bit about the bank and your current thinking on that and certainly with the transition of fee-based businesses.
I mean if I look at the bank really since you've come public I'm not sure by the time we get to this year that even cumulatively on a net basis it's earned anything.
And is there really any strategic reason to keeping this? Secondly with respect to the realized capital gains and losses this quarter you certainly highlighted in the press release what came from credit impairments and again the CMBS problem this quarter.
What was the remainder? Was that just derivatives? Or was that on the commercial mortgage book? And then lastly for Dan could you talk about pressures on fees on 401(k) plans as you're doing renewals and stuff? Are you having to get fees down? Or is that more of a creation of the media? Okay I appreciate that Colin.
Let me speak to the kind of the bank issue.
And first of all the bank has been a net contributor to profitability over time.
And for example in the current quarter it was a contributor in the range of sort of $3 million or $4 million positive for the current quarter.
So it has been a positive contributor.
We obviously wouldn't -- we wouldn't have a banking business if it wasn't profitable.
We don't believe in loss leaders.
That's just not part of our makeup.
So it's a given that the bank is going to have to perform at an acceptable level acceptably profitable level and it's done that.
Now in terms of the strategic rationale for the bank I would say the strategic rationale for the bank is really in 2 areas.
One is job changers and the second is retirees.
The reality is is that the most commonly understood financial products by the sort of middle-income population or banking products.
And so the ability to use banking products as a receptacle as a rollover IRA sort of receptacle for job changers has been very powerful.
And as you know we've had a lot of success with asset retention for job changers.
We stay right in that sort of low 50% range.
And frankly having the bank is one critical component of that.
I think the emerging opportunity for the bank at which frankly we have yet to capitalize on is we need to do a better job we need to position the bank strategically to be that income management receptacle for people as they enter into retirement.
So people today retirees in particular are quite mobile.
And I think the opportunity around an Internet bank so they can get access to funds no matter where they are in the U.S.
or internationally is something that's very powerful.
But we have to do a little more work to build that out.
But I think the strategic rationale of the bank is actually very solid.
And obviously we have to match that up against whatever other elements there may be to having a bank and we're obviously very well aware of all those items.
And we'll continue to monitor all of that and see where we come out.
But from a strategic perspective let me be very clear the bank does have and plays today a very very meaningful role.
So let me have Julia comment on the credit losses and then Dan can comment on 401(k) fees.
Research Division</strong> One thing Larry before we leave that.
How much capital is the bank tying up? Because I think many of us are trying to figure out why isn't PFG's ROE higher than it is? And I'm looking at the bank I mean it lost a lot of money last year broke even the year before.
What sort of ROE is it producing? And is it tying up a significant amount of capital or not? Yes it is not tying up a significant amount of capital.
The ROEs for the bank would be kind of -- are in that range today.
That would be in -- I'm going to say in the low double-digit range the low double-digit range Colin.
Okay? Julia? Colin if you were to look in our supplement on Page 44 that kind of breaks down our realized gains and losses the fixed maturity or credit impairment is very much in line with last quarter and actually for the last 5 quarters.
And even the losses on CMBS are exactly flat from the last 2 quarters.
So our impairments related to our fixed income securities are very much in line for the year.
And if you look at commercial mortgage the same is true.
In fact things continue to improve in our mortgage portfolio.
So none of the increase comes from really the investment portfolio.
What you would see and if you just compared it to last quarter you'll recall that last quarter was a positive because we sold stocking catalyst.
And we said that that was kind of a onetime event and not repeatable.
That's about $40 million of the change.
The other is predominantly in that DAC amortization line.
Is that helpful? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
And we'll have Dan cover the 401(k) fees Colin.
Yes Colin.
On fees fees are part of every single conversation with a prospective client as well as an existing client.
There's 3 areas they're going to emphasize.
One is going to be fees the second is going to be the services for those fees and the last one's going to be your investment performance.
And I don't know that that's changed in the 27 years I've been around the topic.
Fees have probably taken a higher priority in the last couple of years due to small- medium-sized businesses having pressure on their cost of running their businesses.
So what have we done to respond to that? Part of it is  la carte pricing eliminating services that our customers don't value and unwilling to pay for.
We're also managing our own expenses here.
We're taking advantage of our scale.
We've also tried to make sure that we're emphasizing the value of Total Retirement Suite which is a different value proposition than just standalone 401(k).
Customers put a lot of value on our Retire Secure our ability to go out there and educate our -- those plan participants from small- to medium-sized businesses.
And we also do a fair amount of consulting as you know around deferred comp and ESOP and Defined Benefit.
And the other comment maybe I would make is on all plans greater than $5 million which if you look at that based on assets it's probably 2/3 of our assets there's a customized expense solution for every one of those clients.
Here's the cost that we had in providing our services and here's the charges that we need in order to reimburse ourselves accordingly.
So it is a big part of every conversation.
It's not going to go way.
We as you know have already -- in the midstream of rolling out fee disclosure to the plan sponsors.
And we got to be able to represent our products our services as being a good value for all of our clients.
Research Division</strong> And I guess to sum it up then as you're looking at the margins you're making on your 401(k) business today are they getting better? Are they getting flat? Are they getting tighter? In the most recent 36-month period of time they're flat and we've not been able to get that expansion for all the obvious reasons.
We've had incredible headwinds from the economy.
Small- to medium-sized employers are under a lot of pressure.
And the real question perhaps is in the long run as things recover as we continue to see some of our competitors not being able to compete in this marketplace because of lack of capabilities or size we think we'll take advantage of that.
And our hope is that we'll see margin expansion at some point.
But at this juncture everyone's fighting the same battle.
We know from third parties that our profitability is quite strong and it's our intent to continue to stay in that 28% to 32% range.
Yes let me -- this is Larry.
I'll just close with a couple of comments Colin.
First of all if you think -- if you look at this business how it's performed over the last few quarters by a couple of other metrics because we've talked about the sort of 28- to 30-basis point ROA it has about a 29% return on revenue and has about a 26% return on equity based on our own internal allocations of capital.
So those are very very attractive margins by any sort of product in the financial services space.
So we're very happy with that and I think shareholders will be very happy with that as well if we can keep that going.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to try and focus some on PGI.
I mean you're having success here probably the most success you've had in 3 years.
And I wanted to see maybe if Jim could comment some on kind of behavior and the kind of strategies you're seeing either domestically or internationally in terms of full momentum.
Sure we appreciate the question.
I'll have Jim respond to that Chris.
Chris as I think it's hinted in your question there has been quite a lot of change in client buying behavior over the last 4 or 5 years.
What we are seeing is a strong client appetite across many different types of client for income-based products.
So our high-yield preferreds mortgages and emerging market debt are all seeing very good receptions from clients.
And that speaks by the way into what Larry and Terry said about the strong growth in principal mutual fund sales because the retail clients in the U.S.
like those income-based products.
Secondly we've seen very strong demand for specialty equity products including emerging markets.
But of course by principal Global Investors working with Principal International we have principal of a very strong footprint in emerging markets.
And that's been a big positive in terms of the client reception of our investment products.
And then thirdly real estate which is a very long-established specialty of Principal but one that's come very much into focus in the last year or 2.
So if you add these up that's why we have seen such a strong performance in the last quarter and actually masked by a few large core client redemptions for several quarters now and why we've expressed some optimism about the pipeline.
And then these products that I've mentioned these capabilities that are appealing to clients the strong performance is also fed into the asset allocation performance that Terry described in the prepared remarks.
So I think all of this is really playing well into the growth of our fee-based businesses across the Principal platform.
Principal Mutual Funds Dan mentioned the importance of investment performance and capabilities for Full Service Accumulation.
We are quietly pretty confident about how that whole investment platform is developing for the benefit of our fee-based businesses.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one question I guess on the portfolio.
I mean obviously there's an incredible search for yield here.
And I noticed Page 48 of the supplement within the commercial mortgage loan portfolio.
You've been grilling more in the larger loan size amounts so the $30 million and over versus all the other loan sizes where you've been shrinking here over the past couple of years.
So can you talk about maybe if there has been a change in strategy? Or is it just the overall market that's kind of pushing you more towards the larger case size? Yes.
No.
No overall change in strategy but I'll have Julia comment on that.
Chris I would say not a change in strategy but a change in opportunity.
Through this recovery period I would suggest that certain markets and certain property types have performed better faster.
And some of those happen to be in a little larger size range.
But those still are allowing us to do very high-quality mortgages and I'm talking 50% loan-to-value or better.
So I would say it's because of the opportunity in the recovery not a change in strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One just a quick follow-up I guess to Colin's line of questioning.
Larry I think when you answered his question you mentioned the ROA and FSA at 28 to 30 basis points.
And I'm pretty sure if I go back to a couple of transcripts ago Dan was saying 30 to 32.
And again I don't want to nitpick but I just want to know what the benchmark is in terms of where we should be looking for that margin.
Sure.
Well obviously Suneet first let me just say that's going to get recrafted as a result of EITF.
So we've been talking around that 30-basis-point range.
So whether you want to go 30 32 whether you go 28 32 that's -- there's really not any -- there's -- please don't over read or misread anything different around that.
It's been holding in that kind of 29-basis-point period.
Obviously the EITF is going to have some negative impact on that.
So one of the things we'll be talking about when we get to the earnings guidance in December is kind of what those new ranges are going to be.
But that's not because we're recrafting anything that's just going to be the accounting impact.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no economic impact? This is just a...
Correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then Terry in your prepared remarks you talked about the interest rate environment.
And I think you said if you change your long-term interest rate assumption by 25 basis points you'd get a onetime hit of $28.5 million to $30 million.
My question is if that's right what is the long-term interest rate assumption that you're using? And how does that compare to sort of where you're investing new money today? Suneet this is Terry.
Long-term interest rate varies by product.
Obviously the longer-term product the longer-duration product has a higher interest rate associated with it.
But if you look at all the products across the board we are probably in the 5.5% to 6.25% long-term.
Obviously the Life would be probably on the longer end and maybe some of the group disability products on the shorter end of that.
Now that said it's considerably higher than what we're currently investing in this environment.
However once again we're looking at 40 50 60 or even longer in terms of some of those longer-term duration products.
So what we do is we take into consideration where we are currently and then grade into that longer term over the life of the products.
So hopefully that's helpful.
Just to be clear Suneet what Terry's talking about here is the DAC interest rate assumption as compared to reserves.
Reserves is again a line-by-line thing where you can go into Specialty Benefits area for example and new group disability reserves are being set up in 4.25.
So what Terry is talking about is the DAC interest assumption.
Your next question comes from the line Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I have a -- my first question is for Larry -- actually for Terry.
On the 3% to 8% longer-term impact of low interest rate what time period does that refer to? And is that a cumulative impact over time? Or is that an annual incremental impact? No Ryan.
What we said is if the current interest rate environment persists over 2012 we'd be 1% to 2%.
But as you move out over that 4 5-year 6 years you'd incrementally get a bit larger.
So we'd be in that 3% to 8% range during that extended period of maybe in the 4- or 5-year range.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But in other words is the 3% to 8% a decline communicatively over that entire period? Or is it increment when you get out 5 years from now that would happen in one year? When we get out 5 years from now we'd expect a 3% to 8% drop from current levels of earnings.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And then I have a question on FSA expenses.
The comp and other line was down 4% sequentially.
I was a little bit surprised that you were able to reduce that much in response to the decline in revenue.
What led to that? I'll let Dan talk about that.
Sure.
I mean it's -- frankly it's very disciplined expense management on the part of Greg Rose [ph] and the team leading the FSA business.
Some of that may also have to do a little bit with timing of some of those expenses.
LLC</strong> Is the run rate from the third quarter a reasonable base to grow going forward? Or was there anything unusual? No I think probably the best way to look at it over the course of the last 9 months and look at that run rate and make your determinations from that I think just like most of these every quarter's got a little bit of noise in it.
And although we did a very nice job managing expense in the quarter there are some issues related to timing.
So I'd look at it on a 9-month basis and let that probably be a better guide for your models.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then quick one for Dan.
Can you just give an update on where the pipeline stands in [indiscernible]? Yes.
So pipeline is good.
It's up over 20% and it's with -- across our Allianz partners it's across our various products as well.
And I'd be remiss not to make a comment that we're not only seeing good traction in Full Service Accumulation pipeline we're seeing very good traction with our mutual fund complex.
We've got some very competitive products that we've partnered with Jim McCaughan and his team on.
And so pipeline for the Funds business looks solid.
As you can see sales are very good and we're finally starting to see some good traction with that DCIO or the Defined Contribution Investment Only where we don't provide recordkeeping administration.
We're getting the traction with our mutual fund offerings on our competitors' 401(k) platform.
So again we feel very good about our pipeline and hitting the 20% to 25% improvement in Full Service Accumulation sales for full-year 2011.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
Well thanks again to everyone for joining us for the call today.
As Terry mentioned in his comments we'll be releasing our 2012 earnings guidance on December 1.
And so let me just close by saying we're very pleased with the momentum of our businesses thus far in 2011 and we'll continue working hard to continue that momentum for the rest of the year.
So thanks again.
We look forward to seeing many of you out on the road in the near future.
Have a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 p.m.
Eastern Time until end of day November 4 2011.
13931944 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 for U.S.
and Canadian callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and additional investment portfolio detail are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Slides related to today's call are also on the website.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement and Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Norman Sorensen and Luis Valdez Principal International; and Julia Lawler Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or change in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas: First I'll discuss fourth quarter and full year 2011 results.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful implementation and execution of our strategy.
And I'll close with some comments on the financial strength of the company and our capital management plans.
The fourth quarter saw a continuation of a challenging external environment that had a negative impact on quarterly operating earnings.
This includes continued volatility of credit spreads especially on financials low interest rates and the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against emerging market currencies.
Terry will discuss all of these in more detail.
Despite these external challenges in the fourth quarter the diversified nature of our business model allows us to weather these difficult periods without any significant degradation of the strength of our financial position caused by having significant long-term equity or interest rate guarantees.
This is a significant differentiator from many of our insurance competitors.
Despite these external challenges good momentum continued to build across our businesses in the fourth quarter demonstrating our competitive advantage and the strength of our distribution relationships and product leadership.
Some of the growth metrics from the quarter include strong quarterly sales of $3.3 billion for Full Service Accumulation the third highest on record contributing to strong net cash flows of $1.6 billion in the quarter; record quarterly sales of $3.1 billion in Principal Funds contributing to record net cash flows of $900 million in the quarter; strong net cash flows for Principal International of $1.7 billion; and strong sales in U.S.
Insurance Solutions including $55 million in Individual Life sales in the quarter.
These strong results will lead to improved earnings and continued growth in 2012 and beyond.
Turning now to the full year as outlined on Slide 4 overall results were solid despite the external challenges.
Total company assets under management were $335 billion at the end of the year up 5% over year-end 2010.
Total company earnings for 2011 improved 4% over 2010 to $878 million the second highest operating earnings on record driven by strong sales and enhanced efforts around client retention.
Let me highlight some of the outstanding growth metrics from 2011.
Full Service Accumulation full year sales of $8.4 billion were the second highest ever and were 27% higher than 2010 sales.
We saw sales growth across all distribution channels and across all plan sizes.
Full year net cash flows in Full Service Accumulation were $3.8 billion compared to $600 million for full year 2010.
This means net cash flow was 3.5% a beginning of year account value which is close to flows prior to the financial crisis.
Additionally the pipeline has returned to precrisis levels and is up 25% compared to the same period in 2010.
Principal Funds once again had record sales of $11.2 billion for the year up 20% resulting in record net cash flows of $2.2 billion for the year against industry flows which were neutral.
Principal Global Investors had $11 billion in mandates awarded in 2011.
As of year end $3 billion had yet to fund giving us the opportunity for strong net flows in 2012.
Despite the currency headwinds and an equity market decline in emerging markets reported assets under management in Principal International were $53 billion for the year up 15% over 2010 driven by strong organic growth as well as assets from the HSBC AFORE acquisition.
This growth is in spite a roughly a 10% drag from unfavorable foreign exchange rates.
Full year net cash flows in Principal International were a record $5.5 billion a 17% increase over 2010.
In U.S.
Insurance Solutions Individual Life full year sales of $186 million were up 13% compared to 2010 and year-over-year premiums and deposits increased 9% over last year.
The nonqualified and business owner markets continued to drive sales in this segment leading to significantly higher growth than the life industry overall.
Full year Specialty Benefits sales were $285 million up 18% over 2010 with all products showing growth and record sales in Individual Disability.
As we think about 2011 and how that positions us going forward we have a focused set of strategically aligned businesses that are performing well have good momentum and have exceptional long-term growth potential.
Now I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution of our strategy as well as the key differentiators that make our strategy the right one for long-term growth.
We remain committed to providing comprehensive solutions to small and medium-sized businesses.
In Full Service Accumulation Principal Total Retirement Suite continues to be a differentiator for us driving 61% of 2011 sales.
Plan sponsors and plan participants like the convenience of having all of their retirement plans from one top-tier provider driving better close ratios and better persistency for this block.
Client retention efforts in Full Service Accumulation over the past few years have resulted in lower withdrawals contributing to improved lapse rates overall.
Our focus on the Allianz distribution channel continues to drive strong Full Service Accumulation sales with over 44% of total sales coming from Allianz firms.
We continue to build out these relationships by adding more products to their platforms and creating more ways to win.
Our Allianz distribution relationships were recently strengthened with the addition of another national broker-dealer Edward Jones.
Edward Jones is one of the largest and most recognized broker-dealers in the U.S.
and focuses on small and medium-sized clients like we do.
We're excited about the opportunity to build upon this multiproduct relationship in the coming years.
Moving now to our efforts to capture and retain more baby boomer assets our growth in Principal Funds is driven by an outcome-oriented multi-manager product strategy.
We offer mutual funds that meet specific investor needs such as providing income strategies for helping to protect against inflation and market volatility especially for investors nearing and in retirement.
The most recent fund launched was the Global Multi-Strategy Fund which seeks to achieve long-term capital appreciation with an emphasis on positive total returns and relatively low volatility.
Our product innovation and distribution model continued to be differentiators for Principal Funds.
Four funds had more than $1 billion in sales in 2011: the Global Diversified Income Fund High Yield Fund Preferred Securities Fund and Strategic Asset Management Portfolios.
Additionally our broad suite of investment and income solutions which allows us to capture and retain assets as plan participants retire contributed more than $1 billion in Principal Funds sales in 2011.
The single best leading indicator of future sales is investment performance.
Investment performance continues to be strong across asset classes and is a differentiator for the Principal.
The strong performance includes particular strength in asset allocation where at quarter end 94% of our target date and target risk funds were in the top half on a 1-year basis 84% on a 3-year basis and 69% on a 5-year basis.
2011 was a very successful year in terms of executing our global investment management strategy.
During the year we announced and closed on 3 acquisitions that were exactly the right fit for our strategy.
In Principal Global Investors we acquired a majority stake in Finisterre Capital and Origin Asset Management both based in London and both focused internationally with an emphasis on emerging markets.
These fit perfectly within our successful multi-boutique strategy and through our global distribution platform we expect to grow assets under management by 3 to 5x in the next 5 years for each acquired boutique.
In the last week we received approval to launch a Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor or QFII fund which allows foreign investors to invest in China.
This further positions us as a leading global investment manager.
In Principal International we announced and closed on the acquisition of HSBC AFORE which is the mandatory Defined Contribution business in Mexico.
This acquisition added scale to grow our operations in Mexico making the Principal the seventh largest AFORE in Mexico and giving us an important 5-year exclusive distribution agreement with HSBC Mexico which has the fourth largest bank distribution platform.
This deal complements our existing infrastructure is already accretive and a meaningful contributor to Principal International's earnings.
This acquisition is just one example of the tremendous growth and success we've seen in Principal International.
That's thanks in large part to the contributions from the Chairman of Principal International Norman Sorensen.
As we announced several weeks ago Norman will retire at the end of this month.
We thank him for his tremendous contribution during his 14 years at the Principal and look forward to his continued involvement on our international advisory council in 2012.
As the successful head of our Latin American operations for the past decade Luis Valdez President and CEO of Principal International will continue to lead this division.
This transition is part of a planned succession that we announced last year.
Norman and Luis have been working closely together and we look forward to additional global growth under Luis' leadership.
Overall I am very pleased with the continued execution of our strategy across the businesses.
With a strategy that is focused on businesses that offer potential for significant long-term growth our outlook remains positive going into 2012 and beyond.
As a global investment management leader our business mix is the right one.
We're in the right growth markets and we know what it takes to stay competitive.
Moving now to some comments on the strength and flexibility of our financial position.
As shown on Slide 5 our business model has shifted to a more fee-based investment management model which means we need less capital to support organic growth.
And with realized capital losses now down to their lowest levels since the financial crisis we can put even more capital to work to build long-term shareholder value.
This enables us to deploy more capital towards strategic acquisitions and return more capital to shareholders.
As evidence of that we strategically deployed more than $1.1 billion of capital throughout 2011 while starting and ending the year at the same level of excess capital in what remains a challenging environment.
We are very pleased with the combination of capital deployment actions we took this year and we will use this model as a template going forward.
Further evidence of our commitment to building long-term value for shareholders is our recent announcement that we will move to a quarterly common stock dividend schedule starting in first quarter 2012.
This action reflects the migration of our business model to more fee-based businesses and the absence of a significant exposure to products with long-term guarantees that can negatively impact our financial strength.
The solid performance in 2011 is the result of our employees' dedication and focus on successfully executing on our strategy.
Despite ongoing market challenges our employees continue to work hard to serve advisers and clients.
I'm proud of the work they do and look forward to our future as a leading global investment manager.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
As Larry mentioned fourth quarter earnings were negatively impacted by headwinds.
However business fundamentals remain strong.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter and full year; net income including continued solid performance of our investment portfolio; and the strength of our capital position and strong balance sheet as we enter 2012.
Fourth quarter 2011 operating earnings of $217 million were up 1% from a year ago quarter on 5% higher average assets under management.
There were a few notable items impacting fourth quarter 2011 operating earnings.
Fourth quarter 2011 had positive DAC amortization true-ups due to the equity market performance which benefited Full Service Accumulation Individual Annuities and Individual Life by $0.01 each.
Principal International benefited by $0.03 from foreign tax credits and the removal of a 1-month reporting lag in Brasilprev thus reporting 4 months of earnings from that operation in the fourth quarter.
Full Service Accumulation was dampened by $0.04 from lower spread and higher expenses in the quarter and the Corporate segment was negatively impacted by $0.04 from lower variable investment income on excess capital held at the holding company from an active credit strategy.
Adjusting for these items we consider the earnings per share run rate for the fourth quarter to be $0.73 and fourth quarter 2011 earnings down 2% on a 5% increase in average assets under management compared to adjusted fourth quarter 2010.
Now let me discuss the business unit results.
Full Service Accumulation operating earnings at $64 million were down 16% from a year ago quarter on a 3% increase in average account values.
The earnings drop was driven by higher quarterly cost for pension and other postretirement benefits which we refer to as security benefit cost higher nondeferrable sales compensation expense and less variable investment income.
A more normalized earnings results for this quarter would have been $72 million.
In 2012 new regulation for plan sponsor and participant fee disclosures are scheduled to take effect.
The Principal has been well positioned for this regulatory change and we were an early adopter of the proposed disclosure regulations in fall of 2011.
Advisers and plan sponsors place business with us because of our compelling value proposition not because we're the cheapest provider.
The retirement industry is fragmented and we expect to see the industries consolidate to the top players such as the Principal.
Let me make a couple of comments related to the Full Service Accumulation margins.
Slide 6 summarizes the leading drivers of the return on assets since 2004.
Factor one which has been the largest impact is a consumer-driven shift in business mix which I'll give more detail on in a moment.
The second factor is the current market environment which has reduced recurring deposits.
The third factor listed growth retention and efficiency is one we have and will continue to influence through scale and focused execution.
As depicted on Slide 7 the mix of business is shifting away from general and separate account investments into mutual funds and employer securities reducing return on assets but improving free cash flow generation.
As this business mix continues to shift and more business is written on our mutual fund platform in a nondomestic equity investment fewer dividends are eligible for the dividend received deduction benefit which also reduces the return on assets.
Despite this we continue to deliver industry-leading return on assets.
When we measure results for Full Service Accumulation we also look at other profit metrics such as pretax margins and pretax return on net revenue which are better indicators of the financial performance of the business.
Slide 8 illustrates our stable track record of driving revenues to the bottom line even as customer preferences migrate to different asset types.
Return on revenue margins continues to be a key focus.
2011 Full Service Accumulation sales of $8.4 billion was very strong up 27% over 2010.
The underlying fundamentals within Full Service Accumulation continue to improve.
The sales pipeline continues to build across all market sizes and distribution channels and the close ratios continue to improve.
We are actively executing on our strategy to win more business and gain market share despite the shift in business mix and environmental headwinds.
Strong transfer deposits combined with excellent client retention drove full year net cash flow of $3.8 billion or 3.5% of beginning year account value against an industry that ended the year flat as estimated by Cerulli.
We also saw modest growth in recurring deposits year-over-year reflecting improvement in employer matches and salary deferrals.
While unemployment rates remain elevated these trends increase our optimism about improvement in the U.S.
economy in 2012.
Principal Funds continues to deliver strong operating results.
Operating earnings at $11 million in the fourth quarter were in line with the year ago quarter.
On a full year basis 2011 operating earnings of $48 million were up 22% on 12% increase in average account values.
Full year 2011 sales were $11.2 billion up 20% over 2010 driving full year net cash flows to a record $2.2 billion.
Individual Annuities operating earnings in fourth quarter 2011 were $30 million down $3 million from a year ago quarter.
As the low interest rate environment persists Individual Annuities will continue to experience spread compression.
Fourth quarter 2011 earnings from Principal Global Investors were $18 million down 9% from a year ago quarter on a 2% increase in average assets under management primarily due to higher compensation cost and the acquisition cost related with our purchase of Origin Asset Management.
In fourth quarter 2011 we earned performance fees on our hedge funds at Columbus Circle Investors one of our investment boutiques.
As is common in the industry a substantial portion of those fees is shared with the investment managers.
On a full year basis earnings were up 26% on a 5% increase in average assets under management as pretax margins expanded to 21.4% another step on our road back to the target of over 30% pretax margin.
Unaffiliated net cash flow for the quarter was a negative $900 million due to market volatility causing some delay in the funding of mandates awarded until after year end.
Principal Global Investors had $11 billion in mandates awarded in 2011 double the amount awarded in 2010.
As Larry mentioned as of year end $3 billion of the 2011 total awarded had yet to fund.
We remain optimistic about the likely institutional net flows for Principal Global Investors in 2012.
We base this optimism on a high level of client interest in awarding new mandates for our capabilities and also on a generally good client appreciation of our investment performance and service.
Additional activities that bode well for the long-term growth are the 2012 launch of the QFII fund as well as the expanded series of Islamic investments.
However market volatility continues to feed uncertainty about client plans so we see this as a risk.
As we continue to monitor the global economy and focus on things we can control such as execution and fund performance we remain cautiously optimistic as we begin 2012.
Moving to Principal International operating earnings at $51 million include one-time benefits of approximately $10 million.
Of this $7 million results from an additional month of earnings in current quarter results from Brasilprev as we closed the 1-month reporting lag for that business.
This also impacts assets under management and net cash flow.
After this change we will no longer have any material operations in Principal International on a 1-month reporting lag.
The remaining $3 million benefit came from some foreign tax credits we were able to recognize.
Assets under management were $53 billion at year end down 3% from third quarter 2011.
Net cash flow of $1.7 billion and positive investment performance of $1.3 billion was more than offset by the negative $4.8 billion effect of exchange rates from the strengthening dollar.
While the underlying growth of the companies on a local basis at approximately 15% remain strong 2012 began with operating earnings weighted foreign exchange rates roughly 10% less favorable than the 2011 average rates providing a headwind to U.S.
dollar reported earnings.
Our financial supplement now includes foreign exchange information used for financial reporting to help you better analyze the impact of exchange rates on Principal International.
A quick comment on an item that will impact Principal International in the first quarter 2012.
In the Mexican AFORE pension market participants who did not select in AFORE are assigned to various providers.
The regulator of the Mexican AFORE pension market has initiated a program to reassign these participants to providers with higher net investment returns.
Principal will both gain and lose participants from this recent reassignment.
A reassignment of participants out of the Principal AFORE will result in an after-tax write-down of present value of future profits while participants that transfer in will not generate capitalized expenses.
In January 2012 participants were transferred out of the Principal AFORE generating an after-tax present value future profits write-off of approximately $5 million.
Future revenue loss on these accounts will be partially offset by revenues from any future participants assigned to us.
Individual Life fourth quarter operating earnings were $33 million.
This was in line with the year ago quarter after adjusting fourth quarter 2010 for the impact of a one-time increase in net reserves following a periodic long-term interest rate assumption review.
On a full year basis Individual Life had record operating earnings of $119 million.
Full year life sales of $186 million were up 13% driven by nonqualified product offerings as well as continued success in the business owner and executive solutions market.
Turning to Specialty Benefits fourth quarter operating earnings were $26 million down $4 million from a favorable year ago quarter.
Premium growth and stable claim experience were more than offset by lower variable investment income and higher security benefit cost in the current quarter.
On a full year basis Specialty Benefits earnings were up 5% on a 6% increase in premium fees.
Additionally on a full year basis loss ratios remained very stable and at the midpoint of our targeted range.
Our Specialty Benefits business continues to perform very well.
The Corporate segment reported an operating loss of $43 million driven by a shortfall in performance on an active credit strategy of approximately $13 million.
The loss was primarily driven by the write-down of an MF Global bond.
The active credit strategy provided a 4 1/4% annualized return since inception.
However we have completely wound this strategy down as of January 2012 due to the added volatility and the continued deployment of excess capital at the holding company in 2011.
As we communicated on our guidance call we expect full year 2012 operating losses for the Corporate segment of $120 million to $130 million.
For the year total company net income was $682 million an increase of 2% over 2010.
We also experienced $147 million of credit-related investment losses for the year a continued downward trend to a multiyear low.
The evolution of our business model means we now have a much higher portion of our earnings coming from less capital intensive more fee-based businesses.
As the low interest rate environment persists our earnings will grow but at a slower rate as shown in Slide 9.
In addition to the items I previously mentioned that will impact 2012 results in Principal International and the Corporate segment let me provide a brief update on the impact of deferred acquisition cost guidance that went into effect in January.
We continue to refine our modeled impacts from the new guidance and Slide 10 summarizes our updated estimates.
While the 2012 total company earnings impact estimate remains at $35 million to $45 million there is a slight shift in the business segment split.
Moving to our balance sheet our net unrealized capital gain position of $1.6 billion was unchanged from third quarter 2011.
As a reminder because of our strong asset liability management changes in net unrealized gain or loss due to interest rate movement do not result in economic impact and do not force us to sell assets.
In the fourth quarter we completed a $100 million share buyback authorization paid $215 million for our common stock dividend and closed on the Origin acquisition for approximately $60 million.
Looking at capital adequacy we estimate our year-end risk-based capital ratio to be 445%.
Relative to a 350% RBC ratio we have approximately $1.6 billion of total excess capital with approximately $600 million of the excess capital at the holding company.
As outlined in Slide 11 in 2011 we deployed more than $1.1 billion of capital.
This includes $350 million for strategic acquisitions $550 million for opportunistic share repurchase and the common stock dividend I previously mentioned.
We expect our 2012 capital deployment strategy to be very similar to 2011.
We believe our decision to move to a quarterly common stock dividend and our overall capital deployment actions demonstrate our commitment to creating long-term value for shareholders.
In closing we are very pleased with the strong underlying fundamentals of our businesses as we look into 2012 and beyond.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on ROA.
The slides are helpful and the guidance is a little bit lower the 24 to 26 basis points.
I'm just trying to get a perspective on how that might get better or get worse in 2013.
It seems like the -- of the 3 bullets you laid out in your presentation the consumer shift as well as a lot of your initiatives on retention and efficiency thus far it don't change as much or maybe the market would get better.
I'm just trying to think about how we want to think about that ROA a little bit longer term.
Randy this is Larry.
I think what you said makes a lot of sense.
I don't think we'll see quite as dramatic shift in some of those consumer-driven components.
Probably the one that will have a little bit more impact is that -- and it's a good news event and that's the reality that we are writing on a relative basis more and more of the business on the mutual fund platform.
And it has 2 impacts: One would be of course the difference in DRD on the mutual fund platform.
And the second is which is a little bit muted because of the EITF change but the second one is that we don't DAC anything on the mutual fund platform.
So in the short term that might look like a little less ROA but obviously in the longer term assuming again we can continue the kind of client retention we've had it should contribute to actually improved ROAs over time as that new business becomes less as a percentage of the total.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick one on FSA as well the number of cases it kind of keeps falling and I think this had been a topic on previous calls but the cases are larger.
And is that just -- is that something we can expect to continue? Is that a function of less new business creation? Or is that something you're intentionally doing maybe to take advantage of scale? Yes there is -- our intention Randy is to write small medium and large-sized plans write them in all categories.
And if you actually look at the number of cases written in 2011 they were up 30% over 2010.
And you remember the assets that were written in 2011 were up 27%.
So obviously we're continuing to focus on the small plan but I'll let Dan comment on the trend overall for the platform.
Randy it's certainly our intention to sell across the entire platform small medium and large.
And with an 80% plus increase in TPA sales that gives you some indication of our reemphasizing on the small case market.
But a couple of stats relative to the startup plans and plan terminations.
And again this is a differentiation between not going to another service provider but the plan terminated itself.
What we've seen is start-ups are themselves are down by about 500 contracts on an annualized basis.
And if we look at plan terms those plan terms are still up by over 10% from a year ago.
So most of the shrinkages occurred in that small less than 500 life employer market.
And until we start seeing the economy turn around and we see new startup plans and we see fewer plans terminating we probably won't see a significant increase in that space.
Next question is from Ed Spehar with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> The question I have is on the FSA ROA roll forward from 2004.
And I guess if you -- could you give us some numbers around the pieces here? Like the general account shift I mean I would guess that might be 3 or 4 basis points of ROA.
But maybe could you give us some sense of each of those pieces? And then a related question is you mentioned the greater use of nonproprietary options as a factor behind the ROA decline.
I thought that the impact to FSA margins was 0 if depending -- regardless of whether it was a proprietary or nonproprietary fund and that the benefit of that was where you would see the benefit of a proprietary fund was in the PGI segment.
So maybe help us understand that.
Yes.
Ed this is Larry.
I'm going to make a couple of comments then I'll let Terry kind of deal with that greater bucket about consumer driven.
My comment on the nonproprietary Ed is really more focused around the issue on new business.
The reality is that most of the time when you write new business -- and the good news is we've been writing more than our fair share of new business you're not going to drive as much proprietary assets into that new business initially.
That's just the way it's worked for decades.
And so as you write new business and you write greater volumes of new business on a nonproprietary platform that will have some negative impact.
It will have some degradation in the ROA.
Now what happens over time because of the expertise of our service staff and our relationship managers we basically convert a lot of that nonproprietary money over to proprietary assets in Years 2 3 4 5 6 as the investment lineup is reviewed and changed.
And as I said in my comment the great thing here is that our investment performance across our proprietary platform and particularly on PGI is exceptionally strong.
It's exceptionally strong.
So we do believe that we'll see that help us and become more of a tailwind as we go forward.
So I'll have Terry comment on the consumer-driven component.
Ed this is Terry.
As we look at the roll down of the ROA since 2004 to 2011 there's a lot of components that come into it.
But mix of businesses as the slides indicated is probably our biggest driver of it now.
I'm going to give you some metrics associated with each of these types of investment but you have to realize that these are revenues that are generated expenses are allocated to it the equity market and the DAC amortization all that stuff that comes into play.
But in general the general account is probably the more profitable business because there are more risks associated with that type of investment and more capital associated with that as well.
But that's probably in that 70 75 basis points range would be a profitability.
Separate accounts also have profitability associated with them of around 30 to 35 basis points.
Now it is where most of the DRD or the dividend received deduction benefit is coming into play.
And so that's why we separated that out.
As that rolls down that tax credit we get will probably be a little bit less.
But 30 to 35 basis points would probably be a good profitability measure there.
The proprietary funds and the nonproprietary funds they as you mentioned before have similar profitability metrics.
It also comes into play as to what types of investments that they're making whether they are passive or active or they are international fixed income equity.
All that comes into play.
But roughly we're talking 15 to 20 basis points of profitability for those types of businesses.
And then the employer securities which is more of a consulting relationship where we'll be able to benefit as those participants cash out of their plan and retain them in other markets.
That's probably in that 5 basis points.
So if you weight those you get roughly what we reported in terms of the ROA roll down in our slide deck as well.
Now once again as I mentioned you got to take into consideration some noise.
The equity market improvement or decline has some play as to how much DAC amortization but that would get you roughly those numbers.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's extremely helpful.
Just one -- did you say 15 to 20 or 15 to 25 on proprietary? 15 to 20.
Research Division</strong> 15 to 20.
And the number that you -- I can't recall if you had said -- when you gave your outlook I think maybe you did about expected capital deployment of $800 million to $900 million for this year.
Did you comment on how much of that you consider to be just the free cash flow generated versus how much of it is working down on the on balance sheet? Well I would say Ed that the vast vast majority is really just coming.
If you will it's basically net income.
So the vast majority of that -- I mean we -- again we have excess capital of about $1.6 billion that we want to hold an internal cushion probably around $1.1 billion or $1.2 billion.
So we'd have what we have considered to be somewhere around $400 million $450 million of sort of truly excess cash.
We'll work that down but that will be down over multiple years.
So for the most part that represents the net income that we expect in 2012.
Your next question comes from Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I've got a few.
Firstly just a follow-up on Ed's question.
The difference between the annuity structure and the trust structure of 30 to 35 on the annuity and the 15 to 20 on the mutual fund structure is that purely the DRD? Are there any other factors that's driving that change in profitability? Mark this is Terry.
I'd say that's entirely the DRD at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a few other clarifications.
Just -- I think you stated it in the presentation but the 22 to 26 that you're looking at for 2015 that compares to the 27.
That doesn't compare to the 24 to 26 that you're assuming for 2012 due to the DAC.
Correct? The lower number the 22 to 26 is on a post-EITF basis.
That's a reduction.
So that would be down from that 27 basis points that we are saying at this point in time.
It's probably a good run rate.
Research Division</strong> Sorry just to clarify.
So the 22 to 26 is assuming that the EITF 09-G is implemented.
So it does compare to the 24 to 26 that you're assuming for 2012.
The 22 to 26 is on the after DAC changes.
No the 22 to 26 Mark is done on the same consistent basis as the 27 in 2011.
If you can see from the slide the slide says all years on a pre-DAC change basis.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes okay.
Research Division</strong> That was my interpretation.
I just want to understand.
I apologize.
I agree.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a couple of questions on that.
Firstly in the explanations you have kind of the market impacts which I think was a negative 3 basis points.
In your 22 to 26 are you assuming any recovery in some of those factors planned terminations et cetera? Or are you kind of assuming that where we are today is what we're going to look like 3 years from now with no recovery from market factors? I would say -- Mark this is Larry -- it would be our best guess that whatever trends we kind of see sort of operating in the market today which would be again generally speaking sort of a slow economic recovery those are the trends that we would be sort of looking at between now and 2015.
So we're not assuming any particular rapid recovery.
We're not assuming any particular significant fall in the economy.
We're assuming it looks more like it does today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the capital deployment picking up something you actually said in your opening remarks is there any change in your thinking between M&amp;A and buybacks in the $800 million to $900 million that's not allocated to dividends? I wouldn't say there's any change in thinking Randy (sic) [Mark] but the one thing that I always say is that M&amp;A is very very very difficult to forecast.
It's just very very difficult to forecast.
So when you'd say to anybody who sits in my seat "How much do you expect to deploy of that $800 million to $900 million how much do you expect to deploy in M&amp;A for the year?" I mean that would literally just be throwing a dart at the wall because you really don't know.
What I would say is that we have a strategy that has probably the highest level of organic growth embedded into it.
If anybody -- any of our competitors whether it's on the insurance side or the asset management side.
So for us M&amp;A needs to be the right M&amp;A.
It needs to be accretive.
It needs to further augment our growth capability.
And I would just say again the real success for us in 2011 among other things were the 3 acquisitions that we did.
And if we could do that every year I would be a very very happy CEO.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Actually just one final quick question.
In the expectations around 2015 of 22 to 26 what's the assumed AUM growth annually? Well you'd have -- again generally Randy (sic) [Mark] what you'd have there would be about 8% equity market growth.
You've got some of it in fixed income.
So it's not going to grow as fast.
You've got a little bit of it in international.
It might grow at 9%.
And then again we'd probably be looking at net cash flow about 4% of beginning account value.
That would get you to your total AUM growth.
Your next question comes from Suneet Kamath with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up to Mark's question and I'll have another one -- excuse me.
So looking at Slide 8 in the illustration for 20 to 25 as well as the title that says "pre DAC " given there seems to be this 2 basis point reduction from the DAC accounting change if we did it on a sort of post-DAC basis is the 22 to 26 really 20 to 24? Correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the other thing that I'm sort of struggling with -- and I appreciate the detail on the slides.
But the other thing I'm struggling with is if you look at this business from 2004 to 2011 you had I don't know 84% growth in average account values just using the numbers that are on your slide.
So I'm just wondering why this business why we're not seeing -- in addition to all the issues that you laid out that are resulting in a decline in the ROA why we're not seeing massive positive operating leverage? Yes.
Suneet this is Larry and I'll ask Dan to comment as well.
We are driving positive operating leverage into the business.
As we've shown you on the slide we think that we've driven somewhere around 4 basis points net 4 basis points net of efficiency that there are truly scale advantages to this business.
And we've commented before about how in the recent years we've added very very -- actually sort of the net employee count is actually down a little bit but we've obviously been adding business.
But one thing I would say here though just to kind of temper that enthusiasm because there are economies of scale but at the same time Suneet it is absolutely critical that we continue to invest in this business.
And that means investing in distribution.
It means investing in the IT platform.
It means investing to make sure we have the right asset management of things in place.
So we will continue to invest in this business because it is critical for the long-term success.
So we have to balance that.
We have to balance the need to drive operational efficiency and scale but we also have to invest in the business.
And I think again -- actually again net-net on a 4 basis points over the last 7 years that's actually a pretty good record.
But maybe I'll let Dan comment.
Yes well said.
So you set aside those consumer-driven issues and the market impact.
I'm very optimistic that as the economy continues to recover here we'll get those market environmental component back into our operating earnings leverage.
If you just look at the overall contribution that investments would have contributed to net cash flow this past year it was  -- or to our account values it was 0.
That was the overall contribution that we derived from the investment from this $1 billion -- $100 billion plus platform.
The other piece of what I would call very good news comes from Chatham and it's "Alright you've reduced your expense structure.
You've made some investments.
Are your clients satisfied?" Among our emerging clients that we surveyed recently we had 96% satisfaction.
We look at our dynamic where Principal is 42% above the industry benchmark.
When you look at institutional we were 36% above the industry benchmark.
Overall satisfaction is 97% for institutional and dynamic.
So not only are we becoming more efficient not only are we launching new products but we're retaining customers at very record levels.
So I feel as if we are establishing a very solid base here for our ability to continue to be truly one of the nation's leading providers of these retirement services to small to medium-sized businesses.
Hopefully that helps.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's great.
Just one last quick follow-up.
On Slide 8 again on this ROA versus ROE trade off for FSA given your commentary what was the rough ROE of this business in 2004 given versus where it is today? I'll ask Terry.
Yes.
Suneet this is Terry.
The -- in 2004 that business had a much more capital intensive because of the general account mix.
So it was probably just slightly below the net 20% range.
And so it's now plus -- 25-plus percent.
So as that ROA has declined it's freed up capital less capital intensive businesses and you've seen the ROE increase significantly as well.
Your next question comes from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One more on Page 8.
Given what we're looking at here in terms of the return on assets and particularly the proposed DAC I don't think this was touched upon -- maybe I missed it.
But the ability to take cash out you've been at 60 65 for a while.
You've got up to around 70 now.
If you're looking at just 2015 and this works out the way that you think how much money do you think you can get out? What kind of percent? Oh you're talking -- I'm sorry.
Steve this is Larry.
You're talking about the percent of asset -- the percent of the earnings that can be passed through to free cash flow? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that would be right.
Yes.
So I'm sorry.
So again today my guess is that we'll continue to be able to increase that.
I mean maybe it's in the range of 1 to 2 percentage points every year.
So that sort of 65 becomes 67 in a couple of years becomes 70 in couple of years.
That sort of rate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I can just on a comment I think Larry you mentioned that FSA pipeline was up 25% year-over-year.
Does that imply that we could be looking at a 25% increase in sales for the first quarter? I'll let Dan take that one Steve.
Yes.
Knowing that many of our members of the sales force are listening to the call yes absolutely.
We do like to think that we can convert our pipeline to sales but you know how this goes.
We don't -- we're not 100% successful.
We feel good about the pipeline for a couple of different reasons: One is it isn't filled with just large cases.
This isn't just an institutional place.
We've got really great traction going on for small medium and large.
Our close rates are up from where they were a year ago and we feel optimistic about delivering a solid sales result for 2011 and we're off to a good start so far.
I would just say Steve it isn't like that to get a very solid sales result in Q4 we had to clean up the pipeline.
Let's just say it that way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then if I may one kind of out of the blue there was -- I think it was an investor.
It was one of the trade reps.
China is something going on in the pension market in China? It looked like they might be going to some voluntary individual type of pension plan.
Could you comment on that? I'm going to let Norman comment on that one.
He's been Mr.
China here for several years.
So Norman take that one.
Basically what's been happening since 2005 is the Chinese government has established something called enterprise annuity which is a clone of 401(k) but it doesn't have the tax advantages that 401(k) has in the U.S.
So they've been perfecting this.
So far foreign companies have not been allowed.
We are first in line for this and our application stands back to about 2007.
So we're very hopeful that sooner than later we'll get approval to enter that market with a license for the enterprise annuity.
By the way it's not an annuity.
It's a misnomer.
It is really a 401(k) type plan.
We have enormous confidence that that market will be very very large.
And not only us but a number of American companies will benefit from it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So there's nothing new going on.
It's just the same process that's been going on now for quite a while.
That's correct.
The process is underway but they're perfecting it.
For example they're beginning to add some tax advantages to the thing.
They see that employees will not contribute as much unless they have tax advantages.
So the tax department is working on this.
It's a whole roundabout of many -- various ministries that are trying to perfect this system.
The key to us to it obviously is our entry.
We need to get entry first since no foreign company has yet been allowed.
Our next question is from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question in terms of we're seeing some better payroll data small and medium-sized business data is finally showing a bit more momentum at least sort of the best since '08.
So curious in terms of how we should think about the potential benefit to sales and flows if this persists and then ultimately what that should imply from an ROA and ROE standpoint things flowing through the bottom line.
Okay well I'll make a few comments on that.
I think we'd said going into 2011 Chris as you remember we expected to have sort of a muted economic recovery and we talked for example for full service accum we talked about net cash flow that was in the 3% to 5% range.
I would say as you know when things are sort of hitting on all cylinders relative to the economy and small and medium employers and we get the startup plans that Dan was talking about before we'd expect that net cash flow to be more in that 4% to 6% of beginning account value range.
So we're sort of 2/3 3/4 of the way back towards what might be normal under the old conditions.
I don't know if we'll get there exactly in 2012.
It does look like we're inching closer to that.
But whether we'll see that consistent growth in 2012 I don't know.
My own personal view is that we've got to deal with some of the longer term and more systemic sort of budget issues.
And we may need to think a little bit more about tax reform before we finally see that uncertainty which has been sort of hanging over the American economy for some time.
In terms of ROAs and ROEs and all of that again what I would just caution you about there is that again with the change in EITF you're going to see some negative impact on those ROAs.
And the other thing again we're writing more and more the business on a mutual fund platform that doesn't allow any sort of DAC.
So it looks less profitable in the early years and more and more of the business are going on that platform.
So that one is a little bit harder to predict.
Anything else Dan? No.
The only thing I was going to throw out is we're just trying to test the markets for the economic recovery.
We know that we track in our Specialty Benefits division the number of workers covered in our life and disability and dental businesses and for the first time now we have a full trailing 12 months positive growth.
It's not up to where it has historically been at that 1.5% growth per year but it's now turning positive.
So again we feel good that there is employment growth returning to the small to medium-sized marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up then in terms of the competitive landscape.
There's been the finalization of the Fee Disclosure Act that came out yesterday.
There's been a lot basically saying that if you're a small business now is the time to really be shopping 401(k) plans because you're seeing a lot of sort of new entries Vanguard's coming out with sort of a low -- another low-cost feature.
So there's been a lot of sort of pressure around continued shopping.
So I'm curious in terms of what you guys are seeing there potential opportunities and risks from the recent environment.
Sure.
That's a good question.
I'll let Dan comment.
Chris this isn't something that happened just this week or just this year.
This has been going on for the last several years.
All the advisers are out there doing their jobs with their respective companies and they've put these plans out to bid.
We see the fee disclosure frankly as a very positive move overall.
It gives us an opportunity to clearly articulate our value proposition.
It resonates with the advisers.
It resonates with the plan sponsors.
And then another note relative to an article earlier in the week about passive investment options and what's the implication on Principal we have already in excess of $15 billion of passive investment options on our platform.
About 24 500 of our plans call it mid-30 000 some-odd plans already have a passive investment option and we have 6 passive options available to our clients.
So we don't see that this is a pivotal event then all of a sudden the money migrates towards passive.
And frankly investment return for active managers like Principal Global Investors has really improved here in the last 12 months and we feel very good about getting out and not only talking about fee disclosure but talking about TRS talking about TPAs and option and profiling again so many of these new investment options that we have available to our customers through our relationship managers and our customer service associates that are deployed locally.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please? Well thanks again to all of you for joining us today.
We're excited about 2012 when we entered the year with good momentum across all our businesses.
Our financial position remains very strong and with excess capital of $1.6 billion we look forward to the opportunities that are in front of us.
Hopefully everybody has a great day.
Thanks for listening.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning approximately 8 p.m.
Eastern Time until the end of the day February 10 2012.
39011663 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 for U.S.
and Canada callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group's First Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's first quarter earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and additional investment portfolio detail are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Slides related to today's call are also available on our website.
Following the reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for your questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement and Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global investor; Luis Valdez Principal International; and Julia Lawler our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
I'd also like to remind everyone that our 2012 Investor Day will be held Friday morning September 21 in New York.
Details to follow closer to the event.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas: First I'll briefly discuss first quarter 2012 results.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution of our strategy and I'll close with some comments about our capital deployment strategy.
Then Terry will cover the financial results in more detail.
As John mentioned we provided slides related to today's call.
Slide 4 outlines the key themes for the quarter.
First quarter with was a solid start to the year as we saw a strong growth across all businesses along with a strategic acquisition in Claritas and effective capital deployment.
Total company operating earnings were $213 million and we ended the quarter with record assets under management of $364 billion.
First quarter 2012 total company net cash flows of $8 billion are higher than full year 2011 net cash flows.
As we move through 2012 this record level of assets under management and momentum in net cash flows along with stronger variable investment income higher performance fees and less seasonality in claims will combine to give a stronger earnings in the second half of the year.
We delivered strong sales and net cash flows in the first quarter demonstrating our competitive advantages namely: the strength of our distribution relationships demand for our products and service and investment expertise.
Key growth metrics from the quarter include: Full Service Accumulation sales were $3.2 billion up 62% compared to first quarter 2011.
Net cash flows of $2 billion are more than double from the year-ago quarter.
Principal Funds had record sales of $3.7 billion and record net cash flows of $1.5 billion.
Principal Global Investors had record unaffiliated assets under management of $91 billion and unaffiliated net cash flows were $3.3 billion a strong improvement over first quarter 2011.
Reported assets under management for Principal International were $59 billion up 22% over the year-ago quarter and record net cash flows of $2.3 billion are up 77% over the same time last year.
In U.S.
Insurance Solutions Individual Life sales of $49 million increased 2% over strong sales in first quarter 2011.
Specialty benefits premium and fees grew 5% to $354 million over the year-ago quarter.
Behind our momentum in sales and retention is a renewed excitement across the organization.
During the first quarter I attended sales conferences in the U.S.
Asia and Latin America.
Enthusiasm among our teams has never been higher and the momentum is the strongest I've seen.
We have a well-diversified set of businesses we are in the right geographic markets and we have exactly the right strategy for future growth.
As we emerge from the economic crisis we're in the strongest financial position in our history and we continue to gain market share.
We have opportunistically invested in the markets we want to be in resulting in accelerated growth of our fee-based businesses which creates increasing amounts of free cash flow and increased financial flexibility.
We will continue to strike the right balance between growth and profitability.
Because of the new deferred acquisition cost accounting rules there is now a clearer and direct trade-off between growth and profitability.
So while increased sales hurt earnings in the short term we believe it is the right path which leads to higher earnings over time.
Now let me provide some additional comments on the ongoing implementation of our strategy.
In Full Service Accumulation we continue to focus on winning retirement business across small medium and large segments.
Principal Total Retirement Suite continues to set the principal apart and as part of a broader strategy to provide advisors and the clients they serve with leading-edge retirement programs that cannot be easily replicated by competitors.
Our strategy also includes features like auto enrollment work site education and plan designs that encourage greater savings in support of improving individual retirement readiness.
Our independent distribution model continues to drive significant growth in retirement sales.
Last quarter we announced a new relationship with Edward Jones which focuses on the needs of small and medium-sized businesses.
We've already had good traction and have generated a retirement pipeline of more than $1 billion to date from this alliance partnership.
Our third-party administration or TPA channel is also a contributor to growth in the small to medium-sized business market with record sales in the first quarter which are up 23% over first quarter 2011.
Principal Funds continues to drive record sales with demand for investment solutions that increase income-generating potential limit volatility and hedge against inflation.
We've had tremendous success to date with multiple strategies including preferred securities high yield global diversified income midcap blend and target risk allocation.
We're also well positioned for future growth with investment strategies launched during the past 2 years that are focused on managing volatility and protecting purchasing power such as our global multi-strategy and diversified real asset funds.
Our global investment management capabilities and asset allocation flexibility creates strategies that when coupled with our distribution reach are clearly resonating with advisers and clients.
Strong investment performance is a leading indicator of growth for our retirement and asset management businesses.
Investment performance continues to be strong which is a differentiator for The Principal.
Recent accomplishments include 2 2012 Lipper Fund Awards for consistent multi-year performance for The Principal MidCap Blend Fund.
Additionally Finisterre one of our recently acquired boutiques won the 2011 Euro Hedge Magazine Emerging Market Fund of the Year.
These awards and overall strong performance drive demand and mandates for our multiple boutiques.
Moving now to Principal International which continues to deliver very strong results.
In the first quarter we announced the acquisition of a majority stake in Claritas a leading Brazilian retail mutual fund and asset management company.
Entering the Brazilian mutual fund market has been a strategic priority for The Principal.
Claritas has a strong management team solid investment track record and diversified distribution through financial advisors which are all important competencies as we continue to grow our mutual fund and Asset Management business in Latin America.
The acquisition closed in early April and we anticipate future synergies over time that will enable Claritas to expand beyond the retail mutual fund market into the institutional investor market.
As another positive development the Malaysian government has approved a new voluntary employer-based defined-contribution pension system.
CIMB-Principal was approved to provide solutions in this new market demonstrating the success of our longtime foothold in Asia and the strength of our joint venture with CIMB.
The Principal's evolution to our global investment management leader with strong competitive positions in the key emerging markets for private retirement solutions has firmly taken hold.
We will maintain our focus on helping growing businesses individuals and institutional investors around the world save for the long term invest for growth and protect their financial well-being.
I'll close with some comments on our capital management strategy.
Building on the $1.1 billion of capital deployed in 2011 we continue to actively deploy excess capital in the first quarter demonstrating the strength of our business model to continuously create free cash flow.
In addition to the acquisition of Claritas we announced the authorization of $100 million share repurchase and paid our first quarterly dividend to shareholders.
These actions reflect our continued confidence in the strength and financial flexibility of our fee-based business model and we remain on track to deploy $800 million to $900 million of capital in 2012.
Excess capital at the end of the first quarter was $1.6 billion a level that's been fairly consistent over the past year.
Certainly as we came through the financial crisis it was important to maintain a higher level of excess capital.
Although excess capital levels will remain higher than precrisis levels across the industry we expect to see our excess capital levels come down over the next couple of years.
Before I close let me make a brief comment about one of the biggest highlights from the quarter.
In February during his visit to Iowa I had the privilege to meet face to face with the Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping the expected next president of China.
In his comments Vice President Xi mentioned Principal as an example of a highly regarded company operating successfully in China.
This is a strong endorsement of our efforts to expand our business in China into the enterprise annuity industry in the near future.
Finally I encourage you to check out our 2011 year in review which can be found on our Investor Relations website.
The book highlights 10 trends that affirm the power of our strategy we put in place more than a decade ago and why I'm so confident that our best times are yet to come.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
As Larry mentioned first quarter earnings were solid and our growth metrics continue to show momentum.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter; net income including continued solid performance in the investment portfolio; and the strength of our capital position and strong balance sheet.
And as a reminder we adopted new DAC accounting guidance on January 1 2012 with retrospective application.
All financial information presented including the slides for this call reflects these changes.
The impacts were in line with what we previously communicated.
First quarter 2012 operating earnings of $213 million were down 3% from a year-ago quarter.
The decline is primarily due to lower variable investment income and higher distribution expenses in the first quarter.
We reported earnings per share of $0.70 for the quarter.
There were a few items impacting first quarter 2012 EPS.
Bank and Trust Services was negatively impacted by $0.01 primarily due to a legal settlement in the Trust company.
Principal International was dampened by $0.01 on a net basis from regulatory changes to assigned lives in the Mexican AFORE business which was partially offset by delayed expenses in Latin America.
Individual Life benefited by $0.01 from a change in prescribed accounting practice and the Corporate segment was reduced by $0.01 from higher tax and legal expenses.
Adjusting for these items we consider the first quarter 2012 earnings per share run rate to be $0.72.
Now let me discuss business unit results.
Full Service Accumulation operating earnings at $70 million were down 4% on lower net revenue from a year-ago quarter.
Pretax return on net revenue remained steady at 30% as we expected and previously communicated.
Let me make a couple of comments related to Full Service Accumulation margins.
Slide 5 summarizes the leading factors impacting profitability since 2004.
Factor 1 which had the largest impact is a shift in business mix which I'll describe in more detail in a moment.
The second factor is the current market environment which has slowed the growth in recurring deposits.
The third factor listed growth retention and efficiency is one we have and will continue to influence through scale and focused execution.
Assuming these trends continue we'd expect 2012 Full Service Accumulation net revenue to grow between 4% and 6% based upon average S&amp;P index level of 1 400 in 2012.
Additionally we'd expect to maintain pretax return on net revenue of 30% to 32%.
Slide 6 shows how the mix of business is shifting away from general and separate account investments into mutual funds and employer securities reducing return on assets but improving free cash flow generation.
As this business mix continues to shift and more assets are written on our mutual fund platform and are using more nondomestic equities for investments fewer dividends are eligible for the dividend received deduction benefit.
Return on revenue measures for Full Service Accumulation are better indicators of the financial performance of the business.
The bottom of Slide 6 illustrates our stable track record of driving revenues to the bottom line even as customer preferences migrate to different asset types.
Return on revenue margins will continue to be a key focus for us.
First quarter 2012 Full Service Accumulation sales of $3.2 billion were very strong up 62% over 2011.
Looking at full year 2012 we'd expect to see Full Service Accumulation sales growth of approximately 20% over 2011.
Robust transfer of deposits and strong client retention help drive net cash flows of $2 billion more than doubling first quarter 2011 results.
The underlying fundamentals within Full Service Accumulation continued to improve.
The sales pipeline continues to build across all market sizes and distribution channels and the close ratio continues to improve.
We are actively executing on our strategy to win more business and gain market share.
Operating earnings for Principal Funds at $12 million in the quarter were flat compared to a year-ago quarter due to higher compensation and sales-related expenses as we invest in growing the business.
Record sales of $3.7 billion reflects strength across multiple strategies including preferred securities high yield income mid cap blend and target risk allocations.
Net cash flows of $1.5 billion were driven by particular strength in our Global Diversified Income Fund which leverages our ability to combine multiple strategies and managers as well as the Principal Preferred Securities Fund managed by one of our Principal Global Investors' boutiques Spectrum Asset Management.
Investment performance continues to be strong across asset classes and it is a differentiator for The Principal.
The strong performance includes particular strength in asset allocation where at quarter end 93% of our target date and target risk funds were ranked by Morningstar in the top half on a 1-year basis 94% on a 3-year basis and 73% on a 5-year basis.
Individual Annuities operating earnings in the first quarter 2012 were $33 million down $3 million from a year-ago quarter due to lower net investment income and a higher tax rate.
As the low interest rate environment persists Individual Annuities will be subject to spread compression.
Bank and Trust Services earnings decreased to $6 million primarily due to a legal settlement in the trust company.
First quarter 2012 earnings from Principal Global Investors were $16 million down 2% from a year-ago quarter on a 6% increase in average assets under management.
With a focus on growing our global investment management leadership footprint we headed distribution and investment staff across our boutiques.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax margin of 21.1% was down slightly from fourth quarter at 21.4%.
On a full year basis we would expect pretax margin expansion in 2012 driven by higher profits from performance fees in the second half of the year.
Unaffiliated net cash flows for the quarter were $3.3 billion driven by positive flows into our variety of asset classes including currency real estate stable value and equities.
We see rising client interest in awarding new mandates for capabilities from our multiple boutiques.
In first quarter 2012 new mandates awarded totaled $3.8 billion.
Pipelines continue to build and the representative offices in The Netherlands and Dubai are now staffed and operational giving us continued optimism for the remainder of 2012.
Moving to Principal International operating earnings at $42 million include a one-time loss from the regulatory change impacting Mexican AFORE assigned lives which was partially offset by delayed expenses in our Latin American operations.
Assets under management were $59 billion at quarter end up 22% from a year ago primarily driven by strong net customer cash flow and a strategic acquisition.
Current quarter record net cash flow of $2.3 billion were driven by a 24% increase in Brazil prev deposits over last year and positive flows in Asia.
While the underlying growth of the companies on a local basis remain strong so far in the second quarter we're facing headwinds from foreign currency exchange rates and slowing inflation.
As a reminder our financial supplement now includes foreign exchange rate information used for financial reporting to help you better analyze the impact of exchange rates on Principal International.
In April we closed on the Claritas acquisition and approximately $2.5 million of after-tax transaction costs will impact second quarter Principal International results.
The acquisition is expected to be EPS-neutral in 2012 and accretive thereafter.
Individual Life first quarter operating earnings were $32 million.
During the quarter we changed our method of accounting for reinsurance contracts and this change was included in our recast results released on April 10.
Under the new method we will recognize reinsurance recoveries as they are received which creates better alignment between accounting and economic results.
Additionally according to prescribed accounting practices we changed the amortization basis for certain Individual Life policies.
This change impacted several income statement line items that netted to a $3 million benefit for first quarter earnings.
These accounting changes will result in a more intuitive earnings pattern for Individual Life.
We believe the run rate for Individual Life operating earnings is approximately $30 million per quarter with variability in any one quarter.
Turning to Specialty Benefits first quarter operating earnings were $19 million down $4 million from a year-ago quarter primarily due to stronger-than-normal investment performance in 2011.
The decline in sequential earnings was due to normal seasonality and dental claims.
We continue to experience stable loss ratios.
Although first quarter sales were down from our record results in 2011 retention results were strong and premium and fees grew 5% from a year-ago quarter.
Continued recovery in employment and salary trends were the main drivers of that results.
The Corporate segment reported an operating loss of $39 million driven by higher tax and legal expenses.
Going forward due to higher ongoing regulatory expense we expect quarterly operating losses for the Corporate segment of $30 million to $35 million in 2012.
For the quarter total company net income was $202 million an increase of 11% over a year-ago quarter.
A key contributor to the improvement in net income was a continued reduction in after-tax credit-related losses to $26 million.
Our investment-related losses continue to be in line or better than our loss projections and better-than-market expectations reflecting sustainable recovery in commercial real estate.
This improvement has given us additional financial flexibility.
Moving to our balance sheet our net unrealized capital gains position of $1.9 billion increased $300 million from fourth quarter 2011 predominantly due to tighter credit spreads.
As a reminder due to our strong asset liability management changes in net unrealized gain or loss due to interest rate movement do not result in an economic impact and do not force us to sell assets.
In late February we announced a $100 million share buyback authorization and completed half of it during the quarter.
As of today we've completed 80% of that authorization.
Looking now at capital adequacy we estimate our first quarter risk-based capital ratio to be 440%.
Relative to a 350% RBC ratio we have approximately $1.6 billion of total access capital with approximately $600 million of the excess capital at the holding company.
Slide 7 illustrates our recent pattern of return on equity.
Current operating earnings are in line with precrisis levels yet average equity is 34% higher.
We are holding considerably higher amounts of excess capital as compared to precrisis levels.
As Larry mentioned higher capital levels are here to stay for us and for the industry.
But as our business model becomes more fee-based we plan to reduce our excess capital of $1.6 billion to our targeted capital reserve currently at $1.15 billion over the next couple of years.
For 2012 we feel that an RBC ratio of 425% 435% is appropriate given our mix of fee-based and risk-based products.
Our long-term expected annual return on equity accretion continues to be 50 to 80 basis points.
As outlined on Slide 8 so far in 2012 we have allocated $220 million of capital for strategic acquisition opportunistic share repurchase and the quarterly common stock dividend.
And as Larry mentioned we expect to deploy $800 million to $900 million in capital in 2012.
We believe our decision to move to a quarterly common stock dividend and our overall capital deployment actions demonstrate our commitment to creating long-term value for shareholders.
Before I close I want to take a moment to comment on a couple of things that Larry's too humble to mention.
First if you haven't seen it yet check out the April issue of Institutional Investor Magazine.
The magazine did an in-depth and very positive cover profile of Principal's 132-year transformation from a small life insurance company to a global investment management leader.
The cover article highlights the leadership team past and present at The Principal.
Additionally Larry was recently honored as this year's Plan Sponsor Magazine Lifetime Achievement Award Recipient for his extraordinary contributions to the retirement industry.
As a company we're all proud of Larry's commitment to the company and to the industry and congratulate him on this distinguished award.
In closing we're very pleased with the continued growth and momentum of our businesses as we look into 2012 and beyond.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the strong sales results in your FSA operation.
They far exceeded my expectations and I'm just wondering if you could talk about the trends there? Joanne this is Larry.
I'll let Dan comment.
But what I would say at a very high level is that we're really in a very nice sweet spot in terms of our retirement sales.
And I say that based on of course having great distribution presence and continuing strong pipeline.
We also have because of PGI we have very solid investment performance to present to clients.
And of course the unique bundling that we do around total retirement services as well as a lot of or worksite activities really does put us in a strong competitive position.
I'll let Dan give you some of the specifics.
Thanks Larry.
So Joanne a couple of stats that you might find interesting.
The growth really was across emerging dynamic and institutional which is the way we like to see it.
We did have 7 nice-sized institutional plans come in.
Those were plans over $100 million but nothing over $1 billion.
So again this speaks right at that lower end of large and high-end of medium-sized marketplace.
We had good traction again continuance and the third-party administration area.
About 40% of the sales for the quarter were TRS or Total Retirement Suite some combination of DVDC or non-qualified or ESOP.
And alliance sales were up roughly 120% from first quarter of 2011 as Larry mentioned in his earlier comments.
We did add Edward Jones which is a really great partner for PFG and we're looking forward to working with the people at Edward Jones.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow up just on the ROAs.
You mentioned in the beginning of the call that the change in DAC induces a trade-off between good sales numbers and near-term earnings.
Can you give us an estimate as to how much the increase -- or decrease in capitalized acquisition expenses impacted the ROA? Joanne this is Larry.
I would say it impacts at about $15 million to $20 million in terms of quarterly earnings so you can sort of work it out from that.
The next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Larry even if I apply a relatively strong ramp to your earnings for the remainder of the year it appears pretty difficult to get to your guidance.
But interestingly your guidance had originally assumed I think an average S&amp;P of about 1275 and that average is already year-to-date 100 points higher.
I guess the question is where is the weakness versus your original expectations when -- I would've expected your business model and leverage to equity markets to frankly be a nice tailwind.
Sure John.
This is Larry.
Let me make a few comments.
And what I would say here is a very general comment before I walk through a little bit of detail with you.
What I would is say is that guidance is based on a full year.
And I'd say it would be very important to remember that things that happen over the course of a full year don't happen in 25% increments over each quarter okay? So for example a variable investment income as an example.
Last year that was a little bit front-loaded.
This year we expect it to be a little bit back-loaded.
You have seasonality in Specialty Benefits as we've commented before.
The general comment you might see specialty benefits first quarter earnings be 20% of the full year earnings not 25%.
So what I would say is if you sort of take Terry's normalized the $0.72 you ramp it up to 2% to 3% that you'd expect so based in our assumptions of equity market growth.
That gets you very near the $2.95 to $3 level.
You then adjust for things like variable investment income specialty benefits.
You adjust for the change in share count.
And you are if you will well inside our previously communicated guidance.
Having said all of that we obviously don't update that guidance and it really doesn't take into account John at all the very strong asset accumulation and net cash flow growth that we saw in the first quarter which obviously hasn't yet fed through to financials because it's just received in the current quarter.
And as the market stays steady and that continues to repeat itself in subsequent quarters that's going to be a very significant tailwind on earnings as we go into the subsequent quarters of 2012.
So like always there's a number of assumptions in there.
But the key thing I would continue to remind everybody is things don't happen in 1/4 increments every year.
There's front loads there's back loads.
All that's taken into account when we gave our guidance back in December.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
I have one separate one and that is are you and the Board giving any consideration to changing your approach to setting your buyback authorization? I asked this Larry because obviously with your current approach you were out of the market for the first 2 months of the year.
And that clearly has at least at the margin a negative impact on your ability to generate EPS and ROE improvement at a somewhat faster pace.
Right.
So that's an interesting question John.
And I suspect that every management team you talk to might have a little bit different view on share repurchase in the era post the financial crisis.
I think we have tried to communicate over several different times including at our earnings guidance for 2012 that we see share repurchase now as a more opportunistic lever for us.
And we frankly see higher levels of common stock dividend as a more regular level -- lever for us to return capital to shareholders.
So we see ourselves moving to higher payout ratios over time and we see ourselves moving to somewhat lower levels of share repurchase over time because we do want to invest in the businesses.
And to the extent we would do share repurchase we would look at that based on sort of our view of the intrinsic value of the shares versus where they're trading at.
So in the past I think share repurchase for many companies has been more of a "automatic lever." And in our case we're really trying to not see as much capital return in share repurchase and we're trying to be more thoughtful to make sure that we're doing share repurchase at the right times and that we're not doing it at the wrong times.
So I hope that helps a little bit.
Research Division</strong> That does.
I guess my only follow up to that Larry would be I'm not necessarily asking you to put up an authorization that would be a giant number that covers the potential buybacks over a couple of years.
But I'm not sure I understand why not just an authorization that would cover at least your expectations for a 12-month period let's say? Right.
And again a lot of that John is because I think we are trying to recognizing the changing nature of our business model with more fee-based earnings.
I would argue that it's much more appropriate for us as a management team and a Board to think about returning capital to shareholders in the form of common stock dividends more than share repurchases.
What you already know from things we've communicated is that somewhere between 65% and 70% of our operating earnings for the year are going to be able to flow through as capital deployed back to shareholders based on whatever amount of M&amp;A we might do.
So I don't have to sit and really give you a large share repurchase.
I mean investors already know that the vast majority of our earnings are able to be returned to shareholders.
So we've shown in the past we're good stewards of our capital.
Again the thing I would want to communicate is that it's going to be done more as common stock dividends and higher payout ratios.
That's appropriate because we moved to a more fee-based business model and that's very different than our competitors where perhaps they're able to return 40% or 50% of their earnings back to shareholders.
In our case that number is closer to 65% to 70%.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to go back to Joanne's question Larry.
I think you give a number of $15 million to $20 million.
I actually have the same question regarding what FSA would have looked like were it not for the high sales number.
And I want to make sure that I understand your answer correct.
So if I look at FSA as kind of pretax earnings of $80 million are you suggesting that the number would've been $15 million to $20 million higher were it not been for the change in the accounting or the extraordinary sales? Can you just give us a feel for exactly what you meant by that comment? Yes.
I'm sorry if I confused you Mark.
This is Larry.
What I was trying to communicate and answer to Joanne's question was really a more generic question not answering a question related to the level of sales in the first quarter.
I was answering the generic question about what impact we would expect to see to FSA from the change in DAC accounting guidance.
So that was the question that I was answering.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> It does but I think it also kind of brings a follow up which is obviously you had strong sales in the quarter good flows in FSA.
But I think most of us including myself were a little bit surprised that in a market that rallied as much as it had the ROAs were kind of maybe not as high as maybe we would've expected.
So to the extent that there's some of that can be attributed to the change in the accounting and higher cost that occurred this quarter relative to what we would expect to be a normalized cost based on that flow level it would be helpful to understand kind of how to quantify that number so we can think about that and how we think about ROAs..
Right.
You're exactly right.
While there was some positive benefit FSA in this quarter it wasn't as great because of the DAC accounting as it would have been under the prior set of rules.
So maybe I'll see if Terry wants to comment a little bit about that.
Mark this is Terry.
As you look at the change in the accounting rule there's less capitalization that's going on and there's also less amortizations because of the $3.2 billion of sales you're also seeing more of the expense incurred in the current period than you had in the previous accounting.
Now what we gave as guidance for the year was an impact of around $35 million to $45 million of operating earnings impact due to the change in the accounting rules.
Now we said a little bit over half of that was due to Full Service Accumulation.
So that's basically in line.
So if you look at the upper end of that range $40 million to $45 million impact you would expect about $20 million or $24 million or $25 million due to FSA alone.
Now you take 1/4 of that but as Larry says it doesn't always occur throughout the year.
So you're probably getting a number that's more in the $5 million $6 million after-tax impact on this quarter because of once again lower capitalization and lower amortization.
The next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First I guess following up on an John Nadel's question.
I guess the focus really is on generating greater pre-cash flow and capital.
Why not have a larger outstanding buyback program to be in the market more opportunistically? So I guess today's kind of the perfect example where you have $20 million left and the stock is off 6%.
I think we now need to wait until mid-May to get another authorization? Right.
Chris this is Larry.
Again what I would say is that and certainly we're well aware of some other companies that will announce the potential the potential for a large multi-year share repurchases.
And what I would say is first of all I don't think that that's necessarily an approach that as a Board that they necessarily gotten comfortable with.
We've tried to take an alternative which is to recognize that there is a substantial free cash flow generation capability here.
And we've now again tried to refine that further by recognizing that there are times that your shares are outside of what you would consider to be the intrinsic value.
If we saw an extended period where that was the case not one day but if we saw an extended period where that were the case we'd certainly be in position to be able to execute a share buyback.
But our focus in terms of capital deployment our focus really is more on moving to a higher payout ratio over time and continuing to invest in the business as we need to.
So again the fact that we've done 4 acquisitions in the last year exactly in the spot we want and there's always some level of sort of pipeline around M&amp;A that you'd want to be in position to execute on I think makes them and I completely agree with this would make me cautious about wanting to promise too much too far into the future.
So that's the reason that we've gone the way we have.
And I think that's definitely the route that we'll continue to operate with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understand that.
I guess as volatile as things still are today sometimes the opportunities are there at a present time and if you just can't be in the market when things maybe are a bit more rational just sometimes can be confusing for investors but I'll leave it there.
And the next thing just in terms of I guess the trends in terms of number of plans with NDC? You had some pretty good momentum there on a sequential basis.
I want to see kind of what your thoughts are around that moving forward? Sure.
Dan you want to comment? Yes.
We feel good about that.
Thanks for noticing that Chris.
So up a couple of hundred plans and this is to the credit of the team primarily run that the emerging and dynamic area may take the necessary steps the better job retaining business.
There's also fewer plans being terminated.
So we're holding onto those plans and then there's actually been some movement towards startup plans again.
So we all keep our fingers crossed that we've kind of bottomed out here in terms of the economic fallout and the negative impact it's had on qualified retirement plan.
Pipeline is up double-digit for both emerging and dynamic.
It's a little bit flat for institutional but that tends to be a little bit lumpy to begin with.
So again the pipelines are very good and close ratios are very solid.
So to your point we feel good about our ability to grow these plans going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last quick one on foreign exchange.
I guess with international growing as quickly as it is Terry you made the comment around some is some FX headwinds here in 2Q.
Can you just talk about how you're thinking about potentially hedging of foreign currency? Chris this is Terry.
We've looked at the possibility of that.
But you'll see volatility in any hedging that you do as well as the volatility and the exchange rate.
And there's an additional cost associated with that that at this point in time we don't know if we're getting that much more value out of it but we'll continue to look at it.
As in the past what we've seen is PI as a smaller percentage of our earnings but now it's in that 17% 18% range and moving up to a larger range.
We'll take that into consideration in the future but at this point in time we're not providing that hedging of that currency but we are providing in the financial supplement more detailed as to what the average we're using on a quarterly basis as well as the spot yield at the end of the period of time.
So it gives you more insights as to what the impact will be based upon the different currencies and the different locations that we're doing business.
The next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> A question on capital deployment.
You disclosed that you allocated $220 million in the quarter and $56 million of dividend $50 million to buyback.
Can we assume the rest is for Claritas? This is Larry.
I think the Claritas was roughly $65 million.
Randy this is Terry.
The $220 million includes the full authorization of $100 million and if you actually look what was deployed was $50 million of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Claritas is around $65 million? And can you disclose what level of assets under management you acquired in the deal? It said it was majority stake.
We're just looking for a little more clarification on what was acquired for that $65 million.
Sure I'll let Luis comment.
Okay.
The size of that operation is about $2 billion total AUMs and we acquired 60% of that the total ownership of that.
Does that help Randy? Research Division</strong> It does.
Just one last one on that is what is the -- is it fixed income more equities or just asset type? It is much more equity and balance funds rather than fixed income.
Balance funds.
One of the reasons that we had specifically identified Claritas was because they actually had a slightly --  they had a different portfolio than most mutual fund managers in Brazil.
As you probably know most mutual fund managers are as you said invested in not only fixed income but primarily sovereign debt.
So again Claritas is relatively unique because they've demonstrated competency across several different asset classes within the Brazilian sort of security space.
So it was very attractive from that perspective.
Your next question comes from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to revisit one more time the FSA -- the effect of sales on FSA without discussing ASU 2010-26 just forget about that.
Are we looking at the situation similar maybe to some asset managers where a high level of sales leads to very high expenses before earnings can really come in off of the assets? Is that the situation that we're looking at here? Okay Stephen this is Larry.
I'm going to stay away this time and I'll let Dan clean it up for you.
Yes I think that's exactly right.
As we've changed they come to methodology our Full Service Accumulation even for group annuity contracts which has separate accounts as well will start to reflect -- look more like our mutual fund sales our Principal Advantage product and that's actually from our perspective a good thing.
So we're certainly seeing higher expense as a result of acquiring those.
But as long as I'm on that same topic I was kind of looking closely at where else are we making the investments over and above last year.
So what would cause these expenses where aer we making investments? One is around mobile applications.
One is around expense and fee disclosure which was a significant investment here in the first quarter.
Increasing the size of our sales and service teams.
We're continuing to build out the size of that ESOP practice and defined benefit capabilities.
We're making additional investment in our product development areas as Larry and Terry both commented about the growth in those diversified real asset and real income mutual fund solutions.
Allianz Management we're continuing to build out that team as we added additional Allianz partners.
We've got to build out relationship managers to go along with that.
Income solutions this isn't just about the accumulation business so we've got to continue to make those investments around how we're going to help those in nearing retirement and then retirement draw down those funds.
And again there's a lot of time and resources being spent there.
We still think that the workplace is a great place to educate plan participants on the need to save for retirement.
And where some of our competitors have pulled back we've actually bulked up on our deployment of our workplace efforts.
And then lastly you keep hearing us talk about the TPA initiative.
That also requires a lot of resources.
Some of the expense lines are up only modestly and at the same time you can see we've got a lot of work to do.
And that's partially to offset some of the erosion that you've all witnessed in the past on changes that are taking place relative to mix of business as well as this economic headwind that we continue to fight.
The other line worth noting there was the recurring deposits are really showing now a nice solid comeback.
They're not back to that pre-crisis level but again we think that's going to be a nice contributing factor to operating earnings going forward.
Hopefully that helps.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That was good.
That's really what I wanted to get at with that question.
Just a follow up since you mentioned it fee disclosure.
Any new thoughts on that and how that might affect the company and the business? Yes.
So the 408(b) which is a component relative to notification to the plan sponsors we started back in November of '11.
That's effectively completed at this point in time.
The 404(a) is the part that goes to the plan participant.
That'll happen after July 1 within those first 60 days.
And where the majority of our education specialists and relationship managers are spending their time right now isn't on the absolute dollar of the fees.
Those decisions have been made.
That's water on the bridge.
Now the discussion is pointed towards how does Principal help the plan sponsors go about educating plan participants on behalf of the plan sponsors on what those fees are.
So there's a little bit of work.
Some employers are making decisions to start paying some of those fees separately.
Some of them are revising the investment lineup that they're making available.
So that's where a lot of our time is spent.
And I would tell you that certainly by the fall time we will have fee disclosure really in our rearview mirror at that point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But on existing plans at current customers that you currently have the plan sponsors their change in behavior has neither been negative or positive for the company.
Is that...
That's correct.
There's a few on the edges where as long as we're reviewing expenses they might put it out for a check bid.
But I would say for all intents and purposes this discussion has now migrated to how we go about rolling it out to the participant more so than the employer going back and forth with PFG.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one for Terry if I may.
Terry the historical kind of guidance had been for every 2% move in the S&amp;P 500 it was probably 1% move for EPS for Principal.
Is there a relationship that we could look at maybe for that net revenue number? Steven just to clarify we talked about a 10% shock in the equity market up or down and then followed by a 2% increase on a quarter-by-quarter basis from there would have a 4% to 6% impact on operating earnings.
And that was a pre-DAC change guidance.
And we think it's very comparable but we'll give you more clarity on that as we see it play out.
In terms of the net revenue growth the net revenue growth I think is probably -- will lag the growth in the assets under management a bit because of the types of assets that don't all have the same net revenue.
But we monitor the net revenue growth on each of our different businesses.
And that's why we look at margin a return on that net revenue by each of the businesses.
Now if you look at and what we've said in Full Service Accumulation for example we think that the net revenue growth will trend pretty stable and the stability is in that 30 to 32 basis points -- excuse me 30% to 32% range for that.
But we also look at it the total company and it's really a relationship between the net revenue and the expenses that we really monitor very closely by each of the different product types.
The next question comes from Eric Barth with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I realized that there was a lot going on here.
That's apparent.
Between return on assets return on net revenues return on revenues the DAC accounting you'd have to be a partner at Deloitte to understand what's going on here.
All I know is that for a business any businesses earnings to grow sustainably at a healthy rate there's got to be revenue growth.
There has to be in any business revenue growth.
At least this is my view.
And so my question is this even if you add back absent the variable income that you didn't have it looks like there wasn't much revenue growth or net revenue growth.
Again even if you add back the variable income to the -- business this despite the fact that you have respectable asset growth.
And so while I do have a second question for Jim on PGI what I'd like to know is what is holding back putting aside all this other stuff about margins and accounting changes what is holding back the revenue growth even if you adjust for the absence of that variable income given the strong asset growth that you had? And when can we expect the revenue growth and why? Yes.
Well Eric this is Larry and again I'll take a shot at this and look at Dan and Terry to clean it up.
But for what I would say is if you just focus on sort of first quarter over first quarter the net revenue would look relatively flat despite the AUM growth okay? The average account value would be up about 6%.
The net revenue would be about flat.
The reason that you don't see more net revenue growth and again I want to emphasize this just a very short look quarter-over-quarter.
The reason that don't see the revenue growth equal to the asset growth for that particular comparison is for 2 things: One is the variable income that we've talked about before in first quarter '11 we had a fairly substantial amount of variable investment income in the form of real estate sales that was distributed out to the business units as additional investment income that was there in 2011 not there in 2012.
The second factor that impacts the revenue is that again if you will investor sentiment investor choice is moving away from guaranteed accounts and is moving towards fee-based accounts.
From an investor perspective that's a good thing.
That's a good thing.
That is moving towards fee-based accounts.
So ROA can be down okay ROA can be down but free cash flow is actually up.
And again the primary reason if you just took quarter-over-quarter which I would encourage everyone not to do because that's too short a period to determine trends but that is more tied to the issues around the variable investment income.
So you will see net revenue growth.
We've said before we sort of expect at this point net revenue growth will be in that 4% to 6% range.
And so now the question about seeing growth in FSA earnings will come down to that point that I talked about in my comments and that Dan commented on in the earlier question.
It's a point of do we still feel we need to selectively invest in the business because we have an opportunity to grab substantial market share and we're investing for the long-term health of the business.
So how many of those investments do we have to make in 2012? Or would we rather put all of that into your earnings growth and the answer is it will be some of both.
So we'll see net revenue growth we'll see some earnings growth but net revenue is going to trail assets under management because of these investor shift differences.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question to Jim.
Jim I certainly understand congratulations to you on what looks like one of the quarters in sometime in terms of net flows.
I know you're making these acquisitions growing your business very successfully but here to we didn't see earnings growth and I understand that you're investing in your business.
How long will these investments sort of last? Will some of these costs go away? And are you -- relatedly are you dependent on these performance fees to show earnings growth? Okay.
Thank you Eric.
There's quite a few pieces to this to the answer to that question.
As we've said there are number of accounting issues in the first quarter that make the earnings look worse than I think the underlying performance of the business.
We've talked about the tax charge being anomalously high.
There was a catch up of a few hundred thousand dollars in incentive comp pull in the first quarter whereas the previous year there have been a release for the PFG overhead and security benefits.
If you take those things out though the numbers for Principal Global Investors underlying are that first quarter 2012 versus 2011 saw a 6% increase in assets under management with a 10% increase in revenue.
So revenues in the institutional business actually is slightly richer very slightly richer relative to assets and with expenses up 7%.
And that increase in expenses in a way is higher than you think it would be if you were looking at the operational leverage in the business.
That's where the investment is.
And Terry mentioned Amsterdam and Dubai.
There's also other areas.
Those are not the only places we're investing.
We have put more people in China for example this year compared with last.
These are looking to the growth over the next 3 to 5 years.
And really I think what I'm saying here is by putting on significant assets under management at a time of change in the investment management business when a lot of other players are seeing big outflows we can build a lot of long-term shareholder value.
Now as to your question or when will this really show through to earnings 1.5 years ago at Investor Day I really talked about improving the pretax margin on Principal Global Investors towards 30% which I regard as a really sort of good industry benchmark over a 5-year period.
It may look with the growth we've seen and with margins continuing to be a little bit laggard as if we're a bit behind schedule on that.
We're probably ahead of the schedule that we set 1.5 years ago in terms of flows in AUM.
But I think all in all I feel that that 30% pretax margin remains the target.
And I'd really like to try and achieve that 5 years from the initial time that we set it which was 1.5 years ago.
I hope that puts it in context for you Eric.
LLC Research Division</strong> It does.
It helps a lot.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your comments please.
Well thanks everybody for joining us for the call today.
And as always we appreciate your continuing interest.
As I said in my opening comments the momentum behind our business remains very very strong and I do believe that our fee-based business model along with the improving credit losses will allow us to continue to return significant amounts of capital to shareholders while still investing for our future.
So thanks again for listening.
I look forward to seeing many of you on the road in the coming quarter.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 p.m.
Eastern Time until the end of the day May 4 2012.
The access code for the replay is sick 6987871.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 for U.S.
and Canadian callers or (404) 537-3406 for International callers.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group's Second Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's second quarter earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement additional investment portfolio detail and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdez Principal International; and Julia Lawler our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
I'd like to take a quick moment to remind you of our upcoming Investor Day on September 21.
We look forward to the opportunity to provide you an update on our strategy and long term growth opportunities as well as a deep dive into our distribution strategy for each of our businesses.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I'll briefly discuss second quarter results.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution of our strategy then I'll close with some comments on M&amp;A and capital deployment.
As John mentioned we've provided slides related to today's call.
Slide 4 outlines the themes for the quarter.
Second quarter saw a continuation of recent trends with strong momentum in sales and flows while macroeconomic events impacted operating earnings.
Despite a 6% decrease from the year ago quarter second quarter total company operating earnings were solid at $216 million.
Earnings per share were up 1% due to our share repurchases during the past year.
The operating earnings result reflects persistent macroeconomic headwinds including negative equity markets low interest rates strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and stagnant job growth.
We also had lower variable investment income in the first half of 2012 compared to the prior year period which Terry will comment on.
Despite these macroeconomic headwinds the fundamentals of our business remain strong and we continue to see sales pipelines grow.
We ended the quarter with record assets under management of $367 billion.
Second quarter net cash flows were $7.3 billion which are more than double second quarter 2011 net cash flows.
And so far in 2012 we have over $15 billion in net cash flows.
The sequential improvement in operating earnings demonstrates that we remained focused on execution as we strike the right balance between growth and profitability in this challenging environment.
Our competitive position remains strong due to our innovative solutions such as Total Retirement Suite for our retirement clients voluntary benefit choices for our Specialty Benefits customers and outcome-oriented investment solutions for our mutual fund and institutional asset management clients.
We also continue to deepen and strengthen our relationships with key distribution partners.
Key growth metrics from the quarter include Full Service Accumulation sales of $2.3 billion up 34% compared to second quarter 2011.
Net cash flows of $1.9 billion were nearly double that of the year ago quarter and reflect not only great sales momentum but also excellent client retention and growth in recurring deposits.
Principal Funds had sales of $3.4 billion our second highest on record contributing to our second highest quarterly net cash flow on record at $1.1 billion.
Principal Global Investors ended the quarter with unaffiliated assets under management of $92.3 billion a 16% increase over the year ago quarter and unaffiliated net cash flows of $2.1 billion a strong improvement over second quarter 2011.
Reported record assets under management for Principal International were $60.3 billion up 14% over the year ago quarter and net cash flows of $2.3 billion are up 28% over the same time last year despite foreign currency exchange rate pressures and lower inflation in the second quarter in Latin America which reduces investment income.
In U.S.
Insurance Solutions Individual Life sales of $45 million were up 6% over second quarter 2011.
Specialty benefits premium and fees grew 5% over the year ago quarter to $361 million.
Our mix of businesses continues to shift with 65% of second quarter earnings coming from our fee-based businesses.
This creates increasing amounts of deployable capital and increases financial flexibility due to the absence of long term equity or interest rate guarantees in this business.
Now let me provide comments on the ongoing implementation of our strategy.
Our strategy remains the same: To help businesses individuals and institutional investors save for the long term invest for growth and protect their assets.
At our Investor Day in September we'll provide greater detail about our investment management plus strategy and discuss how the synergies and interrelationships of our businesses provide an opportunity to be a long term value for our customers advisers and shareholders starting with Full Service Accumulation our Total Retirement Suite platform an advisor-centric model position us as a retirement leader and we continue to gain market share.
As the baby-boomer generation continues to move towards retirement we are focusing on all stages of retirement readiness from hire through a retire.
We are also seeing increased interest in retirement solutions including payout annuities.
Our year-to-date sales of income annuities is $160 million nearly double the sales for all of 2011 and does not reflect a $500 million single premium annuity sold in third quarter.
The growing demand and limited supply of proven providers for this business creates attractive returns for us.
Principal Funds continues to drive strong sales due to demand for investment solutions designed to generate income in a near-0 interest rate world limit volatility and hedge against inflation.
We've had 10 straight quarters of positive net cash flows reflecting our success with many strategies across the platform.
Investment performance a key leading indicator for growth for our Retirement and Investment Management businesses continues to be strong overall in several key investment options including equity income large growth and diversified international.
These strategies represent asset classes that advisers and clients focus on for retirement and retail solutions.
In addition our Principal Global Diversified Income Fund is now a MorningStar-rated 5-star fund.
Principal Global Investors' multi-boutique strategy offers a nimble approach that allows us to meet the changing needs of institutional clients around the world.
A recent report from CREATE-Research and Principal Global Investors identified investor appetite for a more dynamic approach to managing volatility and asset allocation.
The study signaled that in prolonged periods of market turbulence such as the current market client demand for Principal Global Investors' multi-boutique and value-added strategies increases.
Moving now to Principal International we are strongly positioned in the emerging markets that continue to experience rapid growth in the middle-class income segment.
The acquisition of Claritas a leading Brazilian mutual fund and asset management company was announced in the first quarter and closed in April.
Entering the Brazilian mutual fund market has been a strategic priority for the Principal.
This acquisition is off to a great start including the launch of a real estate fund that raised $75 million in the second quarter.
We anticipate that Claritas will expand beyond the retail mutual fund market to the institutional investor market as that develops over time.
We continue to have traction in emerging markets in Asia as well.
Last quarter we announced that the Malaysian government approved a new employer-based defined contribution system and CIMB-Principal our joint venture with CIMB was one of 8 companies approved to provide solutions in the new market which begins later this year.
Additionally Principal won AsianInvestor Magazine's 2012 Investment Performance Award for Hong Kong Mandatory Pension Fund service providers.
Providing risk protection continues to be a key strategic focus for the Principal.
For our U.S.
Insurance Solutions business we continue to focus on the business market with 54% of second quarter sales coming from our business owner and executive solutions market along with nonqualified deferred compensation.
For specialty benefits we continue to see growing demand for voluntary solutions that plays to our employee enrollment and education capabilities.
Now I'll close with some comments on capital management.
We continue to actively deploy excess capital in the second quarter.
In the first half of the year we committed $475 million of excess capital for deployment.
During the second quarter we completed the February $100 million share repurchase authorization announced the authorization of a $200 million share repurchase and paid $54 million in quarterly dividends to shareholders.
We recognize the importance of a quarterly dividend to shareholders and anticipate a pattern of increasing our dividend payout ratio year-over-year as our earnings continue to shift towards fee-based earnings.
We remain on track to deploy $800 million to $900 million of excess capital in 2012.
We have an active M&amp;A pipeline with opportunities that provide a strategic fit and complement our existing capabilities.
However we will continue to take a disciplined approach in evaluating these opportunities since we have a strong organic growth capability.
As evidence of the significance of our fee-based earnings we have recently done some analysis of our capital deployment for the last 4 quarters relative to our insurance peer companies.
Thanks to our growing fee-based businesses we rank in the upper quartile of capital deployed to shareholders as a percentage of market capitalization.
This is validation of our business model being shareholder friendly with increasing amounts of deployable capital.
Excess capital at the end of the second quarter was $1.5 billion a level that's been pretty consistent over the past year.
We have indicated that we intend to hold a higher amount of capital and prior to the financial crisis but we believe that we will still be reducing our excess capital levels by $300 million to $400 million over the next couple of years.
In closing the trends that have shaped our investment management strategy are now firmly in place around the world.
While we expect ongoing volatility in the markets and macroeconomic headwinds from time to time we remain optimistic about the long term growth potential of our strategy.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
As Larry mentioned second quarter earnings were solid and our growth metrics continued to show strong business fundamentals.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings and the impact from headwinds net income including continued solid performance in the investment portfolio and the strength of our capital position and strong balance sheet.
There are several factors that negatively impacted the year-to-date growth of our underlying businesses but I'm going to focus on 3.
First the first half of 2011 benefited from opportunistic real estate sales which were not repeated in the second half of 2011 or in the first half of 2012.
Second the continued declining interest rate environment has resulted in increased accrued expenses in 2012 of our postretirement benefits which we call security benefits.
Third the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against Latin American currencies has had a negative impact on Principal International's operating earnings in 2012.
Adjusting for these factors year-to-date earnings increased 3% over the prior year on a 7% growth in average assets under management.
Second quarter 2012 operating earnings of $216 million were down $13 million from a year ago quarter reflecting these same factors.
While we expect volatile equity markets low interest rates and the foreign exchange headwinds to continue to impact 2012 our business fundamentals remain strong as we focus on what we can control.
For example Retirement and Investor Service Accumulation businesses continued to deliver strong sales client retention and growth in recurring deposits which will lead to market share gains and future earnings growth.
Principal Global Investors will benefit from back-end loaded performance fees and lower expenses.
Principal International is expected to continue its strong trends and long term growth despite unfavorable macroeconomics.
U.S.
Insurance Solutions should benefit from claims seasonality and continued stable loss ratios.
And opportunistic real estate sales and expense management will benefit the entire organization.
Now I'll discuss the business unit results.
Full Service Accumulation operating earnings at $73 million were down $5 million primarily due to pressure on fee growth.
Pretax return on net revenue was 29% on a trailing 12-month basis.
Let me make a few comments related to Full Service Accumulation margins.
Slide 5 summarizes the leading factors impacting the trends in margins.
These same trends are continuing in 2012.
Year-to-date 2012 Full Service Accumulation net revenue is down 2% compared to year-to-date 2011 due to pressure on asset management fees and lower variable investment income.
However we now expect full year 2012 net revenue to grow between 2% to 4% based on an average S&amp;P 500 index level of 1370.
Additionally we expect to maintain pretax return on net revenue of 30% to 32% for the full year because of improving market performance and variable income.
Full Service Accumulation is a fee-based business that is focused on growing revenues managing expenses and maintaining profit margins making return on revenue measures a better indicator of the financial performance of the business.
The bottom of Slide 6 illustrates our stable track record of driving revenues to the bottom line even as customers' preferences migrate to different asset types.
Return on revenue margins are a key focus for us.
The underlying fundamentals within Full Service Accumulation continue to improve.
Year-to-date recurring deposits are growing.
The sales pipeline continues to build across market sizes and distribution channels and close ratios continue to improve.
We are actively executing on our strategy to win more business and gain market share.
Second quarter 2012 Full Service Accumulation sales of $2.3 billion were strong and year-to-date sales were up 49% over the same period a year ago whereas in 2011 sales and flows were more back-end loaded.
In 2012 they're more front-end loaded.
That said we now expect sales growth of approximately 20% to 25% over 2011 and we expect net cash flows to be between 3% to 5% of beginning of year account values.
Operating earnings for our Principal Funds at $12 million for the quarter were down $1 million compared to the year ago quarter.
This was due to higher compensation and sales-related expenses as we invest in growing the business.
Sales of $3.4 billion and net cash flow of $1.1 billion reflect strength across multiple strategies including global diversified income fund preferred securities midcap blend fund high yield and target risk allocations.
Investment performance continues to be strong across asset classes and is a leading indicator of future sales and net cash flows.
The strong performance includes particular strength in asset allocation where at quarter end 90% of our target date and target risk funds were ranked by MorningStar in the top half on a 1-year basis 100% on a 3-year basis and 73% on a 5-year basis.
Individual annuities operating earnings in second quarter 2012 were $25 million down $5 million from a year ago quarter due to lower spread and higher DAC amortization.
Normalized operating earnings are approximately $27 million taking into account continued spread compression.
Second quarter 2012 earnings for Principal Global Investors were $18 million down $3 million from a year ago quarter on an 8% increase in average assets under management.
With a focus on growing our global investment management leadership position we added distribution and investment professionals across select boutiques which has increased expenses compared to a year ago.
Unaffiliated net cash flows for the quarter were $2.1 billion driven by positive flows into a variety of asset classes including currency stable value fixed income and real estate.
The recent opening of our office in The Netherlands has already generated $158 million of mandates awarded with $58 million of that funding in the second quarter.
Our strategy to invest for the future is working.
Moving to Principal International operating earnings at $37 million were dampened by roughly $3 million due to one time acquisition expenses from closing to Claritas deal.
The underlying growth of the companies on a local basis remains strong.
The strengthening dollar has created a headwind of roughly 10% to U.S.
dollar reported earnings which we expect to continue into the second half of the year.
As a reminder our financial supplement now includes foreign exchange rate information used for financial reporting to help you better analyze the impact of exchange rates on Principal International.
Individual Life second quarter operating earnings were $28 million up $4 million from a year ago quarter due to better mortality experience in the current quarter.
Second quarter 2012 results were in line with expectations.
Turning to specialty benefits second quarter operating earnings were $23 million down $3 million from a year ago quarter primarily due to stable loss ratios and stronger than normal net investment income in 2011.
The increase in sequential earnings is due to normal seasonality in dental claims and sales-related expenses.
With the negative impact of seasonality behind us we would look to see consistent loss ratios strong retention and growth in premium and fees for the remainder of 2012.
The corporate segment reported an operating loss of $31 million right in line with our expected quarterly result of $30 million to $35 million.
For the quarter total company net income was $173 million.
After-tax credit related losses remained steady at $27 million.
Our investment-related losses continue to be in line or better than our loss projections and better than market expectations reflecting sustainable recovery in commercial real estate.
This improvement has given us additional financial flexibility.
Moving to our balance sheet our net unrealized capital gain position of $2.3 billion increased $300 million from first quarter 2012 predominantly due to lower interest rates.
As a reminder because of the strong asset liability management changes in net unrealized gain or loss due to interest rate movement do not result in an economic impact and in periods of stress do not force us to sell assets.
The evolution of our business model means we now have a much higher portion of earnings coming from less capital intensive more fee-based businesses that have limited or no guarantees associated with them.
As the low interest rate environment persists our earnings will continue to grow but at a slower rate as shown on Slide 7.
We view this modest headwind to earnings growth as very manageable which speaks to the strength of our investment management plus strategy.
Although we continuously monitor all assumptions including the interest rate environment third quarter is historically when we conduct our periodic review of assumptions and actuarial model enhancements.
The persistent low interest rate environment could result in a reduction in the long term interest rate assumption used to model deferred acquisition costs and related actuarial balances.
If we were to lower our long term interest rate assumption by 25 basis points for every segment across the company it may result in an additional one time after-tax reduction of operating earnings of approximately $25 million.
Looking now at capital adequacy we estimated our second quarter risk-based capital ratio to be 440%.
Relative to a 350% RBC ratio we have approximately $1.5 billion of total excess capital with over $500 million of the excess capital in the holding company.
As outlined on Slide 8 so far in 2012 we have allocated $475 million of capital for strategic acquisitions opportunistic share repurchase and 2 quarterly common stock dividends.
During the quarter we completed the remaining portion of our $100 million February share buyback authorization and started our $200 million May authorization.
So far we have purchased approximately $125 million worth of the current authorization.
As Larry said we anticipate a pattern of increasing dividend payout ratio year-over-year.
We remain on target to deploy $800 million to $900 million of capital in 2012 with approximately $400 million left to deploy.
With our commitment to increasing long term value for shareholders our focus continues to be on deploying excess capital through quarterly dividends strategic acquisitions and opportunistic share repurchases.
As we have demonstrated in the past we will be prudent as we continued to look for additional opportunities to deploy excess capital.
In closing we are very pleased with the continued growth and momentum of our businesses throughout the second half of 2012 and beyond.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So it -- you covered in prepared remarks a lot of the pressures that we're seeing but I was hoping we could talk a little bit more about your guidance and perhaps some of the changes in the environment and maybe specifically quantifying some of them how that impacts your outlook relative to what you were originally baking into your guidance a few quarters ago.
I mean for instance your guidance now is assuming the S&amp;P averages I think 1370 that's actually 100 points or about 7% higher than your original guidance assumed so that -- I would think that's a tailwind.
I would think your organic growth is probably better than you were assuming but obviously some serious headwinds rates et cetera.
so maybe you could tie that all together for us? John this is Larry.
I'll make a few comments and then I'll see if Terry wants to add anything.
I'll start by saying of course we don't really update guidance.
We've provided based on conditions back in December.
We gave you our best forward-looking estimate of what we thought 2012 earnings would be.
But to try to be responsive to your question let me just walk through a number of the factors that you mentioned and hopefully this will provide some help for you.
If you take the first 2 quarters what we know is we've got $1.42 of EPS so far in the first 2 quarters.
To your point we also know we've had a fair number of headwinds that I think we could all sit and speculate for the rest of this call about whether they're going to turn around to become tailwinds but let me just hit a few of the business fundamentals and how they may act in second quarter as compared to first quarter.
For example we know generally speaking in the second half of the year SPD Specialty Benefits has positive claims seasonalities.
You can sort of look at past practice and see if you can quantify that.
We also know in the past historically there have been some performance fees in Principal Global Investors.
Again you can get a sense of what the magnitude of that might be.
Relative to Principal International I would say again that's been the one that has been most impacted by macroeconomic conditions.
And so I think in the second half the performance in the local markets is very strong.
The question will be will we see stabilization or maybe even turnaround in FX rates and will we see the return of higher inflation particularly in Latin America which would have a positive impact on net investment income.
Then of course we could talk about whether we're going to see any equity market growth.
Again typically in our guidance which we gave last December we would have assumed 2% per quarter.
So we would assume in the second half of the year something like 4% equity market growth.
And then finally what I would say is the one thing we do know relative to having a tailwind is we should see about a sort of 5% roughly increase in EPS just based on the change in the share repurchase for the share counts that have happened between the start of the year and the end of the year.
So you put all that together you take the $1.42 again you have to apply your own assumptions John as to what you think equity market FX is going to do.
But clearly and particularly relative to the second half of 2011 you would think we would see some increase.
Again just for the record in 2011 in the second half of the year EPS was $1.27.
And again we're running at about $1.40 right now.
So I hope that gives some help.
Research Division</strong> That's really quite helpful.
And then Larry I've got one more for you and maybe a little bit tougher sort of topic but I can't recall a 2 quarter or a 1/2 of the year period where Principal has generated the kind of organic growth that you guys did in the first half of this year.
But I look at -- in the face of that your stock is flat and the S&amp;P is up 9% broader financials are up 12%.
I'm just curious what you and the management team take away from that relative underperformance at least in your stock price and whether it causes you and management to think differently about how you deliver value.
Sure.
Well again those are all great questions and they are questions that we spend a lot of time on as a management team and we spend a lot of time on them in discussions with the board.
That's why John we have been trying to communicate.
But first of all let me just speak to sort of relative share price performance.
I would say first of all while we haven't necessarily significantly outperformed peer companies if you define them more from the standpoint of your peer set insurance companies and we might differ on it a little bit but if we just take that peer set for a second what I would say is our performance has been in line or slightly better than sort of has been the average of that peer performance.
So the point is is that all financials all sort of peer insurance companies continue to be heavily impacted primarily by what is perceived to be the impact of very low interest rates.
We have tried to make the point again and again and again and I think it's a point of opportunity for buy-side investors.
We have tried to make the point that we are less impacted by low interest rates than many of our peers because 65% of our earnings come from fee-based earnings.
In addition to that you've seen the board our board be very responsive to the situation by deploying significant amounts of capital primarily through common share dividends.
And as I said in my comments if you actually look at capital deployed capital deployed adjusted for market capsize we're in the top quartile and there really are very few companies that have been more active in deploying capital either through increased dividend share repurchase or M&amp;A than we've been.
So I think we're doing all the right things.
I think the reason that the share prices had sort of modest relative outperformance is because of interest rates.
And probably until the macroeconomic conditions turn around you're not going to see substantial change.
But these sets of conditions aren't going to be around forever.
The world is going to go on.
These economies are going to grow and our earnings are going to continue to grow.
If you take our $2.66 which was our EPS for last year and again you take our $1.42 and you can do whatever you want but I think you can see that we're certainly still on track for some sort of 7% to 10% growth in EPS in a year John that quite frankly is very very challenging.
So we're going to be very much in line with our long term belief in EPS and hopefully investors will see that over time and they'll reward us.
Your next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just want to hone in a bit on the FSA growth potential there.
Can you walk us through how the changes in that market is affecting you broadly and then how that's filtering down to the results? Yes Jay this is Larry.
I'll have Dan talk to you a little bit about the competitive environment.
I just want to make one hopefully helpful comment on the latter part of your question Jay.
And that is that walk through how all this translates into earnings.
I just want to make a quick comment and then have Dan talk about the competitive environment which of course shows that we're performing very well.
But if you look at second quarter as an example and you look at the change in the Full Service Accumulation account value during second quarter that essentially was all done through net cash flow generation and most of that was done through new sales.
So essentially the increase in account value is all coming through new sales.
And when you think about which sources of account value are more lucrative relative to revenue and earnings the best way to get account value revenue earnings growth is when the market gives it to you.
The toughest way to get earnings growth is when you have to go out and sell new plans where you take on acquisition expenses and administration expenses to bring on those new dollars.
So frankly when we look at the performance of Full Service Accumulation given where the increase in account value came from in second quarter I think the performance of the business was actually decent.
Again when we get back to a mode where we're seeing more 2% per quarter equity market growth then you're going to see the revenue increase at a faster rate.
You're going to see earnings increase at a faster rate.
So with that let me ask Dan to talk about the competitive environment.
So from a competitive environment we still have some of those headwinds that we've talked about in the past and there's a handout in your online in the Investor section talking about the business mix.
We still see migration away from general account.
We still see healthy sales and ESOP.
There is a movement from proprietary to nonproprietary options that generally increases when you sell larger cases that certainly gives us the window of opportunity to go in and resell those plans on additional investment options provided by Principal Global Investors.
The second component from a competitive perspective is there's still -- we're not recovered on the recurring deposits.
Those are still weak relative to historical past although they're improving.
It's still one of our main contributors to success.
And then as it relates specifically to the competitive environment we're continuing to win business in the same manner we have in the past.
We've done it with Total Retirement Suite the TPA strategy is working the alliance strategies are working the one area that we continue to see pressure on obviously is around just the competitive pricing from the competition.
And when we look at that we think back to the pre-crisis mode.
There is occasionally some outliers that were aggressive in their pricing.
During the crisis there weren't a lot of movement.
I think small and medium-sized employers frankly were more focused on their -- running their businesses and then you had advisors trying to just retain business.
In the post-economic crisis environment the fee disclosure environment and the excess capacity in the industry there is more pressure on getting revenue growth and that certainly impacts not only new case but it also impacts your ability to -- on your enforced block and so retaining of that business.
So one of the things we did during the crisis was to give our customers choices on pricing choice pricing as we called it dialing up and down their services.
Today in the marketplace with excess capacity there are competitors that are selling bundled Full Service solutions at discounted prices.
We don't know if that's a short term or a long term problem that we'll have to confront.
Obviously we'll take the necessary steps as we historically have to align our expenses with what the revenues are that customers are willing to pay us.
But this thing is clearly a mixed bag of a lot of variables clearly our ability to retain business.
Clearly our ability to attract new business is a sign that they certainly value the local service that we provide Total Retirement Suite and again about 60% of all new sales are tied to a bundled to Total Retirement Suite approach.
Hopefully that helps Jay.
Your next question comes from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple if I may.
The Chilean peso -- not the Chilean peso but Chilean inflation obviously left a bit of a mark.
You've referenced that a couple of times Terry.
Could you possibly put a number on that? Yes Steven.
This is Terry.
As you look at the Chilean inflation this quarter it had about a $2 million impact on the operating earnings.
Now that was this quarter.
Last quarter we actually received a favorable $2 million.
So year-to-date it does -- is volatile and fluctuates quite a bit.
So on a year-to-date basis there's probably no impact but this quarter it was about a $2 million reduction.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Larry I think you referenced a very big SPIA deal $500 million in the third quarter.
Could you talk about maybe what that is? Well these are Steven these are kind of the traditional single premium both immediate and deferred annuities that we've been active in this market for 70 years.
Our -- we've been one of the top sort of 3 4 5 players in the plan termination market.
These are essentially defined-benefit type obligations that for whatever reason are needing to be wound up.
So this particular one was again similar to a couple of the one's that you've seen in the marketplace a $500 million placement.
Credit quality matters here so your financial strength ratings matter.
And so there is as I said in my comments Steven there's kind of a limited supply of proven providers in this marketplace and we feel fortunate that we're one of the ones that's there.
So that -- as I said we have $160 million of sales in the income annuity space in the first 2 quarters another $500 million sale in the third quarter so we are seeing more interest there.
We'll certainly stay disciplined as we price those particular deals but we would expect that we'll see more opportunity there and if and when interest rates would ever rise I think you would see even substantially more growth in that part of the business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was interested if it was a termination deal what kind of return are you pricing for in that? Well I mean normally what we're looking for is something that's clearly well in the double-digit range and of course the thing with a deferred and immediate annuity like that Steven is you're not going to really know what you'll get for another 30 40 or 50 years as far as the return.
But certainly our pricing is sort of based on if you will a fairly conservative set of future interest rate assumptions.
And so we calculate our IRR's against that fairly conservative set of assumptions so again you're well into the double-digit range here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then Dan if I may one more.
So we've been in the new disclosure regime now for all of the month but I am wondering if any surprises have come out of it.
Steven it really hasn't.
The call center volume has been muted.
Remember that we've gone out with notification to our clients back in November 2011.
Requirement was by July 1 it had to be out.
And of course the next step is the participant disclosure and we have no reasonably that that's going to create a huge volume of work for us as we near year end fourth quarter when those requirements will be in place.
Your next question comes from Christopher Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could talk a little bit about how you're thinking about your bank status and if there are any plans to potentially change.
Chris this is Larry.
I'll make a few comments.
The comments I would have today would be I think entirely consistent with the comments that we've said in the past.
Again as I think most of you know we're a savings and loan holding company so we are -- after July 1 2011 we have the Fed now regulating the savings and loan holding company.
We continue to have what I would consider to be extremely positive discussions.
They are coming up to speed on how to think about a company like Principal Financial Group with primarily fee-based businesses although many still think about us as an insurance company but our businesses are mostly fee-based businesses.
I think they're -- they've been in my view Chris they've been very thoughtful in our interactions.
We consult with them very regularly.
I said in my comments that if you look at the last 4 quarters so those would be exactly the 4 quarters that we've been regulated by the Fed.
If you look at the capital that we have deployed either for common share dividend or share repurchase or for M&amp;A if you aggregate that and adjust for market cap we would be within the top 2 or 3 or 4 of our entire competitive peer set in terms of how much capital we've deployed so that would say I think the conclusion there would be that we've not found anything there that is necessarily concerning.
I think going forward the question will be -- that there is a notice of proposed rule-making that is out there relative to it non-bank financials and so that process will go on and we will provide our comments as well as everyone else and then we'll see where we end up.
So this one is near the top of the agenda of things that we're watching and we're investing a lot of time and energy and having them understand our business.
But ultimately the board will make the right decision for shareholders over the long term.
So I'd say again so far so good.
Great interaction.
I think they have great respect for how we've run our businesses certainly have not been disruptive at all and we'll just have to see where we go going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on inflation that you guys have been talking about in terms of Latin America and I understand potentially some of the near term earnings headwinds from lower investment income.
But doesn't lower inflation really help accelerate your retirement and asset management strategy in that region so curious how you're thinking about the balancing of these 2 areas? Well I'll maybe ask Luis to comment in just a minute but just for the sake of clarity Chris maybe I'll just try to set the stage on sort of what we mean when we talk about inflation.
Latin America as a region is a region that has been sort of plagued if you will with inflation for many many decades.
So unlike the way fixed income markets work here in the U.S.
in Latin America at least particularly Brazil and Chile not quite so much Mexico but certainly in Brazil and Chile it is very common to have inflation-linked securities.
So the fixed income return is directly linked to and in many cases the product the crediting rate for products is directly linked to certain inflation indexes.
So when inflation is higher than -- investment income is higher and the crediting to the customers is higher.
When we talk about the impact of inflation essentially what we're talking about is the net investment income we're receiving on the if you will the surplus that we have invested in those companies in Latin America.
So I hope that's helpful in terms of understanding how inflation impacts and maybe ask Luis if he has any thoughts on what the inflation outlook might be for the second half.
Yes interesting to repeat what Terry said.
If you're look at the entire year first quarter and second quarter essentially we had a kind of positive environment in the first quarter and a kind of negative one in the second quarter.
The whole year 2012 looks kind of washed.
But anyway it's fair to mention also that the second quarter 2012 was the kind of unusual.
We had a depreciation of the local currency normally when you're having that kind of depreciation of the local currency are coming with higher inflation.
This particular quarter we had the 2 unusual things the depreciation of the local currency and also this kind of lower inflation.
So we think that going forward those 2 things have to come much more in a kind of by-the-book process going forward.
And anyway we don't have any particular assumption about inflation in Latin America different than in the neighborhood of the 3% and still those countries are particularly Mexico and Chile they are still on track in order to get that kind of inflation for the whole year 3.0%.
And maybe Jim McCaughan wants to make a comment here as well.
Yes Chris I think one of the things that's really going to make longer term difference here is when those Latin countries converge towards a capital market structure that is more like we have seen in the developed world.
What I have in mind here is take our very big business in Brazil.
The investors there both by regulation and by preference have concentrated on Brazilian assets short term Brazilian government debt and you really can't blame them when the yield on it was 11%.
It's hard for international investments to compete.
If you look at much lower rates that we're now seeing with the financial and currency recession that Luis described you were getting to something of a tipping point here where investors based in those countries are likely to see much more attraction in equity investment capabilities and international capabilities.
That is going to be a huge opportunity for the next 2 or 3 years for Principal Financial Group.
So I think there is good and bad in the lower interest rates and maybe it doesn't affect the quarter-to-quarter but there's a longer term optionality here in terms of providing international services to those investors.
Your next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify the comment on the $25 million reduction relative to 25 basis point kind of decrease in the overall earned rate.
I guess that seems like it will be part of the third quarter DAC review and in that 25 basis points reduction I mean that's really just the typical portfolio bleed you'd see as you turn over the portfolio in a low rate environment.
Are those correct takeaways? This is Larry Randy.
I mean I would say that's generally correct.
Let me see if Terry wants to add any additional to that.
Yes Randy this is Terry.
What we talked about in terms of the long term interest rate assumption and the reduction of 25 basis points in that would be the impact that it would have on a reduction on our DAC and actuarial balances.
So it would be more of a one time hit to earnings.
As you mentioned in the third quarter it's typically when we review our assumptions and interest rate will be one of them as well as look at enhancements to our actuarial models.
Now we also look throughout the year but the third quarter is when we really focus on that and that's what I'm referring to in the $25 million hit or a 25 basis point reduction in the long term interest rate assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that would be -- that's 25 after tax? Yes.
That would be -- yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one other quick cleanup item.
I just want to clarify this kind of -- in the context of the guidance discussion.
So if there's a variable income kind of catch-up or a tailwind if you will in the back half of '12 would that mostly be from potential CRE sales? That's right.
It would be mostly from CRE sales.
That's generally speaking what we're talking about when we talk about variable investment income and I don't -- Julia would you like to make any further comments? No that's exactly right Randy.
It's coming from our opportunistic portfolio where we purchase value-added -- real estate and when the market is right we sell it.
Research Division</strong> Is the market right for that right now? Is it a good market for that? Yes.
And this is Larry Randy.
Just to give you again a sense in the first half of 2011 and again I think this is a pretax number but we had about $22 million in gains on this sort of activity in the first half of 2011.
So that just sort of shows you that was the reason Terry went through the differences and sort of talked about even though reported earnings are down if you actually kind of strip out the one timers and things actually there's earnings growth first half 2012 or first half 2011 because we had these front-loaded real estate sales last year.
And I might just add that since Larry gave the dollar amount last year that's going to be hard to replace that size of a sale that was a very large opportunity we sold at a gain that was -- really exceeded our expectations so I wouldn't expect that kind of opportunistic sale but we still have opportunities out there so...
Research Division</strong> Is there something more like maybe $0.03 or $0.04 but not as big as first half [ph]2011? Probably something lower than that? Your next question comes from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I want to start with a follow-up to the comments that Larry was making in response to Jay's question about it mattering where the growth comes from in FSA meaning if it comes from the markets you don't have the acquisition cost and I thought that was a great point.
But that leads me to Page 6 of your conference call deck where I look at the margins and I'm not talking about ROA I'm just talking about the pretaxed return and net revenue and the pretax margin.
And if I look at 2011 and I compare that to 2015 there's not a whole lot of upside.
Meaning you're kind of right in the range already and I would imagine that this illustration that's sort of based on an assumption that there is sort of normal market growth between now and 2015.
So I guess my question is why aren't we seeing sort of upside in those margins as we move sort of forward in time? Sure.
Let me just make a couple of comments and I'll see -- kind of looking at Dan and Terry.
Let me make a couple of comments relative to pretax return on net revenue.
As I said before if you look at a quarter like second quarter and again we should all be careful to take a quarter and somehow annualize that or assume that that now reflects a new dynamic going forward because as I said particularly in second quarter because of the strong sales strong net cash flow I would say it's highly unusual when all of your -- actually more than the increase in account value all came from net cash flows meaning the market was negative and it was a net cash flows that grew your account value.
In that scenario again there's going to be pressure not only on ROA there's going to be pressure on return on net revenue.
That's why you've seen a slight diminution in return on net revenue in this quarter.
If you go out to this 2015 and you say "Well why aren't you going to see more sort of lift in that pretax return on revenue?" What I would say to that Suneet is we'd like to sit here and tell you that there's tremendous operational leverage but the reality is think about it if the reality is if a $25 million plan becomes a $50 million plan by 2015 they're not going to allow you to charge the same fees when their $50 million plan in 2015 that you charged in their $25 million plan in 2012.
So what happens in this business is what would happen in any sort of competitively efficient business in that you're going to see sort of a paralleling if you will between the fees.
The fees are going to go down as the plan gets bigger and you're going to have to just kind of reprice that periodically and that's just the new dynamic of the environment we're in.
So that's why you hear our comments talking about aligning expenses aligning expenses with revenues.
And so that's the reality of the business.
But we should not be negative about that because again you talked about a pretax return on net revenue of 30% that would be one of the highest returns in all of financial services.
And if you talk about an ROA return on assets of 24 to 26 basis points that's an ROE that's again in that 25% 30% range.
So these are very very healthy margins.
And again to assume that we could increase them further I think would be a little bit nave.
So hopefully that helps.
Research Division</strong> No it does.
It does.
I don't know if Dan wanted to comment.
Yes just -- maybe just a couple of quick comments in terms of where you get additional lift as there continues to be pressure on the margins.
Obviously the investment preference we think it will swing back towards equity.
We think there's good upside in some of the emerging market.
Again our investment performance proprietary is very strong.
The whole notion of retirement readiness getting these group of baby boomers ready for retirement that's going to involve a lot of taking advantage of our work site deployment strategies.
The roll-ins come there and we in essence will have an excess of $1 billion of roll-ins this year.
And the other point I'd make relative to just the pressure we have on Full Service Accum remember that with our DCIO strategy and we have doubled the sales of our mutual fund defined contribution only strategy just here from a year ago that's getting our investment product on our competitors' 401(k) platforms and their IRA platforms.
So again good growth for overall PFG although it may not show up in the FSA line.
And then as we come out of this very sluggish economy it's the increase in salary deferrals it's the increase in participation that also will contribute to a net growth in these plans in terms of earnings.
Hopefully that helps.
Research Division</strong> It does.
I have a quick follow-up in terms of the quarter.
I think in the commentary around FSA flows I mean I think there was some discussion about the strong client retention which is obviously a good thing.
Just wondering when we think about the plans that you're retaining it's particularly the ones that are perhaps up for bid and you keep them what are the pricing dynamics there? I mean if you can compare what you're getting on those routine plans today versus perhaps what you got when you originally put them on the books.
Is it meaningfully different? And any order of magnitude would be helpful.
Yes.
So the reality is they are different.
Of course it all depends on the size of the plan.
You don't see as much pressure on our core small to medium-size.
I'll put that as -- in plans of less than say $10 million.
There's always points of discussion but again they're looking for very comprehensive services.
They value the proposition that we bring.
On the larger plans a lot of registered investment advisors are involved.
A lot of the reduction in revenue may very well come from that RIA recommending other investment options for a range of reasons diversity and to the extent that that's money that moves away from our general account and moves away from our proprietary separate accounts or mutual funds that does have a negative impact on the plan.
And I would say the order of magnitude they all vary.
But to retain a large piece of business today might involve reducing pricing and that may be 10% to 12% range but again it all depends on which investments options they've chosen and what services that they're looking for.
And Steve this is Larry.
I'd like to just add one comment which is that -- one of the reasons that you -- the best way to sort of mitigate the issue that you talked about is really our Total Retirement Suite platform and that's really why we put so much emphasis on what percentage of our sales are in TRS and we're now again at the point where well over half of the account value inside the Full Service Accumulation over half the account value is actually tied to some other program.
It's tied to a nonqualified plan it's tied to a DV plan it's tied to an ESOP or some combination of those and that's really the way because the reality is it's much harder in the competitive environment.
You can't just move -- I mean the easiest to move is the 401(k) only.
It's really difficult to move one if you got a 401(k) a DV and an ESOP for example.
So the whole key to retention here and the key to being able to provide value-added services really is the TRS strategy and that remains our sort of best-in-class platform today.
And your final question comes from Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I had a question back to FSA on revenues.
If I look at kind of net revenue growth year-over-year it's kind of down 1% to 2%.
AUM is up about 6%.
I guess my first question is can you just help explain the delta there is a little surprising to me just the extent of it.
I understand the fee pressures but I guess the delta is a little surprising to me so help explain that.
And then secondly what gives you the confidence that that -- what is negative 1% to 2% can shift to 2% to 4% through the year if my numbers are right? Yes.
Mark this is Larry.
I'll have Dan comment.
But this is -- this delta that you're describing again is very much to the point of is the new account value coming from brand new sales where again the least profitable part of your life cycle of a 401(k) plan is when you set it up so -- and most of the new account value comes from new sales.
The return on revenue and the delta between account value growth in revenue growth is going to be at its widest.
The delta between account value growth and revenue growth is going to be at its narrowest when you see large lift coming from the equity market.
So that's really the sort of dynamic that's in play but I'm sure Dan can add some more to that.
Yes.
The 1% to 2% negative revenue relative to account value growth of 6% is not new information.
This has been going on now for the last couple of years and it gets back to it and I won't reiterate all of my previous comments.
But certainly mix of business is contributing to that investment preference.
All of those drivers were still dealing with 8% unemployment out there in the marketplace so the recurring deposits have not come back.
Again I might -- I'm confident that long term we'll get back into this 2% to 3% 4% growth in net revenues although I suspect we'll be fighting this headwind for the near future.
And again we'll align our expenses ultimately with what it is our customers are willing to pay for.
We actually have a -- our institutional client conference coming up here in September.
It'll be our 100-plus large institutional clients.
We'll have a 2-day discussion with them and that's where we get into a lot of our discussions around retirement readiness fees disclosure and understand the mood.
And in addition to having record retention I would tell you our customers scores our customer service feedback scores are some of the highest that we've had.
So I think we're going to fight through this pressure that we have on getting revenue growth but it is not as good as it was say 5 and 6 years ago when you pick up 8% from the market 5% from net cash flow and then operational efficiencies.
And so we'll continue to take steps to manage expenses accordingly.
Mark this is Terry.
Just to add on to what those 2 have said.
We did have some of the variable income that went through the Full Service Accumulation line last year and that had a benefit too and that caused some of the delta.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean I guess -- but I mean you have an assumption of 2% to 4% net revenue growth which I assume is for the full year.
In the first half of the year is -- I think by my number it's negative 1.6% 1.7%.
I guess the question is is there something specific that you're seeing in the book that is going to have what is actually a fairly sizable shift or is it purely just the assumption around markets improving? Yes it's primarily the assumption Mark around -- again our guidance is always based on about 2% per quarter.
So we're assuming the second half is going to have some equity market lift which is going to be the most helpful contributor to sort of getting back to a closer delta between account value growth and revenue growth.
They're never going to be equal.
That's not possible.
That's saying that you could charge a plan at a $100 million the same you charge at when it was $50 million.
That's not realistic that's not going to happen.
But you don't necessarily see that delta be maybe as wide as it was in second quarter just because of where the account value changes came from.
So we think we're going to by the end of the year we would assume we're going to get back to a more normal Delta between account value growth and revenue growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just one final question for Jim McCaughan is -- I understand that there were some expenses in the first half of the year in PGI that are largely nonrecurring in the second half of the year.
Can you just frame out how large those expenses were so we can model appropriately? Yes sure Mark.
The only piece that's really company nonrecurring and I'll talk about this in terms of second quarter just reported versus the year ago second quarter.
The only piece that's strictly nonrecurring is employee termination costs of about $1 million.
We do not anticipate that recurring in the second half of the year.
The second piece of increased expense is sales commission which was about $1 million higher in the second quarter 2012 than it was in 2011.
In a way because that shows your organic growth in the business I want that number to get bigger.
That's one expense category where you don't mind spending a bit.
What that implies actually though is that for these pieces of new business we're putting on the profitability in the first 2 years when you're paying sales commission is less than it would -- or quite a lot less than it will be in year 3.
So there's a lagged impact of the new business on earnings.
And then the third category of the incremental cost is what we categorized as investment for growth.
That's spending on increasing our workforce for example in China the Dubai and Amsterdam offices increasing U.S.
sales and getting investment people increased numbers in some of the growth areas of capital markets.
Now from all that the incremental cost second quarter 2012 over second quarter 2011 was $2 million in the quarter.
We actually have got to a point where there are no further plans to increase that investment for growth.
So what I'm really saying here is that has been a drag on the earnings in the first half.
From now on that should sequentially cease to be a drag on earnings because we reckon that with the big opportunities we've got following investment performance following the development of our investment capabilities that we have really invested in that growth the run rate won't increase further.
So we should be seeing less of a drag on earnings from that albeit with the continued hopefully increase in flows.
And we have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please? Well thanks everybody for joining us.
We do appreciate your continuing interest.
As we said during our comments despite the macroeconomic conditions we do believe our businesses continue to have strong momentum and that we do have the right strategy and the right management team to grow our businesses over the long term.
We hope to see many of you at our Investor Day on September 21 in New York as John mentioned.
And other than that we hope everybody has a great day.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 P.M.
Eastern Time until end of day August 3 2012.
20811 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 and that's U.S.
and Canadian callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group's Third Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's Third Quarter Earnings Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and additional investment portfolio detail and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdez Principal International; and Julia Lawler our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during the conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now before I turn the call over to Larry I would like to announce that on November 27 we will have our 2013 revenue drivers and outlook call and give an update on our capital deployment strategy.
We'll provide more details as the event gets closer.
While we will not provide specific EPS guidance we will discuss revenue growth rates and revenue margins for each of the businesses.
This will provide greater clarity of earnings growth by business unit in 2013.
Larry? Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I will briefly discuss third quarter results.
Next I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution of our strategy including comments about our recent announcement of the Cuprum acquisition in Chile then I'll close with some comments on capital deployment.
As John mentioned we provided slides related to today's call.
Slide 4 outlines the themes for the quarter.
As we reported yesterday and estimated at Investor Day third quarter operating earnings were negatively impacted by $91 million from our actuarial assumption review.
As a result of this review we lowered our long-term interest rate assumption and updated other model assumptions.
Terry will discuss these in more detail.
Normalizing for this third quarter total company operating earnings per share are solid up 10% compared to the year-ago quarter despite persistent headwinds created by pressure on fees and continued low interest rates.
Net income for the quarter was strong due to a net gain resulting from the merger of Catalyst Health and our sale of the shares we received as a result of the merger as well as a continuation of improved credit losses.
This contributes to continuing financial flexibility in this challenging economy.
Total company assets under management were a record $392 billion driven by total company year-to-date net cash flows of $25 billion.
We continue to see outstanding growth across our businesses with strong sales and client retention.
Our ability to win and retain business is driven by strong investment performance best-in-class solutions as well as a distribution model that is a key differentiator for us as we discussed at Investor Day.
Key growth metrics from the quarter include: full service accumulation sales were $2.7 billion almost double third quarter 2011 sales; net cash flows of $1.6 billion are more than triple from the year-ago quarter; Principal funds had record sales of $4.5 billion and record net cash flows of $2.5 billion; Principal Global Investors had record unaffiliated assets under management of $98 billion and unaffiliated net cash flows were $2.2 billion nearly double third quarter 2011 net cash flows; Principal International reported record assets under management of $66 billion up 21% over the year-ago quarter and record net cash flows of $2.7 billion.
All of our Principal International operating companies had positive net cash flows in the third quarter with increased momentum in Asia.
In U.S.
Insurance Solutions Individual Life sales of $48 million increased 17% over third quarter 2011 with 53% of sales from the business market.
Specialty benefits premium and fees grew 5% to $361 million over the year-ago quarter.
The continued strength in the fundamentals of our business is driving this growth which leads to higher net revenues and ultimately higher total company operating earnings.
We remain confident about the continued momentum in our businesses despite the continuing challenges of the macro environment.
Now let me provide some comments on the ongoing implementation of our strategy.
As we discussed at Investor Day we've been executing our investment management leadership strategy for more than a decade.
The company is positioned for long-term growth by capitalizing on opportunities created by global trends such as aging populations growth of the middle class in emerging markets and financially constrained governments.
We've demonstrated an accelerated ability to execute our strategy since the financial crisis.
Earlier this month we announced the acquisition of Cuprum the premier mandatory pension provider in Chile which perfectly complements our existing voluntary savings and payout business in Chile so that we can provide a truly integrated set of solutions to our expanded customer base from hire through retire.
Cuprum's customer base consists primarily of upper middle class consumers making them more likely to add voluntary solutions to their current mandatory retirement plan.
With the mandatory and voluntary markets expected to continue double-digit growth this strategic acquisition strongly positions us in Chile and combined with our business in Brazil and Mexico makes us one of the largest retirement providers in Latin America.
On a pro forma basis the acquisition will result in Principal International contributing 23% of operating earnings and 63% of company earnings will be fee-based.
Our strong capital position and financial flexibility of our fee-based businesses allowed us to do this immediately accretive strategic acquisition and strengthens our position in emerging markets.
Additionally the low interest rate environment and the strength of our balance sheet provide us an attractive opportunity to finance this acquisition.
As we note on Slide 5 this acquisition is the sixth such transaction since 2010 all done to improve our competitive position in the faster-growing emerging markets and in global investment management.
Additionally it's important to note that for all of these transactions we either source the deal ourselves or we were involved in a process with a very small set of possible acquirers.
What these transactions signify is that the Principal has become an acquirer of choice within our businesses because of our recognized expertise and our ability to execute.
We truly believe this is an effective way to create strategically compelling and accretive opportunities and we plan to execute similar deals over time.
I'll quickly comment on other examples of execution.
In full service accumulation we continue to focus on key distribution relationships especially with Allianz partners and third-party administrators.
Our combination of proprietary and third-party distribution gives us premier access to the small- to medium-size business market which has higher net revenue.
We can extend these relationships to employees of these businesses to provide additional products they need through retirement.
Investment performance which is the best leading indicator for growth of our retirement and investment management businesses remains strong as noted on Slide 6.
Demand continues to grow for our full suite of investment solutions that help clients solve for needs.
As further demonstration of our expanding global footprint and position as a global investment management leader Principal Global Investors was awarded $150 million of QFII capacity in China in the third quarter.
Additionally Principal International announced last week the launch of a wholly-owned subsidiary in India named Principal Retirement Advisors.
This launch positions us as the retirement expert in this emerging market.
Our strategy is to develop relationships with financial advisors to help the growing middle class establish their own retirement and long-term savings solutions.
As these examples show we are in the right markets at the right time with the right solutions and the right distribution model.
Now I'll close with some comments on capital management.
Following the announcement of the Cuprum acquisition so far in 2012 we have committed more than $2.1 billion of capital on common stock dividends strategic acquisitions and opportunistic share repurchase.
The increasing amounts of deployable capital provided by our fee-based business model allows us to return greater amounts of capital to shareholders by increasing our dividend payout ratio over time.
In the third quarter we announced and paid a $0.21 common stock dividend up from $0.18 in the second quarter.
Additionally as we announced last night we will pay a $0.21 common stock dividend in the fourth quarter.
This brings our full year common stock dividend to $0.78 up 11% over 2011 demonstrating our commitment to providing long-term value to shareholders and our confidence in the strength of our businesses going forward.
We'll also continue to invest in business growth through strategic acquisitions.
While we don't anticipate a near-term deal similar in size to Cuprum there is an active pipeline of strategic opportunities that we'll continue to explore.
Of the $300-million total share repurchase authorizations announced in 2012 we have $42 million remaining at the end of the third quarter.
Year-to-date we reduced our share count 6%.
This will provide a nice tailwind to our ability to grow earnings per share heading into 2013.
We will continue to consider opportunistic share repurchase as one part of our capital deployment plan going forward.
In closing I believe we have the most strategically aligned set of businesses of anyone in the financial services industry.
And our investment management plus model with strong ongoing execution continues to position us as a global investment manager focused on building long-term value for shareholders.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
As Larry mentioned normalized third quarter earnings were solid.
This morning I'll focus my comments on: operating earnings and the impact of our actuarial assumption review; net income including continued solid performance in the investment portfolio; and the strength of our capital position and balance sheet.
Looking at Slide 7 you'll see the impact of our actuarial assumption review had on our third quarter operating earnings.
In addition to lowering our long-term interest rate assumption by 50 basis points we updated assumptions around lapses and deposits and made other model enhancements.
Combined these changes reduced total company operating earnings by $91 million or approximately $0.30 per share.
This was slightly higher than our estimated range communicated at Investor Day primarily due to finalization of our Individual Life and Principal International reviews.
On an adjusted basis third quarter 2012 earnings per share were up 10% over the year-ago quarter reflecting strong execution.
Additionally adjusted return on equity excluding other comprehensive income was 10.2%.
Looking forward we expect 50 to 80 basis points of annual return on equity accretion.
In addition we should benefit from Cuprum once it is fully integrated.
Now I'll discuss business unit results.
Slide 8 is the same shown in Investor Days.
It summarizes the revenue metrics we use for each of our businesses.
And as John mentioned these will provide greater clarity for earnings growth by business unit going forward.
Turning to Slide 9 on Retirement and Investor Services our accumulation businesses had net revenue growth of 9%.
On an adjusted basis operating earnings grew 11% in third quarter 2012 compared to the year-ago quarter.
Strong growth in account values was driven by positive net cash flows and asset appreciation.
This helped grow net revenues but was partially offset by continued pressure on fees.
For full year 2012 we expect Retirement Investor Service accumulation businesses' net revenue to grow between 4% and 6%.
Full service accumulation adjusted operating earnings of $75 million were up 8% over the year-ago quarter on 6% growth in net revenue.
Pretax return on net revenue is 29% on a trailing 12-month basis.
The underlying fundamentals within full service accumulation continue to be strong.
The sales pipeline continues to build and close ratios continue to improve.
In addition recurring deposits are up 9% year-to-date reflecting growth in eligible participants due to strong sales and retention as well as success of our worksite counselors in increasing participation and deferral rates.
Year-to-date 2012 full service accumulation sales at $8.2 billion were up 58% over 2011.
Because 2011 sales were more back-end loaded we now expect full year 2012 sales to be up more than 30% over 2011.
Given the robust sales growth in 2012 we expect future sales growth to be less than our historical averages.
However we expect to drive higher net revenue growth as we put greater focus on the small- to medium-size business market which drives a higher percentage of proprietary asset management.
Operating earnings for Principal Funds at $13 million were up 7% from the year-ago quarter on 13% increase in revenue reflecting current-period sales expenses.
Results included record sales of $4.5 billion and record net cash flows of $2.5 billion reflecting strong investment performance and high demand across multiple strategies including global diversified income fund preferred securities MidCap Blend Funds high yield and our target-risk funds.
Slide 10 covers the guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
Guaranteed net revenue and operating earnings were flat in the third quarter as we continue to approach this business opportunistically.
For example in the third quarter the $500-million pension closeout sale announced on the second quarter earnings call funded.
Our financial strength and reputation as a proven provider has enabled us to compete for this business which generates attractive returns.
Turning to Principal Global Investors Slide 11 shows earnings and revenues grew 8% over the year-ago quarter reflecting our investment for growth.
Investment performance remains competitive.
This drove strong unaffiliated net cash flows of $2.2 billion into a variety of asset classes including preferred high yield currency stable value and equities leading to a record unaffiliated assets under management of $98 billion.
Looking at Principal International on Slide 12 third quarter 2012 operating earnings of $29.5 million were dampened by $11.5 million due to the actuarial assumption review this quarter.
In our Mexican AFORE product lapse rates are down noticeably from recent history but we expect near-term lapse rates to be higher than previously assumed.
More importantly we continue to gain market share particularly in the more desirable high-amount and high-contributing accounts.
Combined net revenue growth was flat compared to the year-ago quarter though it's up 18% on a constant currency basis.
Foreign currency headwinds are masking double-digit growth in the member companies on a local level.
We continue to expect long-term operating earnings growth of 15% to 20% in Principal International.
Turning to Individual Life Slide 13 illustrates third quarter 2012 adjusted premium and fees are down 2% compared to 2011 due to a targeted decrease in single premium sales.
Third quarter 2012 operating earnings were down $66 million of which $63 million was due to lowering our long-term interest rate assumption by 50 basis points and model enhancements.
Additionally operating earnings were down $3 million from the year-ago quarter reflecting continued impact of the low interest rate environment.
On a trailing 12-month basis adjusted pretax operating margin at 18% is in our targeted long-term range of 16% to 21%.
We expect to be at the low end of this range as long as the low interest rate environment persists.
Slide 14 highlights Specialty Benefits' premium and fee growth of 5% a solid result given continued pressure on employment levels.
Third quarter 2012 adjusted operating earnings at $18 million were down $3 million from the third quarter 2011.
This was primarily driven by the higher group disability claims in the quarter which we consider to be normal quarterly volatility.
Overall loss ratios for the year continued to be in our targeted range.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax operating margins of 9% is in line with our long-term expectations of 8% to 12%.
The corporate segment reported an operating loss of $31 million right in line with our expected quarterly results of $30 million to $35 million.
For the quarter total company net income was $180 million.
Third quarter benefited from a net gain resulting from the merger of Catalyst Health and our sale of the shares we received as a result of the merger.
After tax credit-related losses remain steady at $38 million.
Our investment-related losses continue to be in line or better than our loss projections and better than market expectations reflecting sustainable recovery in commercial real estate.
Slide 15 explains near-term impacts we experienced on our earnings growth.
As long as pressure on fees and the low interest rate environment persists we expect normalized total company operating earnings to grow 6% to 8%.
With a lower share count in 2012 we expect normalized earnings per share growth to remain in our expected 11% to 13% range.
Looking now at capital adequacy we estimate our third quarter risk-based capital ratio to be 440%.
Relative to a 350 RBC ratio we have approximately $2.2 billion of total excess capital up from $1.5 billion in second quarter primarily due to our September $600-million debt issuance.
The $1.5-billion purchase price for Cuprum will be met by using $1 billion of current excess capital in addition to approximately $500 million of assumed and yet-to-be-issued debt.
Cuprum is expected to close in first quarter 2013.
As Larry noted the evolution of our business model means that we now have 60% to 65% of earnings coming from less capital intensive fee-based businesses that have limited or no guarantees associated with them.
This will allow us to continue a pattern of increasing our dividend payout ratio year-over-year.
As outlined on Slide 16 so far in 2012 we've allocated $2.1 billion of capital for common stock dividends strategic acquisitions and opportunistic share repurchase.
We announced our fourth quarter common stock dividend of $0.21 payable on December 28.
Additionally year-to-date we have repurchased 9.9 million shares worth approximately $260 million.
Looking ahead to 2013 we again expect to deploy capital with a commitment to increasing long-term value for shareholders.
In closing we're very pleased with the continued growth and momentum of our businesses.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question for you just in terms of the guidance and I guess the decision to kind of poll the EPS guidance and I'm just curious why the decision.
Because I think historically you guys had a pretty strong track record of kind of landing almost right in the middle of kind of the guidance range that you guys have provided.
Chris this is Larry.
I appreciate your comment.
Actually a couple of things about that.
First of all of course we've continued -- as we did on Investor Day we continue to reiterate if you will our guidance but our view that our EPS growth over the long term should remain at 11% to 13% range.
So I would sort of start with that.
Second thing I would say is that we actually believe that what we are planning to do and sort of have been doing but plan to do in our call on November 27 with providing you better insight on revenue growth and margin expectations is actually going to allow you to do a better job of sort of forecasting what the earnings and growth rate in earnings is going to be for each of the businesses.
So I'd argue it's actually more valuable to sort of get slightly more granular and get down to the business level rather than just having us throw sort of one macro number out there that would be an overall company EPS because I think it's really more important and helpful to understand the trends within each business.
And so that's why we've gone to this approach.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
That's helpful.
And then Terry you had mentioned the pension closeout transaction and talked about targeted returns there being attractive.
Could you maybe quantify what the return target is there? And then we've seen a number of big pension kind of risk transfer deals out there.
I'm curious on your capacity to do those and how big of a player you're willing to be in that space.
Yes.
Christ this is Larry.
I'll turn it over to Terry for the return comment.
I just want to make a quick comment on sort of how we think about that from an overall capacity and capital usage et cetera.
First of all we've been in this business for 70 years.
So this is a business that we know extremely well.
Of course it's a business that has been fairly dormant up until lately because it tends to be inversely correlated to interest rates.
So when interest rates are low there tends to be not a lot of that business written.
We may be in a period of that starting to change a little bit.
Our focus for the business is for the most part going to be on smaller placements where we can get the kind of returns that Terry is going to talk about in a second.
I would say the third quarter sale $525 million was a little bit unusual for us and you probably wouldn't see us write much more than about $1 billion a year of that kind of business.
So I hope that kind of helps frame it and I'll let Terry talk about returns.
Thanks Chris.
This is Terry.
As you look at that business it's -- not only will it be reported on our full service payout line but it will also get some benefit in our global asset management as well.
So we have to look at the return on both basis.
However what you'll see in the earnings will show up in full service payout predominantly.
Long term we're not expecting this to be dilutive to our long-term ROE.
This business will probably put on in that -- mid-teen range is what we're looking at.
It will vary by the size of the business and we don't think that it's a drag on the business.
We do see that this is a very good diversifier of earnings for us as well.
So we're real pleased with this type of business.
And your next question comes from the line of Joanne Smith from Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if maybe Dan could talk a little bit about the various segments of the market for the full service accumulation business and just talk about -- because I've noticed that recurring deposits were up nicely in the quarter and I'm just wondering where are you seeing the best recovery there and what you think you're going to see going forward.
Okay.
Dan go ahead.
So a couple of comments.
The good news about the third quarter is the sales were actually split very nicely across what we think of is the emerging market which is less than $5 million.
And then we have what we call dynamic which is kind of that $5 million to $50 million.
And then what we call institutional is greater than $50 million.
We really have had and enjoyed good traction and growth in all 3 of those segments which is a very deliberate strategy for a variety of different reasons.
It certainly helps us improve some of the return on asset metrics.
It also helps drive our net revenue growth rates which you saw expressed in the third quarter results.
On the smaller-sized plans we generally can get a larger percentage of the assets and proprietary investment options.
And with Jim's investment performance as of late we've been able to drive more of those assets into our proprietary options.
And the good news there is it's not just the fixed income options it's equities it's asset allocation.
So it's across the board.
TRS continues to be the best solution that we have out there.
It still captures about 60% of the business.
The TPA strategy and we've talked about it on this call on many occasions continues to grow administering a lot of those smaller plans.
And again we've reiterated I've reiterated again today we think the TPA business is just as profitable as the others.
So hopefully that helps give you a flavor for the market today.
Research Division</strong> Dan I was really looking to see where you're seeing the best recovery in recurring deposits.
Because that has been weak off -- pretty much since the financial crisis and that's kind of key to the overall assets under management growth going forward.
So where are we seeing it? Are you seeing it in the smallest plans? The largest plans? It's across the board.
So that 9% increase that was thrown out during the prepared comments is across all of those segments small medium as well as large.
There's still plenty of growth for improving on deferral percentages and improving in participation and certainly contributions through increased salary deferrals and bonuses.
And frankly if you're trying to calibrate it we're probably half way back from the high-water mark of '07 in terms of those recurring deposits.
I would just add a couple of comments Joanne.
I think this was now the 10th straight quarter we've seen an increase in the salary deferral rate.
So we're now seeing salary deferrals that are getting into the very very high 6% almost 7% range.
So that's going to be key.
One of the real opportunities I think for us going forward is sort of the activity that we call retirement readiness where I really think that the American workers now recognize if they didn't understand it before they recognize that it's on their shoulders to make sure that they're doing the right things to save for retirement.
So for somebody that's as big a player as we are on 401(k) and has the local footprint to actually be in the worksite driving higher deferrals driving higher participation this is going to be a big advantage for us.
So hopefully what you're going to see is you're going to see that recurring deposit number continue to build.
And a lot of that again is going to be based on the reality that I think people now understand they've got to secure their own retirement.
Research Division</strong> And Larry or Dan whoever wants to take this follow-up question with respect to that if you're getting an improvement in the recurring deposits and deferral rates then should we not see over time some counterbalance to the pressure on fees? Because obviously those assets are kind of -- come with no cost so to speak.
Yes.
So just breaking down cost for just a second.
Think about it being in 3 buckets.
And again some of those are account value-based.
So commissions are based on account value and so commission costs generally rise at the same rate as your account values.
The asset management fees also follow that similar pattern and so you have some higher cost there.
The third bucket which is comp and other and that's where we've been quite careful in managing those expenses.
And that's where we're going to get some of that additional margin expansion hopefully as we grow these assets.
But you're right Joanne in the assumption that whether it's a profit [ph] contribution increase in deferrals increase in participation a lot of that does fall to the bottom line.
And we look forward to having that return.
And your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner from FBR.
Research Division</strong> In regards to capital management kind of a 2-part question there.
One your commitment to capital as you covered on the call is $2.1 billion in 2012.
That's well ahead of kind of the initial target.
And so kind of looking for the updated thought on that maybe ahead of this November 27 call you seem comfortable managing capital.
And then the other angle I'd like you to cover if you could was savings and loan holding company status.
It seems like you've been pretty comfortable there.
It's been kind of a "getting to know you" period so far with the fed but some other insurers have kind of exited that status.
And so wondering how you're thinking about that and if that's going to have a relation with what you're going to plan for next year.
Okay Randy this is Larry.
I'll make a few comments on that.
Obviously the $2.1 billion that we've deployed or we've [ph] spoken for in 2012 we of course hadn't planned necessarily on having Cuprum which is essentially $1.5 billion of that.
And as you know we plan to use about $400 million of excess capital in order to help finance that acquisition.
So I think that our capital budget if you will is pretty well sort of spent when you take account of the announcement we made last night around the $0.21 share dividend.
And I think it's important to sort of reiterate that $0.21 share because again I believe that board decisions and management decisions around common stock dividends is the best single indicator you have about the strength of the businesses going forward.
So going into 2013 again I think that we need to slightly rebuild our excess capital levels given that we'll use about $400 million for Cuprum.
So we'll need to sort of build that back which again we're roughly thinking is going to take us probably 2 quarters.
So that's why we're sort of thinking and we'll provide more insight at the November 27 call we're probably thinking about being an opportunity to have greater amounts of capital to deploy to shareholders probably in the back half in the continuation of the common stock dividend and maybe a little bit of share repurchase to offset dilution.
On savings and loan holding company again I would reiterate that -- as we have said before I think our conversations continue to be constructive.
If you think about the stress test that we all hear about and read about if you think about the new supposed requirements which are still very much in proposed stage those are really things Randy that are going to be 2014 and 2015 events.
So it's not going to have -- none of that should have a significant impact on our capital management strategy for 2013.
Obviously moving into 2013 one of the most important priorities we're going to have is to ultimately figure out a reconciliation for the savings on holding company and the fed and what impact if any it's going to have on our capital deployment strategy.
So you'll hear us say more about that I think as we get into 2013.
But again at this point it's really had no impact on us.
And so we're actually very pleased with the relationship and we're going to continue on work on that going forward.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all that.
One quick follow-up on the stress test.
Is your expectation that it can be an RBC-based approach rather than a more bank-centric Tier 1 approach? Well as it was in the proposed stage Randy and again I know you're very familiar with this but as it was in the proposed stage I would say there were 2 things in there that were I would say question marks.
I wouldn't say they were problematic.
I just say they're question marks.
One had to do with how they treat AOCI accumulated other comprehensive income and how they look at that from a standpoint of capital as AOCI goes up and down.
The other one which I think again reflects sort of bank-centric versus insurance-centric has to do with separate accounts and the extent to which there are requirements for capital in separate accounts.
In the insurance world for the most part separate accounts or fee-based businesses wouldn't require much if any capital against them.
And that's certainly true for essentially all not 100% but for most of our separate accounts.
So assuming we can get some reasonable resolution in those 2 areas then I think they will have a set of requirements that could work for more insurance-centric organizations like Principal.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First I want to concentrate on the disability issue in the quarter maybe a deeper dive there.
Maybe you could offer -- I realize we're only 3 weeks into the year but maybe -- or into the quarter excuse me but maybe what's going on there so far through October? Okay.
We'll have Dan talk to that Steve.
Overall is -- again kind of just focused on the group disability line for just a second we do think it's a bit of an anomaly and not a trend here.
We did see an elevation in both incidents as well as severity.
Loss ratio roughly 80% -- 85.5%.
Trailing 12 months would be closer to the 75%.
And ideally we'd like to see this number closer to 70%.
So we did do a deep dive on this business and looked hard at occupation diagnosis plan types.
And what we think we have here is just a situation of just normal volatility and would anticipate it straightens out.
Also remember that disability represents only about 20% of our overall SBD line of business as measured by operating earnings.
And that when we kind of look at what's happened so far in the fourth quarter we're maybe trending back towards a more normal run rate for loss ratios.
Does that help? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes it does thank you.
And then just -- that's really what I wanted to ask.
But just one off Larry obviously you've felt it important to mention the new operation in India.
Obviously a very very big market.
What does it do for you that your current operation in India will not? Yes Steve.
What I would say is that the mutual fund industry in India -- with all due respect to Indian regulators the mutual fund industry in India has been upside down for about 2 years now because the regulators roughly 2 years ago said that there would -- they would not allow any sort of front-end commissions in the mutual fund industry.
And so the mutual fund sales surprise went down by about 90% overnight.
So I think that the industry has been sort of searching for if you will an alternate strategy for how to drive mutual fund sales.
And so we've done a lot of research actual field research that would seem to indicate that there is a subsegment of employers in India who sort of get it that their employees are not going to be adequately prepared for retirement.
There really is no particular system over there.
There's no private system.
There's really no public system.
And so this is going to be an emerging area of concern I think for employers in India and employees in India.
So our approach is to use the branding that we have as a global retirement leader to dialogue both with advisors as well as with some of the more global employers in India to try to educate them and ultimately convince them that by putting in place a sort of payroll deduction mutual fund platform they can provide a valuable service to their employees and sort of help them begin to accumulate assets for retirement.
So we're not sitting around anymore kind of waiting for the regulators to ultimately put in place a more rational system.
We think that the demand is already there as evidenced through our research and so we're going to go after it.
And actually we're pretty optimistic.
It's going to take a while.
It's not going to contribute a lot in the next year or 1.5 years but it could make us a leader in a very big market over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oh that's very interesting.
Is there a -- just as a follow-up is there some type of tax advantage or tax deferral for retirement savings in India? Well it's just whatever the normal tax advantages would be relative to mutual funds.
So mutual funds do enjoy some tax advantages but there's nothing special Steven related to this particular platform.
Again think about it more like payroll deduct mutual funds.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First I had a question just on the pipeline for the FSA business.
I think in -- Larry in your remarks you said that the comps are difficult and the sales will grow.
But I was wondering what you -- like would you still grow off of this base? Or is there a chance that the deposits will actually shrink next year? And then given how strong the market has been I'm assuming that in the PGI business you'll have performance fees in the fourth quarter.
If you could talk about that as well? Okay I'll have Dan comment on the first one.
Jim can take the second one.
So pipeline still remains quite strong for the fourth quarter and for 2013.
In the prepared comments we mentioned a 30% growth for -- a projection for all of 2012 which I think you would agree is very strong.
As we look at 2013 we would probably see something more in the lines of a single-digit growth rate mid-single digit and a mix of that business being different.
We're going to put more time and energy and resources across the small- to medium-sized market segment and again manage that accordingly.
But we feel very good about the pipeline feel very good about 2013.
On the incentive fees likely in the fourth quarter Jimmy it's true that the equity markets have been quite strong.
But our incentive fees are on a number of areas including currency funds including some long/short emerging market debt funds.
So we have a diversified portfolio of business that has performance-related fees.
If we -- it's obviously very difficult to say what this will be at the year end since we're more than 2 months away from the year end.
But if you were to draw the line around now you'd have an increment to earnings somewhere north of $5 million in the fourth quarter in the range of $5 million to $10 million incremental earnings from the performance fees.
And that would place the operating earnings on the Principal Global Investors line in the upper half of the twenties for the fourth quarter meaning that the whole year would have a significant increment over last year.
Now I would caution though that that really does depend on how we do in the fourth quarter and that nothing is baked yet.
But the seasonality of PGI's earnings towards the fourth quarter continues to be quite marked.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last one for Larry just thinking about your long-term earnings growth guidance of 10% to 12%.
In the near term you're expecting growth to be about 4 percentage points below that 6% to 8% and I think the 2 main things you've mentioned are low interest rates and pressure on fees.
And obviously rates could go in either direction.
But the fee pressure I'd assume is probably -- it's been compounding over the last few years so it's not going to reverse.
Maybe it stabilizes.
So what gives you the comfort that over the next 1 2 3 years you can get to 10% to 12% rate? Is it growth in the International? Is it something else? Or what do you really need? Rates to be a lot higher? And are you assuming that the fee pressure completely goes away before you return to that rate? Yes those are -- there's a lot baked into there Jimmy so I'll try to do my best.
But the first thing I would say of course is that that 6% to 8% doesn't really -- which again is an OE growth rate not an EPS growth rate.
Again I know -- I think you were clear on that.
So the 6% to 8% OE growth rate doesn't really take account of the Cuprum acquisition.
Okay? So that was -- we mentioned the 6% to 8% at Investor Day which was prior to when we had announced the Cuprum acquisition.
So what's actually going to happen assuming again we get a close sometime in the first quarter is that we are going to get a bump.
We're going to get a bump in OE we're going to get a bump in ROE and we're going to get a bump in EPS from Cuprum.
So I think what the reality is is that we'll have to kind of reset everything for all of you once we get sort of -- we get that deal closed we get that deal integrated.
We'll kind of have to reset all of it.
I do think that your comments generally speaking about where is the delta for the 4% the difference between 6% to 8% and 10% to 12% where is that delta coming from it is coming more from interest rates than it is coming from fee pressure.
And we're not necessarily assuming the fee pressure goes away.
I think as you indicated it's probably more reasonable to assume that it stays at about the level it is today.
But as Dan commented earlier really our focus is going to be to try to drive -- change kind of the mix of business.
So volume of sales will be the same.
It'll grow.
But the mix of business will be a little bit more towards the smaller and medium size.
Or quite frankly we can drive more proprietary assets.
So again interest rates are going to continue to be a headwind.
Cuprum is going to help us.
And I think by the time we get done -- we remain very confident in that 11% to 13% EPS as a growth rate over time.
And maybe in the near term it's going to come a little bit more from OE growth a little less from share repurchase.
And then when we get into the back half of '13 and '14 it'll be more normal -- a combination of OE growth and share repurchase.
That's probably more than you wanted but I hope that helps.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Dargan from Macquarie.
Following up on Jimmy's question about the interest rate pressure what segments should we expect to see that? I assume Individual Life.
But should we look at where the charges were taken in the third quarter as kind of a blueprint for where the interest rate pressure will show up the most? Yes I'll have Terry make some comments Sean.
This is Larry.
First good to hear from you.
I think this might be the first time that you've gotten in the queue.
So thanks for that I appreciate your work.
Yes the short answer is that Individual Life and fixed deferred annuity are going to be the primary areas.
If you look at fixed deferred annuities for example we write -- we have been writing business since '09 with a 1% guaranteed minimum interest rate.
But there is still old business at a 3% rate and that's about half the block today.
The other half which is at the 1% rate still has about 40 basis points of cushion left in it.
So that would also be an area where there will be an impact of lower interest rates beyond Individual Life.
But Terry anything you want to add? Yes I do.
Thank Sean.
Sean you referenced the display that we've provided.
For the rest of you on the call on the website we have a breakdown of the unlocking that we did this quarter on a line-by-line basis as well as by line of business basis which may be helpful to see as well.
But as you say though the Individual Life line will be the one affected most by the low interest rate environment.
Now the fixed annuity -- fixed deferred annuity portion of the individual annuities will also be impacted as well.
But other than that the impact of the low interest rate environment somewhat has an impact on the economy and the size of our clients as much as anything else.
So it does affect all of our businesses.
But predominantly those 2.
And one follow up.
The Principal International segment has seen some pretty steady deposit and flow growth.
Is that coming primarily from BrazilPrev? Or can you talk about what you're seeing in other markets? Yes the good news -- I'll have Luis make some comments Sean.
The good news was as we said in the comments at the start of the call we actually had positive net cash flow in every Principal International operating company.
So as a general comment we've actually seen better sales and flows out of the Asian companies along with continued strong flows in LatAm.
But I'll let Luis give you a little more insight.
Sean yes you're right.
And it used to be essentially BrazilPrev and Brazil a year ago.
Right now we have a much more diversified source of net customer cash flows as Larry said.
The main contributor and the main change that we can see this year is particularly Asia.
Asia has been much more dynamic particularly Southeast Asia.
So the $2.7 billion that you could see in our last quarter in net customary cash flows half of that is coming from Brazil essentially.
And the rest is a combination between Asia and our -- and the other operations in Latin America.
But in particular what Larry said all our operations are having positive net customer cash flows in the third quarter of 2012.
Does that help Sean? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question I wanted to follow-up on Randy's line questioning on the whole thrift regulation.
Larry you mentioned 2 question marks AOCI and guaranteed separate accounts and I get those.
But I think the bigger issue in my mind was how they were treating some of the regulatory capital specifically the authorized control level capital and sort of subtracting that from Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.
And I know that this featured in the presentation that your company gave to I think the Chicago fed earlier this summer.
So can we read from the fact that you didn't mention that as a question mark that you've received some sort of clarity on how they're going to approach that? This is Larry Suneet.
I'm not aware of -- well first of all we haven't received any feedback on that.
And the fact that I commented on AOCI and that I commented on guaranteed separate accounts is because I do think those are the 2 biggest levels.
I don't remember exactly I think that letter Suneet was like a 20-some page letter.
So obviously there's other stuff in there besides those 2.
But I think those are really the 2 that I wanted to focus on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was actually referring to a presentation that you gave but I can follow up later.
My second question is I kind of look at the quarter and I struggle here because if I go through the key highlights that you have in your press release I think you used the word record 4 or 5 times.
And I think there's very few companies in financials that are using that word in their releases.
And then I look at yes the stock being down 3.5% today and I look at companies like Ameriprise where they're not anywhere near records but they traded a much higher multiple on a price-to-book basis anyway.
And so I guess what I struggle with is should there be more of a balance between kind of near-term ROE and long-term ROE? I get a lot of what you're doing is for the long term but I wonder if there should be maybe more of a focus on the short term? So I don't know if you have any comments on that.
Sure.
Sure Suneet.
This is Larry.
So I mean again let's think about if we just look sort of quarter-over-quarter and again stripping out the impact of the DAC as you can see from our slides our view is that our EPS is up 10% sort of quarter-over-quarter.
Our view of the year again setting aside for a moment the DAC noise is that we'll be very much in the range of that 11% to 13% growth in EPS 2012 over 2011.
I would argue in a year that continues to have all the sort of economic challenges and all the market challenges that we all know are out there for us to be able to grow our EPS at 11% to 13% over 2011.
And 2011 was a very good year for us and would indicate that we do have momentum we do have strength and we do have growth both in earnings and in EPS for our businesses.
There again remain this number of headwinds around FX around low interest rates and other things and in the absence of that of course you would see even stronger performance both on an OE and EPS basis.
Beyond that what I'd say is we want to balance out -- we're taking a very long term strategic approach here Suneet.
And so what we want to do is we want to balance out we want to make sure we're meeting our long-term EPS goals.
We do not want to disappoint investors.
And I would argue with our 11% to 13% EPS growth rate we're right on track with everything that we've said to investors.
And in addition to that I think we're making some very important very significant long term strategic investments that are going to have dividends -- that are going to pay dividends and create value for shareholders over the longer term.
I've been -- this is now my 41st year in the organization.
I've never seen us do the kind of strategic acquisitions 6 of them in total that we've been able to do since the financial crisis.
And so as I said earlier we're definitely going to take advantage of that.
And if that means that we come off of OE growth rate a little bit or we come off a share repurchase because we'd rather invest to buy premium properties like Cuprum or we'd rather buy great emerging market managers like Origin and Finisterre this management team and this board believes that's the right thing to do.
And we'll see what happens over the next 2 3 4 years.
But I'm absolutely convinced that companies that create the long-term value are companies that both focus on OE growth but also invest for the future.
And so that's what we're going to continue to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger from Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Following the Cuprum announcement Moody's put out a release where they put you on a negative outlook.
And within the text they've suggested they may downgrade your ratings depending on the amount of debt that you used to fund the deal.
So I wanted to know if you still feel comfortable at this point with the original financing plan which includes $500 million of additional debt? Ryan this is Larry.
I think the short answer to that is yes.
But just to be sort of clear -- I was having actually a little bit of trouble hearing you and so just to see if -- make sure that I'm clear here what -- first of all I'd say the rating agencies all responded in exactly the fashion that we would have expected as it relates to the Cuprum transaction.
And so you would expect that they would go to a negative outlook pending the -- being able to see in 4 or 6 or 8 quarters kind of how the  integration and the earnings flow from the Cuprum business.
So I think they reacted in an absolutely proper way.
We had great conversations with them.
I think they get it strategically.
And now it's a question of we'll have to demonstrate the earnings growth coming out of that.
So again I would expect that that negative outlook will get reversed.
In terms of the financing plan the market remains very open certainly open for companies like Principal that are perceived as very solid companies with a good balance sheet.
And when we did our $600-million debt offering we had -- that was oversubscribed by a significant amount let's say 8X to 10X.
So there is a lot of interest and appetite in our name.
And so I don't think -- we don't expect at this point we don't expect any issues in completing the financing here in the very near future.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So there's really no pushback from the rating agencies on the actual financing plan itself? No.
They're well aware of our plan and we're proceeding right down the path and having -- continuing good conversations.
Don't expect any issues there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up on your comment on 2013 capital management.
You said -- I think what you said was that there may be a little bit of share repurchase in the back half of 2013 to offset dilution? What dilution are you referring to? Just the issuance of employee stock? Yes.
The issuance of employee stock which typically happens for us in March of each year Ryan.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question is for Dan.
And I continue to be -- it has to do with the profitability issue that to me at least continues to loom large over your business.
My question is this: Principal -- it's my sense that Principal moved away from the smaller and mid-sized market in the last 2 years precisely because it was -- sort of the secret was out it was getting more competitive there were more players in the business.
So I have a 2-part question.
By going back to the -- by refocusing on the smaller market now what has happened? Is it that profitability has been restored in that market? And secondly what other things do you plan? What are the other elements of your plan to try to improve or stop this margin squeeze in what is still Principal's largest business representing 30% of earnings 401(k)? Eric good to hear from you.
I'll let Dan take those questions.
Yes good to hear from you Eric.
I think we would have to be careful and frank with the words I choose from time to time because I've tried to stress that we balance it across the board small medium and large.
And if you looked at large year-to-date those over $50 million it's about half those flows.
And maybe it ought to be 60% 40%.
60% on small to mid and 40% on large.
So it's not in anyway trying to pull back but to effectively make a bigger investment especially now that we have our TPA solution in place.
It's working for us well.
We have good solid proprietary investment options.
So I would say it's reinvigorating our focus on small- to mid-sized plans also recognizing we added that ESOP capability.
And it works really well.
But as you know it's very dilutive to the ROE measures.
So we think the best way to go about rewarding shareholders is to see if we can't grow the return on net revenue and grow those net revenue fees for the small- to medium-size business.
In terms of how -- what else are we doing here Eric it's around deploying our technology.
We've got some pretty exciting stuff.
We're using our presentations to advisors on the iPad.
We are doing a lot online with our -- both our planned sponsors as well as our planned participants and we'll look for continued efficiencies.
But we've never abandoned that market.
We think it's a great market.
The one that you probably are -- the one I get concerned about is the say under 20 employees.
Lots of turnover in that group.
And again that's very expensive business to have on the books for a short period of time and have it lapse.
Hopefully that helps.
LLC Research Division</strong> It does.
Here is my one and only follow-up.
You indicated a couple of times in this call that one of the reasons you like the smaller market is that you're able to use more principal funds in it at least that's what I think I heard.
I'm surprised.
I would think that given the fact that mutual funds and mutual fund investing have become so much a part of life today in our country -- I mean everybody in it seems to know about mutual funds.
I mean the paper everyday -- just given the public's broad knowledge of mutual funds and personal finance and all that I would think that the demand for open architecture would be just as great in smaller companies as it is in larger companies.
So how is it that you're able to get more principal funds into these smaller plans than in the larger ones? So a good question to end on Eric.
In large part it's because we've built that retirement investment services capability that allows us to go out and hire complementary managers to what we're doing at PGI something we refer to as the foundation option.
Small- to medium-size businesses advisors in many instances have the resources to do a good evaluation of the performance of managers.
So our ability to combine that management capability among multi-manager multi-style multi-asset class yields a higher benefit to small- to medium-size employers than it might to the very largest employers where they could very well outsource that to a third party.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
Well thanks again to everybody for joining us for the call.
Let me just close by reminding you of what John mentioned in the opening which is our November 27 call where we'll discuss our outlook for our main business drivers going into 2013.
Despite the headwinds we continue to see strong momentum across our businesses and our fundamentals remain solid.
And our focus will be to stay with our investment management strategy and grow those fee-based businesses that gives us greater financial flexibility and the ability to create long-term value for shareholders through capital deployment.
So thanks again to everybody for listening.
Hope you have a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 p.m.
Eastern Time until end of day November 2 2012.
29872826 is the access code for replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 for American and Canadian callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's fourth quarter and full year earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement slides related to today's call and additional investment portfolio detail are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdez Principal International; Tim Dunbar Chief Investment Officer; and Julia Lawler Senior Vice President of Investment Services.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I'll discuss fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution of our strategy and I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As John mentioned we provided slides related to today's call.
Slide 4 outlines the themes for today's call.
The company ended 2012 with a very strong fourth quarter.
The business momentum continues to be strong and with a better macroeconomic environment the business fundamentals were able to come through to revenue and operating earnings.
While there were some modest onetime positives which Terry will discuss we achieved a 16% increase in total company adjusted operating earnings per share compared to fourth quarter 2011.
We ended fourth quarter 2012 with a record $403 billion in assets under management and $30 billion in total company net cash flow for 2012 outstanding results reflecting ongoing momentum in the businesses.
This reflects our competitive advantage and the strength of our advisor-focused distribution model as well as the strength of our joint venture partners.
Some of the growth metrics from the quarter include: strong sales of $3.3 billion for full service accumulation contributing to strong net cash flows of $1.6 billion in the quarter; strong sales of $4.2 billion in Principal Funds contributing to net cash flows of $1.5 billion in the quarter; record unaffiliated assets under management of $98.2 billion in Principal Global Investors; strong net cash flows of $2 billion for Principal International; $85 million in Individual Life sales in the quarter an increase of 56% over fourth quarter 2011 reflecting strong sales in all segments and continued success in the business market; and Specialty Benefits sales of 18% in the fourth quarter of 2012 over 2011 driving premium and fee growth of 5%.
Turning now to the full year.
Total company results were strong given difficult operating conditions.
On an adjusted basis full year earnings per share were up 12% over reported earnings per share of $2.66 for 2011.
Let me highlight some of the outstanding growth metrics from 2012.
Full service accumulation had record sales of $11.5 billion up 36% over 2011 and record net cash flows of $7 billion which is 6% of beginning-of-year account values.
Annualized net revenue on new sales is up 46% over 2011.
Principal Funds had record sales of $15.8 billion for the year up 41% resulting in record net cash flows of $7 billion for the year.
Principal Global Investors had full year unaffiliated net cash flows of $7 billion reflecting continued strong investment performance and demand for our broad investment expertise.
Principal International had record reported net cash flows of $9.3 billion up 69% over 2011 leading to a record $69 billion in reported assets under management.
Total assets for Principal International including our China joint venture were $80.5 billion at the end of 2012 up 32% from the prior year.
Net cash flows from our Latin American businesses continue to be strong and we're generating increasing net cash flows from our Asian businesses as well.
In U.S.
Insurance Solutions Individual Life full-year sales of $227 million were up 22% compared to 2011 driven by the nonqualified and business owner markets which drove 55% of total sales.
2012 Specialty Benefits had sales of $256 million a decrease of 10% from record sales in 2011 in what remains a competitive environment.
The strength of our business fundamentals leads to growth in assets leading to higher net revenues over time and ultimately higher total company operating earnings.
Given the ongoing strength in our close ratios and our investment performance we remain confident about our competitive position and our ability to continue to grow our businesses into the future despite challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Next I'll comment on our success in further implementing our strategy in 2012.
We announced 2 significant acquisitions last year in Latin America solidifying our position as a retirement leader in the fast-growing emerging markets in this region.
The acquisition of Claritas in April a Brazilian retail mutual fund and asset management company complements our existing pension leadership position in Brazil where BrazilPrev our joint venture with Banco Brasil is the fastest-growing pension company in that market.
As a reminder Brazil is the sixth largest mutual fund market in the world and continues to grow at double-digit rates.
Additionally in October we announced our intent to acquire Cuprum a premier mandatory and voluntary pension provider in Chile.
We received all regulatory approvals and have completed the tender offer for this transaction.
We expect to complete this transaction next week further positioning The Principal as a retirement leader in Chile.
And in Mexico with the 2011 acquisition of HSBC's AFORE and our exclusive distribution arrangement we've successfully built scale in the AFORE market which is the key to success in the mandatory pension market.
We've proven our ability to create a center of retirement and long-term savings excellence in key emerging markets in Latin America.
This expertise serves us well as the long-term savings and retirement markets in Asia begin to develop.
Our position in Asia is further strengthened by having large well-respected joint venture partners like China Construction Bank CIMB Group in Southeast Asia and Punjab National Bank in India.
In addition to strong joint venture partners the synergies among our businesses continue to uniquely position us in these key emerging markets.
In early 2012 we announced that Principal Global Investors was awarded a Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor or QFII license in China.
Last month we fulfilled our existing quota of $150 million.
This demonstrates that Principal Global Investors' well-established and growing presence in Asia with our strong equities management capabilities provides a compelling proposition to clients.
Finally we continue to pursue deregistration as a savings and loan holding company.
This process will likely take several months.
We remain hopeful that we will retain much of our ability to provide products and services to our principal bank customers without the ongoing oversight of our holding company by the federal reserve.
Strong investment performance continues to be a leading indicator of strong net cash flows.
Our results continue to be strong across asset classes and are a differentiator for The Principal.
As shown on Slide 5 and now referenced in our supplement on Page 1 84% of our investment platform funds ranked in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles on a 1-year basis 91% on a 3-year basis and 60% on a 5-year basis.
As a result of strong investment performance results driving large net cash flows Principal Funds is now ranked 19th in market share for adviser-sold funds and 11th in net cash flows for 2012 based on rankings done by Strategic Insight.
Our goal is to continue growing market share as we continue to develop innovative new products and expand and deepen distribution channels.
Our Investment Management + strategy which encompasses a unique set of businesses focused on the long-term savings investment and risk protection needs of clients around the world continues to differentiate our business model.
Finally I'll close with some comments on capital management.
We continue to operate from a position of financial flexibility as a result of our fee-based business model providing increasing amounts of deployable capital.
This model allows us to return capital to shareholders as well as invest in our business through strategic acquisitions.
In 2012 we allocated more than $2 billion of capital to common stock dividends strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.
In addition to increasing the total 2012 dividend 11% over 2011 we announced last night that our board has approved a first quarter 2013 common stock dividend of $0.23 a 10% increase over fourth quarter 2012 as we seek to continue to increase our dividend payout ratio.
Looking ahead to 2013 we expect to deploy approximately $500 million for common stock dividends strategic acquisitions and any share repurchase.
The bulk of share repurchases if any would be in the latter half of 2013.
Before I close I want to mention that The Principal was recently named the #1 place to work among large money managers by Pensions &amp; Investments magazine.
Attracting talented employees is a key component for long-term success as a global investment management company.
This recognition is strong validation that our aspiration of being a recognized global investment management leader is being realized.
Finally I want to acknowledge and congratulate Julia Lawler on her new position within the company.
Julia has been our Chief Investment Officer since becoming a public company.
Julia has moved from her role as Chief Investment Officer to Senior Vice President of Investment Services where she is responsible for overseeing the portfolios for Retirement and Investor Services as well as Principal International.
She'll apply the expertise she's gained from successfully managing the general account to a much larger share of the company's total assets under management.
Tim Dunbar has added Chief Investment Officer to his responsibility as well as continuing to oversee [Audio Gap].
He's joined the company 25 years ago and has managed operations in Mexico and served in various roles in Principal Global Investors.
I'm excited to have both Julia and Tim's expertise in these key investment management roles.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
As Larry mentioned the fourth quarter was a very strong finish to 2012 showing continued business momentum as we move into the new year.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter and full year; net income including [Audio Gap] the strength of our capital position and balance sheet.
Reported fourth quarter 2012 operating earnings of $244 million were up 21% over the reported fourth quarter 2011.
Looking at Slide 6 you'll see the positive onetime benefits that helped fourth quarter 2012 operating earnings per share.
The extraordinary and accelerated dividends the company has paid in fourth quarter 2012 benefited fourth quarter results by $0.03 and variable investment income from alternative investments added $0.01.
Combined these items benefited current quarter operating earnings by $0.04 per share.
On an adjusted basis fourth quarter 2012 earnings per share were up 16% over the year-ago quarter reflecting strong execution and lower share count.
Looking ahead first quarter 2013 will be negatively impacted by closing costs for Cuprum as well as normal seasonality in Principal Global Investors and Specialty Benefits.
On a reported basis 2012 full year earnings per share were up slightly.
Adjusting 2012 for the third quarter actuarial assumption review 2012 earnings per share were up 12%.
This is a very strong result despite macroeconomic pressures such as low interest rates a strengthening U.S.
dollar and pricing pressures.
Now I'll discuss business unit results.
Slide 7 and 8 are the same slides that we provided on our outlook call.
They summarize the expected 2013 and 5-year revenue growth rates and margins for each of the businesses.
These drivers of profitability provide greater clarity for earnings growth by business unit and are key to how we measure our businesses going forward.
We continue to believe we'll achieve the net revenue and pretax margin ranges we announced at our November 27 call.
Turning now to Slide 9 on Retirement and Investor Services.
Our Accumulation businesses had net revenue growth of 18% in fourth quarter 2012 versus fourth quarter 2011 driving operating earnings up 27% to $134 million.
Adjusting for the benefit received from the extraordinary dividends paid by companies during the quarter and variable investment income operating earnings grew 16% in fourth quarter 2012 compared to the year-ago quarter.
Strong growth in account values was driven by very favorable sales and retention that boosted net cash flows and positive asset appreciation.
Fourth quarter operating earnings for full service accumulation at $81 million were up 39% from the year-ago quarter reflecting 17% net revenue growth improved quarterly pretax return on net revenue and $8 million dividend benefit.
Underlying fundamentals within full service accumulation remains strong.
The sales pipeline continues to build and close ratios continue to improve.
In addition full year 2012 recurring deposits were up 11% over 2011 reflecting growth in eligible participant count as a result of strong sales and client retention.
We expect 2013 full service accumulation sales to be comparable to 2012 based on assets but expect to achieve double-digit growth in annualized net revenue on new sales.
We expect to continue to drive sales across all plan sizes small medium and large but with greater emphasis on small to mid where we will capture a higher percentage of proprietary asset management.
This shift may also result in lower net cash flows in 2013 but again will enable us to drive higher growth in annualized net revenue from new sales.
Operating earnings for Principal Funds at $13 million in fourth quarter were up 25% from the year-ago quarter on 23% increase in revenue and improved pretax margin.
On a full-year basis sales and net cash flows were outstanding at $15.8 billion and $6.6 billion respectively.
We continue to see strong investment performance and high demand across multiple strategies including global diversified income fund preferred securities MidCap Blend Fund high-yield and our target-risk funds.
Individual Annuities operating earnings at $31 million up 12% from the year-ago quarter benefited $3 million from variable investment income which partially offset continuing margin compression due to the low interest rate environment.
Slide 10 covers the guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
Fourth quarter net revenue was down 3% while operating earnings of $19 million were relatively flat over the year-ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax return on net revenue remained stable at 78%.
We continue to approach this business opportunistically and we'll issue investment-only and full service payout business when market conditions generate attractive returns.
Turning to Principal Global Investors.
Operating earnings of $26 million were up 50% over the year-ago quarter.
Slide 11 shows fourth quarter revenues grew 11% driven by higher average assets under management while holding costs relatively flat quarter-over-quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis revenue is up 8% and pretax margin expanded to 23% both strong and expected results.
Investment performance remains competitive.
The exit of a large Origin client as well as a restructuring of the emerging market team caused slightly negative unaffiliated net cash flow in the fourth quarter.
However we believe the negative flows were confined to the fourth quarter as the emerging market team maintained stellar performance following the transition reflecting the strength and consistency of our investment philosophy and process.
On a full-year basis unaffiliated net cash flows of $6.9 billion was very strong reflecting positive flows in several categories such as currency real estate and stable value.
Our pipeline is at its strongest in many years and we're confident we'll have strong net cash flows in 2013.
Looking at Principal International fourth quarter 2012 operating earnings of $45 million are down $5 million from the reported fourth quarter 2011.
However as shown on Slide 12 adjusted operating earnings were up 14% when removing the additional month of earnings from BrazilPrev and the tax credits in the year-ago quarter.
Fourth quarter 2012 combined net revenue grew 16% over the adjusted year-ago quarter.
Full year 2012 combined pretax return on net revenue improved to 56%.
Despite foreign exchange headwinds during 2012 operating earnings net cash flow and assets under management continued to grow.
Now that we're nearing the close of the Cuprum acquisition let me remind you that earnings from the business will be on top of the existing strong organic growth that we're already seeing in Principal International.
We continue to expect roughly $0.12 of total company earnings per share accretion in 2013 from Cuprum.
Turning to Individual Life Slide 13 shows fourth quarter 2012 premium and fees grew at a strong 8% over fourth quarter 2011 due to strong sales in the current quarter.
Operating earnings at $28 million were up 2% over fourth quarter 2011 reflecting the headwind from low interest rates.
On a trailing 12-month basis after adjusting for the impact of actuarial assumption review and the amortization basis change pretax operating margin is 17% within the targeted long-term range of 16% to 21%.
We expect to be at the lower end of this range as long as the low interest rate environment persists.
Specialty Benefits operating earnings at $32 million were up 23% over the same quarter a year ago.
Slide 14 highlights Specialty Benefits premium and fee growth of 5% a solid result given continued pressure on employment and wage levels.
Fourth quarter 2012 operating earnings also benefited from a lower claims loss ratio.
Despite the high group disability loss ratio in third quarter the overall loss ratio of 68% for the year remains at the midpoint of our targeted range.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax operating margins of 9% is in line with our long-term expectation of 8% to 12%.
Let me remind you that operating earnings for Specialty Benefits are very seasonal where typically we roughly see 20% of annual earnings coming from the first quarter 25% in the second and third quarters and 30% in the fourth quarter.
The corporate segment reported an operating loss for the fourth quarter of $39 million.
We experienced additional debt interest expense until we early retired our 2014 notes in late December as well as some costs associated with the Cuprum acquisitions which were partially offset by miscellaneous income.
Looking at 2013 we continue to expect the normal quarterly run rate for corporate earnings to be a loss of $35 million to $40 million with an additional $7 million after-tax loss of onetime Cuprum closing costs in first quarter 2013.
For the year total company net income was $773 million an increase of 25% over 2011 driven by gains from the sale of assets and better-than-expected credit losses.
Aftertax credit-related investment losses in 2012 at $110 million down 25% from 2011 reflect a continued downward trend to a multi-year low.
Our investment portfolio continues to perform extremely well.
Book value per share excluding other comprehensive income finished 2012 at $29.20 a 7% increase over 2011 despite the write-downs due to the change in actuarial assumptions in the third quarter.
This represents a solid growth in the company's intrinsic value.
2012 reported return on equity of 9.6% was negatively impacted by the third quarter actuarial assumption review.
Adjusting for this return on equity was 10.7% in 2012 up 50 basis points from 2011 despite the macroeconomic challenges.
Looking now at capital adequacy we estimate our year-end risk-based capital ratio to be 415% to 420%.
Relative to a 350% RBC ratio we have approximately $2.5 billion of total deployable capital.
Approximately $1.5 billion of capital is earmarked for the purchase of Cuprum.
We expect to complete the transaction on February 4.
As outlined in Slide 15 we allocated $2.1 billion of capital for common stock dividends strategic acquisitions and opportunistic share repurchase in 2012.
The evolution of our less capital-intensive fee-based business model allows us to continue a pattern of increasing our dividend payout ratio representing 30% of 2012 net income.
Additionally we repurchased 9.9 million shares with approximately $260 million in 2012.
Looking ahead to 2013 we expect to deploy $400 million to $600 million of capital with a continued commitment to increasing long-term value for shareholders.
As Larry mentioned last night we announced our first quarter 2013 dividend of $0.23 a 10% increase over the previous quarter dividend.
In closing we're very pleased with the continued growth and momentum of our businesses as well as the outstanding execution by our team in 2012.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question can you comment just in terms of the large account that you lost within Origin in terms of maybe what you were collecting on fees relative to the rest of the book? Chris this is Larry.
I'll have Jim comment on that.
Yes Chris.
The large account that exited Origin was about $800 million in asset value and the fee was a bit lower than Origin's typical because it's a large account but it was in the order of below 30s of basis points.
So there's a bit of a loss there.
However I would point out that Origin has had growth from other sources and we're expecting revenues in 2013 to be at or slightly above the run rate when we bought the firm just over a year ago.
And just in case I can anticipate your next question the testing of goodwill we're well in the right side of that one.
So although that was an outflow in the quarter we are pretty confident of the general situation and the solidity of Origin's client base.
Just to elaborate if I may this was a case where a large client wanted to move several managers into a single strategic relationship.
We pitched for that.
I believe we were a very credible finalist but on the day we didn't get it.
I think that's true of many of these large institutional pitches but we're definitely in the frame and a very credible contender for that kind of case.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 other quick ones.
One in terms of the growth in number of plans.
You're getting some pretty nice growth there really in all employer sizes.
Can you just comment some on the fee dynamics in terms of what you're seeing in that growth maybe versus your core book and what you currently have in place? Chris yes.
This is Larry.
I think we said in the earlier comments to give you some kind of insight into that as you know the actual new sales were up about 36% in 2012.
We commented that the annualized fee revenue of that business was actually up 46% over the prior year.
So you can see that we're gaining traction if you will in terms of if you will revenue per dollar as it relates to new sales.
And part of that is as a result of focusing a little bit more on the small and medium.
Now I'm always a little cautious because when we suggest that we're focusing more in the small and medium it sounds like we're sort of running away from a different part of the market and that's not really the case.
This really again is more about deploying additional resources and making additional investments.
And so it's not like we're running away from an existing book of business or larger plans.
We just think at the moment there remains a great opportunity.
Part of this as an example Chris is with our Edward Jones relationship.
You may remember we brought that relationship on at the start of 2012.
And they're an example of the type of firm that is completely and squarely focused on small medium business.
So just as we follow these opportunities it's taking us a little bit more in that direction which of course we like financially anyway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last quick one in terms of the Cuprum acquisition the multiple you guys paid 13x.
The announcement this morning from Met they're acquiring a similar business for 10.5x.
So just curious why the price that kind of you pay is it the assets to a participant where you think there's better growth on the voluntary side? A little color would be helpful.
Yes it's a very good question Chris.
I'll make a couple of comments.
Luis may want to add some things.
First of all I think that you would have to be a little careful of evaluating the sort of initial financials that come out in a transaction like this.
There's some confusion I think about the multiples because there's a piece of the company actually owned by BBVA directly.
There's a piece that they control through ADRs.
So there's going to be -- I think it's going to take a little while before we ultimately know what that multiple looks like.
I will tell you based on kind of our own calculations we think the multiples both on their transaction and our transaction are in that kind of 11x to 12x PE range.
So I think by the time all the dust settles we'll find those are very comparable PEs.
If they are comparable PEs I would still argue that our Cuprum acquisition represents better value.
And the primary reason for that is that 2 things.
First of all the average AUM per contributor is much much higher in Cuprum and Luis may be able to give you some detail on that.
And the other thing is that the real opportunity in Chile the real opportunity and the growth opportunity in the future is really on the voluntary side.
So one of the things that you want to look at very carefully in evaluating an acquisition there is how many of the contributors are eligible for additional voluntary.
And so in the case of the industry overall that's about 50% of the contributors.
But in the case of Cuprum our acquisition about 70% of those contributors are eligible for voluntary contribution.
So that's really the growth opportunity and the longer-term opportunity in the AFP business.
So I think there's really no question that sort of pound-for-pound and strategically Cuprum represents better value than Provida which is a well-respected AFP but is more of a middle income lower middle income whereas ours is more of a middle income and affluent sort of segment.
So Luis any comment? As Larry mentioned our preliminary analysis about this transaction is confirming our evaluations for this business in Latin America in particular in Chile.
As Larry mentioned you could see some differences between Cuprum and Provida.
But all in all we are very clear that we have the right valuation for our acquisitions.
And again we are very clear that Cuprum was a very good acquisition for us and we're very happy about that.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
When I think about the strong operating results that you showed in the fourth quarter and I look at the assumptions baked into your 2013 outlook and I think the S&amp;P 500 has performed better than is baked in there and at least 10-year treasury yields are higher.
Should we not think of the outlook as being conservative now at this point? Sean this is Larry.
Well we all know that a quarter's a quarter.
So it's certainly true that the macroeconomic conditions Sean that have been in place since our earnings driver call have been more favorable the macroeconomic events have been more favorable than would have been implied in our earnings drivers.
So I accept the premise of the question.
I think we'll just have to see however because we obviously don't do quarterly guidance.
We don't even really do annual guidance.
We do guidance on earnings drivers.
So I think we'll just have to see as we go forward into 2013 whether those macroeconomic events sort of stay in a favorable mode and may even ultimately become tailwinds as compared to the latter part in 2011 and most of 2012 when the macroeconomic event -- factors were really headwinds.
So perhaps some reason for optimism but it's still very early.
Got it and one follow-up.
You said that you are going to close the Cuprum acquisition next week and you got the shares tendered from Penta.
But I thought I saw something in the news about the Chilean regulators having a concern with the tender process.
Can you just maybe give us an update on what that concern was and if that's taken care of? Sure I'll have Luis comment Sean.
But again just to be clear the tender offer process has been completed.
It's been completed successfully and we do have in hand all the approvals from the pensions regulator.
So our intent will be to complete this transaction.
We're estimating right now on February 4.
So Luis anything to add? No concerns particularly about the tender offer in particular.
The regulator was asking to -- us to clarify certain aspects in the article within our prospect related with expenses mainly but no concerns in particular.
Those items were pretty clarified and the tender offer was declared a very successful one.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to kind of jump to the couple of laws and policy items.
One Larry you mentioned the S&amp;L deregistrations kind of not affecting the bank performance.
But I was wondering if we get a little more color on kind of what that looks like on the ground.
And then the other question I have is just around DRD.
We're right ahead of the budget that comes out in a couple of weeks or 3 weeks.
I mean any thoughts on how DRD might change with the upcoming budget? Yes Randy maybe a couple of comments.
I'm not completely sure that I caught the gist of the first question on the S&amp;L deregistration.
I think that again we continue to pursue that.
As I said in my comments we think it will take several months but we don't -- we haven't seen anything so far that would cause us to think this is proceeding in any way different than we would have expected.
It does appear that while there's still actually very few deregistrations that have been completed it seems like a time frame in sort of the 6- to 9-month period sort of end to end seems kind of reasonable.
But I will also say if you've seen one deregistration process you've seen one deregistration process because they really are all a little bit different because the entities may want to offer some banking products maybe not others another deregistration may not want to offer any at all.
So they really are different.
But again I would just say that the discussions have been very very constructive.
I think the right questions are being asked and the right answers are being given and the process is moving forward.
So we'll continue to keep you updated on that one but again everything is moving as we expect.
On the DRD issue I mean there is a DRD tax benefit for an obvious reason to avoid double taxation.
If we -- I think the only basis on which DRD gets changed Randy I think is if there's a broader corporate tax reform that happens in this country.
And I would say while in the latter part of 2011 as I make my frequent trips to Washington D.C.
and listen to decision makers there I might have had some hope in the latter part of 2011 that there actually might have been some corporate tax reform.
But I will tell you that as I listen to the dialogue today post the election I would say my view that the probability of corporate tax reform is going down and is going down fairly substantially.
So I'm not expecting and we're not expecting necessarily any significant change in DRD unless a broader corporate tax reform happens.
So that's about the best I can tell you on that one.
Research Division</strong> No understood and we agree on that.
I guess on the bank -- sorry if I was vague in my question but we assume some level of operating earnings from the bank and it's not a huge part of the business.
But I mean I guess so far that process is not affecting how the business is operating or is it too early to tell? Correct yes.
So the bank earns about $8 million a quarter and it's a little bit too early to tell as to how that might change.
I think if we have -- if we're able to accomplish all the things that we want to accomplish with the deregistration which would still allow us to offer some level of banking products maybe not the full suite we have today it could impact that number a little bit.
But again relative to total complex it's not going to be significant.
I hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> There seems to be a changing dynamic you discussed it in detail in your 401(k) business where asset growth seems to be slowing but meaning you're getting very strong net flows.
But because those strong net flows are fairly stable and against a growing asset base the rate of growth while still positive is slowing.
It seems too that you're changing the nature of -- you're trying to change the nature of your customers in favor of customers who may give you more revenue.
I don't know about the profitability but more revenue.
There's so much going on here.
I guess the first question would be this maybe Terry could you go over exactly what you were saying about the outlook for sales in 2013 for flows and for revenues because those are 3 completely different ideas? And I just want to make sure for starters I understand that sales flows and revenues in FSA.
Okay go ahead Terry.
Sure.
Eric this is Terry.
What I said was that we're expecting sales for full service accumulation in 2013 to be a comparable asset level.
However the revenue that's going to be generated off those new sales should be at a higher level and then actually seeing double-digit growth in that revenue generated by those new sales.
Why is that? Because as Larry mentioned we're going to be focusing on and adding more resources to the smaller to midsize client not necessarily moving away from the larger client.
But as we do that it will generate more revenue because we'll see more proprietary investment offerings.
So as a result of that there should be some additional profitability for the business.
And just to make -- I'm sorry just to finish off a comment on the flows because you asked about flows.
So -- well first on a general statement Eric you're correct that obviously a growing block of business it can become more difficult to maintain growth as a block gets bigger and bigger and bigger.
Witness Apple as an example as a company.
So we sort of all know that's true.
In the case of flows again what we'd expect is that sales will be relatively flat.
Likely what that means Eric is that flows would actually be down a little bit.
Net flows will be down from $7 billion.
Now just so as people don't overreact to that recognize that $7 billion of flows in 2012 was over 6% of the beginning-of-period account value.
And you'll remember that our long-term guidance has been 4% to 6%.
So we are outside the high end of that particular range.
So the fact that flows maybe a little less shouldn't necessarily be a concern.
It's really more back in line with what our longer-term guidance had been.
And then finally you have the issue of revenues which Terry said will be increasing our annualized new sales or annualized revenue of new sales another 10% to 15%.
So what's happening here basically is that the margin if you will on new business and the margin on existing business are now starting to compress and get very close together which is what's going to stabilize the overall returns on full service accumulation going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could ask just one follow-up and then we'll go on to the next caller.
Since you don't -- I don't think you report out that portion of your new money coming in the door that is going to be managed by Jim's group.
I don't think you do as opposed to by sub-advised relationships or full third parties both sort of completely outsiders.
We don't get that breakdown.
I'm looking for a way to keep score on how you are doing with this effort to bring in more revenue-rich business? And I'm just wondering about the following: do you think that we should be tracking as a way to keep score the rate of growth of your revenues versus the rate of growth of your assets with the idea being that if in fact you are succeeding in taking in more revenue-rich products than in the past that rate of growth of revenues should be higher than the rate of growth in assets if you can follow my line of thought? Absolutely Eric this is Larry.
I absolutely follow line of thought and agree with -- conceptually agree with what you said.
If you look at -- I think it's Page 27.
We don't need to talk about it now.
We need to move on but on 27 of our financial supplement you can sort of track what we're talking about in terms of PGI's investments as a proportion of the full service accumulation platform.
I would just say as a general comment on that that percentage has been holding or increasing slightly.
So PGI is managing about 55% 56% -- I'm sorry.
In total the proprietary is about 66% and PGI manages about 55 points of the 65 points.
So we're doing well on that score.
And the reason we've included the revenue in the script we'll continue to do that or think about maybe adding that to the supplement.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thank you for that reminder about Page 27.
That's helpful.
Then the page -- I mean Page 29 goes into detail that I think would answer exactly your question Eric.
This is Jim.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Do you think about PGI's current capabilities? Where do you think you're best positioned? And maybe what asset classes do you think you still need to add to or increase capacity? I guess related to that can you talk about how you think PGI's positioned if we do start to see a shift from fixed income to equities more broadly? Yes.
This is Larry and first of all let me also say welcome and we appreciate the coverage that you've picked up on us.
So with that I'll have Jim take your questions.
With your last question which is really what happens if the emphasis goes in customer demand from fixed income to equities.
As you know we've done really well in Principal Mutual Funds and full service accumulation as well as Principal Global Investors from the investor focus on yield-biased assets.
We have had very good flows into high yield into preferred securities and then the global diversified income fund that was launched in Principal Mutual Funds.
So as you rightly indicate our strength in fixed income has stood us in very good stead in the last 2 or 3 years as that's been what investors want.
We have actually got some very competitive investment products and equities as well and some were mentioned in the script with the MidCap Blend Fund which is the same team manages the Blue Chip Fund which is Large Cap Quality Growth.
We have the equity income fund and the capital appreciation fund at Edge.
So if the start -- if the bias in investor demand towards equities continues as it seems to have started in January then we will be extremely well placed to capture that looking forward.
On the broader question of how we're managing Principal's investment platform it's very important nowadays to have really top-performing assets in various categories.
And then equities for example I mentioned our capabilities managed by Principal Global Equities and by Edge we also have some very high-quality capabilities at Columbus Circle and at Origin.
Their performance is probably broadly second quartile [Audio Gap] with their very strong capabilities that will show well at times.
So with those 4 groups I think we're pretty well placed in equities.
In real estate we've been a leader for a long time.
Our big thrust for future development there is likely be to be towards international real estate.
We've already got a global client base a very strong global client base for U.S.
real estate.
The gap in our product range is really managing a private real estate on an international basis.
So we're quite happy there but we have work to do on the international side.
And by the way that can be both organic and by acquisition.
And then lastly on fixed income as you know we added to emerging market debt with the Finisterre acquisition.
We've been developing very successfully emerging market debt within Principal Global Fixed Income.
So I would say our suite of yield-biased assets is probably taking our fixed income and real estate together about the strongest in the industry.
I feel pretty good about where we are but clients will continue to demand strong investment across the board.
So as well as adding for gaps I think some further diversification in our investment capability will be important so that we can continue producing for our clients and for sales channels top-tier investments whatever happens.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then just on that last point it sounds like you expected that diversification to come both still organically as well as through potential additional M&amp;A.
Is that right? Yes absolutely.
I'll give you a specific example.
We took our high-yield capabilities last year and developed short-duration high-yield products which have gone very well with certain parts of the client base.
That's the kind of organic diversification that needs to be done as well to satisfy changing client demand.
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I want to look at the full service accumulation business from maybe others because -- so new sales were up $3.3 billion this quarter which clear on an absolute basis is an impressive number.
But if I look at it year-over-year it seems like growth has slowed down a bit.
I was hoping to get a little more color on why that was the case.
Yes Yaron this is Larry.
The better metric really is to look at the sales over I would say I would recommend a trailing 12-month basis.
And of course we're now at the point where we're calendar year over calendar year.
So I think really the way to look at that would be to look at the whole year which is $11.5 billion over $8.4 billion in 2011.
Within the context of quarter-to-quarter sales could be a little bit lumpy.
So even though the fourth quarter sales 2012 were frankly just a bit higher that wouldn't be the comparison because these things will kind of ebb and flow.
In other words there's not a lot of difference between having a 12/15 effective date which is a sale in 1 year versus a 1/15 date which is a sale on the following year.
So you really need to get sort of a trailing 12 months.
There's a lot of momentum behind the business.
If we look at our pipelines our pipelines continue to grow and our close ratios actually continue to hold or get better.
So we do have optimism going forward albeit as Terry has said I think both in his script and in some answers what we're really focused on in 2013 is a combination of moving assets and moving net revenues.
So it's going to be a balanced approach in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in terms of the increased focus on small mid-level accounts can you remind us kind of what you would characterize as a small account? Yes good question.
We normally think about smaller plans as being sort of in the below -- plan assets below the sort of $100 million to $150 million range is normally what we would think of as kind of small- and medium-size plans.
So these are -- oftentimes they're startup and quite often they have $5 million $10 million and midsize would get into the $50 million $70 million range.
But those would be plan assets.
Again about 70% of the business we write is a takeover plan so there are existing assets.
So those are -- that's our notion of small and medium.
Research Division</strong> And do you think about it in headcount numbers as well or is it just assets? Well we actually would probably think about it more in terms of assets per participant.
So I mean that would really be the way we think about it.
There are plans that have very large headcounts and some competitors will go after those because they are a large headcount.
But as we know in this business Yaron what really drives the business is the combination of revenue and profitability and revenue is for the most part revenue is tied to assets.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I guess what I'm getting at here is I've seen the headlines over the potential impact of the health care reform on companies keeping headcount low below 50.
I was just curious if that would have any impact on either growth trajectory or plans? Yes I mean frankly I hadn't sort of extrapolated that into the whole equation to be honest with you.
I don't -- I think really as long as payrolls continue and salaries continue to sort of hold in at the level they are as long as we don't get back to a 2008 '09 where you were seeing significant reduction in compensation in an attempt to save expenses.
So as long as salaries continue to hold steady and merit increases continue to be given those are all favorable trends for our business.
Yaron this is Terry.
One of the metrics that we look at is the movement in the recurring deposits to get to that point.
Pre-financial crisis we saw a significant increase year-over-year in recurring deposits due in large part due to salary increases deferral increases participation increases as well as employment increases.
Now we're seeing some of those deferral increases the participation the new contracts coming on generating that.
But we're not seeing a lot of additional movement inside an existing plan in terms of new employees.
Now in order for us to get a quantum leap in that recurring deposits you'll see when employment comes back you'll see that increase occur there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Larry overall obviously it seems like it's actually a pretty strong quarter.
A couple of points that I thought were a little weak FSA margins came lower especially if you adjust for the DRD whether you look at it on a return on net revenue or ROA basis.
And then PGI flows were a little light.
You mentioned the Origin issue but there's also the restructuring of the emerging markets' teams so do you expect an ongoing -- any ongoing weakness because of that? This is Larry.
On the point about FSA margins what I would say on that and I've said this many many many times is I think it's important not to take a period that's going to be as short as a calendar quarter and try to sort of annualize or divine some inflection point in that.
I think the key thing here is that we are adding more revenue per dollar of new sales we are compressing the revenue rates between the existing book and the new sales book and that is going to stabilize those margins and move in to that range that we talked about over the long term.
So I feel very very good about where we are with our strategy around margins for that particular business.
And I'll let Jim make a few comments on the emerging market restructure and how well that's gone because it's actually a positive point.
Yes the emerging market restructure led -- some clients obviously are unsettled by any change and it led to outflows in the order of about $1 billion during the fourth quarter.
Obviously that was offset against the PGI levels some very robust inflows elsewhere.
I would characterize the emerging market restructure as firstly we have managed by recruiting people that know our strategy and have been with us in the past and have followed us closely.
We've managed to put a very solid team together that actually is as experienced as it ever was before.
And we've been around all of the big clients quite intensively because you obviously communicate very closely on any changes.
And I would observe as far as we can see that they're pretty rock solid and actually very encouraging of those in terms of the way we're evolving that process.
So we feel we're in a very good situation.
Basically we were very proactive in terms of communication and remain very close to clients and distributors.
And I think basically the $1 billion outflow was a short 10% of the assets managed by that group and basically it was a fourth quarter event.
We're not expecting any material amount going forward.
And Jimmy this is Larry.
I would just make 2 quick additional points data points.
I said in my comments that PGI was recognized by Pensions &amp; Investments as the top place for larger money management firms.
It's interesting to note that the primary determinant of that award is based on employee input from PGI.
So I think that should give you good insight and comfort about how the broad group of PGI employees feel about both PGI and Principal.
And the second thing I would say and Jim's a little bit humble on this one -- the second thing I would say is in the restructured emerging market team there were actually 2 employees who formerly worked at PGI who came back who left and came back to PGI as part of the emerging markets' restructure.
And I would venture to say you'll find very few instances in the asset management business where people would hold up their hand and ask to return to come back to the place they worked previously.
So those are very strong proof points for PGI's capabilities going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And not sort of dance on the call but the Edward Jones partnership seems like it's gone pretty well so far.
But maybe if you talk about it if it's fully ramped up already or do you expect to further pick up in contribution from that? Yes this is Larry.
The Edward Jones relationship has gone very well.
I think that the buildup of the pipeline to let's just say any given level but typically we think in terms of $1 billion is faster in the Edward Jones relationship and ramp-up than anything we had seen previously.
Although I think in fairness it reflects the fact that Principal really is a marquee name among financial advisers for either mutual funds or retirement plans.
So that relationship's going very well and it is part of the contribution toward the increase in plan count of 1 250 in 2012.
So we're very excited about that going forward.
We reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
I'd just again like to thank everybody for joining today's call.
We're pleased with our very strong finish to 2012 and we think that the continued momentum of our businesses makes us optimistic going into 2013 although we know there will be continued macroeconomic pressure.
As we prepare to complete our Cuprum acquisition on Monday we look forward to creating a best-in-class retirement platform in Chile and in other key markets in Latin America.
We continue to believe that our fee-based business model gives us greater financial flexibility and the ability to create long-term shareholder value through capital deployment as was demonstrated with our increase in common stock dividend announced last night.
So thanks again everybody for listening.
I look forward to seeing many of you on the road in the days ahead.
Have a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 p.m.
Eastern Time until end of day February 8 2013.
The access code for the replay is 83659918.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 for U.S.
and Canadian callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers.
Thank you.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to The Principal Financial Group First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement slides related to today's call and additional investment portfolio detail are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement and Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdez Principal International; and Tim Dunbar Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before I turn the call over to Larry I'd like to announce that our 2013 Investor Day will be on September 13 at the New York Stock Exchange where we'll discuss progress on our long-term strategy and provide an update on our recent acquisitions.
We'll provide more details as we get closer to the date.
Now to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I'll discuss first quarter results; second I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution of our strategy; and I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As John mentioned we provided slides related to today's call.
Slide 4 outlines the themes for today's call.
2013 is off a very good start as we continue the positive momentum that we had throughout 2012.
Reported total company operating earnings increased 8% over first quarter 2012 with quarterly earnings per share up 11% over the prior year quarter reflecting strong execution by our teams.
Despite continued macroeconomic pressures such as low interest rates a slow job market recovery and depreciation of emerging market currencies the fundamentals of our business remain strong.
Our Investment Management Plus strategy is more relevant than ever as people realize the need to take more control of their financial security in this era of personal responsibility.
Assets under management reached a record $456 billion at quarter end helped by $7 billion of total company net cash flows and the addition of Cuprum.
This strong growth continues the momentum from 2012 where we had $30 billion of total company net cash flows for the full year 2012.
Assets under management are the best leading indicator of revenue and operating earnings over time.
We continue to win and retain business because of our strong investment performance our ability to provide outcome-oriented solutions excellent customer service and the diversity and strength of our distribution partnerships.
We achieved 2 significant milestones this quarter regarding assets under management.
Both Principal International and unaffiliated assets under management in Principal Global Investors surpassed the $100 billion mark for the first time ever.
Additionally Principal Funds was just shy of the $100 billion of total assets under management at the end of the first quarter.
This is truly remarkable as all of these businesses were aspirational a little more than 10 years ago.
Some of the growth metrics from the quarter include: Sales of $3 billion for Full Service Accumulation from a 49% increase in new sale plan count compared to first quarter 2012 boosted by a greater emphasis on the small- to medium-sized market; record sales of $5 billion in Principal Funds an increase of 42% over the year ago quarter.
This contributed to quarterly net cash flows of $2 billion which are the second largest quarterly net cash flows on record and which continue to significantly outpace the industry.
Principal Funds also had a 20% increase in the number of advisors selling new business compared to the prior year quarter reflecting the competitiveness of this business and contributing to continued growth in market share; Unaffiliated net cash flows of $1.8 billion for Principal Global Investors with success in fixed income equity and real estate; Strong net cash flows of $2.5 billion in Principal International; $70 million in Individual Life sales in the quarter an increase of 49% over first quarter 2012 reflecting strong sales in all segments and continued success in the business market; And Specialty Benefits sales of $99 million dollars up 20% over first quarter 2012 as a result of strong growth in the pipeline.
We remain confident about our competitive position and our ability to continue to grow our businesses into the future.
Having just returned from sales conferences in the United States Latin America and Asia I can tell you firsthand our sales teams are as motivated and confident as they've ever been about the competitiveness of our business.
Next I'll comment on our success in further implementing our strategy in the first quarter.
Our acquisition of Cuprum a leading pension provider in Chile closed ahead of schedule on February 4 and despite a 1-month accounting lag had a meaningful impact to our reported results.
As we said when we announced this acquisition Cuprum is widely acknowledged to be the premier company in the industry.
This was reinforced when the pension regulator in Chile recently published investment performance and customer service ratings among the 6 AFPs in Chile.
And Cuprum ranked at the top of both.
This further validates the strategic decision and along with our existing leadership status in Mexico and Brazil positions us as a top pension provider in Latin America.
We continue to look for strategic acquisitions that add to our investment management capabilities.
In March we announced our intent to acquire a majority stake in Liongate Capital Management a global alternative investment boutique focused on managing portfolios of hedge funds.
Liongate's client base includes many of the world's leading pension funds insurance companies and sovereign wealth funds and is recognized for its dynamic approach to asset allocation.
The transaction will strengthen Principal Global Investors' alternative investment capabilities deepen our pool of investment talent and help extend our product offerings into customized multi-asset and hedge fund solutions.
Additionally we announced in April that Principal Global Investors has agreed to sell a minority stake in Post Advisory Group to Nippon Life Insurance Company.
The strategic transaction will bring significant new distribution opportunities for Post.
Japanese investors will now be positioned to take even greater advantage of Post's high-yield offerings through Nippon Life's extensive networks and relationships.
Both of these transactions are scheduled to close in the second quarter and will continue to position the Principal as the leading global investment manager among both institutional and retail investors around the world.
Turning now to Principal Funds where thanks to continued strong performance by Principal Global Investors we once again had outstanding results in the first quarter.
We were extremely pleased to win 4 Lipper Awards in March based on performance including the top award for Best Mixed Class Large Fund.
The funds in this category include: Principal Funds' target-date LifeTime Funds; target-risk portfolios; and our Principal Global Diversified Income Fund all of which represent more than $30 billion of assets under management.
In addition Lipper recognized 3 individual funds for consistent long-term performance.
Strong investment performance continues to be a differentiator for the Principal and is a leading indicator of strong net cash flows.
As shown on Slide 5 and now referenced in our supplement on Page 1 82% of our investment platform ranks in the top 2 Morningstar quartiles on a 1-year basis 87% on a 3-year basis and 71% on a 5-year basis.
As we go forward in 2013 we will see our 5-year percentile rankings improve which will continue to position us well competitively.
I'll comment quickly on Retirement and Investor Services.
The Principal has been a retirement leader in the U.S.
for decades and PLANSPONSOR magazine recently validated this leading position by naming us one of their top 20 retirement leaders.
In particular PLANSPONSOR highlighted our dedication to the small-plan market.
Because of our strong investment performance and through our strategic alliance partnerships and strengthening of our third-party administrator channel we're increasing Full Service Accumulation sales in the smaller end of the market.
Overall Defined Contribution plan count increased by almost 1 900 plans compared to first quarter 2012 reflecting the strength of our distribution channel and our ability to retain retirement clients.
Strong retention also contributed to a 290 000 increase of eligible participants.
Finally a quick update on Principal Bank.
Our decision to pursue deregistration as a savings and loan holding company continues as planned and we still expect to complete the process before year end.
Our Investment Management Plus strategy does 3 things.
First it enables us to offer a wide variety of products that help our customers build long-term savings invest for growth and ensure and manage their lifetime incomes.
Second it helps us better manage our business by creating diversified streams of revenue and earnings that protect us to a certain extent from severe market adjustments.
Third because our products are primarily fee-based it generates increasing amounts of deployable capital over time.
While many of our competitors focus on either insurance or asset management in retirement we believe our combined approach better positions us for long-term growth while maintaining appropriate diversification.
I'll close with some comments on capital management.
In the first quarter we paid a $0.23 dividend which was a 10% increase over the dividend paid in fourth quarter 2012.
Additionally last night we announced a $0.23 dividend payable in the second quarter.
We will continue to focus on increasing our dividend payout ratio over time demonstrating our confidence in earnings growth and stability.
Also in the first quarter the board authorized a $150 million share repurchase program.
Part of that program was used to offset share dilution in the first quarter.
We'll be opportunistic with the balance in the second half of the year.
We have an active M&amp;A pipeline and will consider all options to deploy capital as we continue to drive long-term value for our shareholders.
In closing we are optimistic that the ongoing momentum of our business will continue to drive higher revenue and earnings over time and we're confident in the long-term strength of our strategy going forward.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
As previously mentioned the first quarter was a very good start to the year with our growth metrics showing continued momentum.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter net income including performance in the investment portfolio and the strength of our capital position and balance sheet.
First quarter total company operating earnings of $233 million were up 8% over first quarter 2012.
We also ended the quarter with record assets under management of $456 billion which includes $34 billion from our acquisition of Cuprum.
On a reported basis first quarter 2013 earnings per share were $0.79 up 11% over the year ago quarter.
This reflects very strong results from our fee-based businesses lower share count and increase in assets under management due to strong net cash flows and positive equity market performance in the quarter.
This is a very good result despite continued macroeconomic pressures such as low interest rates a strengthening U.S.
dollar and inflation in Latin America.
As part of our first quarter acquisition of Cuprum we again reviewed in conjunction with our external auditor Ernst &amp; Young the accounting treatment for similar products in other foreign jurisdictions including our Mexican AFORE business.
Slide 6 shows this review resulted in a revision in the way we recognize earnings over time for the AFORE business consistent with the technical accounting requirements for Cuprum.
However this does not impact the underlying economics of the business nor the long-term growth rate for Principal International.
On a go-forward basis we expect the combined pretax return on net revenue for Principal International to be in the 55% to 60% range.
We revised prior year AFORE results in our supplement for your convenience.
Looking at Slide 7 you'll see the disclosed items that impacted first quarter 2013 operating earnings per share.
First quarter 2013 was benefited by approximately $0.03 from a dividend accrual benefit in Full Service Accumulation and $0.01 from a legal settlement in Principal Funds.
The quarter was negatively impacted by $0.02 due to high mortality claims in Individual Life and $0.01 for taxes on repatriated earnings from Hong Kong in Principal International.
Combined these items slightly benefited first quarter 2013 operating earnings.
Now I'll discuss business unit results.
Starting with the accumulation lines of businesses within Retirement and Investor Services reported operating earnings increased 18% to $142 million.
As shown on Slide 8 after adjusting both quarters operating earnings grew 7% in first quarter 2013 compared to the year ago quarter.
Net revenue was up 13% over first quarter 2012.
Positive net cash flows and the S&amp;P daily average up 7% in the first quarter drove strong growth in account values which contributed to revenue growth.
Trailing 12-month pretax return on net revenue is stabilizing at 30% and is flat after adjusting for the third quarter 2012 actuarial assumption review.
Based upon the equity market return to date and assuming 2% per quarter growth we anticipate 2013 full year net revenue growth to be more in line with our 5-year range of 6% to 8% and pretax return on net revenue to be at the top end of the 27% to 29% range communicated for Retirement and Investor Services accumulations for the year.
First quarter operating earnings for Full Service Accumulation at $86 million were up 24% from the year ago quarter.
This reflects 11% net revenue and pretax operating earnings growth and a stabilization in return on net revenue.
After-tax reported earnings reflects an $8 million dividend accrual benefit.
Net cash flow for Full Service Accumulation was $650 million for the quarter.
The sales pipeline fueled by strong alliance partnerships continues to build.
With the emphasis on small- to midsized retirement plans and given strong investment performance we expect to receive a larger portion of assets in our proprietary investment options leading to increased revenues.
Full Service Accumulation asset sales at $2.9 billion for the quarter were down 8% from the year ago quarter.
However due to the smaller average plan size these sales generated very strong growth in annualized net revenue.
We still expect full year 2013 asset sales to be in line with last year and annualized new business revenue to show double digit increase over 2012 levels.
This is evidence of our focus on higher revenue business.
First quarter 2013 recurring deposits increased 12% over first quarter 2012 reflecting growth in eligible participant count over the past 12 months.
We experienced a couple of large account value withdrawals in the quarter due to merger and acquisition activity in our client base and maintaining pricing discipline.
We anticipate a return to more normal withdrawal levels this year following record retention in 2012.
Principal Funds operating earnings were $19 million for the quarter a 62% increase from the year ago quarter.
Normalizing for a $2.5 million legal settlement earnings were up 41% boosted by the market performance and strong net cash flows.
On a trailing 12-month basis net revenue was up 15% and pretax return on net revenue improved due to the scale-based nature of the business.
For the quarter sales and net cash flows were outstanding with a record $5.2 billion of deposits driving $2.4 billion of net cash flow.
In addition to the strength of our income-orientated funds we're building traction with diversified real asset which solves for inflation and SAM our target-risk portfolios.
Individual Annuities operating earnings were $29 million for the quarter.
This is a decrease of $4 million from the year ago quarter a result of the continuing margin compression due to the low interest rate environment.
Focusing now on Slide 9 where we cover our guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
First quarter operating earnings of $28 million were up 21% over the year ago quarter while net revenue was up 18% due to improved spreads.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax return on net revenue improved to 79%.
We continue to approach this business opportunistically and we'll issue investment-only and full service payout business when market conditions generate attractive returns.
In Principal Global Investors operating earnings were $20 million up 25% from the year ago quarter.
Slide 10 shows first quarter revenues grew 11% driven largely by higher average assets under management.
Unaffiliated net cash flow for the quarter of $1.8 billion came in across all our asset classes helping drive unaffiliated assets under management to a record $103 billion.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax margin improved 230 basis points from the same period a year ago as Principal Global Investors continues to build scale.
The sale of a minority stake at Post Advisory Group to Nippon Life is expected to have less than $0.01 per share impact on 2013 results for this segment.
Moving forward the added distribution in a country focused on yield should lead to higher assets under management and earnings.
Slide 11 shows Principal International's operating earnings of $45 million reflecting strong asset growth.
With $2.5 billion of net cash flow in the first quarter and the acquisition of Cuprum Principal International reported a record $107 billion of assets under management.
Adjusting for unfavorable macroeconomic impacts of foreign exchange and lower inflation in Latin America and the earlier noted tax on repatriated earnings from Hong Kong operating earnings were up 17% over the prior year quarter.
Combined net revenue is up 14% from first quarter 2012.
As Larry mentioned we successfully completed the acquisition of Cuprum in February a month earlier than previously expected.
Since they're reporting on a 1-month lag only Cuprum's February results were in the first quarter 2013 earnings.
We now expect full year earnings for Cuprum to be approximately $80 million which will be partially offset by $25 million to $30 million of additional debt interest expense in the corporate segment.
This improvement in Cuprum's earnings will partially offset the accounting change in Mexico.
We still believe our 2013 outlook for Principal International is appropriate.
Individual Life reported operating earnings of $15 million for the quarter.
Adverse fluctuations in mortality negatively impacted operating earnings in first quarter 2013 by approximately $6 million.
The quarter-over-quarter comparison is also impacted by the continued low interest rate environment and the prior year benefit from the change in amortization basis and favorable mortality.
After adjusting both quarters Individual Life's earnings are down 26% compared to first quarter 2012.
Slide 12 shows first quarter 2013 premium and fees grew at 9% over adjusted first quarter 2012.
On a trailing 12-month basis adjusted pretax operating margin is 15% within the range of 15% to 17% communicated for 2013.
We expect to be at the lower end of the range as long as the low interest rate environment persists.
Specialty Benefits operating earnings of $21 million were up 12% over the same quarter a year ago.
The loss ratio continues to perform well at 67% for the quarter slightly better than our expectations for our first quarter.
Operating earnings for Specialty Benefits are seasonal where first quarter is typically the lowest quarter of the year.
Slide 13 highlights Specialty Benefits premium and fee growth of 4% over a year ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis premium fee growth of 5% is slightly below our 6% to 8% target.
Pretax operating margin of 10% is in line with our expectations.
The corporate segment reported an operating loss in the first quarter of $37 million.
The segment was impacted by closing costs for the Cuprum acquisition which were offset by investment income on cash held in Chile that was used for the acquisition and by lower-than-expected expense accruals.
For the rest of 2013 we expect the normal quarterly run rate of corporate earnings to be a loss of $35 million to $40 million which includes the additional debt interest expense from the Cuprum acquisition.
For the quarter total company net income was $178 million reflecting capital losses of $56 million for the quarter.
This was driven in part by $19 million of credit-related net losses which were down 28% from the year ago quarter and are at their lowest point since third quarter 2007.
Looking now at capital adequacy we estimate our first quarter risk-based capital ratio will be unchanged from year end 2012 at approximately 416%.
Relative to a 350% RBC ratio we have approximately $1.1 billion of remaining deployable capital after the Cuprum acquisition.
Book value per share excluding other comprehensive income of $29.19 increased 6% over prior year quarter.
As a reminder current ROE levels are dampened by about 100 basis points from third quarter 2012 actuarial assumption review.
We expect ROE at the end of the year to grow an additional 50 to 80 basis points from the normalized result.
As outlined on Slide 14 so far in 2013 we've announced plans to deploy $329 million of our planned $400 million to $600 million of capital for the year.
In first quarter we bought back 2.4 million shares for $75 million to offset share count dilution.
We financed that with the remaining authorization from 2012 along with a portion of the $150 million first quarter authorization.
With our focus on onboarding Cuprum in the first half of the year we'll look to the second half of the year to evaluate all our opportunities to deploy capital.
We have the capacity for share repurchase as well for an active M&amp;A pipeline.
As always we'll manage capital in the best interest of our shareholders.
Additionally we'll continue to focus on our dividend payout ratio and last night announced our second quarter 2013 dividend of $0.23.
In closing we're very pleased with the continued growth and momentum of our businesses as we start 2013.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had a quick question on margins within the accumulations which came in above the high end of your 2013 guidance range.
Is there anything to glean from the competitive environment from these results? Seth this is Larry I'll ask Dan to comment as well.
I think it really reflects more the particular size of the market in our case again going more for the $1 million to $5 million sort of plan size rather than necessarily reflecting a change in the competitive environment.
Although I would say I think that as far as the competitive environment generally thinks it's sort of stabilized I don't think they're getting worse.
They're not necessarily getting better but largely the improvement's due to selling smaller plans.
Dan? Thanks Seth for the question.
I think your question's a little more broad perhaps on all the cume and if you pull in the funds which we're finally seeing from the mutual funds is a very strong contribution to operating earnings and helping improve the margins there.
We looked at that business being very sustainable.
And just a reminder that is equally as involved in the qualified retirement plan business if you think about those dollars in our DCIO.
It's the investment-only on other competitive platforms.
And then of course a lot of rollover IRA business.
So again we feel very good about our sustainability in this accumulation segment of the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Larry just to follow-up on your first point in terms of the focus on the small- to midsized cases.
I would expect the sales focus on that at least the margin improvement to be small when you consider the large in-force.
So when we think about the margins on a go-forward basis and the shifting focus back to small to midsize how should we think about that impact quarterly? Well I think again we're balancing a number of factors here.
It really again is a question overall about the revenue you're receiving on your new business.
It's about the revenue you're receiving on your existing block of business.
It's about how you have to adjust the revenue on your existing block of business as those plans get bigger.
And as those plans get bigger understandably the advisor and the plan sponsor would expect those fees to be adjusted over time.
So you're balancing a number of competing considerations.
What I would say is we're probably in a better position today in terms of having balance between all of those.
We're in a better position today than we've been in the last couple of years.
So I think that's why you're seeing those sort of overall results stabilize.
And again pending some shock to the market or some other unforeseen event I think we'd expect those trends to continue.
Your next question comes from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
In Terry's prepared remarks it sounds like the contribution from Cuprum was higher than you had laid out in November of last year and it sounds like the full year impacts will be higher.
Yet it seems that Principal International earnings as a whole are kind of still what you laid out in your guidance call last year.
So I'm wondering how to think about that.
I mean is -- should we think that other businesses within PI are not going to do as well? Sean this is Larry and I'll ask Terry to comment in a minute.
But first let me kind of restate what I think is really the most important element for Principal International business over the long term which is that we have had an expectation that again assuming sort of constant economic assumptions around inflation and foreign exchange and so forth we would expect Principal International businesses to grow at that approximately 15% sort of annual earnings growth.
And while this quarter because as we onboarded Cuprum and we have looked at all of the accounting guidance around all of our international businesses there's some movement around between Cuprum and AFORE Mexico.
It doesn't change in any way shape and form the basic story that Principal International should be able to continue to grow earnings at that kind of 15% clip.
I think in 2013 Cuprum is going to be a positive contributor to that but the existing businesses also continue to grow nicely.
So the story is really well in hand and it's about these short-term bouncing arounds.
But for the long-term of 2013 we still expect that sort of 15% growth.
Terry you want to comment? Yes Sean this is Terry.
Larry's comments were spot on.
As we looked at the acquisition of Cuprum in the first quarter we took that opportunity to work with E&amp;Y our auditor to look at all similar type of products as they become a bigger portion of our operation in all the different jurisdictions.
And as a result of that we changed the way that we are going to amortize some of the acquisition costs.
We're going to capitalize fewer costs we're going to also change the amortization to be more of a straight line amortization.
Now as you're aware this does not have any impact on the underlying economics of the business.
It's just the recognition of when those earnings will come into play.
And so we don't feel that it will have a significant impact on the long-term growth rate of the business.
In fact as we look forward in this business we see that there is very favorable trends for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Larry despite what would seem to be broadly-based success at this point I mean to me it seems like a -- it's a very very strong quarter across the board.
Your ROE has been stable which is a polite way of saying it's really not been moving up.
Why is that and what is it going to take? I know you mentioned you expect some improvement from here but despite what you say every quarter has been success and I'm saying this quarter it looked great to me why hasn't the ROE been moving up? Sure.
A good question.
And I think Terry actually covered that at least briefly but I think reasonably well right at the end of his commentary.
Where we're sitting at today as you observed is right at that sort of 9.8% 9.9% level that is consistent with where it was a year ago.
And in answer to your question about why it has not improved there's really 2 things that have impacted that in a pretty significant way.
One of those was the actuarial assumption review that we did in third quarter 2012 was one factor.
And the other factor is the purchase of Cuprum where again just the way the accounting works when you buy an asset at greater than book value it's going to have a depressing impact on ROE.
If you sort of adjust for those because those again are kind of temporary issues that's about 100 basis points.
So if you ask me today Eric what I would tell you is I believe that we've moved our ROE over the last 12 months roughly from 9.9% into that high 10% level.
And I think honestly if you just look at that ROE level near 11% today say between 10 3/4% and 11% in a environment with a 1.7% 10-year treasury that's actually a pretty respectable ROE.
And I think it does lend credence to the fact that our fee-based model will allow us to generate higher ROEs over time.
So we're roughly at 11% today.
Going forward we still expect to be able to achieve that sort of 50 to 80 basis point sort of improvement in ROE.
So I think expectations would be again all other things being equal no particular macroeconomic events no particular issues relative to acquisitions we'd be in that 11.5% sort of range by the end of the year.
Does that give you a good picture? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes yes that's helpful.
And I'll follow-up with John.
My second and final question relates to the international business.
It's a little -- it was to me frankly a little bit concerning it was -- not concerning that's not the right word.
It was curious that in the face of a dramatic increase in assets year-over-year you reported out flat earnings.
Now I know a lot of the asset growth had to do with the addition in the final hours of the quarter so to speak of Cuprum and I know too that your earnings this quarter were depressed by the inflation considerations in Chile as well as by the I guess the depreciation of the Brazilian real.
But I mean even if you take out the effect of the addition of the Cuprum assets you still had very strong growth in your asset base.
So my question is is there anything else that we need to understand that is sort of retarding or breaking the growth of earnings internationally to prevent those earnings growth from moving up in lockstep with the asset growth? Yes there's a lot packed into there but that's a -- there's some good questions in there.
So again if you go to Slide 11 I'm not going to try to repeat everything that's on Slide 11.
I'm going to ask Luis to comment when I finish here.
But if you go to Slide 11 on the website you'll see a pretty good reconciliation of the kind of issues of the quarter.
So what you'll see in there is because of the repatriated -- the tax on repatriated capital from Hong Kong if you adjust for that reported earnings would be up 6%.
If you adjust for FX foreign exchange and if you assume more normal inflation you'd be up 17%.
That does include Cuprum just to be clear so the 17% does include Cuprum.
I would say that the -- over the longer term the revenue growth is going to be closer to the AUM growth but there's always going to be some lag.
There's always going to be some differential between that.
That differential is not going to be as high as what we see here in the U.S.
where if you look at Full Service Accum you might grow revenue 8% or 9% but you may only -- or yes you may grow AUM 8% or 9% which may only grow revenue 3% or 4% or 5% so that's a fairly big differential.
There is a differential in international.
It's a little bit smaller because of the slightly less competitive nature of that.
But again I'd reiterate this is a sort of double-digit growth business a number of macroeconomic factors in this particular quarter plus the accounting elements that Terry mentioned.
So a noisy quarter but I want to reiterate the fundamentals are very very much in place.
And maybe ask Luis to talk a little bit about AUM growth versus revenue growth.
Yes I'm going to reiterate what you said that it's a kind of noisy quarter so it is not allowing to us to show entire potential of Principal International.
As you said we continue growing at a double digit in the 17% 18% growth.
Just a single comment.
Still our trailing 12-month margin is still 55.6% so it's within the range that we presented our outlook for 2013.
So we don't have any other particular comments to make other than this is a very strong quarter for us.
And your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Actually I want to go back to start with maybe Seth's question.
I guess just thinking about the margins in FSA a little bit you talked about the competitive environment showing signs of stabilization.
You've talked about kind of the remixing of the business to a little bit higher margin mix.
It sounds like small medium et cetera.
So I know you don't like talking about individual quarters and you kind of like to focus on trailing 12 months.
But if I just look at the FSA margins I mean are we at that point of stabilization in that number or kind of looking at the business that you're adding to the books versus the existing and what that gets repriced at should we still be assuming some compression? Well I think -- this is Larry and again I'll have Dan comment.
I think there's still some -- as I've read different analyst reports Mark I would still say I think there's unfortunately still some that are sort of looking at this in terms of ROA return on assets as compared to return on revenue.
This has really essentially become almost totally a fee-based business.
So I really do think that return on revenue or return on net revenue is really a better way to think about this.
And that's why in our kind of outlook discussion for 2013 you saw us provide guidance around revenue growth and sort of return on net revenue.
So I think that's the way to think about the business.
And when you sort of look at results over the last -- well the current quarter as compared to say the trailing 12-months I think you've started to see stabilization in that return on net revenue.
Again there's a little bit as Dan commented earlier to Seth's question it varies a little bit when you look at RIS accum because the return on revenue isn't quite the same for Full Service Accum for mutual funds and for Individual Annuities.
But they're relatively close and so that -- it doesn't move around that much so...
Yes Mark maybe just a couple of comments.
It always has been and continues to be a competitive market.
We've got to adapt adjust and make sure that we're pivoting appropriately.
But frankly there are some nice tailwinds coming into the businesses right now.
And you see that and I'm sure as you're fully aware of the economic recovery here but if I just look at new plan formation at the peak low it was down 40%.
It's only off 5% now from the high.
So there's a lot of us out there that are involved in new plan formation in addition to just the transfer business.
If you look salary deferrals if you look at participation percentages that's what's contributing to this nice contribution from recurring deposits.
And that's been an element of our growth story towards profitability for a lot of years and frankly that was absent here in the course of the last 3 or 4 years.
We're seeing more and more of the employers put their matches back in place.
We certainly saw that for year-end 2013.
And the other contributing factors is some of the investments going into higher margin products equities in particular away from some of the fixed income.
So whether or not they're stable I think the rate of decline has slowly -- has certainly slowed up but I would say continue to be a competitive marketplace.
We're going to continue to adjust and adapt but it's nice to know that we're finally getting some of these economic tailwinds by helping grow this business.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then I guess just finally quickly it goes under the radar a little bit but you've actually had a pretty strong ramp-up in Principal Funds earnings.
And obviously there's a contribution from very high sales in the quarter.
I'm just curious about your view on the sustainability of these earnings and maybe even what would be the mix between kind of AUM base versus production base in terms of that earnings.
Yes that's -- first I really appreciate the observation.
Our team that runs that business has really done an extraordinary job.
And I would just comment on a couple of things there that I think are important and do make it sustainable going forward Mark.
First of all is that we continue to have outstanding investment performance and again there's a slide on the website and we -- and I commented in my remarks earlier but you have roughly 75% to 80% of the funds in the top half of their appropriate universe.
So investment performance is consistent and it's very very strong.
Obviously that's fundamental.
Probably the one that isn't as well understood that's really powerful is this solutions-oriented approach that we've taken.
The traditional sort of benchmark aware mutual fund that's a tough way to sort of go.
And it really is about innovation and it is about outcome-oriented solutions in the mutual fund business so we refer to things like our Global Diversified Income Fund or our global real asset fund or even to some extent our lifecycle portfolios like our Strategic Asset Management portfolios and LifeTime.
So product innovation really matters.
Obviously investment performance matters.
Our team has really done just an outstanding job.
And the other thing that I commented on in my opening remarks if you think about -- we expanded our advisor base by 20% over the last year.
That is a very very significant stat.
So we become very much of a player in the U.S.
mutual fund business both retail funds to some extent funds for high net worth but also as Dan said this investment-only business so it is sustainable.
We do think we've got great traction.
We got great performance.
We expect these trends to continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I had a question about the margins also.
So if I look at not return on assets and I'm talking about FSA here not return on assets but the 2 other ones Larry that you're focusing on pretax return on net revenue and pretax margin.
It looks like for the quarter you're pretty much in the range of what you've given us as a long-term sort of guidance.
So I guess my question is if that's the case is the earnings growth from this business essentially going to be coming from your growth in assets your growth in flows as well as what the market gives you? Is that really what we should look to on a go-forward basis? Yes I would say -- this is Larry Suneet.
I would say that the lead there of course is revenue growth.
And so then there's the question about what's the relationship between sort of revenue growth and AUM growth.
And again as we commented that differential's probably a little bit wider today than maybe what it would be over the long-term because as assets have -- over the last couple of years as assets have moved from equity into fixed income which generally speaking don't have the same revenue streams that differential between AUM and revenue growth's probably a little wider today than what it might be on a go-forward basis.
As Dan has said then it's really our responsibility.
It's our management team's responsibility to then manage the expenses of the business in line with those revenues and ultimately be able to grow operating earnings at a differential to the revenue growth.
So I don't know Dan anything further? No nothing further Larry.
That's right on track.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then my follow-up question is I think in your prepared comments you talked about pricing discipline in this business.
And I guess on past calls you've commented that competition has resulted in sort of pricing on renewal business to be down I think you used 10% to 12% relative to when you originally put it on the books.
So if that was kind of the past practice I'm just curious how those trends look today.
It seems like you're walking away from some business.
Can you talk about that and then what your -- to the extent you are repricing existing business or renewal business how much of an increase are you getting in terms of pricing if any? Yes 2 quick comments and then I'll let Dan handle the bulk of the question.
I frankly don't recall that we've -- I think you commented about reducing renewal pricing 10% to 12%.
I don't recall that I've said that or that we've said that so I don't know -- in fact I don't even know what that stat would be.
We price renewal business to be competitive.
That's -- and I don't have a particular number around that.
On your point about walking away from business again I want to be clear.
Our close rates have continued to stay pretty much in that same range.
The close rate was around 12% in Q1 on the pipeline.
And you'll remember and we've said many times that sort of our historical close rate's in that 10% to 12% level.
So we're still very very competitive and our close rates continue to hold up very well.
Last thing I'll say before turning it over to Dan is our pipeline's up 6% as well.
So all the fundamentals here continue to look very good.
It's just that again we're working a little bit more and there's a little more activity in that small to medium end of the market which is advantageous relative to this whole margin issue.
Yes I guess I'll own up to the 10% to 12% because what we've -- what I tried to put that in the context in previous calls is that if you looked at what kind of concessions you have to make on certain attractive new business the concession could be somewhere in that 10% to 12%.
That's still out there today.
Remember that on most plans over $5 million we're able to do a cost-benefit analysis on each one of those cases.
We know what we're having to invest in the case in order to maintain it.
As you heard in the prepared comments we did walk away from a couple of pieces of business that just frankly weren't profitable to us.
We are going to continue to have that sort of pricing discipline and of course as was mentioned earlier we still have the benefit of some of these shifts towards more proprietary asset management.
Jim's performance in many of these accounts has been quite favorable.
So as we're out there talking to not only prospective clients but also at the time of going out and visiting with existing clients we're out there pitching our very strong proprietary asset management.
All of those things I think is what will allow us to at least hold the line here on these margins and continue to perhaps improve from here.
Research Division</strong> And so just lastly to tie it all together.
I think in your investor materials presented last year you showed the 401(k) industry was in outflows and principle's consistently been in inflows.
Given this pricing discipline comment are you still expecting that will continue going forward especially as you sort of migrate maybe more towards the smaller case plans which obviously by definition have a smaller level of assets versus your growth over the past several years which has been skewed maybe a little bit more to the larger case? Yes that net cash flow number historically is -- we've guided you toward that 4% to 6%.
My guess is this year you could see that number closer to 1% to 3% range for net cash flow.
Again we focus on the profitability of these relationships continue to focus on revenue growth.
And our revenue growth is going to come from those small- to medium-sized businesses.
Remember we also picked up a lot of net cash flow from just improving the overall quality of these plans by improving recurring deposits that's the matches that's the deferrals and that's participation.
So a lot of hard work has to go into it but I would continue to see our FSA franchise having strong relative net cash flow to the rest of the industry.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A question for you on Principal International.
If I look at that Slide 11 Larry and I think about numbers AUM growth on a year-over-year basis if I take out Cuprum was about 25%.
And I know I'm digging into 1 quarter and that may all by itself throw off the trends here.
But then if I look at that adjusted earnings growth of 17% and that does benefit from 1 month of Cuprum.
So the earnings growth rate x Cuprum would have been far lower than the asset growth rate.
And so I guess my question is this digging a little deeper into maybe Eric Berg's question when you drill into the various businesses underlying Principal International are there areas where similar to the U.S.
you're seeing some downward pressure on fee rates or downward pressure on margins that we need to consider? This is Larry John.
We've done a great job in growing this business and it is becoming more significant.
And I'm glad to see all of you starting to dig in a little more into some of the details of it.
Again I'll let Luis comment.
I would just say from a broad sort of high-level again you don't have the competitive dynamics necessarily in the international markets.
That's not to say that that won't happen over time because I think it will and obviously some markets are more competitive than the others.
I just want to make one comment before I throw it over to Luis which is that the particular point around the 17% increase if you assume constant foreign exchange and if you assumed more normal inflation in Latin America as we said earlier that does include Cuprum.
It also includes some investments that we're making in Asia.
So we're in the process of building out a retirement platform in India and we're also in the process of building up a more independent distribution platform in Hong Kong.
And that is -- those are extra expenses they're investments.
There's no deferral allowed on those expenses.
And so we're choosing to make those investments in Asia.
The reality is that Latin America is a very sort of high-growth market today and we're reaping the benefit of that.
We're trying to execute a strategy over the long-term that allows us to invest in tomorrow which is going to be Asia.
So we want to have the same competitive platform in Asia in 3 years and 5 years and 7 years that we have today in Latin America.
And the only way we're going to do that is we're going to have to invest in it and we're going to have to build those platforms because they don't really exist today in Asia.
So we're sort of having to build them ground up.
And you see some of the reflection of that in the Principal International results and it's been going on and it will continue to go on at some level.
So just recognize that there is this investment that has to go on.
It will pay off in the long term I think we've demonstrated through the growth of Principal International over the last 10 years.
Luis and his team have done an outstanding job.
They know how to manage these businesses.
They know how to build these platforms and it does lead to significant growth over time.
So Luis...
Research Division</strong> I mean Larry sorry to interrupt.
I mean I like the idea of investing in tomorrow's growth markets for sure.
I mean maybe one thing you guys can do for us and I know there's a disclosure overload potential here but maybe one thing you can do for us is help us understand and break out what those investments are.
So that we can sort of draw a better correlation or a better understanding of the earnings of your existing sort of maybe more mature-type business in -- within PI versus the AUM.
Because I don't know I mean my conclusion just looking at these numbers is that you've got margin pressure somewhere and I don't know where it is.
But maybe that's the wrong conclusion.
That's what I'm trying to get at.
Yes and my overly long response John was only to say that there is -- it's really investment that's going on here more than it is margin pressure.
And again that's not to say that there won't be margin pressure.
But sort of when you look at this quarter or if you look at last quarter or next quarter it's more likely to be a question of investing in the business than it is a question of margin pressure.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
My only other question for you is this.
So you're a couple of months into having closed on Cuprum and it appears your expectations for the year 1 if you will earnings contribution from Cuprum is up double-digit percentage from your initial guidance.
I'm just wondering whether you can characterize that improvement as you were maybe overly conservative on your original outlook or is there something more significant that changed in the business because it certainly appears that you're run rating the 1-month contribution this quarter.
Right so I'll maybe have Terry or Luis comment.
But again I just want to emphasize that all of the operational elements of Cuprum continue to go exceptionally well.
And I said in my remarks again the regulator does very detailed surveys of both investment performance and customer service and Cuprum has historically shown up very very well in those surveys.
I'm not saying that we're going to be #1 every year because that's -- you can't do that.
But having said that we were in fact #1 as far as investment performance and customer service.
So operationally it's going very very well.
And if we -- as our team down there continues to execute it obviously does lead to improved performance over time.
So with that maybe I'll ask Terry or Luis to comment.
Yes John this is Terry.
As we talked about earlier as we onboarded Cuprum we took a hard look at the accounting of that as well as the other foreign jurisdictions as I mentioned earlier in the prepared remarks in the AFORE business in Mexico as well as Cuprum in Chile.
And as a result of that I think some of our accounting -- excuse me acquisition cost deferral rates intangible amortization periods et cetera change from those initial [indiscernible]...
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I'm sorry I missed that.
Okay I missed that commentary.
John this is Luis.
Just to complement your question about our assumptions with Cuprum.
We were not overly conservative but we were pretty much more realistic.
But in reality Cuprum is performing pretty well in the very first quarter.
We have some assumptions about certain chocks [ph] and lapses and certainly Cuprum is doing perfectly Well.
It's having net customer cash flows positive since day 1 when we announced the closing last year in October.
So all in all the net customer cash flows sales and their commercial activities is doing fairly well and we're very pleased with Cuprum and that is the results of the good numbers that we are getting in the very first quarter.
And Your last question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I kind of wanted to touch on  [indiscernible] FSA and it's outflows and the higher withdrawals in the quarter.
The margin commentary in the call is clearly positive and so it's good to see that moving forward.
But it seems to me that this is a higher-withdrawal number in FSA than we've seen in some time and there was an explanation in your commentary that it had to do with some M&amp;A among your clients as well as pricing discipline.
But I guess aren't those 2 things really functions of a more competitive marketplace there? Just kind of wanted to drill down on that more but to me that sounds like a marketplace that's getting kind of increasingly competitive with folks choosing to go with maybe a cheaper option or something else more competitive.
So just hoping to kind of flush out how we can have confidence in that withdrawal number normalizing going through the rest of '13.
Yes this is Larry Randy.
Again I'll have Dan comment.
But I would say that the withdrawal number this time there was -- again we've been actually expecting this.
To be honest we'd retained these plans a little longer than we thought.
If you look at the macro environment you're starting to see more M&amp;A activity happen.
I'm not talking about related to Principal I'm just talking about generally in the capital markets.
You're starting to see more activity.
And we've had a couple of sort of larger size plans where those employers had been acquired by very large employers.
I'm not going to name names but that had happened maybe 6 months to 12 months to 18 months ago.
And we knew that eventually we were going to lose these plans because again our particular employer relationship had been acquired.
So you have a sort of a pent-up demand if you will.
You have sort of a slightly larger than you would expect sort of withdrawal coming out as these employers transition to the newly acquired employer's plan.
So again a little bit of pent-up demand.
The sort of potential for higher withdrawals that Dan was talking about earlier is more reflective of the fact that we're trying to sort of maintain discipline in our renewal pricing.
And so with that maybe I'll kick it over to him.
Yes just a couple of comments and I appreciate the question Randy.
You had nearly a 20% increase over beginning of year account balances of withdrawals.
That's just based on the fact that these accounts were bigger.
And that was really $0.5 billion $500 million just attributable to that point.
We had record retention in 2012.
And again I think relative to the competitive market we've written 1 900 new contracts in the last 12 months.
916 of those coming in the first quarter of 2013.
So I don't think there's any question we've got a very competitive offering out there in the marketplace not only to retain business but to attract business.
And I think our strong investment performance our continued commitment to TRS are 2 of the big contributors to that success which -- you made other comment about lower-cost options.
We have lower-cost options.
We have passive investment strategies on our platform.
We have CITs or collective investment trusts on our platform and we've got revised service arrangements.
So if someone wants a lighter service model we've got that available for our clients.
So again it's always been competitive continues to be competitive but again between the pricing discipline on a go-forward basis on the in-force and attracting of new business we feel quite comfortable with our withdrawals and our net cash flow at this point.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification.
So you're saying that about $0.5 billion of the $6.2 billion of withdrawals was attributable to basically higher lumpiness from higher account balances is that right? That's correct.
Yes there up about 19% from a year ago.
Yes that's correct.
And we have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing remarks please? Thanks everybody for joining us on the call today.
As I said in my opening comments we're very very pleased with the momentum of the businesses and we're going to remain focused on execution sort of across the board as we go forward in 2013.
So again thanks to everybody for being on the call today and we look forward to seeing many of you on the road in the coming months.
Have a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 p.m.
Eastern Time until the end of May 3 2013.
25954736 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 U.S.
and Canadian callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement and Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdes Principal International; and Tim Dunbar our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before I turn the call over to Larry I'd like to remind you that our 2013 Investor Day will be on September 13 at the New York Stock Exchange where we will discuss our investment management strategy and provide an update on our businesses.
We'll provide more details in the coming weeks.
Larry? Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I'll discuss second quarter results.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution of our strategy including the onboarding of Cuprum; and I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As John mentioned we've again provided slides for today's call.
Slide 4 outlines the themes for the quarter.
Second quarter results were strong especially given the macroeconomic volatility in the quarter giving us a great first half of 2013.
Total company operating earnings for the second quarter were $271 million a 29% increase over second quarter 2012.
This reflects growth in our business improved U.S.
equity markets and continued expense discipline.
Net income in the second quarter increased 33% compared to the year-ago quarter reflecting improvement in our investment portfolio.
Our results again demonstrate that our globally diversified business model is working and that we continue to execute effectively regardless of macroeconomic conditions in any one country or region.
We have now successfully rebuilt operating earnings and net income close to pre-crisis levels and have replaced a significant portion of spread and risk-based earnings with fee-based earnings giving us more capital flexibility.
Total company assets under management at $451 billion remained relatively unchanged from first quarter 2013 reflecting the strengthening U.S.
dollar and a rise in interest rates.
Some of the growth metrics for the quarter include double-digit growth compared to the year-ago quarter in Full Service Accumulation new sales revenue on $1.8 billion in sales.
This reflects our focus on having better sales balance across small medium and larger plans which gives us greater ability to grow net revenues.
Record sales of $5.8 billion in Principal Funds an increase of 73% over the year-ago quarter reflecting success across multiple products and distribution channels.
These sales contributed to quarterly net cash flows of $2.3 billion which outpaced the industry.
Principal Funds' total assets under management hit $100 billion in the quarter as well.
Second quarter Full Service payout sales increased 37% over the year-ago quarter to $115 million.
We'll continue to be opportunistic with this business.
Unaffiliated assets under management of $101 billion for Principal Global Investors up 10% from the year-ago quarter.
Solid inflows of $6.6 billion for the quarter were offset by outflows due in part to a couple of large clients repositioning their portfolios.
Net cash flows of $2.2 billion in Principal International led to reported assets under management of $103 billion despite the strengthening in the U.S.
dollar.
$49 million in Individual Life sales in the quarter an increase of 12% over second quarter 2012 driven by continued success in the business market.
And Specialty Benefits sales of $58 million up 11% over second quarter 2012 as a result of strong growth in the pipeline.
We continue to provide products and service solutions that are in demand in this era of personal responsibility and benefit from our diverse distribution platform.
Next I'll comment on our success in further implementing our strategy in the second quarter.
We've been successfully expanding our fee-based businesses and global investment management footprint for more than a decade.
Because of the financial crisis we've had the opportunity to accelerate that transition.
Since 2010 we've successfully completed 7 strategic acquisitions adding fee-based businesses and expanding our global footprint.
We continue to believe this will create long-term value for shareholders.
Despite recent volatility in certain emerging markets the need for retirement and long-term savings in these markets continues to grow rapidly due to the exceptional growth in the middle and upper middle income segments.
Having been in these markets longer than many of our competitors we've established The Principal as a global retirement expert and are well positioned for continued success with a good brand and strong local distribution.
We know there will be ebbs and flows in any market but our broad global footprint allows us to weather cycles of volatility in the U.S.
and abroad.
Moving now to an update on Cuprum the pension company we recently acquired in Chile.
The onboarding continues to go extremely well.
In fact during this onboarding process the pension regulator in Chile once again gave Cuprum the best customer service rating among the 6 AFP providers.
Cuprum has now received this distinction a remarkable 18 out of the last 22 quarters.
Net cash flows and operating earnings from Cuprum continue to exceed our acquisition plan.
In addition when Standard &amp; Poor's recently affirmed our ratings and changed the outlook to stable from negative they referenced our success in building out our operations in fast-growing international retirement markets.
Achieving financial security in retirement is a campaign talking point for candidates in the upcoming Chilean elections.
We see the discussion of possible changes to the Chilean retirement system as a positive to our businesses there as the goal is to further increase retirement savings for all income segments.
In Full Service Accumulation all of the fundamental elements remain strong and along with solid equity market returns contributed to revenue growth in the quarter.
Second quarter 2013 recurring deposits were up 17% over the year-ago quarter and were essentially flat with first quarter 2013 which is typically the largest quarter for recurring deposits.
Additionally the number of participants making a deferral and the number of participants receiving an employer match were both up 8% over the prior year quarter.
While down from record levels in 2012 retention rates remain strong across the segments in the first half of 2013.
Our focus on growing sales in the small to medium-sized market to create more balance across plan sizes along with equity market growth and our continued expense management contributed to an increase in Full Service Accumulation margins in the second quarter.
Principal Funds continued its string of successful quarters.
Record quarter end account values as a result of positive net cash flows for 14 consecutive quarters and higher equity markets helped drive a 40% increase in operating earnings over the prior year quarter.
Principal Funds continues to provide outcome-based products across asset classes that retail customers seek.
As shown on Slide 5 investment performance remains competitive and is a positive leading indicator of future net cash flows for the organization.
We continue to benefit from our well diversified multi-boutique strategy in Principal Global Investors.
On May 1 we closed on our acquisition of Liongate a London-based investment boutique that specializes in global alternative investments and managing portfolios of hedge funds adding to our multi-asset class capabilities.
We believe these multi-asset class solutions will remain popular as institutional and retail investors move to outcome-based products.
As investor appetite swings to equities and alternative investments we remain in excellent position to retain and attract clients to our broad investment options and expertise across multiple platforms.
Despite negative net cash flows in the quarter for Principal Global Investors overall revenues increased 9% on a sequential basis and pretax margins increased to 29% reflecting performance fees and continuing to gain scale.
Next a quick update on Principal Bank.
As we announced in June we signed a strategic agreement with Bank of the Internet Federal Bank to transfer substantially all of Principal Bank's individual checking and non-IRA accounts while retaining the products that complement our U.S.
retirement and asset accumulation businesses.
This action will have minimal financial impact to the company and furthers our progress to deregister as a savings and loan holding company.
We still expect to complete the process by year end.
I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As announced last night we will pay a $0.26 per share common stock dividend in the third quarter which is a 13% increase over the previous dividend.
This reinforces our commitment to return capital to shareholders by increasing the dividend payout ratio over time.
It also demonstrates confidence in our ability to deliver future earnings growth.
So far we've allocated $405 million of the $400 million to $600 million of capital we targeted for the full year.
Looking to the second half of 2013 we'll continue to look at combination of common stock dividends and opportunistic acquisitions and share repurchases.
As always we continue to look for the best and most accretive ways to deploy capital and increase long-term value for shareholders.
Before I turn it over to Terry I want to mention that IDG's Computerworld recently named The Principal Financial Group as one of the 2013 Best Places to Work in IT our 12th consecutive year on the list.
Our ability to attract and retain world-class IT talent is critical to our success so we take great pride in being consistently recognized for providing a great environment for IT professionals.
In closing we're pleased with our team's ability to grow our businesses above industry growth rates while maintaining expense discipline resulting in a very strong first half of 2013.
Despite volatility that will likely continue in the second half I'm confident that our business model and proven ability to execute will continue our momentum through the remainder of the year.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
The second quarter was a continuation of the strong start to the year.
Our fundamentals remained strong and margins have improved.
This morning I'll focus my comments on 3 items: operating earnings for the quarter; net income including performance in the investment portfolio; and the strength of our capital position and balance sheet.
Total company operating earnings of $271 million were up 29% over second quarter 2012.
This reflects a full quarter of Cuprum.
Even without Cuprum earnings were up 16% over the prior year quarter.
On a reported basis second quarter 2013 earnings per share were $0.91 up 30% over the year ago quarter.
This reflects organic growth from our domestic business strong results from Cuprum favorable equity markets expense discipline and a lower share count.
Looking at Slide 6 you'll see that second quarter 2013 earnings were impacted by 2 items.
First Principal Global Investors' quarterly earnings benefited by $4 million from a performance fee that typically occurs on a 3-year cycle.
Although performance fees are a positive impact infrequent fees such as this one do impact comparability between quarters.
Second Principal International earnings were negatively impacted this quarter by $7 million due to lower-than-expected returns on a mandatory investment known as encaje.
Local regulations in Chile and Mexico require that mandatory pension operations hold a small investment in the underlying funds offered to customers.
We report the change in value of the encaje investment through net investment income.
This could create some volatility on a quarterly basis.
The volatility this quarter was due to a spike of 150 basis points in interest rates in Mexico.
There's more background information on the encaje investment on Slide 7 and on our website along with publicly available information on how to track the encaje performance throughout the quarter.
A normalized result for the second quarter is $0.92 earnings per share.
This normalized earnings per share should not be considered a run rate on which to base future quarters.
Seasonality of earnings investments in our businesses and macroeconomic factors particularly in Latin America should be considered.
We continue to stay focused on what we can control executing on our strategy.
Now I'll discuss the business unit results starting with the accumulation lines of businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
Reported operating earnings increased 22% to $144 million.
As shown on Slide 8 net revenue was up 17% over second quarter 2012.
Growth in the underlying businesses driven by more than $30 billion of sales over the past 12 months equity market performance and improved spread were the main catalysts for the increase.
Trailing 12-month pretax return on net revenue stabilized at 30% for the sixth straight quarter.
Assuming an equity market total return of 2% per quarter for the second half of the year we anticipate 2013 full year net revenue growth to exceed our long-term range.
We also expect pretax return on net revenue to be above the 27% to 29% range communicated for Retirement and Investor Services accumulation for the year.
Quarterly operating earnings for Full Service Accumulation at $90 million were up 25% from the year ago quarter.
This reflects a 16% increase in net revenue due to strong growth in businesses and equity market performance.
Account value growth due to market performance is more beneficial in the short term than growth from net cash flows as there is no cost associated with acquiring the revenue.
The net cash flow over the trailing 12 months of $4.1 billion also has more positive impact in recent years as we shift to a more balanced mix of business.
The revenue growth coupled with expense discipline resulted in a pretax return on net revenue of 34% for the quarter.
While fee pressure continues to exist in the marketplace we're working closely with advisors and plan sponsors to adjust our service model to align with our clients' needs.
Net cash flows for Full Service Accumulation were approximately $300 million for the quarter.
And as communicated last quarter we expect full year 2013 net cash flow for Full Service Accumulation to be 1% to 3% of the beginning of the year account value.
This metric has dampened in time periods with large equity market returns.
That's because sales and recurring deposits do not directly correlate with the market in a similar fashion as withdrawals.
Full Service Accumulation sales at $1.8 billion for the quarter were down $500 million from the year ago quarter.
However due to our sales focus in the smaller end of the market new sales generated a higher amount of annualized net revenue on a lower account value base.
As expected and mentioned last quarter Full Service Accumulation withdrawal rates are returning to more normal levels with the dollar amount of the withdrawals increasing due to growth in assets under management.
However we are replacing some lapses with higher revenue business as we focus on profitable growth.
Principal Funds operating earnings were $17 million for the quarter a 40% increase from the year-ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis revenue was up 22% and operating margins continued to improve due to the scale-based nature of the business.
Although the sales costs are expensed in the quarter in which they occur strong fundamentals over the last several quarters should continue to drive increased bottom line earnings.
For the quarter sales were a record $5.8 billion driving $2.3 billion of net cash flow.
Individual Annuities operating earnings were $29 million for the quarter.
This is an increase of 17% from the year ago quarter due to improving equity markets and more favorable expense experience in the current quarter.
Slide 9 covers the guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
Second quarter operating earnings of $28 million were up 18% over the year ago quarter.
On a trailing 12 month basis pretax return on net revenue improved to 80% due to improved spreads.
We continue to approach this business opportunistically and we'll issue investment-only and full service payout business when market conditions generate attractive returns.
Principal Global Investors operating earnings were $29 million up 59% from the year ago quarter.
Earnings benefited by $4 million from a once-in-3-year performance fees on one of our real estate funds.
Slide 10 shows second quarter revenues grew 19% over the prior year quarter driven largely by higher average assets under management.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax margin improved over 500 basis points from the same period a year ago to 25% an exceptional result as Principal Global Investors continues to build scale.
Regarding Principal Global Investors' portfolio even though approximately 1/2 of the overall assets under management are categorized as fixed income 2 factors helped minimize our exposure to interest rate movement.
First 1/3 of the fixed income portfolio is in the general account where fees are billed on a book value basis.
Second a sizable portion of the remainder is invested in high-yield stable value and liability matched strategies which do not directly correlate to the change in treasury yields.
Unaffiliated assets under management ended the quarter at $101 billion.
The unaffiliated net cash flow for the quarter was a negative $1.8 billion.
Lapses this quarter were primarily due to a couple of large mandates that transitioned out of our stable value and currency investment options.
These assets had lower revenue and margins so the impact on earnings from these lapses was minimal.
Slide 11 shows Principal International operating earnings of $58 million for the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier quarterly earnings were negatively impacted by $7 million due to the lower-than-expected return on the encaje investment as a result of local interest rate spikes.
Most of the loss this quarter was due to the encaje in our Mexican AFORE business as Cuprum's results are reported on a 1-month lag.
The encaje return will cause some quarterly noise but should benefit earnings over the long run.
Quarterly net cash flows for this segment were $2.2 billion.
Principal International ended the quarter with $103 billion of assets under management despite the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
On an adjusted trailing 12-month basis combined pretax return on net revenue was 56% in line with expectations even with macroeconomic pressures.
As shown on Slide 12 Individual Life operating earnings were $22 million for the quarter a decrease of $6 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to the continued low interest rate environment.
We continue to expect a quarterly earnings run rate for this business of $25 million to $27 million with volatility from quarter-to-quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis adjusted pretax operating margin was 14% just below the range of 15% to 17% communicated for 2013.
Although claims improved in the second quarter higher claims for the first half of the year could put us slightly below the range for the full year.
Specialty Benefits operating earnings of $26 million were up 14% over the same quarter a year ago reflecting improved claims experience and growth in the business.
The loss ratio continues to perform well at 67% for the quarter.
Slide 13 highlights Specialty Benefits premium and fee growth of 3% over the year ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis premium and fee growth was 4% relative to our 6% to 8% target reflecting our focus on profitable growth.
Trailing 12-month pretax operating margin of 10% was in line with our expectations.
The Corporate segment reported an operating loss for the quarter of $35 million within our expected range of $35 million to $40 million of operating losses.
For the quarter total company net income was up 33% to $222 million.
Realized capital losses for the quarter were $48 million and credit-related losses remained in line with expectations down 11% from the year ago quarter.
Our unrealized gains at the end of the quarter were $1.8 billion down from $3.1 billion at the end of the first quarter predominantly due to the rising interest rate environment.
As a reminder because of our strong asset and liability management changes in net unrealized gain or loss due to interest rate movement do not result in an economic impact and in periods of stress do not force us to sell assets.
Additionally as I mentioned in the past our fee-based business model limits our exposure to the interest rate environment.
However our diversified business model provides some benefit over time from an improving rate environment.
Looking now at capital adequacy we estimate our second quarter risk-based capital ratio to be 417%.
Relative to a 350% RBC ratio we have approximately $920 million of excess capital.
Book value per share excluding AOCI at $29.81 increased 7% over the prior year quarter.
Our reported return on equity was 10.4% a 70-basis-point increase from a year ago.
This result was negatively impacted by approximately 90 basis points due to the third quarter 2012 actuarial assumption review.
We expect ROE at the end of the year to grow 50 to 80 basis points from the normalized year end 2012 result.
Regarding capital management as outlined on Slide 14 we've allocated $405 million of our expected $400 million to $600 million of capital to be deployed for the year.
Last night we announced our third quarter 2013 common stock dividend of $0.26 a 13% increase from the second quarter.
We continue to focus on increasing our dividend payout ratio on a growing net income base.
In the second half of the year we will continue to evaluate all of our opportunities to deploy capital and will manage capital in the best interest of our shareholders.
In closing we're extremely pleased with the continued momentum of our businesses and feel that our business model is well positioned for future growth.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that you think the political pressure out of Chile or the political reforms out of Chile will be beneficial for the pension system.
The Chilean public pension providers have declined in market cap since those reports came out last month.
Maybe you could just help us think about the pressure on fees versus what you see as an expanding pie of pension assets.
Sure.
This is Larry Seth.
I'll comment and I know Luis will want to add some comments as well.
Let me just make a few comments.
Luis and I spent considerable time down there about a month ago and had an opportunity to meet with many of the regulators in particular who have been very involved in this.
First I'd say a few things.
First of all the AFP system is very very well accepted as an important element of the Chilean economy.
It's been around over 30 years and I've not seen any indication there's any intent in any way to sort of unwind the AFP system.
Now the problems that they're trying to solve I would say are twofold.
One is that the contribution rate that is currently being made into the AFPs is too low.
If you look at the replacement ratio that's produced by those contributions it's about half of what it needs to be in order to provide a full replacement of preretirement income.
The second problem they have is a problem that exists all over the world which is trying to get the lower middle income and those who have a more in-and-out employment record into the system so that they're going to end up with some amount of retirement savings.
So the discussion -- the reason I say all that Seth is because the discussion is really about improving the system whether it's higher contribution rates or other ways to get the lower income in.
It's not about in any way shape or form sort of rewinding the system.
Last thing I'll say before asking Luis to comment is I think as it relates to many of the other AFPs part of the reason that you're maybe seeing some decline there is because at the end of the day I think if you're going to be a leader in this Chilean retirement system not just the AFP but also the voluntary system you've got to have a very sort of coordinated and integrated platform that you can use not only for the AFP side the mandatory side but a mutual fund platform and other products that you can capitalize on for the voluntary side.
And as you know Cuprum as well as Principal prior to the acquisition have been the leaders in the voluntary portion.
And that's where you're going to see most of the growth in the Chilean contributions going forward.
The growth -- there's going to be some growth in the AFP but most of it's going to come in the voluntary.
And given our leadership position there I think we're going to be in the strongest position to benefit as these changes may take place.
But Luis additional comments? Yes.
The main issue here is that actually the system and its replacement ratio is going kind of well below expectations.
But mainly about what Larry said did you -- a 10% contribution rate which is kind of low and insufficient in order to get this kind of 75% 85% replacement ratio.
So that 10% contribution rate is coming from 1982 when the system was designed.
And since then what the Chileans have seen is a dramatic improvement in their longevity and also a very important drop in their interest rates.
So that is essentially 2 factors that are driving this kind of low replacement ratios right now.
And we think that there's a great opportunity in order to really really improve the system going forward.
The pressure on fees is not exactly the point here because it's a little bit confusing for the Chilean system.
Fees are being charged on flows not over AUMs.
And if everyone is making a kind of very simple math in order to calculate how much you're charging over AUMs the Chilean system is a very efficient one and has a very very very I would say very appropriate changes on -- over AUMs for the entire system.
Does that help Seth? Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Our next question comes from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
As I look at the encaje slide that you provided I was just wondering if you could tell us about the composition of the assets in Mexico and Chile I guess the relative proportion of fixed income versus equity in there? Yes that's -- this is Larry.
Sean that's a very good question and perhaps something that as we go forward we can provide you a little bit more insight on in general.
In general what I would say is that the Mexican encaje is predominantly a fixed income investment.
So sort of think 80% 85% 90% fixed income.
So that's why you saw the negative impact as interest rates in Mexico rose about 150 basis points pretty much right at the end of the quarter.
Again that's a positive in the long term but it's a negative in the very very short term which is why you see that adjustment.
The Chilean encaje is a broader basket.
It's a broader basket of fixed income and equity.
And even within the equity component it has some element of if you will non-Chilean or more global equities as well as Chilean equities.
So think more balanced fund when it comes to the Chilean encaje.
But we'll try to perhaps get you more information as to what that makeup is Sean.
Okay great.
And just one additional question.
As we think of how we're modeling margins going forward was there any change in transfer pricing between FSA and PGI? The answer is no.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question Larry I just want to make sure I understood your comment correctly on the onboarding of Cuprum.
I think you mentioned net cash flows exceeded estimates.
Just looking at the disclosure that you guys had it looked like $200 million of net flows compared to $40 billion of AUM.
That would be an annualized growth rate of around 2%.
Is that exceeding expectations? And is that kind of a normalized level that we should expect? Yes.
This is Larry Tom.
It's again a good question.
I would say when we talked about exceeding our plan what we're talking about there of course is exceeding our acquisition plan.
So one of the big unknowns and again you can well understand this one of the big unknowns anytime you make an acquisition is what's going to happen with some of the existing contributors in this case of Cuprum.
And while we think and believe that the Principal acquisition of Cuprum really now supports Cuprum with a strong global player we recognize that in the local market in the local market you're going to have other AFPs all taking their shot at you during this kind of transition period.
So from an acquisition plan perspective you always want to be a little bit conservative in modeling those flows.
What I would say is I think we've essentially through the good work of the local team there we've essentially blunted all of that.
So we essentially have not seen any of that potential for outflow that may come just from the sheer announcement of the acquisition.
So the kind of 2% that you referenced of net cash flow is probably in the reasonable range for Cuprum on the AFP side.
Again the real opportunity here in the long term is going to be building that more integrated platform between Cuprum and Principal.
And the growth the larger net cash flow is going to come on the voluntary side as compared to the AFP side.
Luis anything you want to comment? Yes.
As probably is also is interesting to comment that Cuprum in particular is a pretty mature company.
So part of our inflows and outflows are very much more determined because we have every single month we have customers that are getting their retirement income products.
So Cuprum also pays a lot of benefits.
Close to 30 000 clients are receiving their monthly income from Cuprum.
So that is part of our natural kind of outflows.
Also other clients are choosing other kind of retirement income products like annuities.
And we have an annuity company there.
So it isn't in their normal process and pace.
I should say that $200 million that we already have.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one follow-up on the U.S.
Full Service 401(k) business.
The margins were quite good this quarter.
And I know that you guys have talked about the mix shift should be helpful.
And that looks like it's coming through.
Any -- I guess my question is should we assume that this higher level is sustainable? Or do you think we'll get some slippage? And then just a specific question the -- shall I presume the fact that sales and transfer deposits were lower this quarter had a positive impact on the margin? Is there any way to quantify that? Okay.
There's a quite a lot packed in there so -- and I know Dan will want to comment.
I would say on the question about the sustainability of the margins Tom I think that really really really comes down to what any persons or analysts or investors view is of the future kind of economic conditions.
I mean if we continue to see the strong fundamentals that we saw in second quarter and by strong fundamentals I mean we saw compensation increases -- we although modest.
We saw payroll -- I mean we saw growth in employment albeit modest.
And we saw a very positive equity market return.
So the upshot of that is that the incremental account value coming through is some of the more profitable account value.
And I think Terry commented on that during his comments.
If you think that's going to continue if you think that represents the economy that we're going to have in the United States going forward over the next few quarters then I think you would tend to believe that those margins are more sustainable.
If however you believe that we may see payroll growth rollover we may see comp growth rollover we may see equity markets rollover then I think you would tend to want to model something where there would be -- you'd see those margins kind of decline.
So it's really going to vary based on I think your outlook for the economy in the markets going forward.
And I'll let Dan comment and then also handle your second one on sales.
Yes Tom.
Just a couple quick comments relative to the growth and some of this was covered in the script.
We just can't forget about the fact that the first quarter of '13 enjoyed a 10% rise in the S&amp;P 500 2.9% for the second quarter of '13.
But as you know we get compensated on the average daily balance which was up 6%.
So we really had some really nice tailwinds relative to revenues for the first -- for the second quarter.
We have really good expense management throughout the quarter very deliberate.
And then something that we haven't had a chance to talk about a lot is these reoccurring deposits.
As mentioned in the script it was up 17%.
These are strengthening the matching contributions the profit-sharing contributions.
There's increased salary deferrals and increased participation.
During this period of time we just kind of looked at the last trailing 12 months.
Net new contracts they're up 7% or 2 200 contracts.
And we've added 215 000 participants during the last 12 months.
So you're seeing the inertia of that in-force block business starting to add a lot to our success.
You mentioned in your second question around sales and what the positioning is there.
We frankly have oriented the sales force to more focus on new sales revenue.
It was up more than double digit.
Again as opposed to assets at the same time our alliance sales continue to be about 61% of our sales.
TRS is 45%.
And our TPA business that we've talked about on this call for years now is up over 68%.
And again that's a very efficient way for us to administer these programs.
The shortfall in sales isn't small to mid.
It's on the large side compared this quarter versus the year-ago quarter.
We're down about $831 billion in terms of sales.
And that speaks in large part to the shortfall.
So we like the mix.
We like the current fundamentals of the business and feel good about working towards and continue to maintain those 5-year benchmarks that we had set out relative to margins in net revenue growth.
Hopefully that helps.
Our next question comes from the line of Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Just as a follow-up to Tom's question on the FSA business and the strong recurring deposits that Dan mentioned.
When we look at the second quarter recurring deposits how much of that can we look at as being sustainable recognizing obviously the first quarter is the strongest period for recurring deposits? And then the second quarter I would expect would be more on a normalized basis for the remainder of the year? Yes go ahead.
Yes Joanne I think you got that dialed in exactly right.
I think that's the kind of the expectation that we would have.
There's always that benefit after the 1st of the year where you see people do financial planning.
And they make their initiation to participate in a plan or increase their deferral or even possibly change their investment mix.
But I would anticipate the balance latter half of the year looks more like the second quarter.
Joanne this Larry.
I just want to jump in with one more general comment if you'd allow me.
And then I think you have another question.
But the 401(k) system has taken a lot of criticism over the last few years by some people who I think would have different ideas about how he would construct a healthy retirement system in this country.
But I find it very interesting and as part of this question on recurring deposits I think we've seen increases in the average deferral rate now.
So the deferral rate is the amount the employee is contributing out of their own payroll.
And we've seen that average deferral rate increase for something like 8 to 10 to 12 quarters since the financial crisis.
So I think there's a strong indication that employees get it relative to the fact that they need to get their deferral rates up to a much higher level.
So today you're talking about an average deferral rate that's kind of in that low 8% range the 8.2%.
And that's up very significantly from what it was say before the financial crisis.
So I want to get a plug-in here for the fact that I think both employers and plan providers like Principal are doing a much better job of getting people to save up near the levels that they're going to need to be if they're going to have adequate retirement income.
And so that's part of what you're seeing in this growth in recurring deposit.
Research Division</strong> I would also expect Larry that it would be a function of people feeling a little bit better about their own financial position given the fact that we've had relatively low economic growth but at least it's stable.
Would you agree with that? Right.
I would agree with that.
I would agree with that.
And I think the residential mortgage piece Joanne I think also plays in that because that's kind of that wealth effect.
I think when people feel like the value in their home is at least stable and now is starting to increase I think again they're more willing to kind of dig in their pocket a little bit deeper for a little increase in that deferral.
And the final thing would be we've been using this kind of step-up concept for several years now.
And so we're now getting to a point where those step-up contributions the increase is now coming through because we're 2 and 3 years down the road.
So again what we find is once people commit to the higher level they commit in advance they don't go back on that.
They actually follow through.
And that's another reason you're seeing these deferral rates increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a question for Jim on PGI.
Are there any other mandates that could be at risk at this point in time or you think you're pretty much through that? I think the way to really think about this Joanne is that there are always in the institutional market going to be mandates flowing in and out.
Some of this is a function of changing allocations by institutions.
And what you've seen is an allocation away from active core mandates and towards in our case active specialties.
That means that we're not necessarily going to be seeing positive cash flows every quarter as the last quarter described.
But we are going to be seeing consistent growth of the revenues because those active specialties are on significantly higher fees.
So the answer is there could be.
And those will tend to be the kind of active core mandates even where performance is good that institutions are turning away from.
But in our case we believe that the revenue will continue to grow because we are very strong in areas like high-yield emerging market debt and equity real estate including something that's very active at the moment which is origination of commercial mortgages.
So all of those areas we think will lead to a better revenue picture than necessarily you see from the asset flows.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> My questions actually follow directly from Joanne's.
Jim if AUM cannot be expected to grow consistently what would you consider to be a reasonable level over an extended period of annual revenue growth from your business? And the second question is perhaps more important than the first.
Why are we seeing now such a large increase in the profit margins in your business? And where can those margins head? Yes.
Thanks Eric.
I think the long-term trend in AUM and revenues will obviously depend somewhat on the market change.
And that has been a tailwind certainly for the last 6 months.
But it doesn't solely depend on that because flows and the change of mix will continue to help us.
Just to illustrate that the quarter we're currently reporting on saw a 14% increase in average AUM across PGI.
The revenue is up 19%.
I think that's the kind of trend that feels right for the long term.
Now obviously if you didn't see the strength in the equity market the numbers might've been both down by 3% 4% 5%.
But remember we are not so dependent on the equity market given that we have significant alternatives including real estate a lot of different fixed-income options many of which are not really linked into purely the treasury market.
So I think that trend is really a decent indicator of the long-term trend.
And it's very much in line with what we said last year to our Investor Day in terms of our 5-year expectations.
In terms of the margins sure the 29% pretax margin in the second quarter is a bit above long-term trend simply because it included $4 million arising from a performance fee.
But in all other respect I think it basically is in line with long-term trend.
And what we said last year at Investor Day was we were on a 5-year view as we gain scale and we grow into the expenses we've made we've got a significant all-expensed investment in growth in Principal Global Investors.
As we grow into that and as our new offices and new capabilities generate assets we will be able to increase profitability towards we believe that 30% pretax margin.
The fact we almost got there in this quarter is incidental and not sustainable.
But on a 3-year view I do believe that that 30% will prove to be sustainable as we develop our scale and our higher added value products.
Hope that helps Eric.
Eric this is Larry.
I just want to make one comment on this kind of in defense and support of Jim and PGI.
I think when you do compare PGI against margins from other asset managers you do need to take account of the fact that today about 60% of PGI's assets are basically transfer-priced to other businesses of the Principal.
So whereas when you look at other asset managers my guess is probably 80% to 100% of their assets are unaffiliated clients.
So when you think about the fact that we're sort of working towards 50% unaffiliated 50% affiliated and we're still pushing sort of leading-edge margins in PGI I think they're doing a really nice job of managing expenses along the way.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> You mentioned that the $0.92 normalized result shouldn't necessarily be viewed as a base going forward given some potential timing of expenses.
I was hoping you could give us some sense for what type and magnitude of additional expenses you may incur in the second half of this year? Yes.
This is Larry Ryan.
And I'll have  I'll ask Terry to comment as well.
I mean again I think whether you view $0.92 I mean this is what I was sort of commenting on earlier I really think whether you view $0.92 as the jumping off point for Q3 or Q4 or whether you discount that to some degree for Q3 or Q4 again I think really depends in large measure on your view of the economy and your view of the market.
I mean I think you could go in and sort of financially dissect this or that and you could try to figure out was DAC amortization this time a little higher or a little lower or whatever whatever.
And maybe that leads you to a conclusion.
Although I think sometimes it's a bit of paralysis by analysis.
I mean my personal view is again as long as the economy continues to normalize and the markets continue to heal and interest rates don't necessarily spike up but that they continue to increase as a result of economic growth then I view the $0.92 as a kind of reasonable neighborhood from which we launch into third quarter and fourth quarter.
But if on the other hand you believe the market's overvalued the economy is going to roll over then I would be cautious about just forecasting $0.92 into the rest of the year.
So Terry you want to comment? Yes.
Ryan this is Terry.
It's a great question.
And as you -- when we talk about the $0.92 in the current environment.
And we think that that's a good normalized number for this quarter.
However there are some things that are going to affect the future.
We've had seasonality in all of our businesses.
And that'll continue.
Some of it will be somewhat favorable into the future.
You talk about dental claims for example.
We've talked about the impact on security -- excuse me the Specialty Benefits business.
We also talk about the macroeconomic conditions in Latin America.
Right now the -- you're seeing some impact because of the 1-month lag on Cuprum's earnings.
And what happened in Mexico could have an impact on us in the third quarter.
That is yet to be played out.
You also look at the exchange rate.
The spot rate at the end of the quarter was lower than the impact or the average for the quarter.
And so that could have some impact.
And it will once again play out.
Expenses could be larger in the second half of the year and you'd expect that.
Sales could be larger.
We expect them to be larger in the second half of the year.
And depending on the mix of that we may have to expense all that cost in the current period and not have an opportunity to defer it.
We also are going to continue to investing in our businesses.
And so to some extent in the first half of the year we may not have included as much of expenses as we have in the past.
Once again it's somewhat spotty.
And then the other item the last item that I'll comment on is the effective tax rate.
You do expect -- we do expect the tax rate to go up.
We benefited in the first half of the year because of a true-up on the dividend received deduction.
And so that held our effective tax rate down a little bit lower than what you normally would have expected.
In the second half of the year with the higher earnings and those having a smaller impact on it you could see a higher effective tax rate as well.
So all of those things need to be taken into consideration modeled looked at and analyzed.
And that's why we don't say you just simply can go just jump off as this is the normalized run rate.
I hope that helps.
LLC</strong> Understood.
And maybe just along the same lines so the FSA margin was about 34% in the quarter.
In the past over a pretty long period of time I think it's hovered closer to 30%.
So I guess maybe I'm just trying to get a sense for I think Larry you said that if we tend to continue in the same environment that we're in you don't necessarily see any big changes.
But at the same time that margin's actually quite a bit above what you tended to do.
So that was kind of my question in regards to the expenses if maybe there was just some timing considerations for the quarter that wouldn't necessarily lead you to believe that that 34% margin would be sustainable even in a good macro environment.
Yes.
I mean we've commented many many many times that you always want to be careful about taking one quarter and prognosticating that for the future.
So I think if you wanted to sort of look at a better estimate of what it might be you always want to work with trailing 12-month periods rather than work with current quarter periods because there's just naturally going to be some ebb and flow.
But I think even if you look at trailing 12 months you're still getting a number that is in that 30% 31% kind of range that really does represent best in class.
I mean the bottom line here that I would say I think investors and analysts should focus on relative to FSA is not the level of margin in any one place.
I think the key message here and what you should focus on is the fact that this business model is not broken.
This business model has faced a lot of headwinds in the period of time since the financial crisis.
But a lot of reports have said has something happened? Is the model broken? Can it get back to where it was in 2004 '05 '06? And I believe firmly the answer to that is when the economic conditions normalize when the market conditions normalize it absolutely can get back to that same sort of growth trend we saw back in those days.
And this quarter happens to be a 3-month period where the economy and the markets performed more in line with what was happening in those periods.
And you saw very nice returns and you saw very nice margins.
And so again I would just comment that I think the key thing here is not the kind of current margin level and prognostication.
The point is the model works.
The growth in earnings is there when the macroeconomic and market conditions allow it to come through.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> After that public service announcement Larry I'm now going to completely ignore it and go back to the FSA margin.
Is that okay? You bet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two questions and I think one of Tom's myriad of questions wasn't answered.
Did -- but Terry may have touched on it a little bit later did the low sales or the low transfer deposits in the quarter benefit margin? Because there was a lack of expenses that maybe would not have been DAC-able under the new rules.
I think short answer would be yes.
But in terms of quantification of that Steven it'd be awfully hard to do.
I don't know Dan you want to comment? No you're right.
It's -- obviously if we had lower sales and the split of sales was roughly 50-50 between our group annuity contract and our 40 Act funds.
And so if you just think about 40 Act funds as having to be 100% expensed that's where you would see this expense that would've been deferred.
So we reach our full year sales goal which we said was roughly flat with the year ago about $11 billion.
We would anticipate we'd have higher sales-related expenses in the second half of the year than we did in the first half.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay good.
I'm glad I asked that.
And then to look at these -- couple of more follow-ups.
To look at the PGI outflow that Jim talked about from the 2 accounts my understanding is that one of the accounts was Nationwide pulling funds from Morley which was always going to happen anyway.
Jim do you happen to know that number? Yes.
It's approximately $1 billion.
Whether it was always going to happen anyway or not I wouldn't want to make a judgment on.
But the account had performed pretty well but they decided to take it back to one of their own teams.
And that's always a hazard with sub-advisory mandates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more on Chile.
I think one of the other proposals with regards to the pension system there I think the guy who's leading so far in the polls is a socialist.
And he is also proposing that the government set up one of these AFOREs.
Is that possible? Is that an issue? Would it really concern you if that did happen? Well we happen to have Steven the best Chilean political commentator with us today.
And there actually have been some sort of late-breaking developments relative to candidates there in Chile.
So maybe I'll just have Luis comment on it.
Okay.
As Larry mentioned before one of the main issues that we're facing and the Chilean system is facing there is the coverage in order to go deeper into the middle and low-income segment.
And probably and this is one particular idea probably one way in order to try to better cover that particular segment it could be the creation of kind of state-owned AFP or a pension company in order to try to go into that particular segment.
But this is still a kind of idea.
And the truth is the Chilean government they have to really better figure out how they can build a much more stronger first pillar.
And we don't know yet if within that kind of design and a state-owned AFP is going to be the right solution.
But as those comments and the initiatives are going into that particular way to go and to try to tap that unattended market which is particular is not our market.
So we're right far away from that particular market.
Cuprum is a premier provider and is having on average the highest average salary in the pension system in Chile.
So we're kind of away from that problem.
And even if that AFP is coming we think that we're going to be pretty much more isolated from that particular effect.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman closing remarks please? Well thanks again to everybody for joining us for our call today.
We're really proud of our second quarter.
And we continue to believe our transition to a global retirement and asset management leader with a well-diversified global footprint will produce a significant increase in shareholder value over time.
As John commented we're having our Investor Day in New York City on September 13 at the New York Stock Exchange.
And we hope that many of you are going to be able to join us there.
So thanks and have a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 p.m.
Eastern time until the end of the day August 3 2013.
97102721 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 U.S.
and Canadian callers or (404) 537-3406 international callers.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
I'd like to point out that we made several enhancements to our financial supplement this quarter to better reflect the drivers of our earnings and to add clarity in comparing quarterly results.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are: Dan Houston Retirement Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdes Principal International; and Tim Dunbar our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before we begin I'd like to announce that our 2014 outlook call will be on December 9.
We'll provide additional details as we get closer to the date.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I'll discuss third quarter and year-to-date results.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution of our strategy and I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As John mentioned slides related to today's call are on our website.
Slide 4 outlines the themes for the quarter.
The total company operating earnings for the quarter were $269 million a 22% increase over an adjusted third quarter 2012.
As a reminder third quarter 2012 was negatively impacted by $79 million due to an actuarial assumption review.
The strong results this quarter combined with the first half of the year resulted in total company year-to-date operating earnings of $774 million a 19% increase over the adjusted 2012 year-to-date results.
Return on equity at 12% is up from the year-ago quarter as well as sequentially.
As we said on our Investor Day last month this is an important metric and we continue to believe that we'll achieve an annual increase of 50 to 80 basis points resulting in a 15% return on equity within the next few years.
These remarkable results demonstrate the benefit of our diversified and durable business model.
Though macroeconomic challenges remain such as continued low interest rates the strengthening U.S.
dollar and uncertainty in emerging markets our unique business mix allows us to achieve consistent performance and a balance of profitability and growth.
In addition results this quarter reflect strong underlying fundamentals as momentum continues across our businesses.
Total company net cash flows of $4.2 billion helped drive assets under management to a record $466 billion at quarter end.
As I have said many times assets under management is the best single indicator of future revenue and operating earnings.
Business level growth metrics include: solid net cash flows of $1.2 billion in Full Service Accumulation reflecting double-digit growth in both recurring and transferred deposits.
While assets sales were flat compared to the year-ago quarter margins in this business continue to improve as we focus on a better balance across plan sizes.
Principal Funds' account value increased 25% to a record $61 billion reflecting continued demand for our outcome-oriented products and solid investment performance.
Sales of $4.7 billion contributed to net cash flows of $550 million.
Record unaffiliated assets under management of $106 billion for Principal Global Investors up 8% from the year-ago quarter.
Net cash flows were $1.5 billion for the quarter.
Assets under management of $103 billion in Principal International with positive net cash flows of $1.1 billion despite a quarter in which the macroeconomic conditions in emerging markets were as difficult as they've been in years.
Those conditions have improved in October.
U.S.
Insurance Solutions year-to-date sales up 11% over the prior year period with nearly $100 million of sales in the current quarter as we continue to balance growth and profitability.
Our business model is extremely well-suited for the world's aging challenges and emerging market middle-class growth.
In this era of personal responsibility we have the right solutions to meet the financial needs of our customers around the world and we remain confident in our ability to continue to grow our businesses at above-market rates.
Next I'll comment on our success in further implementing our strategy in the third quarter.
At our recent Investor Day we had the opportunity to present an update on our Investment Management Plus strategy.
It's a strategy we've had in place for more than a decade and has created a unique business model with diverse revenue sources yet with a highly integrated set of businesses.
This approach sets us apart for a couple of reasons.
First as I mentioned earlier our diversified set of businesses allows us to weather challenging economic environments as we demonstrated during the financial crisis.
Our durable model enabled us to emerge from the recent crisis in a position of strength allowing us to complete 7 strategic acquisitions since 2010.
Additionally what makes our business model really powerful is the synergy and collaboration between the businesses which results in a valuation that's greater than the sum of the parts.
This leads to higher margins continued long-term growth opportunities and a higher return on equity over time.
In Principal International the on-boarding of Cuprum is complete.
We are now focused on maximizing the value of this acquisition by creating the only fully integrated platform in Chile.
The acquisition made us the #2 retirement provider in Latin America and created a retirement franchise to meet the savings and investing needs of people in the 3 key countries of Brazil Chile and Mexico that will be difficult for competitors to replicate.
The need for long-term savings by individuals in emerging markets continues to grow and Principal is capitalizing on these opportunities.
In Full Service Accumulation we will continue to focus our resources on advisors plan sponsors and plan participants to deliver work site solutions with strong investment capabilities and performance.
The fundamentals of this business remains strong.
Recurring deposits were $3.7 billion for the quarter a 13% increase over the prior year quarter.
This was driven by an 8% increase in both the number of people making a deferral and the number of people receiving a match.
We'll see additional upside to recurring deposits as the job market recovers and as our greater focus on engaging plan participants to save at appropriate levels begins to gather momentum.
At our recent Investor Day we focused on the growth and success of Principal Funds which along with Principal Global Investors and Principal International was an aspirational business when we became a public company in 2001.
At the end of the third quarter total Principal Funds complex account value was $103 billion.
This is remarkable growth and reflects our ability to offer outcome-oriented products focused on meeting the long-term needs of investors.
Turning now to Principal Global Investors.
We continue to benefit from our well diversified multi-boutique strategy.
Our strategy is distinctive because the successful boutiques that we've built and acquired are able to remain focused yet nimble to meet changing client demands while having access to shared resources such as a world-class distribution and operational platform.
This allows our investment teams to focus on what they do best while realizing the benefits of scale in areas like distribution technology and compliance.
As shown on Slide 5 investment performance remains competitive.
Solid investment performance is a good leading indicator of future sales and net cash flows.
The pipeline in Principal Global Investors remains strong and as investor appetite swings to equities and alternative investments we remain in an excellent position to retain and attract clients because of our investment expertise across multiple boutiques.
Next a quick update on Principal Bank.
As of September 30 we've liquidated or transferred all required noncustodial deposits including those that were part of our strategic agreement with Bank of the Internet.
We have retained all individual retirement account deposit products which complement our U.S.
Retirement and asset accumulation businesses and help us retain assets from job changers and retirees.
As part of the deregistration process Principal Bank also sold its $390 million of commercial mortgage loans predominantly to Principal Life Insurance Company.
These actions had minimal financial impact to the company and further our process to deregister as a savings and loan holding company.
We still expect to complete the process by year end.
I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As announced last night we'll pay a $0.26 per share common stock dividend in the fourth quarter bringing our 2013 total to a record $0.98 per share.
This reinforces our commitment to return capital to shareholders by increasing the dividend payout ratio over time.
So far in 2013 we've allocated more than $480 million of capital for common stock dividends strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.
We continue to look for the best and most accretive ways to deploy capital and increase long-term value for shareholders.
We'll provide more detail on our 2014 capital management plans at our outlook call in December.
In closing we're pleased with our team's ability to grow our businesses while maintaining expense discipline which resulted in another strong quarter.
Despite volatility that will likely continue I'm confident that our business model and proven ability to execute will continue our momentum into next year and beyond.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
Third quarter was another strong quarter on top of an already strong first half of 2013 as our businesses continued to grow.
This morning I'll focus my comments on 3 items: operating earnings for the quarter; net income including performance in the investment portfolio; and the strength of the capital position and the balance sheet.
Total company operating earnings of $269 million were up 89% over a reported third quarter 2012 but up 22% after adjusting for last year's actuarial assumption review.
Excluding Cuprum third quarter 2013 earnings were up 15% over the adjusted prior year quarter.
Earnings from our fee-based businesses remained in the 60% to 65% range of the total operating earnings excluding the Corporate segment.
The composition of our earnings continues to shift away from products that put pressure on our balance sheet.
Our current business profile is more aligned with asset managers and should warrant a higher-than-historical multiple over time.
Third quarter 2013 earnings per share were $0.90 a 22% increase compared to the adjusted year-ago quarter.
This reflects strong organic growth the addition of Cuprum favorable equity markets and disciplined expense management.
Our annual actuarial assumption review in third quarter 2013 had an immaterial impact on total company operating earnings.
Looking at Slide 6 you'll see that third quarter 2013 earnings were impacted by one normalizing item.
As we introduced last quarter Principal International earnings are impacted by returns on the encaje investment in Chile and Mexico.
Adjusted results this quarter were negatively impacted by $10 million due to lower-than-expected returns in Chile.
Results will vary quarter-to-quarter.
In fact the encaje returns in Chile is positively impacting the fourth quarter results at this point.
There's more background information on the encaje investment on Slide 7 along with publicly available information on how to track the encaje performance throughout the quarter.
Now I'll discuss business unit results.
Starting with the Accumulation businesses within the Retirement and Investor Services.
Operating earnings were $151 million an increase of 15% over the adjusted third quarter 2012.
As shown on Slide 8 net revenue was up 13% over the year-ago quarter.
Trailing 12-month pretax return on net revenue improved to 31%.
Quarterly operating earnings for Full Service Accumulation at $91 million were up 21% over the adjusted year-ago quarter.
This reflects a 15% increase in net revenue due to strong growth in the business and positive equity market performance.
Operating expenses have grown slower than net revenue resulting in improved margins.
The pretax return on net revenue for the quarter was 32%.
Sales at $2.7 billion for the quarter were in line with the year-ago quarter.
Net cash flow for Full Service Accumulation were $1.2 billion for the quarter.
We will continue to be disciplined in attracting and retaining clients that value our comprehensive products and services as we strike the appropriate balance of growth and profitability.
Principal Funds' operating earnings were $22 million for the quarter a very strong 66% increase from the year-ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis revenue was up 24% and operating margins continue to improve due to the scale-based nature of the business.
For the quarter sales were $4.7 billion leading to $550 million of net cash flow.
While down sequentially these results were solid relative to the industry.
Sales continued to come in across multiple asset types as we focus on outcome-oriented products.
The individual annuity operating earnings were $30 million reflecting flat net revenues in the quarter and a continued expense management.
This is a good result in this low interest rate environment.
Our retirement income strategy continues to resonate in the marketplace and we saw a nice momentum in payout annuity sales.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax return on net revenue improved to 44% driven by strong growth in fee revenues.
Slide 9 covers the guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
Third quarter operating earnings of $22 million were up 6% over the year-ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax return on net revenue was 80% at the upper end of our expected range.
Investment-only earnings improved 24% from the prior year quarter to $15 million due to increasing spreads on a lower asset base.
During the quarter we sold a $350 million 5-year medium-term note.
We continue to approach this business opportunistically and we'll write business when market conditions generate attractive returns.
Full Service payout earnings of $8 million were negatively impacted by a mortality fluctuation of approximately $3 million after tax.
This was the first negative fluctuation we've seen in this business in more than 2 years.
We believe that the rising interest rate environment will allow us to add small- to mid-sized pension closeout business at attractive returns.
Slide 10 shows Principal Global Investors' operating earnings were $23 million up 12% from the year-ago quarter.
Third quarter revenues grew 12% over the prior year quarter driven largely by higher average assets under management.
Earnings were down on a sequential basis due to performance fees and front-end loaded real estate borrower fees.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax margin improved to 26% as Principal Global Investors continues to build scale.
Unaffiliated assets under management ended the quarter at a record $106 billion.
The unaffiliated net cash flow for the quarter was $1.5 billion.
We have a robust pipeline which when paired with strong investment performance bodes well for future growth.
Slide 11 shows third quarter 2013 operating earnings for Principal International of $51 million.
Adjusting for the lower-than-expected return on the encaje operating earnings were up 64% from the year-ago quarter.
After adjusting for Cuprum and the foreign exchange headwinds Principal International is up 2% over the year-ago quarter.
As Larry mentioned this was a challenging quarter for our Latin American operation.
On a trailing 12-month basis combined pretax return on net revenue for Principal International was 55% slightly below our range reflecting the macroeconomic pressures.
In light of these pressures we're pleased with the results of our Principal International businesses in the quarter and continue to invest for growth.
Quarterly net cash flows for the segment were $1.1 billion.
Principal International ended the quarter with $103 billion of assets under management despite the strengthening U.S.
dollar and volatility particularly in Brazil.
As a sign of our leading position in Brazil BrazilPrev was the only meaningful provider with positive net cash flows in the quarter.
U.S.
Insurance Solutions' earnings were $54 million for the quarter an increase of 25% from the adjusted year-ago quarter.
And as shown on Slide 12 Individual Life operating earnings were $22 million.
This was a decrease of $3 million from an adjusted year-ago quarter driven by adverse mortality due to a higher severity in the quarter as well as the low interest rate environment.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax operating margin was 13% below the range of 15% to 17% communicated for 2013.
Higher-than-expected mortality thus far this year negatively impacted our results.
We continue to believe this is normal quarterly volatility.
As shown on Slide 13 Specialty Benefits operating earnings of $32 million were up 74% from the adjusted year-ago quarter.
The current period loss ratio of 65% compared favorably to the 72% result in the year-ago quarter and was a large contributor to the earnings gain.
We continue to expect our quarterly loss ratios to be in that 65% to 71% range.
Trailing 12-month pretax operating margins of 11% is slightly above our expectations due to the favorable claims experienced this year.
Specialty Benefits premium and fees grew 3% over a year-ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis premium and fees were up 4% relative to our 6% to 8% target reflecting our focus on profitable growth.
The Corporate segment reported an operating loss for the quarter of $32 million better than our forecasted range of $35 million to $40 million operating losses.
This is primarily due to favorable debt-related expenses in 2013.
For the quarter total company net income was $246 million.
Realized capital losses for the quarter were $23 million with improving credit-related losses making up $16 million of the total which were at the lowest point since before the financial crisis.
Looking now at capital adequacy.
We estimate our third quarter risk-based capital ratio to be in the 400% to 405% range.
We expect to end the year in the 415% to 425% range relative to a 350% RBC ratio at the Life company and including cash at the holding company we have approximately $800 million of excess capital.
Book value per share excluding AOCI at $29.79 increased 5% over the prior year quarter.
Our return on equity excluding AOCI was 11.9% a strong improvement even taking into account rolling off the prior year quarter.
Trailing 12 months earnings grew 20% over an adjusted prior year while the average equity excluding AOCI only increased 3%.
And as I mentioned at Investor Day growing earnings 10% to 12% while managing the equity growth to a lower rate will deliver a 50- to 80-basis-point annual increase in return on equity.
Regarding capital management in the quarter we repurchased $62 million of company stock.
We still have $55 million remaining from the $150 million previously announced share repurchase program.
As outlined on Slide 14 we allocated more than $480 million of our expected $400 million to $600 million of capital to be deployed for the year.
Last night we announced our fourth quarter 2013 common stock dividend of $0.26 bringing our full-year dividend to a record $0.98.
We continue to focus on increasing our dividend payout ratio on a growing net income base.
We're extremely pleased with the continued momentum of our businesses and feel that we are well positioned for future growth.
Before we close I want to take a moment to recognize our CEO Larry Zimpleman on recently receiving a prestigious industry Award.
Larry was named the winner of the 2013 Lillywhite Award.
The Employee Benefit Research Institute sponsors the award which recognizes outstanding lifetime contributions to Americans' economic security.
Congratulations to Larry for this recognition of his contributions to the financial services industry.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to start on International on the earnings.
Even after kind of adding back to the callout for the encaje business in Chile it seems like we were a little bit light there.
And I guess I'd ask kind of a 2-part question.
One was it light relative to initial expectations from your perspective it would be in the Cuprum business? And two could you just elaborate a little bit on kind of the comments about kind of FX environment being challenging? Obviously that's currency but just wondering if there's interest rates and other pieces of those comments that might have affected International earnings this quarter.
Okay.
This is Larry Randy.
I appreciate the question.
I'll start and I'm sure Terry and Luis might want to add.
First of all as I said in my earlier comments the conditions in emerging markets started to deteriorate in June and I would say that deterioration sort of continued through most of the third quarter.
But as I also noted in my comments the situation has begun to reverse a little bit in October.
So it feels -- in general it feels like the macroeconomic environment is settling down a little bit.
In your question about were PI earnings light I would say it was actually a very good quarter for PI from a local market perspective.
So what you saw in the local markets was positive flows generally good performance but when you translate those back to the U.S.
we took a hit on that because of currency.
So the $51 million in my view represents sort of almost like a worst-case scenario which from my perspective really if that represents the worst-case scenario I can live with that all day long.
So I think the normalized number for that segment is probably more in that $63 million to $65 million a quarter range with $51 million kind of representing this worst-case scenario this quarter.
So Luis anything you like to add to that? Yes.
I mean and again the $51 million for this quarter we consider that as a good number for PI considering the macroeconomic conditions and certainly normalized by our encaje $10 million -- that's $61 million for the quarter.
And concerning the headwinds FX and market behavior and total AUMs -- and concerning even our total margin it's a good number it's a good number.
We consider that as a good number.
Does that help Randy? Research Division</strong> Yes it's perfect.
I mean I'm trying to get to your run rate and I just want to amplify one thing.
It sounds like -- if I'm just thinking about my P&amp;L here it sounds like most of it's FX and not necessarily kind of interest rates or other growth issues in those markets.
It's mostly just the FX impact that's kind of clearly laid out and something we can track in the market.
Yes that's right Randy.
The final comment I would make is I think inflation was a little bit lower in Latin America in the quarter which has also got a very modest effect.
But you've got the main factors with what you've mentioned there a minute ago.
Research Division</strong> And then finally I mean -- and this is something we talked about at the Investor Day but there's no -- given the diversity of your kind of your business base and variety of countries and your continued growth plans there.
I mean you're going to continue to kind of let this FX come through unhedged just because it will be too expensive and kind of complicated to hedge it.
There should be kind of natural offsets in it going forward.
Is that right? We accept this FX risk in these earnings? Yes that's exactly right.
And again we've looked at this any number of times.
Even if we were to try to do some economic hedge Randy it wouldn't necessarily work for accounting purposes.
But we believe that the best thing is just to let the natural diversification of the businesses carry us quarter-to-quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the level of activity in the 401(k) market in the U.S.
in terms of both RFPs for existing cases as well as new case formation? And is health care reform still a distraction or are you seeing the disruption from that starting to ease? Yes again I'll take -- make a few high-level comments on that Erik and have Dan comment.
I would describe the 401(k) environment as sort of "steady she goes " I would say not a lot of change going on either positively or negatively.
I think that the competitive pressures which have always been a factor in this market continue to be there.
There may be slightly less competitive factors say than right after the financial crisis when I think a lot of retirement providers a lot of 401(k) providers were all sort scrambling around trying to find ways to at least continue -- if not absorb too much of a hit at least try to continue the revenue in the AUM number.
So those things seem like they've settled down.
And our pipeline it's pretty consistent with what it's been the last several quarters.
So I'll let Dan make comments on that in health care.
Yes that's right Larry.
Just a couple more comments.
Within the last couple of weeks I was down with some of our very largest clients.
We have a client council.
So that's 15 clients around a room with management discussing some of the issues relative to challenges they're facing within their benefits package.
And as you might expect health care reform compliance is top of mind for them.
But I'd say the shift in the conversation quickly goes to the issue of retirement readiness and income solutions.
There's less emphasis around plan expenses more time and attention now being focused on what can we do to better prepare our future retirees for retirement.
So I would say our product package with TRS and our product packaging around Retire Secure supports that in the marketplace today.
And we're winning a lot of business because of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if I could just ask one on Specialty Benefits where your results have been -- it's a very strong year-to-date with favorable claims experience.
You've also seen some modest sales growth.
Just could you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in the group market in terms of both claims trends as well as the competitive environment? Yes this is Larry Erik.
I mean I think you actually summarized it pretty well.
I would just want to -- before I ask Dan to comment I would just -- want to give our team that manages that business a lot of credit.
For many companies the story historically around this kind of business has been cycles of sort of boom and bust.
And I think that when you look at our performance in this area of the business I think our performance is really superior and far more consistent kind of quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year than many of our competitors.
So I think we have a very experienced team with a strong track record and I'm very proud of the trends they have going.
A lot of discipline on the part of the team to achieve nice growth and at the same time be profitable.
Remember that our average size plan for Specialty Benefits is approximately 40 employees.
It's diversified by industry and frankly by geography.
And we have -- we've done a good job kind of balancing growth and profitability.
In terms of health care reform and how it might impact Specialty Benefits there's a pediatric benefit that comes out of the dental component that has to be included in health care reform on the medical plans.
So Principal continues to monitor that.
In most states what most carriers are doing is even though they have the pediatric benefit within the health insurance program they're still purchasing dental insurance.
It is a comprehensive solution.
It's a best practice on the part of the advisor.
So we don't see health care reform derailing our model of distribution today for Specialty Benefits.
Having said that we'll continue to evaluate the -- both the public and the private platforms for our products being on those products -- on those platforms.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any comments on just the pricing environment? Or it seems to have been -- you've had a tailwind in the past couple of years as most people in the market have been raising prices.
Are you still seeing that? Are you seeing any signs of increased competition? Yes.
It's a competitive marketplace and our rates tend to always be -- we're top 5 provider in Specialty Benefits.
And so there are new entrants from time to time that can be disruptive to the industry but I would say that it's no more or any less competitive than it's been in the last few years.
So it's game as usual I suspect.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I had a question about your legal entity structure.
Principal Global Investors is owned by Principal Life Insurance Company.
I was wondering if you've ever considered moving PGI out from under the insurance subs.
I'm not sure if that would be a positive negative or neutral event for your capital structure or if it would maybe have any impact on the way rating agencies evaluate your access to subsidiary dividends.
So was just interested in your perspective on that.
Yes.
This is Larry Ryan.
That's a very interesting and sort of timely question.
I think I'll make a couple of high-level comments and Terry is going to want to add a little more specificity to it.
But very high-level if you go back a little bit in history even back before we became a public company it's true that when some of the legal structures were set up of course you have a holding company but then you had the life company.
And at that point in our strategy implementation sort of in our history the life company was kind of the center of the business units.
I mean that was just kind of the way it was done because the life insurance was the legacy business going back 134 years.
And so as we began to develop these other businesses including Principal Global Investors many of them just sort of naturally ended up under that life company.
As we've evolved and as we become a more multifaceted and global organization your question is really spot-on because I think we continue to evaluate both for capital efficiency tax efficiency et cetera whether that sort of structure makes sense.
And we are beginning to evolve that structure.
We talked about that I think at different investor days as we are a more global company and we need to move capital around to various companies around the globe.
As we have expanded into other areas like International and mutual funds we put those companies outside the life company and the legacy really is PGI is still under the life company.
So that's a real set-up for Terry to sort of take it from there.
But that's kind of the background and the history of it.
Yes Ryan this is Terry.
The strategic focus of our execution on our strategy is really evolving towards more of that Investment Management Plus-type company.
And part of that is the breakdown of those businesses as Larry said between the life insurance companies and those legacy businesses there as well as the sister companies the mutual fund as well as Principal International.
And it makes sense as we grow the business from PGI being the aspirational business to a very meaningful part of our organization there is a limitation as to the size of any nonlife subsidiaries within the life company.
So because of that there was eventually going to be a need to move that out.
So we are exploring that at this point in time.
We're looking to move the earnings of Principal Global Investors outside of the life company as part of our long-term strategy.
And as Larry mentioned we've looked at more of a global holding company structure whereas we can move a capital efficiently and effectively around the globe.
So yes that is one of our near-term views as well.
Does that help Ryan? LLC</strong> Yes very helpful.
I just have a follow-up.
Do you think that if you do move PGI out from under the insurance subs that it would have any -- would it have any impact on your RBC ratio either positive or negative? Well I guess what I would say to that Ryan is that we would manage that and do that in a way that will not have a substantial impact to the RBC ratios of the life company.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just -- actually one more follow-up on the same thing.
I think from a rating agency standpoint could doing -- could making this change -- do you think that would positively impact their view of access to capital and perhaps help your ratings? Yes.
I'm not sure I got all that question but I think essentially you were asking about how the rating agencies would view that.
And I guess again my general comment there would be that of course the rating agencies don't all have a unified or single view around these types of things.
So we've begun that discussion with the rating agencies.
I think so far I would certainly describe all of our conversations as very constructive.
And we don't -- again we don't see significant hurdles that we have to overcome but we want to continue to work very proactively with them as we do it and we want to take account of whatever concerns they have.
But I don't think it will be an impediment at the end of the day.
We'll just have to have those individual discussions to get their point of view.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Overall I thought the results were pretty strong but the one that's sort of negative was that your flows in many of the businesses were weak.
And you mentioned the environment in Latin America being challenging but even PGI and mutual funds loans seemed a little weak.
So maybe if you could address that? And then one for Luis on -- there's been a lot of talk about pension reform in Chile with the upcoming election.
And just wondering what you see or is there anything that might seem like a threat to the Cuprum business given the proposals that the various candidates have made? Jimmy this is Larry.
Thanks for the questions.
I would frankly take a little bit of exception to the comment on flows.
I think that sometimes your toughest competitor is yourself and that's kind of a nice problem to have.
And I think that your comment or your observation is really in relationship to Principal's flows.
But I think the better measuring stick is really to sort of look at our flows as compared to competitors'.
And I'm highly confident that if you look at -- within any of those businesses particularly the mutual fund business and the institutional business you would find that our flows are really as strong as anyone's.
So for example yesterday T.
Rowe Franklin Janus and Federated reported and they all reported pretty significant negative flows.
This morning or last night Legg Mason reported.
They reported significant negative flows.
That's as compared to $1.5 billion positive flows for PGI.
So ours is a very strong story and I would encourage you to look at kind of the industry flows and not necessarily make the comparison singularly or directly against what we might have done in the prior quarter.
Because once again we would have been among the leading performers in those prior quarters.
So with that let me ask Jim to comment on institutional.
And I'll have Luis comment on International.
Yes Jimmy.
Thanks for the question.
I think to comment on institutional -- and this actually has some impact on mutual funds and Full Service as well.
I would point out that we at Principal have a product platform that is extremely strong relative to where client demand is going.
If you want to understand the negative flows from competitors that Larry has described you just need to look at the diminishing appetite that investors have for active core strategies.
And that's something we do but more importantly for us there is increasing demand for specialty strategies highly focused high added value.
So if you take the institutional flows during the quarter $1.5 billion net inflow that included losing a single account of more than $1.5 billion which was in active core global equities.
So in other words the $1.5 billion plus making up for those losses of core mandates were in specialty strategies which includes real estate includes high-yield of various sorts particularly limited duration high yield includes specialty equity strategies including yield biased and regional strategies.
So we are strong in those areas where client demand is moving and that more than makes up for the losses we have in active core strategies.
And that general theme -- I illustrated it with reference to Principal Global Investors but that is one of the explanations as to why the Principal Financial Group platform is seeing pretty strong positive flows compared with our investment management competitors.
Jimmy this is Luis.
Let me comment briefly before going to -- into the pension reforms in Chile.
About our net customer cash flows in PI certainly we reported $1.1 billion.
Our normal run rate was about $2.2 billion $2.3 billion per quarter.
If you look at your supplement in the Page 31 32 you're going to realize 2 things.
First we didn't have any country with negative net customer cash flows.
All our countries are showing positive net customer cash flows.
And then we have India which is even.
But the most important thing here is to realize that the country where we had serious problems was in Brazil.
Brazil was showing $400 million in net customer cash flows positive.
And our normal run rate in Brazil was about $2 billion per quarter.
So that is where we have the main shortfall it's in one country which is Brazil.
The second quarter particularly the second quarter -- I'm talking about the market in Brazil was very challenging in Brazil.
Almost we had that stock market down 20%.
Almost we had bad FX rate down to 20% so that market was in USD almost 40% down at some given moment.
So we had a very difficult entry into the third quarter.
If you're looking those number you will figure that the main part of that shortfall is coming because we have low deposit but we didn't have a very important amount of withdrawals.
So we circled the wagons around our customers and our assets and we were able to retain all those assets.
And you could see that we didn't have any important fluctuation about our withdrawals.
It's very important fluctuations about new deposit.
This situation is changing during the third quarter.
The third quarter has been much more much better than the second quarter so we think that the moods in Brazil are much better and moods around emerging markets are much better starting in the third quarter.
So we think that we have had a much better entry in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Going into the pension reforms in Chile.
It's almost a fact Jimmy that Mrs.
Michelle Bachelet is going to be the next president in Chile.
And we were able to review when she released her program and the only thing that has been said in her program -- and this was kind of -- we were talking about the -- about the AFPs and the pension reform.
It's about the creation of a state-owned AFP in Chile in order to address 2 things: first to extend the coverage under the low-income segment; and second to extend and have a much more extended geographical reach in particular in some places that you don't have enough market or enough size in order to really cover those particular places in Chile.
So it's pretty much more in the same way that we anticipated in the last earnings call which is a kind of state-owned.
If that AFP is going to exist as a state-owned AFP that is going to go after the low -- going after the low-income segment and in those places that you don't have a very meaningful presence of other private AFPs.
In particular in Cuprum we continue saying that Cuprum is not going to be affected because Cuprum is the premier pension provider pretty much more focused on the middle- and high-income segment in Chile.
That is very well-attended and we don't see any particular reason in order to make any meaningful change rather than to continue increasing the incentives in order to add more long-term savings into our AFP and pension system in Chile.
This is Larry Jimmy.
I just want to make just 2 quick points.
One is that the discussion in Chile is more around how to get the replacement ratios up.
And so the discussion is more on how to generate additional contributions.
So I actually think this discussion around pension reform in Chile is going to be a positive not a negative.
So that would be Point 1.
Point 2 is just to make -- just to illustrate I would say the influence that we have -- "we" is a collective we.
So for example if you look at the independent chair of Cuprum's board he happens to have been the Minister of Economy when Michelle Bachelet was the President previously.
So that shows I think the sort of influence that we will have if and when any of these proposals get to a legislative state.
You can bet that we'll be providing our views and commenting on the strengths of the AFP system over the 30-year period.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
I have a question about the FSA pipeline.
Last quarter I think it was said that things were looking better over the second half of the year.
Now I'm sure this is tied to the margins that you're targeting but should we assume that FSA sales will be down full year 2013 over 2012? Yes I'll let Dan handle that.
But Sean thanks.
Yes.
Yes Sean this is Dan.
I think that's right.
I mean I would fully anticipate at this point in time we could see our sales as measured by assets under management down by say 10%.
And I'd say at the same time that our new case revenues will stay about flat with last year.
So again nicer revenue on roughly 10% fewer asset sales.
We are getting good sales though across all the segments: small medium and large.
And I would just call your attention to the fact that we've got 2 200 new plans this year that we didn't have 12 months ago.
And then if I were to look closely at the thousand plus life market we've increased that by roughly 10%.
The difference is those aren't jumbo cases they're smaller cases.
So that pipeline that we historically talk about has all those large jumbo cases in there as well.
So I think we have a higher quality pipeline today and we've maintained roughly the same sorts of close ratios albeit on a smaller overall assets under management but stronger revenue.
So we feel very good about the mix of business going into 2014.
Sean this is Larry I just want to add one quick point.
Having been around this business for a very very long time I certainly have to make the observation that from 2011 to 2012 we grew the sales by 1/3.
So we went from roughly $8.4 billion to $11.2 billion.
So when we say that we don't know whether 2013 sales are going to hit the level of 2012 we really need to sort of remember that we had a 30% increase the prior year.
And so the notion that you're going to have a 30% increase and then put another increase on top of that becomes a little bit challenging.
So this is the normal pattern that you sort of see in this business is you'll see jumps along the way and then you'll see it sort of plateau off and then -- for a year or so then you'll see it jump again.
And that's been the trend really over the longer term.
Great.
And it seems that part of the -- or a big part of the margin expansion story in your accumulation businesses has been expense reduction.
When I look at over the last few years the fourth quarter tends to have elevated comp expenses.
I mean should we expect the fourth quarter to continue the trend that we've seen in the second and third quarters? Yes.
I think the story is really around expense control not necessarily expense reductions because in fact we think it's really important to invest in the businesses.
And we've made that comment many many different times.
Dan was just commenting earlier in response to a question.
Employers today expect us to be very visible and active with our participants and that's what our Retire Secure and Worksite platform is.
So we've actually been investing in the business but we've been doing it wisely and in relationship to revenue growth.
So that's really the strategy that we'll continue to pursue.
And I don't know Dan any comments on Q4? Yes.
It's just -- to kind of boil it down into 3 buckets for Q4.
The first is we're going to continue to be disciplined about operational costs and holding those tight as we possibly can.
The second bucket is around investing in the business so that's expanding on TRS and the TPA business and also deploying some investment resources out into the marketplace.
And then the third one is just a reminder that when we look at commissions and we look at asset management fees those do stay current.
They on the same pace as account value growth.
And so some of the fourth quarter compensation increases are because of bonuses towards the end of the year.
So hopefully that helps explain the answer Sean.
Okay great.
Just one more.
Typically PGI benefits in the fourth quarter from performance fees.
How are they tracking year-to-date? Jim go ahead.
Yes.
Yes.
Thanks Sean.
It's dangerous to say how they're tracking because things can change in the last 2 months of the year.
We know the market can move and we know our relative performance can move.
But if we were to draw the line right now we're looking at a slightly better yield than last year.
The 2 key boutiques in this and -- or 2 that have substantial hedge funds and that includes Columbus Circle.
It's maybe not surprising that they're having a good year because of the opportunities in the equity market particularly tech and health care which are 2 of their specialties.
So they're having a good year better than last year.
The one that's maybe more counterintuitive is Finisterre with substantial hedge funds.
They're in emerging debt which as in another context we described that as macroeconomic headwinds.
However Finisterre being long/short in emerging debt have been very thoughtful and very adroit at managing it and are seeing some good returns actually better than last year.
So I don't want to talk it up too much but maybe if their line was drawn at the moment we might be $1 million or $2 million better than last year.
But it's all still there to play for.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Question on FSA and maybe this is a question for Dan.
If I look at the AUM per plan it's up about 13% year-over-year which makes sense given kind of how equity markets have performed offset by some debt.
And then if I look at fees to AUM it's actually held very steady over the trailing several quarters which is obviously a good thing.
And I guess what I'm curious about is as AUM has gone up with markets higher how do we think about the reaction of the plan sponsor in that scenario? I mean are they going to let you kind of keep those increased revenue dollars? Do you put them back into service? Will they want to negotiate down? How do we see this playing out? Yes.
This is Larry that's a very good question and I will have Dan provide some detail.
But to your point -- and again I think our team has done a really nice job on this in -- generally speaking it was a little bit more difficult post the financial crisis.
And as I said earlier things are settling down a little bit.
So if you look at FSA trailing 12 months account value is up 17% revenue is up 15% expense is up 10% and that's why you grow pretax earnings.
So that 2% differential I would tell you might be a little narrower than what we can sustain over the long term because to your point plan sponsors -- and I would say also advisors because that's an important constituent in this whole equation typically you are resetting expenses every year on these plans.
And so as AUM grows there is some ability to lower the per AUM fee and frankly plan sponsors and advisors expect you to do that.
So we've talked about the differential between account value and revenue growth that's in that sort of 2% to 4% range.
But that's broad and general and I'll have Dan give you a little color on the current environment.
Yes that's right.
And to answer your question it's true on all of those cases.
We'll have to take a portion invest in the business.
On any plan of over $5 million there is a detailed discussion that's occurring each year on the value of that piece of business.
And we know what our margins are on that piece of business and if there's room then we'll work with the client on that.
Sometimes clients want additional services which can be reflected in the pricing.
But for the most part like Larry said this is an annual review.
A lot of these are 3-year guarantees and so our relationship managers and service reps are doing a very nice job striking the right balance on the service that we're going to deliver and at what price those are going to be.
Hopefully that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just one last question going back to international a little bit.
Maybe going back to a prior question but specific to Brazil.
If you look at currency-adjusted earnings in Brazil over the last 4 quarters they haven't really moved that much up a tad bit.
AUM on a currency-adjusted basis obviously is up a lot.
And I'm just curious why aren't you seeing a little bit stronger earnings? Has there been any structural changes in terms of how you collect fees what is the impact of the volatility and how does that emanate in earnings? Yes this is Larry.
I'll have Luis comment.
It is for the most part it is.
As Luis mentioned earlier it is the FX impact.
So again you are typically seeing at the local market level -- at the local market level Mark your are typically seeing growth in that -- for Brazil.
You're seeing growth in that sort of 20% to 25% annual range and it just so happens that FX -- over the 12-month period FX evaporates much of that away.
But the long trend on a local market local currency basis would show you that BrazilPrev has again been among the leaders in terms of growth both AUM and earnings and profitability.
There's been no real structural change in that market relative to fees being collected in a different way or different sorts of investment options being offered or things like that.
It's really been the impact of the macroeconomic conditions.
So Luis your comment? Yes.
In light of Larry's comments we -- at some given point we had the real kind of 20% down during this year.
Right now it's between 8% to 9% down so it's coming back.
And it's running about -- BRL 2.18.
And putting this in perspective nothing is being changed.
We have had this kind of a headwind in Brazil which is a little softer right now.
But putting this in perspective the current spot grade that we have today is exactly the same spot grade that we had in Brazil in 2006.
So flying around BRL 2.2 BRL 2 per dollar is pretty much more above the average for the last 15 years for Brazil.
So we have had in the last year kind of a strong headwind.
But again around BRL 2 per $1 is -- BRL 2.2 per dollar should be the average for the last 10 years for that particular market.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was kind of adjusting for the foreign exchange impact and what we see -- so I was just trying to normalize for that but I can follow up if that's better.
Yes that's fine.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
Well thanks to everybody for joining us for our call today.
Despite the macroeconomic challenges as I said earlier we're pleased with the momentum of our businesses and our 2013 results.
As John mentioned in the opening commentary our 2014 outlook call will be on December 9.
At Investor Day in September we noted that we expect 2014 revenue growth rates and pretax returns to be similar to the 2013 outlook but we will start from a much higher asset base as a result of our strong results this year.
So while we do expect the global macroeconomic picture to remain challenging we think our unique business mix and our very experienced management team will allow us to achieve an ongoing balance of profitability and growth.
So thanks again.
I look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months.
And I hope everybody has a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8:00 p.m.
Eastern Time until end of day November 1 2013.
69950446 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
Once again thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Fourth Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following our reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdes Principal International; and Tim Dunbar our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I'll discuss fourth quarter and full year results.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution and long-term benefits of our strategy and I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As John mentioned slides related to today's call are on our website.
Slide 4 outlines the themes for the call.
Fourth quarter 2013 was a strong finish to a great year.
Total company operating earnings were $286 million in the fourth quarter and full year total company operating earnings were a record at nearly $1.1 billion.
The fact that we achieved record operating earnings while still facing the headwinds of low interest rates and emerging market volatility demonstrates strong business fundamentals and the power of our diversified business model.
This also makes us optimistic for continued growth in operating earnings as economic conditions return to more normal trend patterns.
Our competitive position remains strong in the U.S.
and is gaining momentum globally.
We manage assets in more than 60 countries and we've expanded our retirement leadership position to key countries in Latin America and Asia.
We continue to deliver innovative investment retirement and protection solutions such as Total Retirement Suite life cycle funds and business owner and executive solutions that competitors are not able to match and we export these ideas to markets outside of the U.S.
to create long-term growth.
Total company full year net cash flows of $17.4 billion helped drive assets under management to a record $483.2 billion following our key additional growth metrics that highlight our success in 2013.
Full Service Accumulation full year sales of $10.3 billion which was the second highest on record.
Margins in this business continued to improve as we strike a better balance across all plan sizes.
Full year recurring deposits an important growth metric for the business were up 12% year-over-year.
Principal Funds continued to deliver strong sales growth with full year sales up 26% to a record $19.8 billion.
This along with strong market performance and solid net cash flows produced record account values at year end.
Principal Global Investors had record assets under management of $292.1 billion at the end of 2013 and full year net cash flows of $4.2 billion.
Unaffiliated assets under management also ended the year at a record $109.4 billion.
Principal International assets under management were $104.5 billion at year end despite an $11 billion negative currency impact.
Net cash flows remained strong at $8.5 billion for the year or 12% of beginning of year assets under management.
This is despite the emerging market volatility in the last half of 2013.
U.S.
Insurance Solutions premiums and fees were a record $2.4 billion.
Specific to Specialty Benefits full year sales grew 5% over 2012 and the loss ratio for the year was favorable and at the low end of our projected range.
Individual Life sales were down year-over-year primarily due to an intentional slowdown of universal life with secondary guarantee sales.
Individual Life sales excluding universal life with secondary guarantee are up 21% year-over-year.
Our business market focus continues to be a differentiator for us with non-qualified deferred compensation and Business Owner and Executive Solutions making up 57% of full year sales.
Again the fundamentals of our business remains strong.
We continue to build a leadership position in the markets where we operate providing continued momentum into 2014 and beyond.
Next I'll comment on the continued execution and long-term benefits of our strategy.
Our Investment Management Plus strategy has created a durable and globally diverse business model with a set of highly integrated businesses that is unique among our peers.
With Global Investment Management at the core of our strategy strong investment performance is crucial to our success.
As Slide 5 outlines the investment performance remains competitive and is the leading indicator of future sales and flows.
To be a global investment management leader we must also attract top investment talent.
During the fourth quarter The Principal earned the top spot in its category in Pensions and Investments' annual survey of the best places to work in money management for the second year in a row.
We view this as a significant accomplishment when it speaks to our ability to attract and retain top investment talent.
Within Principal Global Investors we've taken a unique approach to executing our multi-boutique strategy.
We've acquired and built expertise across multiple investment strategies with particular focus on meeting increased demand for global equities fixed income and alternative investments.
We drive efficiencies in our boutique model through a shared access to a world-class distribution and operational platform.
We'll continue to look for ways to increase scale and efficiencies while maintaining our leadership position across multiple investment categories.
Moving to Principal International.
Cuprum was a meaningful contributor to bottom line 2013 results better than our expectations when we completed the acquisition 1 year ago today.
In addition to achieving strong financial results Cuprum was once again ranked at the top for both investment performance and customer satisfaction as published by the Chilean pension regulator in December.
Cuprum has topped all of its peers in customer satisfaction 19 of the past 23 rankings.
Maintaining these high scores is testament to the exceptional job the team did to ensure a smooth on-boarding of Cuprum.
This successful acquisition will continue to provide long-term growth opportunities as the mandatory pension market continues to grow and we expand our focus on the voluntary market in Chile.
Our combined operations in Chile Brazil and Mexico make us the second largest pension provider in Latin America.
Building additional scale and increasing our leadership position in these countries is a priority as middle-class growth continues at a rapid pace.
The Principal is uniquely positioned to provide the long-term savings and retirement solutions this middle-class is seeking.
Principal International continues to build its leadership position in Asia as well.
In Hong Kong all 5 of Principal's MPF pension funds were winners of benchmark Fund of the Year Award in 2013 including one best-in-class fund.
In Malaysia during 2013 assets under management in our new PRS pension company grew tenfold and we now have the second largest market share.
These accomplishments continue to position Principal International as a retirement leader as these markets mature.
The Principal continues to be a leader in the U.S.
retirement and employee benefits market as well.
In this highly competitive environment we have the right mix of products and solutions to meet the needs of small and medium-sized businesses their owners and their employees.
Our ability to manage both qualified and non-qualified assets through Total Retirement Suite and our competitive employer paid and voluntary employee benefits products make The Principal the right provider to help business owners attract and retain employees.
In addition our comprehensive business owner executive solutions are unique among our peers and complementary to our other businesses.
The Principal has been a leader in helping individuals prepare for and manage income and retirement for more than a decade.
Our ability to win and retain clients has led to an increase of more than 700 000 eligible retirement participants since 2010.
The growth opportunity in helping eligible participants in the plans we manage prepare for retirement is tremendous.
Retirement readiness solutions such as auto enroll and auto escalate features built into the plans as well as continued work site efforts will help drive further increases in recurring deposits and will allow The Principal to remain a leader in the retirement market as baby boomers enter retirement and millennials begin to save.
Principal Funds also plays a critical role in our long-term growth strategy.
Our unique outcomes-based solutions and solid investment performance have led to strong sales and net cash flows for several years.
As a result Principal Funds continues to add market share and is now the 17th largest advisor sold mutual fund family in the U.S.
up from 19th a year ago.
Advisor growth continues in our Funds business.
We're now doing business with more than 50 000 advisors yet this is still a fraction of the entire advisor universe.
In addition sales in our Defined Contribution Investment Only or DCIO channel have doubled since 2011 as we continue to successfully place our funds on other non-affiliated record-keeper platforms.
Finally we announced at the end of December that the process to deregister the Principal Financial Group in our other holding companies as savings and loan holding companies was complete.
As a result we are no longer subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board.
Principal Bank will continue to offer individual retirement accounts that complement our full lineup of retirement savings and income solutions to meet the needs of our clients.
I'll close with some comments on capital management.
Last night we announced the first quarter 2014 common stock dividend of $0.28 an 8% increase over the fourth quarter 2013 dividend demonstrating continued confidence in our ability to grow fee-based earnings and generate higher percentages of deployable capital.
We continue to focus on increasing our dividend payout ratio on a growing net income base.
As we said on our outlook call we expect to deploy $500 million to $700 million of capital in 2014.
Our broad strategies for capital deployment will not change.
As always our capital deployment strategy is aimed at providing the best long-term value for shareholders.
In closing we're very pleased with the strong results in 2013 especially in light of continued macroeconomic volatility.
We remain confident in the strength of our business mix and fundamentals our long-term opportunities for growth and our experienced teams' ability to continue to successfully execute on the things they can control.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
The fourth quarter was another strong quarter resulting in record full year operating earnings.
Achieving these results in a volatile global economy demonstrates the strength of our businesses and our ability to execute.
We are very excited about the continued momentum of our businesses.
This morning I'll focus my comments on: operating earnings for the quarter and full year; net income including performance of the investment portfolio; and I'll close with an update on capital deployment.
Total company operating earnings for the quarter of $286 million were up 19% over reported fourth quarter 2012.
When looking at full year results operating earnings of nearly $1.1 billion were up 31% over reported 2012 results.
Even after adjusting for the third quarter 2012 actuarial assumption review earnings were up 19% for the full year.
Excluding the Corporate segment 63% of the company's record operating earnings in 2013 were from fee-based businesses.
This reflects our scaling back or exiting businesses that produce more than $150 million of spread and risk-based earnings and replacing them with less capital-intensive fee-based earnings.
These fee-based earnings come from higher multiple businesses that put less pressure on our balance sheet.
We strongly believe that our current business mix provides the right diversification for continued growth.
Fourth quarter 2013 operating earnings per share was $0.96 a 19% increase compared to the year-ago quarter.
For the full year earnings per share of $3.55 increased 20% over adjusted 2012 results.
This is a strong result especially in light of macroeconomic volatility in the quarter.
Earnings per share growth for the year was higher than our expected 11% to 13% annual growth rate due to the addition of Cuprum favorable equity markets and disciplined expense management.
Looking at Slide 6 you'll see that fourth quarter 2013 earnings were impacted by some normalizing items which in total had no impact on earnings per share.
In Principal International the encaje returns in Chile benefited operating earnings for the quarter but were essentially offset by a one-time impact of the change in Mexican tax law that we mentioned on our outlook call.
Higher-than-expected pre-payments and Individual Annuities and better-than-expected operating earnings in Individual Life due in part to improved mortality were offset by one-time negative items in Corporate.
Now I'll discuss business unit results.
Starting with the Accumulation businesses within the Retirement and Investor Services operating earnings were $153 million an increase of 15% over the year-ago quarter.
As shown in Slide 7 net revenue was up 14% over the year-ago quarter.
Trailing 12-month pretax return on net revenue improved at 32%.
Quarterly operating earnings for Full Service Accumulation at $93 million were up 15% from the year-ago quarter.
Net revenue was also up 15% due to growth in the business and strong equity market performance.
The trailing 12-month pretax return on net revenue for the business unit was 31%.
Sales at $3 billion for the quarter were strong as we continue to focus on striking an appropriate balance of growth and profitability.
Net cash flows for Full Service Accumulation were $143 million for the quarter.
Increases in the equity market impact withdrawals more than deposits as recurring deposits are not directly correlated to market returns.
Principal Funds operating earnings were $22 million for the quarter a 63% increase from the year-ago quarter as the strong sales over the last several years are now translating into bottom line results.
On a trailing 12-month basis revenue was up 24% and operating margins have continued to improve due to increased scale in the business.
For the quarter retail mutual fund sales were $4.1 billion leading to $550 million of net cash flow.
While down from a year-ago quarter these results were solid relative to the industry.
Individual Annuities fourth quarter operating earnings were $32 million.
The segment benefited from higher-than-expected prepayments in the quarter.
This more than offset the spread compression due to the low interest rate environment.
Bank and trust operating earnings for the quarter were $6 million.
With the repositioning of the bank as part of the deregistration process this is a new quarterly run rate for earnings.
Slide 8 covers guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
Fourth quarter operating earnings of $26 million were up 37% over the year-ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax return on net revenue was 81%.
Investment-only operating earnings improved 33% from the prior year quarter to $15 million as increasing spreads more than offset a decrease in account value.
New business continues to be more profitable than business rolling off.
We continue to approach this business opportunistically and we'll write business when market conditions generate attractive returns.
Full service payout operating earnings were $11 million for the quarter a 44% increase over the year-ago quarter and sales were $205 million.
We believe that the rising interest rate environment will allow us to add small to mid-sized pension closeout business at attractive returns.
Slide 9 shows Principal Global Investors' operating earnings were $30 million up 15% from the year-ago quarter.
Fourth quarter revenues grew 41% over prior year quarters driven largely by stronger-than-normal performance fees in the current quarter.
The performance fees were generated by boutiques where we do not have full ownership therefore the impact of revenue is larger than the impact of after-tax earnings.
The full year pretax margin for Principal Global Investors of 24% is 150 basis point improvement compared to 2012.
The margin is down sequentially due to the higher performance fees in the fourth quarter.
The very strong performance fees in the quarter will also impact the revenue growth rates that we laid out on our outlook call.
We now expect 2014 revenues to be similar to 2013 with pretax margins improving to the 26% to 28% range previously disclosed.
Unaffiliated assets under management were $109 billion at year end.
Unaffiliated net cash flow for the quarter was $1.1 billion.
There's continued demand for our diversified investment product portfolio as we move into 2014.
Slide 10 shows fourth quarter 2013 operating earnings for Principal International of $62 million.
Encaje returns for the quarter were better-than-expected in Chile.
That benefit was largely offset by the one-time impact of the tax change in Mexico.
When compared to the prior year quarter results this quarter were also negatively impacted by the prospective change to the amortization pattern of the intangible assets in Brazil as discussed in our outlook call in December.
In addition operating earnings growth from the year ago was suppressed by 11% due to continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Quarterly net cash flows for the segment were a record $2.7 billion helped by a return to normal cash flows in Brazil.
Principal International ended the quarter with $105 billion of assets under management despite the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
U.S.
Insurance Solutions operating earnings were $60 million for the quarter.
These results were flat with the year-ago quarter but the mix between the underlying businesses shifted slightly.
As shown on Slide 11 reported Individual Life operating earnings were up 17% from the year-ago quarter to a strong $33 million.
Results in the quarter benefited from improved mortality.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax operating margin was 14% compared to the 15% to 17% communicated for the year.
Higher-than-expected mortality in the early part of the year was the main reason for the variance.
As shown on Slide 12 Specialty Benefits operating earnings of $27 million were down $5 million from a very strong year-ago quarter.
Both quarters benefited from favorable loss ratios.
The decline in the current quarter was primarily driven by several one-time expenses.
We continue to expect our quarterly loss ratios to be in the 65% to 71% range with fourth quarter at the favorable end of the range due to seasonality of claims.
Trailing 12-month pretax operating margins of 11% was slightly above our expectations due to favorable claims experienced for the year.
The Corporate segment reported an operating loss for the quarter of $45 million higher than our forecasted range of $35 million to $40 million of operating losses.
Results this quarter were negatively impacted by higher expenses as well as tax adjustments that are housed in the Corporate segment.
Full year losses in Corporate of $149 million are at the lower end of the range we laid out at the beginning of the year.
Expectations for losses in 2014 are $130 million to $150 million.
For the quarter total company net income was $233 million.
Realized capital losses for the quarter were $52 million with credit-related losses making up $25 million of the total.
Full year credit-related losses were $84 million a 24% improvement from the previous year and were better than our pricing assumptions.
Our return on equity excluding AOCI was 12.1% at year end a strong result improvement year-over-year even taking into account the impact from the actuarial assumption review in 2012.
Full year earnings grew 19% over the adjusted prior year while average equity excluding AOCI increased just 5%.
As I mentioned at Investor Day growing operating earnings 10% to 12% while managing the equity growth will deliver a 50 to 80 basis point annual increase in return on equity.
Looking now at capital adequacy.
We estimate our year-end risk-based capital ratio to be 430% to 435%.
This allows us to redeem a $100 million surplus note in the first quarter 2014 and still manage to our targeted RBC ratio of 415% to 425%.
As outlined on Slide 13 we announced plans to deploy more than $480 million of capital in 2013 in line with our guidance for the year.
This included a record full year common stock dividend of $0.98 which was a 26% increase over the dividend paid in 2012.
Our dividend payout ratio for the year improved to 33% on an increasing net income base.
As we move to 2014 we expect to deploy $500 million to $700 million of capital in the year and over the long term we expect to deploy 65% to 70% of our net income with volatility in any given year.
In closing we're extremely pleased with the strong results in the quarter and the full year.
We feel that we're well positioned for future growth across all of our businesses and that our diversified business mix will generate successful results across various economic environments.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could talk about capital markets relative to the assumptions you had built into your 2014 outlook.
And really I'm thinking about both -- or I guess the combination of global equity market weakness long-term interest rates or lower foreign currency pressures have actually increased.
So I'm just wondering when you combine these factors can you give us an estimate as to how much pressure on a combined basis this is placing on your outlook relative to that original guidance provided in early December? And then I'd also like to look at the flip side of that.
As a result of some of these pressures and dislocations are you seeing any increased opportunities especially on the acquisition side? John this is Larry.
On the -- on your first question John as you know we did our outlook call in early December and we don't really update or comment on it after that point.
Now you went through in your comments or in your question a number of factors that certainly would -- the world might look a little bit different today than it did back in early December.
But having said all of that I guess I would make a couple of points.
One is that the companies in the local markets outside the U.S.
for Principal International continue to grow at double-digit rates.
While there has been some noise in terms of the currencies the actual local economies continue to do quite well okay? So those companies continue to grow at roughly double-digit rates.
Some of them grow faster than that.
So for example Brazil has historically grown at something closer to 20% to 25%.
But the main point is that the local companies continue to grow at double-digit rates.
The -- I would say that the currencies in January the currencies have probably added another couple of percent headwind.
So from what it was in December we would have reflected some modest headwind when we made that call that headwind might be a little bit tougher today.
But I think if you net everything out and you think about our capital deployment I would say as I said in my comments we still expect to see growth in operating earnings growth in EPS during 2013.
And I would emphasize again the fundamentals of the business remain very very strong.
Now in terms of M&amp;A I think your question is an interesting one because for every challenge there is an opportunity.
And it could be that with the capital flexibility we have with a more fee-based business model that there could be opportunities for M&amp;A and we're aware of some that have come up and it's potentially likely that others may become more attractive in time.
Research Division</strong> And then if I could just follow up on that.
So if we assume that you -- that Principal did not issue any equity to do a deal but rather use existing cash resources or capital resources and I guess there's some modest debt capacity can you give us a sense of about how much that in total would get to? I'm not quite sure that I understand your question John.
Research Division</strong> Well if you had -- how big a deal could you do I guess without raising equity? Well again I would say that the deal that we could do without raising equity would probably be in the sort of $500 million to $1 billion range.
But I guess I would look at this sort of net -- M&amp;A for us I would say John we'll look net-net on an accretive basis.
In other words we would only do things that we were confident we could execute on first of all because they have to be consistent with the strategy.
And #2 I would say they have to be accretive and they have to be more than accretive with other uses of capital within a kind of 3 to 5-year period.
Now we all know the way M&amp;A works is it tends to be sort of accounting unfriendly that is the reality so you're not going to necessarily getting the accretion versus other uses of capital in year 1.
But we would want to build an acquisition plan we could execute on so that by 3 to 5 years we are seeing accretion as compared to other uses of that capital.
Regardless of how we finance it that's how we think about it.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's entirely consistent.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus again on kind of the emerging markets.
And obviously there's been a lot of focus and not going to change your long-term approach I think but obviously if you could comment some around maybe a bit more on what you're hearing or seeing on the ground and would be particularly interested in Jim's thoughts around what you guys are hearing maybe from your emerging markets specialist boutique kind of like Finisterre? Yes.
This is Larry Chris.
I'll start that and Jim may want to make some comments Luis may want to comment.
I would start by saying first of all that we are in very carefully selected emerging markets.
We're not a broad emerging markets company we are not out there in 40 or 50 sort of emerging markets.
We are in very very selected emerging markets.
So we take a very very hard look at the economies and frankly the political systems that are in place before we would use our capital to invest in these companies.
So for example Argentina was a country we exited as an example.
So we believe that we are in emerging markets but we are in the stronger economies within the emerging markets.
So I think that's an important kind of distinction to recognize.
Second point is the one that I said in relationship to John's question which is that this sort of emerging market kind of hiccup is an interesting one and it's a bit different in sense that there has not been disruption in the performance of the local economies.
It's a capital flow issue not a local economy issue.
In other words the local economies continue to sort of trend -- growth trend continues to be sort of give or take what it was before.
So for example the Chilean economy -- even the Brazilian economy still in that 2% to 3% growth mode.
So the local economies continue to be strong and that's really what our expectation is for 2014.
We don't see anything on the horizon that would indicate that the local economies are going to struggle to meet the growth targets that we put into our outlook for 2014.
So with that maybe I'll have Jim talk about what he hears from his analyst.
Yes thank you.
To Larry's point about selected emerging markets I'd also add the diversification point.
So if I look at for example Finisterre whom you mentioned they're long short and that actually means they can do quite well in up markets and down markets.
And in fact they had not a great but quite a good 2013 if you research their investment performance.
It was mostly around the double digits mark which for an emerging specialist in dollar terms was actually pretty credible.
And the reason of that was so was the long short part of it are other emerging bond capabilities at Principal Global Fixed Income has actually focused on dollar-based emerging market debt and so has been spared a lot of the worst stuff.
And I think that highlights the selectivity point that Larry made.
And also I think it illustrates the diversification point I'm making.
If you look at emerging equities it's been interesting to see at Origin who have a quantitive approach very strong performance record which is actually leading to some interest by clients which is maybe counter-intuitive because it's at a time when most emerging market fund was seeing outflows.
So really that would be my main point about to add to Larry the markets is the diversification.
If you talk to our equity analyst it's really the point that the underlying economies continue to do fine but they're worried about financial squeeze credit cycle currency stability.
The other point I'd make though and this relates to how we are placed to defend against the ups and downs of markets is -- and this applies to Principal Global Investors and also to Principal International by and large our revenues in emerging markets or in international currencies are broadly matched by costs in those markets.
So it's actually a matter here of translation rather than of a mismatch which is something that happens with many companies in emerging markets.
So we feel we're managing the risks.
They're likely to stay volatile but I think that with selectivity and the diversification we've talked about and also the structure of our businesses we are managing the risks quite effectively in a temporarily tough time.
Does that help Chris? Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then just one last quick one on capital recognizing your long-term philosophy around capital management.
Curious as the recent weakness in your stock causes you to change maybe the near-term approach entice you to maybe look at buybacks more is that still kind of too shortsighted? Yes.
I'll make a couple of -- this is Larry.
I'm going to make a couple of comments.
I mean again we've thought about kind of share repurchase and again a sort of a 2-bucket approach.
The first bucket would be to make sure that we're managing share count and therefore repurchasing shares relative to any kind of newly issued equity primarily as a result of deferred compensation.
So that piece we would do as kind of a standard part of our capital management.
The second bucket would then be that more opportunistic bucket.
And I think to your point Chris while we haven't made any final decisions on that I think to your point we've always maintained a zone or a range of sort of intrinsic value of the company.
And we're obviously coming closer to that range of intrinsic value.
I think it's one of the real items of capital flexibility that we now have.
As Terry said in his comments we're a much more balance sheet-light organization and able to deploy much higher levels of free cash flow for capital management.
So we think that gives us a lot more flexibility and certainly we recognize that there's perhaps been a little bit of overbaked nature to the emerging market concerned that may give us opportunity.
We'll see what happens going forward for some opportunistic share repurchase as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of sensitivity questions.
One is on encaje.
Should Central Bank actually start raising interest rates to combat the decline in currencies? What kind of -- can you give us some sort of sensitivity as to what impact on EPS that may have on overall results? Yes.
Yaron I'll have -- this is Larry.
I'll have Luis comment.
Just as a broad reminder kind of going to Luis' comments in Chile the encaje is a more somewhat more diversified portfolio.
So it includes both equities and fixed income and it even has a dab of sort of global equities in it.
In Mexico the encaje which is smaller but that encaje is primarily a fixed income kind of sovereign investment there so that would be impacted by rates.
But Luis do you want to comment? Yes certainly.
This is a pretty interesting question because in the country that were pretty much more exposed to the encaje is Chile as Larry said and the main debate that you could see in Chile right now is when the Central Bank is going to lower the interest rate instead of to raise the interest rate in Chile.
And that's precisely in order to be a little bit anti-cyclic above the financial turmoil that emerging markets are living in.
So we don't really see a very important risk about interest rates going up in Chile.
And in fact the Central Bank last week they made decision in order to keep the interest rate as it was and probably in their outlook is whether -- saying is that probably they're -- they have a much more stronger opinion in order probably to lower the interest rate going forward.
In Mexico the solution's a little bit different.
And also we don't see that the Mexican Central Bank is going to raise the interest rate and that's our opinion.
We were able to see some interest rate going up in Mexico during January but nothing in comparison with what happened in May and in June of last year that went up like 130 basis points in 2 weeks.
So it's being in a kind of mild movement in comparison with what happened in the very first part of -- or last part of the second quarter in 2013.
Does that help you Yaron? Research Division</strong> Yes it does thank you.
And then Larry could you talk a little bit about the new legislation that was proposed by Senator Harkin on private pensions and what impact that may have on Principal? Sure sure.
So I think last Thursday Yaron Senator Harkin introduced -- actually dropped the bill.
He had been talking about this maybe almost a better part 2 years.
He dropped the bill.
I think broadly it's sort of called the USA Accounts and the USA stands for the 3 words I can't quite remember I think it's like Universal Secure and Adaptable or something like that.
The essence of I think the Senator's proposal is that he would mandate contributions among all employers if you will into a defined contribution plan.
If you're a small employer that didn't already have a plan in place you would effectively go to the I guess the government-sponsored plan.
The government-sponsored plan will then be managed by the private sector so that's a little bit different than the myRA proposal that President Obama had talked about in his State of the Union.
We Principal obviously Senator Harkin's a Chairman of the HELP Committee.
He's obviously the -- he's a junior senator from Iowa despite the fact he's been in the Senate for a very long time we obviously work very closely with his office and I talk with the senator on a regular basis.
I think his primary purpose in dropping the bill was to continue which I view as a positive to put some emphasis on the fact that Americans need to save more for their own retirement.
I mean that's the bottom line I think the bottom line message that the Senator is trying to make.
Now whether this particular approach of mandating contributions is one that will see the light of day I think even the Senator might be a little bit skeptical about that.
But I think his purpose is to stimulate the conversation and we think simply stimulating the conversation is going to be helpful for our businesses because the reality is we do all need to save more for retirement whether that's mandated or whether that's just on a voluntary basis.
So we actually think net-net it helps to put the focus and spotlight on this issue and it will perhaps cause people to redouble their efforts to make sure they're saving at the rate they need to do for their own retirement.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question of 2 relates to your guaranteed area.
When -- if my memory serves me correctly when you announced several years ago that you were going to limit your exposure to guaranteed investment contracts I think you sort of -- you left impression that this would be a business with shrinking earnings.
Well this morning we're reporting sharply higher earnings and your crediting improved net interest margins in contrast to what's going on with your Life Insurance business where interest rates are actually pressuring your business.
Two-part question.
One why the difference between the effect of interest rates on the Life business and from the Guarantee business effect? And should we expect that this business this Guaranteed business perspectively to be a growing business in terms of earnings rather than the shrinking business that it had been for some time? Thanks Eric.
This is Larry.
Yes it's a -- your questions are kind of interesting.
Actually what we've been trying to sort of manage within the context of what you called the guaranteed business which another term for those maybe not quite as familiar that we apply to this business is the investment-only business.
So Eric is talking about investment-only business as compared to the Individual Life business.
What we've talked about managing in the Investment-only businesses is the account value of that business relative to the general account.
So our general account what we talked about is managing the Investment-only to be roughly 18% to 20% of the total value of our general account.
And that's still our kind of best guess.
It's sort of within that range now and it's probably at the lower end of that range and we would expect to sort of stay within that range.
Now as the general account grows that means that we'll grow that Investment-only account value and it also means that earnings will grow albeit they'll grow at something as closer to a mid-single digit rate.
So 4% to 6% or something like that.
Now the Life business -- the Life business on the other hand again as we said we're making a little bit of a transition into Life business sort of a way from UL's secondary guarantees toward more toward term products toward more variable Life products.
And so we have absolutely have plans to continue to grow that business again focused primarily on business owner and executive solutions.
So I think Eric what you should expect going forward would be that sort of low -- or excuse me that sort of mid single-digit growth rate in operating earnings.
Actually in commenting on fourth quarter here you would note or you should have noted that the Individual Life business also had very nice improvement in operating earnings albeit it was more from mortality than the spread.
Whereas in Investment-only it was more from the spread.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if I could just ask my second and final question regarding Chile.
Why is there I mean and this obviously could be an extended response so you'll need to give me an abbreviated one but why is there a voluntary opportunity? And how should we think of the size of this opportunity and the potential earnings from it? Okay.
This is Larry I'll make a few comments.
The -- just quickly on the side and then I'll let Luis talk about why the government decided to have a voluntary layer rather than just extend the mandatory.
But just to give you a sense of the voluntary opportunity basically the mandatory system stops at a salary level that's about USD $38 000.
So you're required to contribute roughly 10% of your salary up to the first USD $38 000 of your compensation.
So again if you make $75 000 you're only contributing on half.
So that's where the cutoff between mandatory and voluntary occurs is at that $38 000 of income level in U.S.
dollar terms.
Now I'll ask Luis to talk quickly about why the government decided to go voluntary rather than mandatory on that upper income fees.
Yes Eric this is mainly because going -- in trying to raise the bar in the compulsory system.
It has implied a lot of political pain if you want.
You have a lot of resistance about the employees and employer to go in that direction so the Chilean government is pretty much more keen in order to go after a voluntary solution compulsory solution and that's the -- where they're I think adding more incentives in order to develop that market.
Having said that they are putting in -- they're moving these limits that Larry mentioned a little bit but very much more timid.
They put a law in 2008 that is moving those limits.
But I'm saying those moves are very timid and the need for having a very strong voluntary market in Chile remains as it was since the beginning of this decade.
So that might answer why the Chilean government is pretty much more clear in order to put forward a voluntary market rather than a compulsory one.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping you could comment a little bit more on what you're seeing in terms of activity in the U.S.
401(k) market I guess particularly around recurring deposits and RFP activity.
Yes sure Eric.
This is Larry.
I'll have Dan comment.
I would just say broadly we are finally I think 2013 to some extent was the year of the rebound as it relates to recurring deposits.
On a trailing 12 months we've seen those that in fourth quarter they are up about 12% but I'll let Dan give you some color.
Yes.
2013 Erik was really a solid year if you look at it from an operating earnings perspective but more importantly just that mix of business of small medium and large plans.
You may have noticed that we wrote a net new 1 900 plans on a full year basis of plans of less than 1 000 employees and on plans with more than 1 000 employees.
We actually increased that by 8% and we -- on a trailing 12-month basis improve our return on net revenue.
Your primary questions around what's the outlook or 2014 and it's not that different than other years where we had a lot of volatility in the equity markets.
And when we see volatility we see the actual pipeline get smaller less -- fewer plans going out to bid when the equity markets are performing exceedingly well or if they're incredibly volatile.
So they're down slightly.
So I would anticipate we could have a light first quarter sales year.
But we'll have to see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any comments you could make on the competitive trends? And I guess any changes in strategy or pricing you're seeing from either other life insurers or the asset managers in the market? I don't think there's been a significant change.
As I think about the latter half of '13 and the first part of '14 the traditional players by each of the 3 market segments.
One of the advantages we have is just really strong investment managed performance getting our fair share of the slots for active asset management that serves us very well and Jim and his team has just done a superb job giving us a good product to sell whether it's in the DCIO space or the full service.
You'll note that our results for '13 over $10 billion that's our second best year ever.
The other number I break out for you is we did another $4 billion in DCIO.
So over $14 billion to that core SMB space between full service and DCIO mutual fund sales.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just to follow-up on Erik Bass' question get a little bit more granular on the recurring deposits.
2013 was pretty strong year in terms of recurring deposit growth.
I believe some of this was from the return of company matches.
Could you just sort of talk about that dynamic maybe on a year-on-year basis full year in terms of how much company net just came back and how much more room there is for runway for recurring deposit growth going into 2014? Yes good question.
So...
I'll just make a quick opening comment if I could Seth.
One of the -- and I commented on it briefly in the opening comments but I think to your point there is a real opportunity to see some meaningful growth in recurring deposits primarily focused around this initiative that we broadly call retirement readiness which is to say in responding to the question earlier around Senator Harkin's proposal the reality is is that many many -- the majority of our participants are not saving at the level they need to.
And we as a retirement provider need to engage much more actively with each and every one of those participants often in the workplace in order to get their contributions up to a level that is needed.
Again broadly what you'd say is if you're not saving in kind of the double-digit range with your own contributions you may not have a sort of retirement lifestyle that you're seeking.
So today participant deferrals are sort of in that 7.25% range so we need to get that closer to 10%.
That's going to take a lot of work.
It's going to happen over time.
But that gives you some sense of where that recurring deposit stream could go if you had every participant at 10% instead of a 7.25%.
And then maybe with that I'll pass to Dan for his comment.
Yes just a couple of additional things to add to that Seth.
And the first one would be just remember that we're starting to finally see some employment growth.
And if we looked at the Deanna's business which they have tracked that very closely on our group benefits business we saw a trailing 12-month basis of a growth of about 1%.
Remember at the worst that was shrinking.
And so we're starting to see growth there we're starting to see job ads.
To Larry's point it's about plan design as opposed to trying to continue down this path of just education and so requiring if you will plan designs that would have auto enroll and auto escalate which will lead to the results that Larry described.
I do anticipate that profit-sharing contributions start coming back we saw good profits by small to medium-sized business.
To your specific question about matching we think that maybe we're about 80% back from the -- from where we were originally from employers having a stated match in their plans.
And so maybe a little bit more upside on the matching contributions.
Hopefully that helps.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And maybe just one follow-up on that 7.25% deferral rate.
Is there any difference by plan size in terms of the contributions? Do you see small or medium size contributing less than large size or is it all pretty stable across? It has more to do with actual plan designs itself.
If you have an employer matching contribution strong employer endorsements and support you're going to get a better result whether that's a small medium or large plan which again is why we get pretty selective and disciplined about the pricing of these plans.
We've got to have the attention of the employer to support meaningful employee engagement and profit-sharing contributions matching contributions.
And then of course sector retail is pretty difficult that's where you see the plan designs that aren't quite as advantageous for the plan participant.
I would just call out we continue to see growth in that not-for-profit sector.
We have a large business around hospitals.
Hospitals generally have pretty generous benefits and so we again see good engagement the high participation high salary deferral and nice employer contributions.
Your last question will come from the line of Mark Finkelstein from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> A couple follow-ups.
I guess one of the comments made I think in a couple of questions earlier was on the first quarter of sales outlook being a little bit light.
I think it was Dan you made that comment.
What is that attributable to do you think? I think it's a large part just the equity market we're very strong and so there's fewer RFPs out.
Now the corollary to that is we'll likely retain a lot of business because we don't see our plans being put out to bed either.
So we've seen that in other periods it's a halo effect of strong investment performance for a plan.
They're probably less likely to put that out to bids therefore the pipeline gets a little smaller.
So better retention and perhaps a little bit lighter pipeline.
Yes.
Mark this is Larry.
What I would say on that is if you go back look at prior calendar years you'll see a very definite trend towards -- if you divide the year into 2 pieces first half second half you see definite trends towards years where sales are lumped toward the front end or sales that are lumped toward the back end.
I would say to Dan's point I think -- we think because of just the kind of the psychology of most plan sponsors given the strong market in 2013 we will see growth in sales at 2014 it's more likely to come in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just following on.
And I think Larry in your opening remarks you talked about the objective of having a better balance across all plan sizes in the U.S.
and you talked about in the context of margins and sales.
And I guess sitting where we're sitting like what should we expect to see as you somewhat remix that business? I assume in the kind of small and medium but what should we actually see? Actually I'll go ahead and let Dan.
I'll just say that again we think about this again with sort of there's a kind of a small medium large component.
Small is what we call emerging now the medium is what we call dynamic the large is what we call institutional.
So there's different ways to look at it.
You can look at it by revenue you can look at it by AUM so -- but I'll let Dan give you sort of what we would like to have for the breakdowns.
Yes.
So clearly if we can put 1/3 at each bucket small medium and large we'd be satisfied with that result.
But not all plans are created equal so on those very large plans again it depends upon what the employers support is and what they're looking for from Principal.
And I'll give you an example.
Larry cited better plan design.
Well we use Retire Secure as a way to engage that plan sponsor and plan participant to improve the outcomes of the plan.
We have seen some withdrawals this year from plan sponsors that flat out wouldn't support a better plan design.
And if we have to adjust the pricing there might -- they may very well leave Principal.
So again maintaining pricing discipline encouraging the use of Retire Secure better plan designs and then I would tell you again our strong investment platform allows us to garner a larger percentage of the Principal brand funds on those platforms and that's what's going to lead to profitable growth.
We gave you a -- on the guidance call that 27% to 29% returns and I wouldn't alter that at this point in time.
We still feel good about that as being our long-term objective.
Yes.
One of the really positive points Mark about the performance of our block is that we continue to have about 2/3 of the assets and about 2/3 of deposits going into what we would call proprietary options.
So that's a very very high number higher than I think needless to say any competitor.
And that's really a key to driving the kind of revenue growth and profitability that we need out of that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One very quick final question.
You talked about the voluntary opportunity in Chile.
And I'm just curious do you have the permissions and have you started marketing that to the Cuprum customers at this point? Or are we still trying to get that all...
I'll let Luis comment on that.
Luis? The answer is certainly yes.
We can market voluntary probably to our Cuprum customers.
You see right now the voluntary price which is being manufactured by Cuprum.
What we are looking for right now is being able to offer and to extend that offering offering part of our products which are being manufactured by our mutual fund platform in Chile and adding some life insurance policies as well.
So the answer is yes that we're willing to see and we're working in order to see how we can extend and expand that offering.
There are no further questions at this time.
Well this is Larry.
I'll make just a closing comment.
Thanks to everybody for joining us on the call today.
We're very very pleased with our fourth quarter results as well as our full year 2013 results.
And we think that our strategy is clearly working.
I would just note while 2014 has started off with some renewed volatility I would remind you that we start 2014 with an asset base that's 20% above where it was 1 year ago.
And we believe that our higher asset base is going to continue to drive increased revenue and operating earnings for the company during 2014.
So with that thanks everybody for joining us.
I look forward to seeing many of you on the road in the coming months.
Have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers have completed their prepared remarks.
(Operator Instructions).
I'd now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's first quarter earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following the reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdes Principal International; and Tim Dunbar our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call today may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on 3 areas.
First I will discuss first quarter results.
Second I will provide an update on the continued successful execution and long-term benefits of our strategy and I will close with some comments on capital management.
As John mentioned slides related to todays call are on our website slide four outlines the themes for the call.
The Principal achieved strong results across our businesses in the first quarter with record total company operating earnings of $317 million.
Coming off record operating earnings in 2013 the momentum in our businesses continues despite persistent headwinds including a low interest rate environment and a strengthening U.S.
dollar.
The ongoing success proves our ability to execute the relevancy of our strategy and the power of our diversified business model.
Strong earnings growth is continuing to increase return on equity which expanded to 13% at quarter end a 90 basis point increase year-to-date.
As weve communicated we expect to once again achieve at least a 15% return on equity within the next few years despite the impact of historically low interest rates in the U.S.
Results this quarter continue to reflect strong underlying fundamentals as momentum continues across our businesses.
We continue to win and retain business because of our strong investment performance our ability to provide outcome oriented solutions excellent customer service and the diversity and strength of our distribution partnerships.
Total company assets under management were a record $496 billion at quarter end and total company quarterly net cash flows were $4.8 billion.
Following our additional key growth metrics from the quarter full service accumulation sales were $2.7 billion and net cash flows were $1.8 billion.
Margins in this business continue to improve in part because of our efforts to achieve better balance across all plan sizes.
We are achieving the combination of good growth and attractive margins that reflect our leadership in this business.
Principal Funds sales were $4.5 billion for the quarter net cash flows were $760 million this is the 17th straight quarter of positive net cash flows in Principal Funds reflecting strong investment performance and our ability to offer solutions that financial advisors and retail investors seek.
Principal Global investors ended first quarter with record total assets under management of $298 billion including record unaffiliated assets under management of $112 billion.
First quarter total net cash flows were $1.1 billion and unaffiliated net cash flows were $100 million.
Principal International assets under management of $109 billion at the end of first quarter was also a record.
Net cash flows for the quarter were $2 billion.
Suppress market conditions in Brazil negatively impacted net cash flows at the beginning of first quarter but flows rebounded to normal levels by the end of the quarter Individual Lifes business market focus continues to be a differentiator for us with 58% of full year sales from non-qualified deferred compensation and business owner and executive solutions.
The increased activity in a non-qualified market reflects enhanced confidence among business owners as the economy recovers.
Specialty benefits premium and fees were up 5% from the year ago quarter and loss ratios continue to stay within our desired range.
In total we had a strong start to 2014 and we remained optimistic for the full year as leading indicators such as investment performance and sales pipeline continue to be very solid.
Next Ill provide a few updates on the continued execution of our strategy.
Our diversified business model is extremely well suited for the world aging population and emerging market middle class growth.
We remain committed to helping business owners individuals and investors around the world achieve financial security and success.
In full service accumulation weve added nearly 1 500 plans in the past 12 months.
This not only helps drive growth in recurring deposits which increase 10% on a trailing 12 months basis but we also have the opportunity to educate more plan participants about the importance of preparing for retirement.
With more than 1 billion people over the age of 60 worldwide and that number expected to double by 2025 there has never been a more critical time to promote financial literacy and retirement readiness.
Our new Principal Plan Works program was introduced to help plan sponsors and advisors improve participant retirement outcomes.
Through this program we have delivered thousands of retirement readiness reports to help raise awareness about income replacement needs encourage effective plan design and positively impact participant savings behavior.
As mentioned earlier and as slide five shows investment performance remains strong and is a leading indicator of growth for our retirement and investment management businesses.
Principal Funds currently has 17 four and five star funds as ranked by Morningstar and we expect that number to increase over the next six months.
Principal Funds was once again recognized by Lipper in March.
The Principal Global Real Estate Securities Fund ranked number 1 for its consistently strong performance.
This important third party recognition validates our ability to offer high quality investment options to investors.
REITs will continue to attract assets in the future due to their above average yield.
Principal International had record operating earnings in the quarter.
Cuprum continues to be a meaningful contributor to earnings and as we said last quarter we consider the acquisition complete and are now moving into the second stage of integration.
With regular deposits from the mandatory retirement markets in Chile and Mexico combined with upside potential from growing voluntary savings opportunities our Latin America businesses remain in excellent position for continued growth.
As another example of our strong position in Latin America in April assets under management in BrazilPrev our joint venture with Banco Brasil reached R$90 billion which equates to approximately $41 billion in U.S.
dollars.
On a local basis the compound annual growth rate of BrazilPrev assets under management has been 32% for the past five years because of their focus on asset retention BrazilPrev is the market leader with more than 60% of total net flows in the Brazilian retirement market over the past 12 months.
It is important to understand that due to the expertise of our team in Principal International businesses in our select emerging markets are performing well on a local level.
The strong fundamentals of these businesses our proven ability to execute and our relationship with premier partners allow us to weather short-term volatility including foreign currency movements to achieve long-term growth.
Principal Global Investors continues to build scale in the business which is driving margin expansion.
Trailing 12 month pretax margin was 25.2% an increase of 180 basis points over the same period last year.
Principal Global Investors multi-boutique business model with our diversified investment platforms combined with the strength of a share distribution capability allows us to maintain positive net cash flows as client demands shift.
This along with our strong investment performance and a robust pipeline gives us confidence for continued growth and margin expansion.
An important part of our overall strategy is to provide a better experience for advisors and customers to increase operational efficiency and to drive productivity through innovative uses of technology.
The Principal was recently recognized in this regard by InformationWeek for the 17th<sup> </sup>year as a top business technology innovator in the U.S.
Ill close with some comments on capital management.
With record operating earnings and strong net income we remain well positioned to increase shareholder value through a variety of capital deployment options.
In the first quarter we paid a $0.28 per share common stock dividend and bought back more than $72 million of shares outstanding.
Additionally last night we announced a $0.32 per share a common stock dividend payable in the second quarter of 2014.
This 14% increase over the first quarter dividend demonstrates confidence in our ability to grow fee based earnings and generate higher percentages of deployable capital.
We remain focused on increasing our dividend payout ratio to our target of 40% on a growing net income base.
Finally there is an active M&amp;A pipeline that includes opportunities to further enhance our global investment management expertise.
Our fee based business model allows us to generate deployable capital and strategically deploy it to create long-term value for shareholders.
Before I close I want to mention one other recognition that Principal recently received.
For the 12th consecutive year Principal Financial Group was named one of the top companies for executive women by the National Association for Female Executives.
We share their commitment to women succeeding in their careers and we are honored to receive this recognition.
In closing we are very confident that the execution of our strategy and diversified business model will continue to enhance shareholder value.
Terry?  Thanks Larry.
The first quarter results were a strong start to the year.
While earnings were aided by one-time items that I will address shortly our strong business fundamentals and proven ability to execute are driving continued momentum.
This morning I will focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter net income including performance on the investment portfolio and I will close with an update on capital deployment.
Total operating earnings of $317 million for the quarter were up 36% over first quarter 2013 results.
Net revenues increased 13% over the year ago quarter while operating expenses only increased 4%.
This led to strong earnings growth and margin expansion.
Total company assets under management increased to $496 billion at quarter end.
Excluding the corporate segment 67% of the companys earnings in the quarter were from our fee based business.
These fee based earnings come from higher multiple businesses that put less pressure on our balance sheet and provide more free cash flow.
We strongly believe that our current business mix provides the right diversification for continued growth.
At quarter end our returning on equity excluding AOCI was 13% this is a 320 basis point improvement compared to a year ago.
Organic growth contributed a 130 basis points of that increase.
The remainder came from the addition of Cuprum and the negative impact of the actuarial assumption review in 2012.
We believe that an ROE of 13% driven mostly by operating earning expansion rather than just capital deployment is a strong result.
We continue to expect 50 to 80 basis points of annual ROE expansion into the future.
Looking at slide six first quarter 2014 operating earnings per share was a $1.06 a 34% increase when compared to a year ago quarter.
As noted on the slide we normalized first quarter 2014 earnings for three items.
In Full Service Accumulation results benefited by $15 million predominantly from a true up of a prior year dividend accrual.
In addition RIS Guaranteed operating earnings were helped by $6 million from higher than expected variable investment income.
These benefits were partially offset by higher than expected claims in Individual Life which hurt earnings by $4 million in the quarter.
Combining these items we believe that the normalized earnings per share for the quarter was approximately $1 a 28% increase on an adjusted basis.
Now Ill discuss business unit results.
Starting with the accumulation businesses within retirement investor services operating earnings were $185 million an increase of 30% over the year ago quarter.
As shown on slide seven net revenue was up 12% over first quarter 2013 and 14% on a trailing 12-month basis.
Trailing 12-month pre-tax return on net revenue improved to 33%.
Quarterly operating earnings for Full Service Accumulation at $119 million were up 38% from a year ago quarter.
As I mentioned the current period was helped by $15 million most of which was a true-up on a prior year dividend accrual.
As a reminder the year ago quarter benefited from an $8 million dividend accrual true-up.
Excluding the true-ups from both quarters earnings were still up more than 30%.
Net revenue was up 13% due to the growth in the business and the strong equity market performance while operating expenses were only up 4%.
As a result the trailing 12-month pretax return on net revenue for the business unit improved to 33%.
Full Service Accumulation sales at $2.7 billion for the quarter were strong as we continue to focus on striking the appropriate balance of growth and profitability.
Net cash flows for Full Service Accumulation were $1.8 billion for the quarter.
Large case withdrawals can be lumpy and we did not have any in the first quarter.
We still expect net flows for the year to be 1% to 3% at beginning of year account value.
Principal Funds operating earnings were $25 million for the quarter a 31% increase from the year ago quarter as the strong sales over the last several years are translating into bottom line results.
On a trialing 12-month basis revenue was up 21% and operating margins continue to improve due to the scale based nature of the business.
For the quarter Principal Funds sales were $4.5 billion contributing to $760 million of net cash flows.
While down from very strong year ago quarter these results were solid relative to the industry.
Individual Annuities first quarter operating earnings were up 17% to $34 million.
Increased fee revenue in our variable annuity business due to market appreciation has more than offset spread compression on our fixed deferred block of business.
As macroeconomic factors improve we expect Individual Annuities earnings to be around this level going forward.
Slide eight covers the guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
First quarter operating earnings of $32 million were up 13% over the year-ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis pretax return on net revenue was 81%.
Investment-only operating earnings improved 15% from the prior year quarter to $17 million.
In addition to the benefit from variable investment income this quarter business rolling off the books is being replaced with higher margin new business.
Full Service Payout operating earnings were $50 million for the quarter a 12% increase over the year ago quarter aided by variable investment income.
We continue to approach these guaranteed businesses opportunistically.
Slide nine shows Principal Global Investors' operating earnings for the quarter were $27 million up 33% from the year-ago quarter.
Total net cash flows for the segment were $1.1 billion for the quarter.
Assets under management increased 9% to $298 billion leading to revenue growth of 11% over first quarter 2013.
Unaffiliated assets under management ended the quarter at a $112 billion with $6.5 billion of deposits coming in during the quarter.
There is continued demand for our diversified investment options especially as investors seek yield.
The percentage of our assets under management in equity investment options which generated higher revenues has increased to 38% of the total up from 31% compared to the year ago quarter.
Diligent expense control resulted in expenses only growing 6% over that timeframe.
Trailing 12 month pretax margin for the segment improved to 25%.
Slide 10 shows first quarter 2014 operating earnings for Principal International of $63 million.
These record earnings were a strong result especially considering the impact of the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
Adjusting for Cuprum operating earnings were 14% over the prior year quarter on a local currency basis this highlights the strength of our businesses in the local markets.
While exchange rates have negatively impacted our U.S.
dollar financial results we feel very confident in the growth prospects for the markets where we do business.
[Importantly] net cash flows for the segment were $2 billion contributing to an increase in assets under management to a record $109 billion at quarter end.
Turning to U.S.
insurance solutions our operating earnings up $43 million were up 22% from the year ago quarter.
As shown on slide 11 Individual Life operating earnings were $17 million for the quarter results in the quarter were negatively impacted by alleviated claims severity.
When compared to the prior year quarter sales in first quarter 2014 excluding universal life with secondary guarantees were up 11%.
We continue to intentionally change our desired sales mix to be less focused on universal life with secondary guarantees thus improving the risk profile of our sales portfolio.
As shown on slide 12 specialty benefits operating earnings of $26 million were up 25% from the year ago quarter.
The loss ratio for the quarter was 68% right in the middle of our 65% to 71% expected range.
For the quarter total company net income was $294 million a 65% increase over prior year quarter.
Realized capital losses continue to trend down at $23 million for the quarter.
Credit related losses continue to improve and at $12 million for the quarter or down 39% from the year ago quarter.
Turning now to capital deployment.
As outlined on slide 13 weve announced plans to deploy more than $475 million of capital so far in 2014.
This includes a 14% increase to our second quarter common stock dividend that we announced last night and the $100 million debt reduction that was executed on March 1st.
In addition during the first quarter our Board authorized a $200 million share buyback program.
This is an addition to the $55 million remaining from last years authorization.
Year-to-date we have spent $100 million on share buybacks leaving a $155 million of authorization for additional buybacks.
Our capital deployment strategy is fluid with multiple options available to enhance shareholder value.
We believe that we will end the year on the top end of the $500 million to $700 million capital deployment range that we discussed on our outlook call.
In closing we are extremely pleased with the strong results in the quarter.
We are well positioned for future growth across all of our businesses and our business diversification enabled us to be successful in various economic environments.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
Okay.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Hey good morning everybody.
Hey Larry I am not -- I guess I am not too shy to admit that I am very surprised that the level of expense control in the quarter and maybe I shouldnt be so surprised by it but I am.
Can you give us some sense you hit on the operating leverage but you didnt really go into any details on whats sort of driving the expense controls here? I just want to get a sense for is there anything in the first quarter level of overall general expenses I am not talking about debt or amortization that you think with sort of one-time in nature where we expected to pick back up as we look throughout the year? Good morning John.
This is Larry.
Good morning.
I think in response to your question John what I would say is that the years sort of 2010 11 12 were very very challenging relative to the issues around expense control and some of that was because it was a good news thing because we were having a lot of growth we were bringing on a lot of assets so obviously there is an acquisition cost associated with that.
And as I have said before I mean I think to some extent we were emphasizing a little bit too much growth and a little too much at the expense of profitability.
And I think that the team did a great job in 2013 of doing a much a good balance between growth and profitability.
So we started to see some improvement in margin expansion in 2013.
I think when you roll into 2014 and when you look at the first quarter John its probably two things there that are worth mentioning.
One is sustainable which is that as the kind of interest rates begin to move up a little bit as your discount rate moves up for all of employee benefits that has a positive and sustainable element to expense control and then the other one which is a little bit more one-time was again in the asset management business.
We had sort of higher expenses in the fourth quarter associated with essentially employee compensation particularly within the asset management group that doesnt necessarily recur in the first quarter.
So that one we hope is actually going to be back later in the year because every time we're paying high performance fees its because the funds did well and they were good flow.
So a good chunk of it is sustainable some of it is a bit of seasonality.
I hope that helps a little bit.
Yes thats helpful.
Any chance to give us some sense for how much the corporate pension and benefit plan costs maybe down in 2014 versus 13 my sense is its actually a pretty reasonable tailwind? Yes.
Its probably in the range of about $60 million pre-tax.
Okay.
Thats very helpful.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Hi thank you.
Could you provide a little bit more detail on the results in the international business at a country level? And then in particular can you comment about the local currency flow and earnings dynamics in Brazil Chile and Mexico and how those compared to your expectations? Yes Ill let Luis to comment on that.
I would just say again we would emphasize that Principal International had a really nice quarter and nice quarter not just in terms of earnings but a nice quarter in terms of flows in terms of sales in terms of expenses control.
As Terry said in his earlier comments if you look at our PI local companies operating in their local markets and their performance in local currencies youve seen a 14% increase year-over-year aggregate across all the PI member companies in local term.
So I think that validates very much that the issues here to the extent investors have concerns around emerging markets what they should not have concern about is the performance of the companies in local terms When you translate that back to USD you may see some diminishment due to the strength of U.S.
dollar but at the local market level I think it's really important that investors understand these companies continue to grow at double-digits.
And so with that I'll forward over to Luis.
Yes thanks.
Eric as Larry said year-over-year in local currency we are showing a double-digit 14% growth year-over-year.
But if you are paying attention to quarter-over-quarter and you are paying attention to our last quarter 2013 and in terms of USD.
We are showing a growth of equal to 3% which is a pretty interesting but in local currency is then 8%.
So we continue showing a very very dynamic growth in our companies in PI.
Having said that this is proven that this proves that we have a very resilient business model in our market.
And certainly we are not just working in emerging market.
We are working again again in select emerging markets which is the main difference.
So it's a very resilient model and again repeating in a very interesting number of select emerging markets.
About FX we paid a very important headwind in the last year 14% on average in Brazil and Chile a kind of 5% 6% in Mexico.
What we are being able to see in the last quarter that the situation is much more stable for these emerging markets and our expectation is that going forward FX for emerging markets are going to fly probably about in same level that they are today.
Does that help Eric.
Yes.
And then maybe if you could just add a little bit more in terms of the flow dynamics where I think you commented for Brazil that if I have this right January was the pretty weak period when you saw kind of the height of the turmoil but flows have recovered in February and March and assume thats continued probably through April.
And then is it fair to assume that Chile and Mexico the activity levels are little bit more stable since its a mandatory system? Yes.
I think all of that is very very accurate.
And again we have seen the situation in Brazil sort of return to what you would consider to be normal in March and April.
Okay.
And I mean as we look year-over-year in terms of the earnings comparisons on a local currency basis are there any sort of unusual things that we should kind of factor in in making the comparison? I know you had some tax changes as well as the accounting changes in Brazil that may kind of affect the year-over-year?  Right this is Larry.
I dont think there is anything unusual we had the fourth quarter commentary around Mexico tax changes and we also had the change that we opted to make that greater amortization of the intangible relative to the prev but that was in fourth quarter nothing in first quarter and nothing that we can see going forward although of course one never knows.
Okay thank you for the color.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
Hi good morning thank you.
If we could talk a little bit about accumulation and the run rate implied by this quarter in terms of how it fits in with your margin guidance of 30% to 32% for the full year.
Even after sort of normalizing for the items you mentioned if we run rate this out the full year will I believe significantly outperform what your guidance was.
So maybe you could just help us think about run rate earnings.
Terry you had spoken about this being a decent run rate for individual annuities if you could touch on that say which on a normalized basis was running over $100 million that would be helpful as well? Thank you.
This is Larry Seth.
I suspect both Dan and Terry want to comment.
I will just again for those maybe not quite as familiar I want to drop back and maybe remind everybody that in the outlook call we had at the end of last year looking into 2014 we talked about net revenue growth for the accumulation businesses in that 6% to 8% range and we talked about pretax return on revenue in that sort of 30% to 32% range.
Obviously at the moment the higher equity markets from 2013 give us a if you will a tailwind coming into 2014.
So net revenue at least in the first quarter was growing above the top-end of that range.
In our outlook call what we assume is that you have 2% per quarter equity market growth going forward.
So if in fact thats what you have then that 12% net revenue growth going to start to come down a little bit and when that happens I think we are also going to start to come down towards the top end of that range.
So thats a general set of comments looking forward.
Terry do you want to make any further comment on that?  No not on that one Larry but I think on the what you talk about Seth also was on the variable annuity block business being a little bit higher than we had seen in the past $34 million this quarter.
We see that the variable annuity block has benefited from some higher fees because of the equity market run up and this more than offsetting some of fixed deferred annuities spread compression that were seeing.
We see that this is very a pretty good run rate on a go forward basis.
So that observation of it being a bigger block of business for us on a go forward basis is a good observation.
And then Ill ask Dan maybe to comment a little bit for you Seth on full service accum.
Yes good morning Seth.
On full service accum its refreshing because although weve had some benefit from the equity markets a lot of things were working down in the tranches of business itself you know that we had good retention of existing plans we also had -- weve added roughly 1 500 new plans in the last 12 months.
And if you dont lose many you are able to add those new plans you get that flywheel going relative to deposit which all contribute to improving on your margins.
The other note I would make is were continuing to see strong investment performance from Principal Global Investors; its giving us more product to sell more competitive product which means a higher percentage of our sales going towards proprietary and then as mentioned in Larrys prepared comments on the mutual fund side which also is just a very leverageable business we have really strong investment performance with 17 funds now with 4 and 5-star ratings from Morningstar.
So again very very strong margins and again over the course of the year I think the best way to look at whether its net cash flow or sales or margins is to look on a trailing 12 month basis and I am still very comfortable in that 30% to 32% for RIS accum.
Okay thanks a lot.
And Dan maybe just a follow-up on FSA because even assuming kind of that 2% normalized run rate I am still getting very strong earnings growth there.
Should we assume that if markets stay as favorable as they are there may be a higher reinvest in terms of the expense line in FSA? Yes.
The demands there are always high so we constantly are making investments in distribution and technology and of course the mobile technology is a big part of that.
We know that we are on the top quartile relative to margin and profitability for full service accumulation so there is what Ill call some restrictions in the marketplace.
But again dont lose sight side of the fact that we are very deliberately focusing on that mid to small size market plan as opposed to the jumble plan which is going to just naturally contribute to having higher margins than maybe what we had two or three years ago.
Does that help? Okay thanks a lot.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Thank so much.
Good morning.
Hi Chris.
I wanted to see you could comment on few regulatory areas which thankfully for you guys havent been much of a focus but first at the federal level given your size and the disposal of the bank maybe not an issue but certainly a lot of focus not just in insurers but asset managers as well.
So anything you guys are participating in or preparing for from that regards? And then two at the state level its hard to ignore kind of the influx of the insurers moving into Iowa and just wondering if thats having any impact on either trying to approach or talent or issues in terms of how you run new business? Yes those are interesting questions Chris I appreciate that.
This is Larry.
Let me again just kind of backup because I think your question is interesting.
And one of the things that I think has differentiated Principal over the period since the financial crisis because weve had within the industry and across all of financial services weve had very significant both legislative and regulatory change that has gone on.
And the two most noteworthy ones I think would be the Affordable Care Act and Dodd Frank.
And I think to the credit of this management team I think theyve done an excellent job in managing and maneuvering around the substantial change that both of those pieces of legislation are going bring to broadly to financial services.
So the very effective wind down a very successful financial wind down of our medical business difficult as the decision was I think really position us well.
And then as you noted the deregistration of the bank again we're still in the banking business but weve changed the charter of the bank so that we no longer have Federal Reserve oversight Principal Holding Company.
Those are really significant items that may not get full credit for those who maybe arent as close to our industry or our businesses.
Id say going forward so most of the regulatory things that could snag us for the most part weve maneuvered around.
There is still as you know there is still the potential around we dont know what systemically important definitions are going to be around asset managers.
I would say were sort of in the range of somewhere between 25 and 30th largest global asset management company.
And Ill let Jim comment in a minute.
So its kind of hard to see that we would be in -- anything approaching the first phase of any definitions of systemically significant.
So I dont really worry too much about that.
Again Ill let Jim comment.
On your point about Iowa thats an interesting question.
Actually to dig into that what youll find is that the company is re-domesticating but in many cases and I think this is true both of Symetra and Fidelity &amp; Guaranty Life they are re-domesticating but if you actually look at the jobs that they are going to bring here it sort of numbers in the 100s it certainly and theyre going to keep many of their existing -- theyre going to keep their locations and their existing employees.
So maybe overtime in 5 or 10 years it has some impact but we are talking maybe 100 to 200 jobs that they will be bringing here over the next year or two so I dont see it as a big factor.
with that maybe I will forward over to Jim.
Yes.
Thanks Larry.
In terms of regulations of assets managers if you go back to the financial crises the one piece of the asset management business that was really at the center of the troubles of those money market funds and whether they could preserve the buck.
I think appropriately if one looking to what regulators are doing related to asset managers their focus is on money market funds and thats where the systemic risk might be.
But fortunately and deliberately thats a pretty small business for us.
And we handle clients cash in appropriate ways.
And Larry talked about our bank in the insurance separate accounts.
So money market funds is something we are not at the center of.
If I look at regulation and how it affects our asset management activities its much more the second order affect how it affects the parties we trade with.
So we had new market system came in in 2007 with a lot of controversy about equity trading.
Like all big equity houses we have much more sophisticated metrics and controls now than we used to have to cope with those competitive markets.
And then of course in the bond market as you know were a big high yield manager we deal in a lot of relatively illiquid bonds like preferreds.
I think that the consequences of Dodd-Frank and the fact that the banks are devoting less capital to bond trading are something that we have worked on upgraded our trading capabilities and essentially we are able to work on it.
So I think its more second order than the first order for us in terms of asset management regulation.
And just to close of course there is a lot going on in Europe.
I think that may actually turnout for us with the alternative products we have in Europe and the new regulatory framework there it may turn into an opportunity.
I appreciate the thoughts.
And then one just quick follow-up in the past quarters you have talked about kind of RBC ratio as well as excess capital and didnt see that in the first quarter press release so Terry maybe if you could give us an update on where you stand in any changes in your targets there? Sure Chris.
Our targets for long-term for the end of the year for the RBC are still in that 415% to 425% range as we make estimates during the year and thats still a pretty good range for us.
We were up 439% at the end of the year and we have brought that down purposely because of the $100 million surplus note redemption.
So we are back down into that range and expect to be there at the end of the year as well.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Hey good morning.
Hi Ryan.
Question on the M&amp;A pipeline I guess one thing I am wondering about is does that comment include opportunities to buy an additional stakes from boutiques that you already own? Yes.
Ryan this is Larry.
Our comment around M&amp;A would be broadly inclusive of any deployment of capital.
So if we were to buy a bigger ownership share of some of our existing boutique obviously that would a deployment of capital.
So yes that is part of our commentary when we talk about the kind of M&amp;A pipeline.
Okay.
And then just my understanding was that you had to accrue as if you already own 100% of these boutiques under the statutory accounting regimes.
So I guess one am I right? And if I am would that suggest that when you do buy an additional stakes that actually doesnt really impact your RBC ratio at all? Right.
Ill let Terry to comment on that and then Jim may want to comment as well.
Yes Ryan this is Terry.
The non-controlling interest that we have is reflected as mezzanine equity in both the GAAP and statutory basis.
So we already have reflected the obligation that we have to acquire some of these boutiques that can be actually put back to us.
So weve recognized that already but as Larry says as we deploy that capital to buy a bigger share of that then we get the earnings in it and well release it as well but doesnt have an impact on the RBC ratio.
Jim maybe you want to comment about kind of how we view the relationship between what we own versus what each boutique management owns? Yes.
There is two different types and the boutiques that are consolidated youre correct that we put in a 100% of the boutique into our income statement.
But then we deduct for the minority interest and so if we buy in some of that minority interest as a positive impact on earnings.
The other sources where were on a smaller stick for their non-consolidated equity method accounting in those cases if we buy in some more then we end up with a bigger share on the equity method.
And eventually it will trip into consolidation at a point for debate with between our CFO and our auditor.
So that would be the technical side of it.
In terms of the business side we are keen eventually to buy in some of these minority interests but when we have bought a stake in a boutique particularly from a founder or an entrepreneurial manager we like them to keep some equity in the boutique for the rest of their careers in effect.
And so buying in tends to be related to succession planning.
So if a retired partner in a boutique if he retires he or she retires then we will buyback their stock and sometimes have limited recycling to the next generation but thats more difficult technically.
So I think on balance we view positively that evolution but we take it in a measured way because we like to keep the equity for alignment.
Understood.
Thats very helpful.
Yes.
And then just lastly on the PGI pipeline you mentioned that was robust just anymore color on how does it compare to recent quarters and what types of mandates are you currently seeing demand for? Yes Jim McCaughan here.
In terms of the pipeline sales so far this year are up high single-digits percent from last year which was a record year for sales.
So so far this year the sales are looking quite buoyant in the pipeline with its visibility as at least to good as its ever been for us.
I think its the same story as its been for the last two years on sales which is increased demand for specialty product.
Terry mentioned yield in the script and we have a remarkable array of yield buyers investment capabilities from real estate other alternatives through high yield equities high yield bonds preferred securities and all the real estate products.
So if you added up we are really in good demand for investors seeking yield.
Also more broadly specialty products things like small cap and emerging markets emerging markets may not be this years theme but they are coming back.
And so we are well positioned we believe to continue building that pipeline which as I say has been quite strong this year.
Great thank you very much.
Thanks Ryan.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Good morning.
Hi Mark.
I guess I wanted to go back to Erics question I think it was on just looking at the earnings internationally.
And I mean again if you look at the AUM growth in particularly in Brazil very strong kind of outstanding.
But it actually doesn't feel like when you adjust from a constant currency basis it doesn't feel like the earnings are catching up with the AUM growth.
And I understand there is amortization changes and there is other things going on.
But I guess the real question is are there any dynamics that you are currently seeing particularly in Brazil to start that would suggest that going forward earnings shouldn't keep up with AUM.
Are there any market dynamics [case] sizes anything that would keep pressures anything that would influence that? This is Larry Mark.
I'll offer a few opening comments and then Luis can comment as well.
As I said in my opening comments if you look at AUM assets under management when you look at assets under management over the past five years in BrazilPrev what you'd see is about a 32% compound annual growth.
So we're at again as we've said we're at R$90 billion when we which is US$40 billion when we bought into that joint venture in 1999 it had less than a $1 billion in assets.
So I'd say that's a pretty amazing growth rate.
In terms of operating earnings I think that we're in the range in terms of again five year compound annual growth we're in the range of 25% per year compound annual growth rate.
So they correlate but similarly to say full service accumulation you're not going to see your AUM growth rate be your OE growth rate be parallel with your AUM but they're going to be in the same zip code would be the way that I think about it.
Now on your question about is there anything in the market that could disrupt change that there are competitive pressures in Brazil just like any other market although there is a fewer number of players basically the significant players are the four -- are the banks particularly the private banks Bradesco Ita.
The thing that might enter into it in the long term is that Brasilprev for the most part has pursued the retail market.
And one of the real opportunities that is there to even further the growth of that company if that seems even likely when it grows to 30% would be to be more active in the corporate pension market in Brazil as compared to just the retail pension market.
So again we are only going to do that but makes sense financially but that would be an example of where you might see increased growth.
But if you try to measure it profits for dollar you might be able to compromise because again its the corporate market as compared to the retail market.
But this is an amazing company.
And again for those who maybe arent quite as familiar if you want to hear more or see more about the performance of this company it is part of a publically traded company in Brazil called BB Seguridade.
And you can get some great insight into this very fast growing very profitable company So Luis anything youd like to add? Mark this is Luis.
And truly what you have to keep in mind also if you are looking the trend of Brasilprev which is a very very interesting company and as Larry said the company that is having a very interesting performance in the last five years just certain things are happening also in Brazil.
So first the interest rate is going down that has been the trend for last five to six years.
The market is getting a little bit more competitive.
So we have seen a very moderate as well margin compression in Brasilprev but that is a totally normal in that kind of environment going forward.
Does that help? Yes it does thank you.
One quick question maybe for Dan.
There have been some recent actions Dan largely kind of on the fiduciary standard largely directed towards Plan Sponsors relate to sub account options investment options for participants it sounds like its largely directed at Plan Sponsors in terms of kind of the responsibility but I am just curious if you see any impact towards your business and the fee structures that you are able collect or PGI is able to collect from on 401(k) accounts? Yes thanks Mark for the question.
So really there is a couple of issues first is around the appropriateness of the fees; the second is whether or not there is adequate investment options available to the plant participants.
And as you know weve run a multi-manager multi-asset class multi-style approach for over a decade and thats even true within our target date funds as it turns out Principal Global Investors does manage a generous portion of those.
But we have always taken the approach that we are going to put best in class investment managers into those respective line-ups.
So you could go right through our target date funds you can go through many of our standalone investment options and find that we have a mixer of both proprietary and non-proprietary.
As far as fee disclosure and fee reasonableness goes that gets scrutinized by the advisor and the Plan Sponsor every year most of those discussions take place annually.
And so I dont see any sort of issues that we are up against that the rest of the industry isnt matter of fact I think we are well positioned because of our willingness to go multi-manager and our willingness to have very adaptable fee schedules depending upon what the Plan Sponsors looking for in terms of services for their participants.
Does that help? Yes thank you.
Thanks Mark.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital.
Thanks very much and good morning to everyone in Iowa.
Hi Eric.
Good morning.
My first question is directed to either Larry or Dan whoever feels best suited to answer it.
It seems like there continues to be a lot of commentary about how the 401(k) business is going to change in a big way with some people who are self proclaimed experts and some people are genuine experts I suppose saying that were going to see all sorts of new options private equity liquid alts hedge funds ETFs this that it boggles to mind all the choices.
I consider you guys absolutely to be experts on the 401(k) business.
If there anyone who knows sort of whether this can happen and to what degree would be you.
Where is the business headed from this regard? Yes.
Thats interesting this is Larry.
Thats a really interesting question.
What I would say is that we often forget that the average participant in a 401(k) plan likely doesnt read the Wall Street Journal every day and they dont turn on CNBC Squawk Box or Bloomberg or FOX Business channel or any of the other media that probably many of us on this call look at multiple times each and every day.
And so therefore we forget that the average 401(k) investor is in a very very different world.
They are middle income sort of person focused on their job and their family and they know they need to say but theyre clearly not an investment expert.
And I think one of the unique elements of our business model and the platform that we put together including the investment platform is that we get that we understand that and we understand that our role is to construct very solid but also easy able to understand sort of investment offset.
So when people start talking about ETFs and liquid alts and private equity and all of that stuff I too chuckle a little bit because its really hard to see how that is something that can be easily explained in a way that the average 401(k) participant is going to have the interest in.
Now I will say on the other hand Eric I will say the area where its possible those types of options could make some inroads would be to be a part inside some sort of target date structure.
So for example taking 5% of an investment allocation inside of target date fund and then deciding whether some alternative investments like the ones you describe might be a piece of that as a way to perhaps have higher investment performance or more stable investment performance.
But thats something where the participant really doesnt need to be involved in that and frankly wouldnt be involved in that.
[This is Terry Eric].
(Inaudible) just a couple of comments and that is remember that we still make available a brokerage window on plans where the advisor or the plan sponsor is keen on providing additional investment options but most of these plans as said a lot of trusties meeting 10 to 15 options 30% of these dollars generally flow to a target date or target risk like fund there is 30 minute group employee meetings if you got to get that message other too complicated my last prove point even if we look at non-qualified deferred compensation which often times funded with life insurance on those that are funded with mutual fund options they are not asking in that target market for exchange traded funds or hedge funds in that place as well.
So I do think its more of a after-tax investment option for many of the high wage earners.
Last question second last question is for Jim.
Jim I would have thought given the strength of sales in 2013 that your first quarter 2014 cash flows would have been better than they were.
What were the dynamics in the quarter that held back the cash flows?  Yes thank you for that question Eric.
There is a very rapid set of changes going on in clients desires and needs.
And weve talked before about the move by clients away from active core products.
That actually wasn't a big factor this quarter but it's one that we must be vigilant about looking forward.
Our challenge by the way with clients or inactive core products which may be less attractive in future is to offer them some of these more in demand products that I talked about earlier in the call.
That's one element but in the particular quarter they are a lot of moving parts and some of this is to do with these kind of inevitable losses of clients requirements change.
So for example there's no one big theme but for example we had a withdrawal in our currency group which was really related to the changed hedging policy of the client.
We had withdrawals from stable value which was I think well known move more into equities more into target date funds as people gain confidence.
We had some profit taking in real estate that leads to an outflow but it also leads to a happy client who hopefully will come back for more when weve got propositions to offer them.
So I think this will continue to be a theme.
The fact that we have the attractive products to replace it with thats why structurally we feel confident that we'll continue to have positive flows in the institutional space.
But I do think it's very important that we beat continued diligence and vigilance about dealing with those clients.
Thank you.
Does that help Eric.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Hey everybody.
Actually the last part was something I wanted to ask about.
Jim the clients that you referenced these changes that you referenced this is all on the PGI direct side right? Yes that's correct.
Okay I just wanted to make sure that was correct.
All right just a couple Terry early on you talked about the pension expense there was some discussion with regards to the net revenue margin for FSA and others in FSA being very very high.
The guidance that you gave late last year did that incorporate this lower level of pension expense in it? Steven this is Terry.
Yes it did it factored in.
Now that will come in all year long.
In fact one of the things that we talked about the guidance is that it will also reflect some other changes such as variable income it's somewhat spotty throughout the year as well.
But over the long period as Dan talked about that you'll see this revenue and expense get back to that higher end of that 30% to 32% return on that revenue range.
Okay.
And then on the variable investment income it's correct that it was all real estate it was all allocated to guarantee and in individual annuity there is nothing else out there there is nothing accounted for? Yes Steven this is Terry.
The variable annuity that we called out was a little bit bigger in the guaranteed businesses the investment-only the full service payout you can actually reflect it there.
But there was also some variable income that was spread among all the other businesses and what we found in those other businesses that there were some partial offsets to that.
For example the individual annuity it got some variable income as well but that plus a lower effective tax rate somewhat offset some of the higher amortizations of tax.
So we kind of looked at it as what was a good number for each of the businesses and called those numbers out.
Okay.
And then one more if I may on China I dont believe that you are participating in the RQFII process yet are you intending and I guess if not why not?  Ill let Jim to maybe answer that one Steven.
I think the answer to that is yes we're looking at it.
We have QFII capacity through our joint venture so it happens to CCB Principal Asset Management which is part of Principal International but we have Principal Global Investors are managing or advising rather on those QFII assets.
RQFII is expanding it's relatively modest as far as global asset managers are concerned but we do expect to be involved.
I think one of the -- this is Larry Steven I think one of the interesting things is that the challenges have been so significant in the Chinese equity market that I think many of the more sophisticated investors are now actually starting to think that we're getting closer to maybe an interesting opportunity relative to Chinese equity A shares.
So it will be interesting to see what happens over the next couple of years basically with us.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
You bet.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
Well thanks everybody for joining us for our call this morning.
As we said we're very pleased with our strong start to the year and we're really pleased with the ongoing momentum of our businesses.
And we look forward to visiting with many of you on the road in the coming months.
So I hope everybody has a great day.
Thank you for participating in todays conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8 O'clock pm Eastern Time until end of day May 2 2014.
18044564 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 for U.S.
and Canadian callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
There will be a question and answer period after the speakers have completed their prepared remarks.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement and Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdes Principal International; and Tim Dunbar our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise them or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before we get to the prepared remarks I'd like to announce that on the afternoon of September 12 we will host an investor event to provide an update on our Retirement Investor Services business.
That will be held in New York City.
We will provide more details in the next few weeks.
We are planning subsequent investor events including an update on our Asset Management Business in New York City an update on Principal International that will be held in Santiago Chile.
We hope that many of you are able to attend these events.
Now I will turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on three areas.
First I'll discuss second quarter and year-to-date results.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution and long-term benefits of our strategy; and I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As John mentioned slides related to today's call are on our website.
As you can see on Slide 4 that Principal had another strong quarter resulting in record results and a great first half of the year.
Total company operating earnings were a record $323 million in second quarter 2014 a 19% increase over the year ago quarter.
Year-to-date operating earnings of $640 million were up 27% over the same period last year.
This continued earnings growth demonstrates the strength and sustainability of our diversified business model.
Our businesses face continued macroeconomic volatility we remained focus on executing our strategy and maintaining expense discipline in order to capitalize on the momentum thats been building for the last several years.
Principal achieved a major milestone during the second quarter as assets under management surpassed $0.5 trillion.
Total company assets under management were a record at $518 billion at the end of the quarter as a result of total company net cash flows of $5.5 billion for the quarter and strong investment performance.
With multiple growth engines and an established track record as a global investment management leader we look toward achieving $1 trillion in assets under management in five to seven years.
Following our additional key growth metrics from the quarter Full Service Accumulation sales were $1.4 billion in the second quarter.
Second quarter sales tend to be the lowest results for the year and we expect full year 2014 sales to be in line with 2013 levels.
Principal Funds sales were $4.7 billion for the quarter.
Net cash flows were strong at $1.8 billion and as a percentage of our block continue to outpace the industry.
This is Principal Funds 18th straight quarter of positive net cash flows reflecting strong investment performance and our ability to offer solutions that financial advisors and retail investors seek.
Principal Global Investors ended the second quarter with record assets under management of $307 billion including record unaffiliated assets under management of $114 billion.
Principal International had record assets under management of $119 billion at the end of the second quarter.
As a testament to the power of our emerging market strategy assets under management in Latin America surpassed $100 billion in the quarter.
Quarterly net cash flows for Principal International were a record $4.3 billion driven primarily by improved investor sentiment and strong sales in Brazil.
Individual Lifes business market focus continues to be a differentiator for us with 55% of second quarter sales coming from non-qualified deferred compensation and business owner and executive solutions.
Second quarter sales increased 11% over second quarter 2013 excluding the intentional slowdown of Universal Life with secondary guarantee sales.
Specialty benefits premium and fees increased 6% over second quarter 2013 as a result of $62 million in sales and strong persistency.
Across the company we continue to win and retain business as a result of our innovative products and services and through our diversified distribution platform.
We remain confident about our competitive positioning across the globe and our ability to continue to grow our businesses into the future.
Next Ill provide a few updates on the continued execution of our strategy.
The need for our products and services is greater than ever with an aging worldwide population a growing number of people in the middle-class in emerging markets and a shortfall of retirement savings among workers.
We remain committed to helping business owners individuals and investors around the world achieve financial security and success.
In full service accumulation our key differentiators like Principal Total Retirement Suite and innovative plan design features such as Principal Plan Works which focuses on retirement readiness for each participant continue to position us as a retirement leader in the US.
We have the ability to impact more than 4 million participants for their employers and advisors to help them take action to secure their financial futures.
The work we do is meaningful and is making a difference.
Its something we never lose sight of.
World-class customer satisfaction continues to be a differentiator as indicated by our US retirement customers in a recent Chatham Partners survey.
Overall satisfaction with the Principal continues to be strong with 97% of clients reporting satisfaction with their client service team and that they plan to maintain or increase their relationship with the Principal.
While a lot of focus is given to sales results in our view retention is just as or even more important.
Retaining clients and account value where we have already incurred upfront installation expenses have an understanding of how much ongoing work is involved with the client and have built the relationship with key personnel is more beneficial to the bottom-line than new sales.
Just to put some numbers on this our year-to-date client level retention in full-service accumulation is 98% 100 basis points better than our average over the last five years.
This translates to $1.6 billion of additional account value that we have retained this year.
This improved retention has a meaningful impact on our ability to grow operating earnings.
As Slide 5 shows investment performance remains very strong and is a leading indicator of growth for our retirement and investment management businesses.
The percent of Principal Funds in the top half of Morningstar rankings on a 1 3 and 5 year basis are 79% 88% and 89% respectively which is one of our most competitive performances ever.
Principal Funds continues to gain market share as a result of strong investment performance in asset classes that are in demand.
60% of Principal Fund assets are in 4 and 5 stars Morningstar rated funds.
This has helped Principal Funds become the 15th largest advisor sold fund family up four spots in the last 12 months.
In Principal International our leading position in Latin America not only allows us to reach millions of people needing our retirement expertise and product solutions but also provides us an opportunity to have a seat at the table with policy makers.
Newly elected Chilean President Michelle Bachelet recently visited the US and attended a Chamber of Commerce event in Washington DC.
I was fortunate enough to be one of four CEOs to meet privately with Ms.
Bachelet to discuss topics such as tax and pension reform in Chile.
In addition Principal Internationals senior management recently presented their recommendations to the Bravo Commission a group of global pension experts appointed by the Chilean government to evaluate the current Chilean pension system.
We feel confident that any potential reform will help not hinder our efforts to further improve retirement security for the people of Chile.
In addition to growth in the mandatory pension fund market in Chile voluntary sales continue to gain traction and voluntary net cash flows were up three folds in Cuprum over the prior year quarter.
The Principals ability to offer both mandatory and voluntary solutions in Chile gives us a competitive advantage.
Our partnership with Banco Brasil contributes to our leadership position in Latin America as well.
As Brasilprev continues to be a focal point or Bancos subsidiary public company BB Seguridade.
BB Seguridade provides an excellent way to understand the performance of our joint venture in Brazil.
Bancos powerful distribution channel combined with our retirement expertise will continue to drive our long-term leadership position in Latin America.
As an example Brasilprev accounted for 65% of total net flows for the entire retirement industry over the past 12 months.
We continue to gain traction and are in recognition in Asia as well.
CIMB Principal in Malaysia and Principal Trust Company in Hong Kong were both recognized as Country Asset Manger of The Year Winners in the 2014 asset AAA Investor and Fund Management Awards.
As the retirement industry continues to mature in Asia Principal is already a recognized leader and in the top position to capitalize on opportunities in these select markets.
As I mentioned Principal Global Investors ended the quarter with record total assets under management of $307 billion and record unaffiliated assets of $114 billion.
However it was disappointing to experience unaffiliated net outflows of $500 million during the quarter.
The outflows were at post advisory group or due to a portfolio manager change we had net outflows of $2.3 billion for the quarter.
However investment performance at post remains strong and we expect the outflows to improve quickly.
Without the outflows at post Principal Global Investors had unaffiliated net inflows of $1.8 billion a good result in a highly competitive market.
The strength and diversity of our multi-boutique investment platform combined with strong performance continues to position Principal Global Investors as a leading global asset manager.
Ill close with some comments on capital management.
With record operating earnings and net income we remain well positioned to increase shareholder value through a variety of capital deployment options.
In the second quarter we paid a $0.32 per share common stock dividend and bought back more than $60 million of shares.
Additionally last night we announced a $0.34 per share common stock dividend payable in the third quarter 2014 a 6% increase over the prior dividend and the fourth increase in the last five quarters.
We remained focused on increasing our dividend payout ratio over time to our target of 40% on a growing net income base.
The announced dividend brings our year-to-date capital deployment to $575 million and we expect to end the year at or above the top end of our $500 million to $700 million stated range.
Finally the merger and acquisition pipeline remains active and includes opportunities to further enhance our global investment management platform.
Our fee-based business model allows us to generate free cash flow and strategically deploy it to create long-term value for shareholders in addition to company growth.
Before I close I want to mention one other important recognition.
The Principal Financial Group was recently named to the Computer World 2014 List of 100 best places to work in information technology for the 13th straight time.
The Principal is one of only four companies in all industries to be ranked in the top 50 for the last 11 years.
We are consistently recognizing the technology leader and offering innovative solutions to our customers as an important part of our strategy.
In closing we are confident that our momentum will continue our strong results are sustainable and we will continue to build shareholder value over the long-term.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
The second quarter results displayed a continuation of our proven ability to execute.
Revenue growth is strong and margins continued to improve across our businesses.
This morning Ill focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter net income including performance of the investment portfolio; and an update on capital deployment.
Total company operating earnings of $323 million for the quarter were up 19% over second quarter 2013 results.
Net revenue increased 6% over the year ago quarter while operating expenses increased only 1%.
This led to strong earnings growth and margin expansion.
At quarter end our return on equity excluding AOCI improved to 13.3%.
This is a 290 basis point improvement from a year ago.
Organic growth contributed 130 basis of that increase above our expectations of 50 to 80 basis points of annual expansion.
We achieved this result by both growing operating earnings to nearly $1.2 billion on a trailing 12 month basis and managing the growth of our equity.
This demonstrates our ability to increase return on equity to capital management and more importantly by increasing operating earnings.
On a reported basis second quarter 2014 operating earnings per share were $1.08 a 19% increase over the year ago quarter.
This is a strong result considering our average weighted share count was up slightly.
Looking at Slide 6 we normalized second quarter 2014 earnings for three items.
First within retirement and investor services full-service accumulation in investment-only results each benefited by $3 million after-tax from higher than expected prepayments.
In addition a legal fee reimbursement benefit of full-service accumulation earnings by $3 million.
Finally the encaje return in Principal International was $5.5 million better than expected.
This is consistent with the information on encaje returns available through the websites that we provided in the past.
On a normalized basis earnings per share of $1.03 were up 12% over the normalized year ago quarter.
Now Ill discuss business unit results starting with the accumulation businesses within the Retirement and Investor Services operating earnings were $181 million an increase of 26% over the year ago quarter.
This is the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings growth in this business.
And as shown on Slide 7 revenue was up 10% over second quarter 2013 and up 12% on a trailing 12 month basis.
Trailing 12-month pretax return on net revenue remains stable at 33% for.
Quarterly operating earnings for full-service accumulation had a $117 million or up 29% from the year ago quarter.
Earnings were helped by $6 million from the two non-recurring items I mentioned earlier.
Good revenue growth along with expense discipline resulted in an improvement in the trailing 12 month pre-tax return on net revenue to 34% a 350 basis point improvement in the past 12 months.
Net cash flows for full-service accumulation were flat for the quarter due to seasonally lower second quarter sales of $1.4 billion and despite strong retention results the dollars of withdrawals increasing with improved account values.
On a trailing 12 month basis net cash flows of $3.1 billion are around the mid-point of the long-term range of 1% to 3% of account values that we previously discussed.
We expect full year sales to be in line with last years totals.
Principal Funds operating earnings were $26 million for the quarter a 49% increase from the year-ago quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis revenue was up 17% and operating margins continued to improve due to the scale-based nature of the business.
For the quarter Principal Fund sales were $4.7 billion contributing to $1.6 billion of net cash flows.
We expect full year sales to be comparable to 2013 sales.
Individual Annuities second quarter operating earnings were $33 million up 12% from the year ago quarter.
The increased fee revenue on our variable annuity business due to market appreciation continues to offset spread compression in our fixed deferred block of business.
Slide 8 covers the guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
Quarterly operating earnings of $31 million were up 10% over the year ago quarter aided by prepayments in the current quarter.
On a trailing 12 month basis net revenue was up 15% and pre-tax return on net revenue improved 82%.
Slide 9 Principal Global Investors operating earnings for the quarter were $27 million.
This is down slightly from the year ago quarter on a reported basis due to a $4 million benefit from a once-every three year performance fee.
On an adjusted basis operating earnings were up 10%.
Trailing 12 months pretax margin was 25%.
This was negatively impacted by approximately 100 basis points from large performance fees in the fourth quarter 2013.
Long-term we still anticipate a trend to 30% pre-tax margin.
We expect 2014 revenue in this business to remain in line with 2013 levels.
Management fees will grow year-over-year but performance fees are unlikely to reach 2013 levels.
Total net cash flows for the segment were $500 million for the quarter with a strong investment performance leading to good affiliated flows.
Assets under management increased 13% over the prior year quarter to a record $307 billion.
Unaffiliated assets under management ended the quarter at $114 billion a 13% increase over the year-ago quarter.
Slide 10 shows quarterly operating earnings for Principal International of a record $68 million a 17% increase on a reported basis.
Results in the current quarter were helped by encaje returns that were higher than expected.
The Principal International businesses in our select emerging markets continue to perform well on a local level.
On a local currency basis operating earnings were up 13% over prior year quarter after adjusting for normalizing items.
The outlook for Principal International remains strong with record assets under management driven by record net cash flows.
The strong fundamentals of these businesses the teams proven ability to execute and our relationship with premier partners allows us to weather short-term volatility including foreign currency movements to achieve long-term growth.
Slide 11 displays Individual Lifes operating earnings of $20 million for the quarter.
Results in the quarter were negatively impacted by elevated claim severity compared to the year-ago quarter.
We have reviewed our block of business and believe that the claims are normal fluctuations and not a trend.
Expectations are that claim severity will even out over time.
As shown on Slide 12 Specialty Benefits operating earnings of $29 million were up 13% from the year ago quarter.
Premium entities in the quarter were up 6% due to strong persistency in sales.
The loss ratio for the quarter was favorable at 66% and at the low end of our targeted range.
For the quarter total company net income was a record $306 million a 38% increase over the prior year quarter.
This quarter we had realized capital gains of $31 million as we benefited from gains on real estate sales.
Net credit-related losses remained lower than our pricing assumptions at $14 million for the quarter down 42% from the year ago quarter.
Net income was negatively impacted by $48 million as a result of the court ruling on some uncertain tax positions.
We paid the taxes in the previous year; the adjustment made this quarter was to a receivable booked when we filed for a refund several years ago.
This is a non-cash item that does not impact our capital deployment plans.
Turning now to capital deployment as outlined on Slide 13 weve announced plans to deploy more than $575 million of capital so far in 2014.
This includes the $0.34 common stock dividend we announced last night.
The fourth common stock dividend increase in the past five quarters.
The 2014 dividend through three quarters is 31% higher from the dividend over the same timeframe a year ago.
As of this week we spent a $155 million on share repurchases this year leaving approximately $100 million of our current Board authorization.
Our capital deployment strategy is flexible with multiple options including dividends share repurchases and acquisition opportunities all aimed at increasing shareholder value.
We believe that we will end the year at or above the top end of the $500 million to $700 million capital deployment range that we discussed on our outlook call.
In closing we are extremely pleased with the continued momentum of our businesses and feel that our diversified business model is well positioned for future growth in various economic environments.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So I have one and then a follow-up if I could.
First on - I am thinking of the normalized earnings rate I think last quarter you had guided or talked about roughly a buck per share per quarter and yet this quarter comes a little bit higher than that that was $1.03.
Can you help us think about what drove the differences and maybe how we should think about the remaining  the remainder of the year? Good morning Yaron this is Larry.
Ill make a few comments and then ask Terry to comment as well.
I mean we think  I think actually the quarter  the sequential quarters from Q1 to Q2 would have played out I think about as you would have expected for us.
I mean in normal times again we think that we grow our businesses around somewhere around 10% to 12% annually which if you convert that to quarterly you sort of get down to that 2% to 3% level.
So the dollar sort of a earnings normalized earnings in Q1 would normally have been say $1.2 or maybe $1.3 if you take into account both I would say the momentum of the businesses and sort of market performance during that time.
So I think the key here is that things are operating very very consistently with what we would expect our business model to produce.
So Ill see if Terry wants to add anything.
Yes Larry.
Id agree as you look at that last quarter we called out three different items and then added back one item and there was true-ups from prior year dividend receipt deduction large prepayments that we have had in the guarantee businesses and then we added back a bit for the life insurance.
But as Larry mentioned if you look on a normalized growth basis in terms of the increase in the net revenue continued expense management we saw margins increase as well quarter-over-quarter.
So thats whats basically driving it.
So Id say on a normalized basis moving from the dollar that we had in last quarter to a $1.3 this quarter was right in line with our long-term growth expectations.
Okay and then going back to a question I asked on the last call with regards to recurring deposits in FSA.
I think back then you had talked about kind of a 10-ish percent growth rate year-over-year and it seems like the last two quarters have been lower last quarter you talked about some difficult year-over-year comps given in the M&amp;A I think for one of the accounts in 1Q 2013.
Thats now behind us clearly not reflected in the year-over-year results.
So whats leading those recurring deposits its still be lower relative to kind of at 10% number and do you still think that 10% is the correct way to think of it? Yes Yaron this is Larry.
I would say and again weve done a lot of modeling.
We also of course have a lot of history that you can look at around this in our financial supplement.
I think the way to kind of think about this in a normalized environment which is sort of where we are getting to now and Ill comment on that in just a second.
But being that a mid to high single-digit range.
So lets just say sort of 5% to 8% growth in recurring deposits.
The reason it has been a little bit higher than that over the last year or two is because of the financial crisis that that number was negative for a while as participants were getting laid off and matches were getting either reduced or completely eliminated and so when that thing went negative in the 2008 2009 period it builds itself back.
You are going to sort of come at the high end of that range.
I would say at this point while we are not completely back we are sort of 90% of the way back.
So you are going to see that growth in recurring deposits kind of trend from that double-digit rate 10% sort of down to that 5% to 8%.
Anything you want to add Dan?   Yes just maybe one detail.
If you look at that 5% growth in recurring deposits and dissect that you will find out that actually the fine contribution of recurring deposits were up 6.5% because defined benefit deposits were down about 8.5%.
Again lot of that funding would have happened in the first quarter.
The other way to look at that Larry is to look at over the course of last trailing 12 months it was up 7% and again if you break out defined contribution from defined benefit you will find out the DC growth over the trailing 12 months is up about 8.5%.
So right on the  kind of that high single-digit space that we would talk about.
So again I feel really good about the recurring deposits for FSA.
Great thanks.
That's very helpful.
I'll re-queue.
Okay thank you Yaron.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Kruger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Hey good morning.
Hi Ryan.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> First could you quantify what the net flows have been at Post Advisory thus far in July? Ill ask Jim to comment on that.
Thus far in July the net flows are close to  slightly closer to but not really large.
I think the number I was given when I was there earlier this week was about $200 million or $300 million.
The outflow in the second quarter was $2.3 billion which against a post advisory in the order of $10 billion is obviously a big number.
Its happened because of two things one after the other.
There was the retirement of the founder followed by the pension fee portfolio manager departure in March that was mentioned by Larry.
And that was one of the two people who took over the founders responsibilities.
So that led to some clients saying hey things have changed.
But the investment performance through the whole period has been very strong one of the strongest in the high yield bond business.
And so we are definitely getting a good pipeline of enquiries both the clients come and back given the storm they have passed and new clients looking at them.
I hope that answered this?  Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Yes that's very helpful.
Thank you.
And then maybe just back to - maybe thinking about RAS accumulation margins.
In the past and you've talked about a 30% to 32% longer-term target.
We have been pretty far above that for a couple quarters.
Obviously the equity market has helped but I think perhaps other things that have changed or a kind of continued scale being built in the Principal Funds business and margin expansion there.
So can you comment on the 30% to 32%? Do you think it's reasonable to expect maybe that range could be higher longer-term at this point?   Ryan yes this is Larry.
I like the inherent optimism thats contained in your question.
But I am also a little bit tempered by more than 40 years in this business.
So again what I would say is that if you are able to achieve a 30% to 32% margin return in this business you are really talking about a business that has an ROE in that sort of an equivalent number.
So you are talking about a business thats got a 30 plus percent ROE.
And I guess the way I think about this is that while there may be periods as you said because of some extra DRD in Q1 and because of some good market performance in Q2 weve been a little bit above that range.
I think as an investor and we are all investors just like all of you we are pretty happy and excited about a growing business thats got a 30% ROE.
So I think that while there is going to be some periods where it maybe a little bit above that there might be some periods where its a little bit below that as we invest in the business or continue to build out the platform.
And I think really over the long-term if we can hang in that 30% to 32% area I think thats a really really good return in that business.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Understood I mean it seems like the 30% to 32% is kind of like a cross-cycle target.
So we could be in a period Correct.
Yes that's correct.
Yes you want to think about that as kind of the long-term sort of return in that business.
And again that's incredibly attractive which of course is why many other many other competitors are trying to get into that business.
So we know the competitive environment is going to remain difficult but I think our track record is really second to none in those businesses.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> All right thanks.
Appreciated.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Hi thank you.
A couple questions for retirement.
I guess first in FSA you are guiding to sales that are about flat with 2013 which would imply a pickup in activity in the second half.
Is this just based on the timing of closing transactions? Are you starting to see more activity in the marketplace? I'll let Dan.
Yes I think that's well said.
Second quarter as was mentioned on Larry's earlier comments tends to be a soft quarter.
We anticipate having a strong second half of the year large part Erik; because of just strong pipeline close rates continue to improve.
I would be remise if I didn't call out strong investment performance.
It was commented on earlier but whether it's one year three year or five year that's a strong indicator of how competitive we can be in a marketplace.
So again I feel very optimistic that we will not only on the full service accumulation business but also in the mutual fund business let that strong investment performance carry us through the rest of the year.
So we feel good about it I maybe add one quick  if I could add one quick comment Erik I think it's important to understand and this is somewhat true in the Funds business but also true in the Retirement business there is less business moving and that's typical.
When you have a year where the market is as generous as it was in 2013 and you go back and look at prior periods inevitably there is less business sort of out to bid.
And that's the reason that in my earlier comments I said net-net really if you thought in terms of economics the reality is is that we are better off at mid-year 2014 than we were at midyear 2013 because we retained an additional $1.6 billion.
So sales only happen if and when business is out to bid and there is actually less business moving.
So I actually think that if we end up equivalent to 2013 sales thats going to be a strong year for us.
That's helpful.
And then if I could ask one other on - for FSA.
At its recent Investor Day Agon commented that its seeing an increasing number of requests for 401(k) pricing on a per-head basis rather than as a percentage of AUM particularly at the larger end of the market.
I am just wondering if this is something that you are seeing and could it become more prevalent in the mid-sized market? And I guess if it does become a wider spread phenomenon how should we think about the impact on profitability and growth of the 401(k) business if you take out the market leverage component? Sure.
Dan do you want to comment? Yes it's a good question and that has always been the case Erik for the larger case market.
And so I kind of think about plans north of say $100 million to $200 million.
There is generally a very healthy conversation around the per-head charge as opposed to something that might be more asset-based.
We've not really seen that come down below the $50 million mark.
As I've mentioned in previous calls if the plan has more than $5 million of planned assets we'll do - actually do a profitability analysis on each one of those pieces of business.
Each one of them does differ a little bit in terms of resources that we use.
Certainly the use of Principal branded funds will drive that pricing.
But on a net-net basis whether its on a per-head basis or a function of the assets under management we think we can still hit our long-term margin targets by adjusting accordingly.
So it's not a new phenomenon and certainly something that we can adjust our model to.
Erik it's Jim here.
Remember also to supplement what Dan correctly said that even if the per-head pricing for the 401(k) services the people are still choosing investment options and we would be able to make investment management fees on those investment management options.
Got it.
So you retain as long as you are managing the assets you retain the market leverage component its in a different piece of the business.
We're well defended against that change.
And that's core Erik to our strategy right is to manage those assets.
It's not our intention to be a standalone record keeper.
We've got a world-class global asset management franchise with strong investment performance bundled with all of those services whether it's retire works or retire secure.
Those are what value is being placed on that.
As a matter of fact there was an interesting article earlier this week talking about a study that Bloomberg did focusing on the largest 250 plans and the emphasis was on outcomes.
And that's something you've heard us talking about for nearly a decade now.
So again I think that momentum is moving towards what is it doing for my employees is it preparing them for retirement in a satisfactory way and by managing the assets providing the services we think we've got a competitive advantage by packaging in that fashion.
Great.
Thank you for the color.
Thanks Erik.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Dargan with MacQuarie.
Thanks and good morning.
I have a question about Brasilprev.
I think there is a notion with a lot of investors that Brazil is if not in recession at least facing a pretty tough economic climate right now.
I'm just wondering what you are seeing what you think is driving your performance there?  This is Larry.
I'll make a few comments and ask Luis if he like to add on to that.
I mean what is driving the performance there is first of all the very strong distribution platform of Banco Brasil.
There is over 7000 Banco Brasil branches in all areas of that country and there is a very clear understanding on the part of the middle income and upper middle income group in Brazil that they need to take responsibility for their own financial future.
And while the economy itself may struggle from time-to-time and frankly in some respects maybe due to perhaps more intervention by the government into the economy than what would be ideal it doesn't disrupt the sort of fundamental demographic premise that you have this emerging middle-class that is very motivated to save and invest for their own financial future.
So it's really a combination of catching the right demographic trend with an incredibly strong distribution partner all backed up by the expertise of Principal who is really managing kind of under the surface is really managing all of the critical elements of the business so investment portfolios product development product pricing technology et cetera.
So you really have sort of that world class operation in a market that's growing very substantially.
But any  okay? All right.
Does that help Shawn? Yes and is there anything in the financial reporting of BB Seguridade  I pronounced it right Seguridade that would give us some insight to the I guess the underlying trends in the business? Yes absolutely.
There's pretty good transparent  there is very good transparency as to the various components of the business.
Brasilprev is one of about - I think three different areas of the business there and you can certainly go to their website.
They do earnings calls in both Portuguese and English.
I believe their earnings call is in about ten days or two weeks.
But there is very very good transparency and for those that are interested in kind of seeing how that company operates under the surface and how Brasilprev works that's a great opportunity to better understand that.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
I would actually like to follow-up on Shawn's question just on the strong flows in Brazil.
Do you have any visibility in terms of penetration into Banco de Brasil? I believe right now the retirement clients in Banco de Brasil fill a very small portion of the overall client base.
Just wondering how you are seeing that progression in the last couple quarters? Right so again this is Larry.
I will just make a couple of comments.
I think you are exactly right that the key here is the cross-sell percentage of the total retail client base of Banco Brasil which is I think in that $60 million sort of range.
And so it's really a question of what percentage of that retail base is eligible if you will or is a good candidate for some sort of a retirement savings program.
And others can sort of put their own number on it but let's just say I'll put a number of 5% to 10% of that $60 million.
So that's roughly 4 million 5 million 6 million retail clients that are potential.
And I think in Brasilprev today Luis we're looking at  yes 1.8 1.8 million retail clients.
So that's that means we could triple the opportunity in Brasilprev if we just kept the retail client base of Banco at the same level.
Now of course the retail base of Banco is growing at that kind of 8% to 10% sort of range as well.
So as we say when we go down and visit the folks at Brasilprev and have ongoing discussions we got a lot of work to do.
But it does give you a sense of what the longer-term potential is of that business.
Okay great.
And just in flows in Chile you mentioned that voluntary flows were up three-fold versus last year.
Can you give us a sense of what that is in dollars? I'll ask Luis to maybe comment on that.
Yes in dollars that is a  we put $30 million in net customer cash flows a year ago second quarter.
And right now we put in more than $70 million in this quarter.
And essentially we have in place right now three different initiatives in order to continue selling our voluntary products with Cuprum.
The first one is that we are open to independent financial advisors; they are being able right now to sell our voluntary products that are manufactured by Cuprum.
The second initiative is that we already combined our sales forces with Principal Financial Group prior one in then Cuprum in order to continue selling voluntary products and in a much  with a much more broader array of products.
And the three initiatives is that we - third cross-selling up-selling our current clients in Cuprum.
So these are the three initiatives are already in place in Cuprum.
Does that help Seth? That does.
So just for me that $70 million of the $1.4 billion in deposits is that the right way to think about it from Chile? Yes I mean I guess the way I would think about it is that what it demonstrates I think Seth is that we're getting some pretty early traction with the initiatives that Luis discussed.
I mean we are sort of in the first inning really of that opportunity.
We just put these initiatives in place just in the last quarter or two.
And it's actually very encouraging from our perspective to kind of see the traction that we are already getting.
So I think it should continue to further improve from here as those initiatives that Luis described get traction.
Another way to see this if today kind of 97% of our total fee incomes are coming from the compose rate business 3% 4% are coming from the bond.
So you can see there what is that potential that we have in cuprum right now.
Okay great and just if I could ask one very quick one to Terry on buybacks.
What level of buybacks is required just to offset dilution? We look at probably about increase in dilution each quarter will vary based upon a few things.
But we are looking probably at anywhere in the  on an annualized basis anywhere in that $75 million to $100 million depending on the execution of the options in our share price.
But I would say in that $75 million to $100 million is what we probably need for anti-dilution share buybacks.
Now as we I said this year we had a $200 million authorization for this year plus a $55 million carryover from last year.
And to-date we have executed on - about $155 million of execution.
So we still have $100 million outstanding.
So the goal or the intention is first off get the anti-dilution out there and second opportunistically continue to buy back shares.
Okay? Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Benner with FBR Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Thanks.
I wanted to touch on I guess mortality.
It was weak kind of for two quarters in a row.
Just wondering if there is any color you can give us on that or analysis you've done to understand the shortfall there? Yes Randy this is Larry thanks for the question.
Again I'll have Dan make a few comments.
We've obviously spent a fair bit of time quite a bit of time around that and I guess what I would say is that it has been kind of at the low end of our expectations for the last two quarters.
I think in Q1 our experience was reasonably consistent with what we are seeing across most of the industry.
Right.
In Q2 it was more severity than it was incidence.
But whether we are similar to the industry or a little different than the industry I think we'll have to see as the next couple weeks play out and as other companies report.
But again what I would - I guess try to emphasize is we think that our recent results while slightly disappointing on mortality are still sort of at the low-end of the expected range and within what should be statistical fluctuation so.
Yes that's exactly right.
So it's kind of plus or minus the $5 million off of expectation of around $25 million a $20 million thats certainly lower than  that's on the low end of the range tutoring right on the edge of whether or not get call it out or not.
We did do some look back analysis Randy.
If we did experienced higher mortality in six of the last 14 quarters with only three outside one standard deviation.
So again it's on our mind.
We are looking at it very closely.
As you know we've got a lot of reinsurance treaties on a fair amount of this business and there is a little bit of accounting noise.
But it's still within the range of reasonableness from our advantage point.
And to that end we still view that life business as a very valuable part of the franchise.
We got good leadership overseeing it.
We use it as our funding vehicle for non-qualified deferred comp and for our Business Owner Executive Solution.
So it's good for the organization and like you would like to see maybe a little less volatility but it is expected as Larry pointed out we had a couple relatively large claims that really drove the performance down for the quarter.
Okay got it large claims.
And then just a quick one and this is  I mean this is a little bit higher level or quite a bit.
But Larry I guess Id be interested if you have any commentary that's different in the past on DRD and that relates to kind of current efforts in Washington for corporate tax reform kind of around this inversion issue.
I mean is anything different on DRD for you all based on what's going on here now because that is it's a significant item in your financials? Yes so I think Randy it's probably best for my comments to stay more related to just overall overall tax reform.
And I'm probably  over my years I have been more of an optimist than a realist around that.
And I think I am certainly to become more of a realist trending towards a skeptic really around the ability of Congress to take on a larger issue like tax reform.
I think because of the way political cycles work today with four-year Presidential election cycles and two year house cycles I think the reality is that there is a very very short window of time when a - such a significant piece of legislation like tax reform would get done.
And I think about the only time it can get done is if you've got alignment between sort of the White House or Senate and the House and even then it sort of has to go on within kind of the first year of a two year term.
So I don't see any possibility despite discussion.
I don't see any possibility that much is going to change in 2014 or 2015.
Then we'll have a Presidential Election in 2016 and then depending on how that lines up you could see I think a kind of narrow window in there in the post-2016 period.
But I think before that it's going to be most between that and the 2016 election Randy it's going to be mostly political posturing and discussion about what each party would do if they had sort of control of White House Senate and House.
But nothings are really going to really happen on that score.
So status quo on DRD is good to plan on? Well I mean we will adapt to whatever situation we find ourselves in.
We've done this for many many years and again I - specifically as it relates to DRD I don't really have comments other than to say I think we apply the tax laws as they are.
All right.
Understood thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks so much good morning.
Larry you mentioned you put forth PFGs proposal for reform to the Chilean pension system.
So wanted to see if you could comment some on what your suggestions were? Maybe how they differ from what we currently know about the pension system there or maybe what some others are proposing?  Sure.
Yes thanks for that question Chris.
I'll make a few comments and then I'll let Luis add to that because actually Luis was the one who did the testimony in front of the Bravo Commission.
What I would say relative to the meeting with Chilean President Bachelet that I referenced in my opening comments is that we stressed the importance if there is a decision around some sort of government run AFP.
First of all why is there some interest in that? And the answer is that it's to try to improve coverage among the lower income segment.
There is a group of workers often not in completely formal employment who are simply not saving enough for their retirement.
And I think the Chilean government to their credit is really focused on that problem.
But one of the points that we made was that that's actually more of a labor issue than it is a retirement issue.
It's again the fact that these people are in more informal employment arrangements and that's why they haven't been participating regularly in the AFP system.
The other point that I would say I made relative to the President Bachelet is that if there is a desire to have a government run AFP for the primary purpose of focusing on lower income workers that it be critical that that AFP sort of operate with the kind of same governance structure that is required of private sector AFP companies.
And I would say we received immediate and total assurance and agreement that that would be the case i.e.
no sort of government subsidies no sort of easier set of rules or fiduciary responsibilities around it but it's got to operate at the very same level as the private sector.
And then maybe I'll ask Luis if he wants to comment on the Bravo Commission component.
Yes and kind of a short comments about what is our main proposal to that commission Chris is in three main areas.
First some proposal about the voluntary pillar and second proposal about the compulsory and then we put some proposal about the issues that related with the financial education that is needed.
But essentially in a nutshell Chileans and the compulsory mode they are saving 10% out of their pay check.
Our proposal is that 10% has to go up to 16% up to 16% 17%.
So in two tranches.
First we move the 10% compulsory up to 13% and then to cover the next 4% with a third pillar which is a voluntary pillar.
In that sense two things are behind that.
Not just moving the 10% up to 13% it's also moving the salary cap.
Just to give you a reference.
You know the salary cap has to be updated in the moment the salary cap was set in 1981 represent two times the  six times that total GDP per capita.
Right now it represents two times.
So it's very very very dated right now.
So moving that salary cap we have to at least to triple the salary cap in order to update the salary cap.
The other thing which is important we presented all the - our proposal in order to enhance the APBC solution which is a 401(k) type solution for Chile.
They are almost there so they need just a few tweaks in order to really take off the Group solutions and the APBC industry.
In the second issue which is much more about the compulsory side we certainly we aim to move the fees and flows and fees over AUMs in order to align the whole industry in the right sense.
And the second thing that we are talking about is to introduce and by default the concept of the lifetime funds instead of the risk kind of oriented funds that they already have.
These are mainly the two main kind of things that we propose for how to enhance the system and certainly we put other important initiatives related with financial education.
But all in all my personal view is that in Chile they have a pretty good understanding that the right solution is to increase their rate the saving rate increase a 10% up to a kind of 12% 13% to move the salary cap right now very quickly and to certainly enhance the third pillar which is the voluntary pillar particularly in the kind of 401(k) type solution.
And all of those that Luis just mentioned would obviously be very beneficial to the activity there and to our businesses so.
Got it.
Thank you helpful.
And then just my follow-up is I guess with the adoption of new mortality tables for retirement plans wondering how you think about kind of the pressure that puts on DB plans and opportunities that presents to you guys? Yes again I would say that DB services are kind of becoming a lost art from a  its a kind of broad industry perspective.
And I think we have found it very beneficial to sort of go against the grain and over the last kind of 10 years or so we've actually further built out our suite of services there because it's very very central to our total retirement suite sort of concept.
So the point here I think whether it's a mortality table or whatever else it may be the point is that defined benefit sponsors need help and they need to kind of understand what some of these changes are going to do and thats always creates a great opportunity so.
Dan you want to? Those mortality tables perhaps change the funding levels in that 8% to 10% range.
Remember that we've got a lot of these small to medium-sized plans more than 2500 of them.
So these are relatively small dollar amounts.
They are generally leaning towards funding the retirement benefit for the principals of the organization.
So again in the grand scheme of things as we've talk to our defined benefit customers this is not a derailer.
So I don't see defined benefit plan termination is increasing because of a increase in the use of the mortality tables.
However we do have to be very conscious so what the PBGC is doing relative to increasing fees.
But it's still a very very powerful way to go about funding for certain small to medium-size businesses their long-term retirement benefits.
Got it.
Thanks so much.
All right Chris.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman closing comments please? Well thanks everybody for joining us for our call today.
I would say the momentum on our businesses is strong as we commented at the start of the call.
And we look forward to finishing 2014 on a very strong basis.
So we hope to see many of you out on the road over the next three months and particularly we would encourage if any of you are able to make it to please attend our investor event in New York in September.
So with that thanks and have a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning approximately at 8 Oclock P.M.
Eastern Time until the end of the day August 1st 2014 66303168 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056 for U.S.
and Canadian callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Groups Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers have completed their prepared remarks.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Dan Houston Retirement and Investor Services and U.S.
Insurance Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdes Principal International; and Dennis Menken Vice President of our Investment Team.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise them or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before we get to the prepared remarks I'd like to announce some upcoming investor events.
First on the afternoon of November 21st we will host an event in New York City to provide an update on Principal Global Investors; our asset management business.
Details are available on our website.
We are also planning an update in the spring on Principal Internationals Latin American businesses.
That event will be held Santiago Chile on March 11.
We hope that many of you are able to attend these events.
Finally our 2015 outlook call will be held on morning of December 8th.
We will provide call-in information closer to that date.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
As usual I'll comment on three areas.
First I'll discuss third quarter and year-to-date results.
Second I'll provide an update on the continued successful execution and long-term benefits of our strategy; and I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As John mentioned slides related to todays call are on our website.
As you can see on slide four total company quarterly operating earnings of $354 million made this our third straight quarter of record earnings.
As Terry will discuss the results included a $39 million benefit from our annual review of actuarial assumptions and methodology.
However even adjusting for this we consider third quarter to be another strong quarter.
Third quarter results combined with a strong first half resulted in year-to-date 2014 operating earnings of $994 million.
This is a 28% improvement over year-to-date 2013 results on a reported basis and a 23% improvement when adjusting for the actuarial assumption review.
This is an outstanding result despite continued macroeconomic volatility and reflects the strength of our diversified business model and the ongoing momentum in our businesses.
Assets under management were $514 billion at quarter end down 1% from mid-year.
The strengthening of the US dollar reduced assets under management by $9 billion for the quarter.
Solid sales and retention contributed to $2.7 billion of total company net cash flows for the quarter and $18 billion over the trailing 12 months.
This demonstrates the competitiveness of our businesses the outstanding investment performance we are generating and the strength of our distribution partnerships across the organization.
Following our additional key growth metrics from the quarter full service accumulation quarterly sales were $1.8 billion.
We continue to strike the right balance between growth and profitability.
Third quarter recurring deposits increased 9% over the prior year period reflecting the recovering economy and improving deferral rates as our retirement readiness initiatives started to take hold.
Principal Funds had strong sales of $5.2 billion for the quarter.
Net cash flows were $1.4 billion.
This is Principal Funds 19th straight quarter of positive net cash flows.
At 8% of account value Principal Funds net cash flows were almost three times the industry.
Principal Global Investors had $500 million of unaffiliated net cash flows which contributed to unaffiliated assets under management of $114 billion at the end of the third quarter.
Total assets under management in Principal Global Investors were $307 billion.
Principal Internationals assets under management increased 13% over the prior year quarter to $116 billion despite the strengthening of the dollar.
Coming off record net cash flows in the second quarter Principal International delivered strong third quarter net cash flows of $2.5 billion driven by continued strength in Brazil.
Specialty benefits premium and fees increased 9% over third quarter 2013 as a result of record third quarter sales and strong persistency.
In plan growth over the past 12 months was 1.5% the highest level since 2006 signaling more sustainable job growth.
We continue to deliver products and solutions that are in demand with a focus on providing financial security to business owners individuals and investors around the globe.
We remain confident about our competitive positioning and our ability to continue to grow our businesses into the future.
Next I will provide a few updates on the continued execution of our strategy.
Many of you had the opportunity to attend our investor event in September with members of our US Retirement Leadership team as they discussed the Principal remains competitive and is a retirement leader with key differentiators like Principal Total Retirement Suite and Retire Secure.
These innovative approaches build stronger relationships with advisors client sponsors and participants driving better persistency.
We are also focused on addressing retirement income gaps through our retirement readiness program called Principal Plan Works.
Plan Works encourages plan level features such as auto enrollment and auto escalation to drive improved participation in deferral rates.
Additionally we recently rolled out a new participant website designed to provide participants a quick view of their retirement savings and drive them to take action to improve their retirement readiness.
As slide five shows investment performance continues to be very strong and is a leading indicator of growth for our retirement and investment management businesses.
At least 85% of Principal Funds investment options were in the top half of Morningstar rankings on a one three and five year basis at quarter end.
Principal Funds continues to perform very well.
Funds had record operating earnings in the third quarter demonstrating our ability to turn the strong growth in recent years into bottom line results.
Principal Funds continues to have great success executing on a strategy focused on asset allocation multi-manager funds that address risk and income needs.
65% of Principal Funds assets under management are in Morningstar rank four and five star funds.
We continue to expand on our outcome based funds lineup and enhance our investment platform.
Through the third quarter we have launched four new fund products this year and anticipate launching three more in December and up to five more in 2015.
Principal Global Investors made two strategic announcements in the third quarter that enhanced our successful multi-boutique strategy; first we announced the Principal Real Estate Investors a dedicated real estate group of Principal Global Investors partnered with Macquarie Group to create a nationwide commercial lending platform known as Principal Commercial Capital.
Principal Real Estate Investors will provide its underwriting and loan origination expertise but will not take on the balance sheet risk.
In addition we announced that Principal Global Investors has increased its ownership stake in Columbus Circle Investors from 70% to 95% with plans to acquire the remaining 5% over the next two years.
Columbus Circle has performed exceptionally well since we first acquired a majority ownership in 2005 with assets under management quadrupling over that time.
Investment performance was strong and we retained all of the key investment staff.
This boutique remains an important part of our overall investment management strategy as it invests on behalf of all of our platforms.
Principal International had another quarter of record operating earnings despite continued macroeconomic headwinds.
On a local currency basis operating earnings once again grew at a double-digit rate compared to the prior year quarter.
A combination of our investment management expertise our ability to effectively manage the business at a local level and our relationships with marquee distribution partners positions Principal International for continued long-term growth and success.
An example of our strong distribution partnerships is the success of our joint venture in Brazil BrasilPrev.
On the trailing 12 months basis BrasilPrev garnered 58% of net deposits in the Brazilian open pension market moving them into the number two spot for pension providers based on assets under management.
This underscores the strength of Banco Brasils distribution reach and demonstrates the powerful long-term opportunities for BrasilPrev.
Additionally we continue to focus on maximizing the voluntary savings opportunities in Chile.
Cuprum voluntary sales increased 29% and net cash flows for voluntary products were five times higher than the year ago quarters results.
I also want to mention the continued strong performance from our Specialty Benefits Division.
Our team continues to do an excellent job of maintaining above market growth with sound pricing discipline resulting in better than expected loss ratios.
Providing leading employee benefit solutions to small and medium size businesses continues to be an important part of our strategy in the United States.
Next I will comment on capital management.
Our fee based business model allows us to generate free cash flow and strategically deploy it to create long-term value for shareholders.
We remain well positioned to deploy capital through a variety of options in addition to supporting organic growth.
Last night we announced a $0.34 per share common stock dividend payable in the fourth quarter.
This brings the annual 2014 common stock dividend to $1.28 up 31% over full year 2013.
The merger and acquisition pipeline remains active with opportunities to further enhance our global investment management platform.
In closing I want to point out two third-party recognitions we received.
I am especially pleased because both of these recognize our commitment across the entire company on corporate responsibility and sustainability.
First Principal Real Estate Investors recently received a Green Star designation for three funds from the 2014 global real estate sustainability benchmark survey including achieving the number one ranking out of 64 opportunistic investment strategy funds.
Green Star is the highest ranking this organization provides.
In addition the Principal was recently recognized as a leader among S&amp;P 500 companies by the environmental non-profit organization CDP for its actions to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate the business risk of climate change.
We take being a socially responsible company very seriously and are proud of our recent recognitions of our efforts.
Before I turn it over to Terry I just want to take a minute to note that yesterday was the 13th anniversary of our initial public offering.
At that time we had approximately $100 billion in assets under management and a solid position in the U.S.
insurance and retirement markets.
Our aspiration was to become recognized as a global leader in the mutual funds and asset management areas.
Since going public weve generated nearly $150 billion in net cash flows and assets under management have grown to over $500 billion.
Thats our compounded annual growth rate of over 12% which is 2.5 times the growth of the S&amp;P 500.
But as pleased as we are about our results to date we are even more excited for the growth opportunities that lie ahead of us.
Terry? Thanks Larry.
This morning I will focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter net income including performance on the investment portfolio and an update on capital deployment.
Third quarter continued to build on our strong first half of 2014.
Total company operating earnings of $354 million were up 31% over the prior year quarter.
On a reported basis operating earnings per share were a record $1.19 a 32% increase over third quarter 2013 results.
Total company operating earnings for 2013 were a record $1.1 billion.
Year-to-date 2014 operating earnings of $994 million are already 94% of that amount.
We continue to successfully execute on our strategy and momentum continues to build across our businesses.
With our continued shift towards a fee-based business model were increasingly well positioned for long-term growth.
During the quarter we completed our annual actuarial assumption and model review.
The impact from the review was predominantly recognized in the Individual Life division.
Individual Life had a net operating earnings benefit of $39 million or $0.13 per share.
In third quarter 2012 we made a significant change in our long-term interest rate assumption and guide path.
Thus the current year impact from the continued low interest rate environment was minimal.
The benefit this quarter in Individual Life was driven by several updated assumptions and model enhancements including refined coverage periods and policy specific premiums.
On slide six we normalized third quarter 2014 earnings for two additional items.
First the encaje return in Principal International was $12 million or $0.04 per share better than expected.
The higher than expected encaje returns are reflected in Street earnings expectations for the quarter and are consistent with the encaje return information available on the website we provided in the past.
Next Individual Life claim adversely impacted earnings by $10 million or $0.03 on a per share basis.
Analysis of claims points to random volatility which is inherent in risk-based businesses.
Given what we have seen in the last few quarters we continue to analyze the results and well communicate any changes to our expectations if deemed necessary.
On a normalized basis earnings per share were a $1.05 up 13% over normalized prior year quarter.
At quarter end return on equity excluding AOCI was 14.1%.
This is a 220 basis points improvement from a year ago.
Organic growth contributed a 145 basis points of the increase as operating earnings improved 26% while mean equity increased only 6%.
Operating earnings during this time period benefited from favorable equity markets and high variable investment income which were partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and higher than expected mortality.
Were still targeting 50 to 80 basis points of annual return on equity expansion as the strength of our diversified business model continues to provide many growth opportunities both domestically and internationally.
Now Ill discuss business unit results.
Retirement and investor services delivered its eight straight quarter of double-digit operating earnings growth.
For the accumulation businesses operating earnings were a $180 million an increase of 19% over the year ago quarter.
Slide seven shows that the net revenue was up 11% over third quarter 2013 and up 12% on a trailing 12 month basis.
Trailing 12-month pretax return on net revenue improved to 34%.
All-service accumulation operating earnings were $113 million a 24% increase over the year-ago quarter.
Net revenue growth of 9% combined with expense discipline resulted in an improvement in the trailing 12 month pretax return on net revenue to 35%.
This margin has been held by the strong equity market returns over the past year and some positive one-time items that we have discussed in previous calls.
Net cash flows for full-service accumulation were slightly negative for the quarter.
In light of our shift in focus on asset sales to new business revenue we have become more selective on new sales particularly at the large end of the market.
We are increasingly focused on two measures first on planned retention which was very strong at 97% year-to-date up 100 basis points from a year ago and second on capturing more assets to principle branded funds which is up 5 percentage points to 73% year-to-date on new sales reflecting strong investment performance.
Principal Funds third quarter operating earnings were up 25% from a year ago quarter to a record $28 million.
On a trailing 12-month basis revenue was up 14% and operating margins continued to improve due to the scale-based nature of the business.
For the quarter Principal Fund sales were $5.2 billion contributing $1.4 billion in net cash flows.
Strong investment performance and are focused on outcome oriented products have led strong sales across multiple asset types.
Individual Annuities operating earnings was $31 million for the quarter.
The increased fee revenue on our variable annuity business due to market appreciation continues to offset spread compression on our fixed deferred block of business.
Looking at slide eight the guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services continue to perform as expected.
We continue to approach these businesses opportunistically.
Turning to slide nine Principal Global Investors quarterly operating earnings were $25 million a 10% improvement over the year-ago quarter.
Trailing 12 months pretax margin was 25% slightly below our expectation of 26% to 28% for the year.
Fourth quarter 2013 benefited from large performance fees which lowered the trailing 12 month pretax margin by approximately 100 basis points.
We still anticipate increasing to a 30% pretax margin.
We expect 2014 revenue in this business to be similar to 2013 levels.
While management fee should grow in line with assets under management performance fees are less likely to reach 2013 levels.
Third quarter net cash flows from our fee base products were nearly $750 million which is partially offset by our opportunistic approach to the guaranteed business.
Net cash flows at post advisory groups improved dramatically with only modest outflows during the quarter reflecting some rebalancing occurring in high yield.
Quarterly performance remained in the top quartile.
Assets under management for Principal Global Investors increased 9% over the prior year quarter to $307 billion.
Unaffiliated asset under management ended the quarter at $114 billion a 7% increase over the year-ago quarter.
Slide 10 shows record quarterly operating earnings for Principal International of $74 million up 46% increase on a reported basis.
As pointed out earlier results in the current quarter were helped by higher than expected encaje returns in Chile.
While the strengthening of U.S.
dollar dampens growth from comparing prior period results Principal International continues to perform well on a local currency basis.
Operating earnings were up 12% over the prior year quarter after adjusting for normalizing items.
On a trailing 12 month basis combined net revenue was up 20% above our 16% to 18% expectation due to the strong encaje returns.
Combined pretax return on net revenue was 52% on a trailing 12 month basis at the top end of our range.
As show on slide 11 Individual Lifes operating earnings were $52 million for the quarter impacted by the items previously discussed.
Moving to slide 12 Specialty Benefits operating earnings of $31 million were roughly flat with the year ago quarter while the quarterly premiums and fees were up 9% over the year ago quarter.
The loss ratio for the quarter remained strong at 64.5% relative to our 65% to 71% targeted range.
The more favorable claims and strong growth in the current quarter were offset by lower expenses in the prior year quarter.
On a trailing 12 month basis premium and fees were up 6%.
This is above our expectation of 3% to 5% growth for the year.
Trailing 12 months pretax operating margin of 11% is inline with our expectations.
For the quarter total company net income was $241 million including realized capital losses of $55 million.
Net credit related losses continue to be in line with expectations.
We saw improvement in the commercial mortgage backed securities asset class with impairments of only $15 million in the quarter.
Net income was negatively impacted by $58 million to the Chilean tax Reform Bill that was signed into law during the quarter.
The tax rate will increase overtime so the impact to operating earnings will be gradual.
However we adjusted our deferred tax liability for the ultimate tax rate in the third quarter.
Unrealized gains were $2.8 billion at quarter end.
As a reminder because of our strong asset liability management changes in net unrealized gains or losses due to interest rate movements do not result in an economic impact.
Our asset liability management expertise combined with strong liquidity allows us to avoid forced asset sales in periods of stress.
In addition our predominantly fee-based business model limits our sensitivity to interest rate movements.
As outlined on slide 13 our approach to capital deployment is balanced and focused on increasing long-term value for shareholders.
Weve now announced plans to deploy more than $855 million of capital in 2014 well above our $500 million to $700 million stated range for the year.
In addition to the third quarter common stock dividend and increased ownership in Columbus Circle Investors we repurchased $72 million of common stock during the quarter.
We still have $50 million remaining from the previously announced share repurchase program.
In closing there are some macro-economic factors providing significant headwinds as we start the fourth quarter.
However we feel that our diversified business model positions us well for future growth in various economic environments.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question will come from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
First question is just on -- can you help us think through I guess it would either be for Jim or Terry can you help us think through the valuation on the Columbus Circle buyout? Was that just a contractual obligation was that negotiated because when I look at the implied valuation of $720 million it looks pretty high relative to what I would expect that to be earnings with AUM.
Thats my first question.
Okay Tom good morning this is Larry.
Ill have Jim take that one for you.
Tom I think you have to see that final payments in the context of the incentive structure at Columbus Circle.
And to take you through the whole story as quickly as I can so the first 70% at the end of 2004 we paid $60 million.
Obviously the company was way smaller then and management has done a fine job growing it and weve obviously supported that.
We paid a further $180 million $179 million for the next 25% share.
What that means is weve effectively for $240 million bought a company thats current value must be around $500 million if you mark it to market.
Now as you remarked the price we paid for the 25% looks to be pretty clearly above market.
That was a contractual formula we settled on five or six years ago very deliberately to incent management to go strongly for growth and to build a very sound business.
Management has delivered on that so thats why they got a good price for the further 25%.
And from a Principal point of view weve ended up with a very valuable asset.
Weve also by the way in the ten years we owned it received almost a $180 million of dividends from Columbus Circle.
So if you add this all up this has been a really tremendous acquisition.
The return on the capital invested so far has been in the high teens.
So I think were poised to make this very successful.
Okay.
That's pretty clear Jim.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up on the mortality and individual life this quarter.
Now I know the actuarial review had gains and I presume those were non-mortality related.
Can you just address the issue of what has been I guess different quarters of weak mortality over the last two or three years and whether or not that was factored into the actuarial review and how would you think about that in the context of the balance sheet? Thanks.
Yeah Tom.
This is Larry; I'll make a few comments and maybe ask Dan or Terry to comment as well.
I think if you look back over about the last three or four years I think the last sort of 15 quarters we've had a little higher mortality in about seven of those quarters.
So in the current quarter Tom the higher mortality really was more a matter of severity than it was of frequency.
So we are going to take a further look into that.
I think it's something that we do need to pay a little bit of attention to.
Having said that the mortality was not really an issue in the actuarial assumption review.
We took our appropriate steps a couple of years ago relative to interest rates and other economic factors.
The adjustments this time were more related to lapse rates and the reinsurance cost and what I would call sort of maybe some secondary factors rather than basic mortality or interest rate.
So let me see if Dan wants to add anything.
Yeah maybe just a couple of data point.
So Larry the first is which on a year-to-date basis we look at large claims its actually been about one less that we would have been expected for that period of time.
But to the comment that made in the earlier comments the severity of those large claims has been more significant.
We would have been expected maybe $384 000 versus $800 000.
So this is severity issue.
We are taking a very hard look at this.
We got a group of senior executives drilling down to take a very very hard look at the business and make adjustments as necessary.
But at this point in time we do not think that we get a systemic problem.
This is all in the course of the volatility associated with a life block like this.
So Dan nothing because I remember several years ago you all had mentioned the IOE issue is you are not tracing it back to that per se right now? We're not.
We can identify through four very large claims had they not occurred we wouldn't have had the mortality expense that we have.
As you know our business is bifurcated some has more reinsurance than others and unfortunately in these instances they were just almost freakish sort of claims.
So again more validation and we don't think this is a systemic issue its more of a situational one but again that wont keep us from really digging into the details.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Tom.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
If I could just follow up on the actuarial review and I believe you mentioned that the impact from interest rates was minimal for the quarter.
Could you comment on how you reset the glide path of interest rate improvements in the future in your [substance]? Yeah Seth this is Larry.
I'll have Terry make a few comments.
To go back again I think you really understand this year you have to sort of go back and look at what was done in the past.
I know some comments have been written as to whether does this indicate other companies are going to have comparable sort of positive numbers or rather negative numbers and of course theres no way to ever really make any conclusion on that unless you have a sense of what each company has done up to this point in time.
So sort of the trough at this point and again it's up till now the trough really was in 2012 where at that time the ten year treasury was sort of give or take in the range of 175.
Today it's sort of give or take to 220.
So from the time we actually took the hit in 2012 which I think is around $90 million interest rates are now actually up about 45 basis points.
At that time we not only lowered the loan term interest rate but we also changed the so called glidepath that you referenced in your question.
So we expected the portfolio rate was going to continue actually go down from that point for another three or four years and that's kind of exactly what's happened.
So what I'd say is again we took the adjustment in 2012.
It has sort of trended or followed that path that we expected it to follow in 2012.
So there is very little need to do any particular updating.
So Terry do you want to add anything? Yeah its Terry just have a few additional comments on it.
Each quarter we take a look at any significant items that may have changed but in the third quarter of each year we do an annual actuarial review of our models as well as our assumptions.
We look at interest rates we look at mortality we look at lapses expenses premiums reinsurance all the different drivers of those long-term actual models and as Dan said we look at mortality this quarter decided that it was a more of a few random isolated cases so we did not adjust for the mortality at this point in time but we will continue to look at it.
As Larry said in 2012 we looked at the low interest rate environment has turned the ultimate rate and lower ultimate rate down by 50 basis points at that point in time.
But probably equally as important and maybe more so important is the glide path with which to get there.
Each company will have their own opinion as to this but I think one of ours is probably a little bit more conservative as to how long it takes us to get to that glide path.
A year ago we looked at the raising interest rate environment the environment at that point in time and decided we are not seeing a significant change in the glide path that we would warrant a positive unlocking a year ago and it served us well again this year.
We did again look at the trajectory out to that longer term rate we feel very comfortable with our ultimate rates for each of our businesses.
We feel very comfortable in terms of the glide path but as we have mentioned before these are just a couple of the components that impact the actuarial unlocking.
The last point Id make on this actuarial unlocking for the $39 million that we called out impacting the life area was -- that was really a conservative assumptions that we have had over the last six or seven years and so in a lot of cases you will see an unlocking will bring in profitability or losses from future years.
This is all with respect to the last six or seven years of understating some profitability.
So we are very comfortable with the actuarial review at this quarter and unlocking that we called out.
Thats very helpful.
And if I could just I suppose follow-up on that and I know you havent given specific quantitative landmarks in terms of where rates need to get to but I believe that general commentary at least back in the third quarter of 2012 when you and some others changed the interest rate assumptions was following the forward curve in the near term which rates have actually followed pretty closely what the forward curve suggested if you go back two years ago.
But then I believe that it implied a faster improvement in interest rates if you look forward three to five years going back to 2012 or coming up upon that.
So the question is if we just follow todays forward curve going forward is that not going to be fast enough rate of improvement in order to avoid balance sheet charges in future years?  No Seth this is Terry again.
No I think what we are looking at right now is an ultimate rate that is probably -- and varies based upon the product under duration obviously but if you are looking out 30 years 25-30 years into the future the forward rates are probably pretty closely where we would expect them to be at that point in time.
Seth this Larry.
I am going to add one higher level comment.
You know Individual Lifes business remains very important to us strategically but I also think its important that investors not lose sight of the fact of the substantial growth thats happened over the last few years is going to continue to happen with our fee base businesses so what you are talking about there again is roughly give or take somewhere between 5% and 8% of our total company earnings attributable to Individual Lifes.
So we could talk about sort of the unlocking and there is going to be some noise from time to time but I dont want to let that obscure the real trend which is happening which is really the growth in the fee base businesses.
So just wanted to add that comment as background.
Understood thanks a lot for the comments.
Hi thank you.
Can you talk about what drove the decline in the pretax margin in PGI this quarter? And it sounds like from your comments in the script you still are comfortable getting to the 30% plus range for pre-tax margins over the next two years.
So if you can just talk about kind of what are the key drivers there? Yeah you bet.
Ill have Jim cover that for you.
Yeah thanks Erik.
Firstly theres always a lot of fluctuations quarter-to-quarter.
So really better to look at the trailing 12 months to move that out to get the trend.
First thing to say as a broad context is the industry is suffering and has been suffering in the last two years as assets have moved to passive and to liability driven investing.
We are in those businesses but we are not big players.
So in terms of flows the main point is flows are very loopy businesses and thats put some pressure on industry margins.
What that pressure is meaning is that we are going to take longer to get to that 30% we have talked about.
If I look to the current quarter however it was a pretty low quarter for both transaction fees on real estate and for performance fees generally.
So that actually means that it was if anything a pretty low quarter if you look at the fluctuations quarter-to-quarter.
Secondly in conjunction with the general churn in the industry the net flow consists of some pretty big inflows and outflow and the inflows of course are not cost free.
Theres cost including commissions of putting that business on the books.
So thats actually one of the factors that brought the margins down a bit for this particular quarter.
Now of course being able to take in assets in contrast to many in the industry because of our performance and our distribution reach is long-term good for the business but short-term it does cause a bit of a margin impact.
If you look at the trailing 12 months which I encourage you to think of as the glidepath towards that 30% firstly the fourth quarter 2013 will fall off.
That was a low margin quarter because of the particular set of incentive fees we had in that quarter.
We are pretty confident the trailing 12 months will again show some progress and be in albeit lower level of that 26% to 28% range we previously talked about.
But we are on course to continue improving margins.
The real reason I am confident of that is that the business we are putting on the books at the moment is both very well priced and should be quite profitable looking forward.
The margin of new business is very profitable.
Thats really the root of our confidence that we are headed for 30%.
Thank you thats helpful.
Any sense of I mean at this point how quickly you would assume that pace of expansion from kind of getting that 26% to 28% to the 30%.
Yeah we will get more formal about that in the guidance call but I think its fair to say the industry background makes it fair that it will take a year or two more than we perhaps thought when we first started.
Okay thanks.
And then if I could ask just one other margin question this time on [RIS] accumulation.
At Investor Day you talked about continuing to target to 28% to 32% return on net revenue overtime and outlined a couple of factors that could pressure margins other than just the market decline.
I think you also suggested the margins could remain above that target near-term if the markets hold up.
So can you just help us think about how long it would take for margins to decline from the current level to that and at 28% to 32% range if the market performs inline with your expectations? Okay Erik Ill have Dan cover that.
Hi Erik this is Dan.
I would say over the course of next couple of years again we have had really nice tailwinds here in the last two years driving equity markets and its been really nice obviously.
But again when we validate those long-term earnings rates we feel very confident that we can hold up into those ranges in fact they are up slightly and a lot more to do with just how positive the markets are right now as opposed to anything else.
Okay thank you.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Gentlemen PGI typically in the fourth quarter of a good year you will receive some performance fees that will flow through the income statement.
I am wondering if you could give us a directional sense of where they may shake out this year.
Thats a terribly hard thing to do given volatile markets and even a well-managed hedge fund which is where the big numbers tend to come from can have individual months drawdowns in the low single-digits and that can affect the amount we make.
As of the end of September we were confident of a decent fourth quarter but not as big as a performance fee as last year.
And I think thats probably about the best I can say right now because there is a high degree of uncertainty until you really get into the closing stretch.
But the other thing Id point out though is we were little unfortunate last year in that the big performance fee came through on a petro hedge funds where we have a very historical agreement a very legacy agreement with the team that we will pay them a large proportionate incentive comp of the carry on the fund.
So the funds we set up and developed more recently we have a more market deal.
So there wont be the adverse impact on margins if it flows through as expected.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you thats helpful.
And then just going back to the change in the tax law in Chile so the effective rate overtime will creep up to 27% is that correct? Thats correct.
Inc.</strong> And then how long will that take? Five years four to five years.
Inc.</strong> Okay and the charges related to deferred tax liability which is why you put a plug on? Thats right.
I mean we sort of believe -- this is Larry Sean we sort of believe that the operating earnings metric is best suited to sort of help to predict how the businesses themselves are doing not some of the other balance sheet impact.
So to put the -- at least in our thinking the way we construct operating earnings to put a one-time item like a reset of the deferred tax asset into an operating earnings number would make it more difficult for you to try to understand and to get a reasonable estimate of what the run rate earnings of the business are.
So thats why to us it made sense to put it in the other after tax adjustment.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you very much.
The next question will come from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Hi first question for Dan just on FSA flows and deposits.
They seemed a little weak this quarter I think you were optimistic at the last call that things were going to improve in the second half.
So maybe you could talk about how youre balancing margins and flows in that business and how the competitive environment is and maybe talk about the pipeline as well? And then secondly for Larry or Terry youve spent more on buybacks and deals and dividends this year than you had indicated previously.
So should we assume that youre going to be active on buybacks through the remainder of the year as well or not? Okay Ill have Dan take the FSA one first Jimmy.
Yeah Jimmy good morning.
Good strong margins good recurring deposits good strong revenue growth a little light in sales at 1.8 billion versus prior quarter $2.7 million we have one sale just this last year ago quarter that was nearly a $1 billion.
So again if you wanted to kind of compare the two numbers were closer to be on top of one another than perhaps you realize.
The large case market is more lumpy thats a reality.
When we validate the value proposition of TRS working with our alliance partners executing our planned works thats all still very much resonating with our customers.
Theres been a pick up here recently in terms of the size of the pipeline and say the first half of the year the pipeline is pretty light.
Again strong investment performance probably contributes to some of that.
In terms of value proposition again when I look at investment performance as I mentioned in the earlier comments weve got very very strong performance coming from Jim and his team for our Principal branded funds.
We had 88% of our funds five year level that are in the top two quartiles which makes our existing customers happy and prospective clients pleased.
We got record retention during that period of time.
And the other item Ive brought this up on previous calls but when I look at our DCIO business which again is taking advantage of our investment management capabilities without necessarily buying our record keeping thats up double from where it was in 2011 and $3.3 billion in terms of the shift and net cash flow a little bit light its negative a couple of $100 million.
Again were still coming in on top of that net cash flow which would be somewhere net of 1.5 billion on a year-to-date basis which would put us at the low end of our range of 1% to 3% of beginning year account balance.
So its not performing that unlike what we would have expected.
And the difference is probably a few larger cases.
But again were going to stick to our focus on being disciplined on profitable growth and write businesses that are going to allow us to execute on all of business all the values that we bring as an asset manager in addition to being a provider of services to participants and plan sponsors.
So hopefully that helps Jimmy.
So on your other question well maybe just a quick comment Jimmy on your first one which is if you had if you as an analyst or you as an investor had a choice between two different paths one path would have higher sales and less retention.
The other path would have lower sales and higher retention 2014 represents that second path and that second path is actually a better economic outcome to have somewhat lower sales and better retention because your most profitable business in the dollars that you have on the book.
So actually of the two paths we like this path better.
Now on your question on buybacks again I think we have been more consistent on this issue certainly than many of our insurance peers but even more I think than many other public companies.
We have said now for some period of time we are less oriented towards share buyback.
We think we are among a very small set of companies that can organically grow our earnings and use that to grow EPS.
And so we think about share buyback as simply a tool to offset dilution and that's essentially what's happened over the last couple of years as we use share buyback offset dilution.
We have allowed the businesses to grow organically and that provides EPS.
I think as I sit here today Jimmy and I look forward I think that's going to continue to sort of be the formula.
We have a lot of opportunities as we said before in the script we have a lot of opportunities around M&amp;A.
I think for those who are long term shareholders the best thing we can do is to use our capital to deploy it to grow our businesses and grow shareholder value over the long term.
And so that's what we're going to continue to do.
We will continue to move the dividend up.
I think a 31% increase in our common stock dividend this year should be viewed very positively by investors but share buyback while it is a real stat it's not something that we have to go to in order to grow EPS which is what most companies end up having to do.
And the deal focus primarily I am assuming is asset management and international? That is correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thanks and good morning.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First on the asset management business and specifically the buy ins of -- any future buy ins of boutiques are there any more deals that were sort of structured like the Columbus Circle that we should be thinking about over the next couple of years in terms of good options and the like.
Yeah Ill have Jim cover that Suneet good morning.
Thanks Suneet.
The only one that's on a similar formulaic pattern is actually the further 5% of Columbus Circle which there is no guarantee that we expect to be able to buy that in from management over the next two or three years.
So that would be on the same sort of structures I described.
Since about six or seven years ago really the rules around put and call options have made it much more advantageous to go with pure market value assessments and so the exact structure I described in Columbus Circle is not replicated on the other puts and calls.
Where management have equity in the boutique we generally do have put rights for them particularly if they want to retire and call rights for us some years out in the future.
But really the further 5% of Columbus Circle is the only one that imminent in the next year or two.
Okay.
Got it.
And then I guess for Dan on FSA just a follow up on Jimmy's question.
I guess at the beginning of the year you had talked about flat sales.
It looks like fourth quarter would have to be a pretty huge quarter for that to happen.
So any sense on what your full year outlook is now for sales and given some of the market dynamics that you mentioned how should we be thinking about 2015 sales growth? Yeah.
So this is Larry I'll just make a couple of high level comments.
You know we're now little bit focused Suneet on sort of the revenue generated by the sales rather than the AUM generated by the sales.
And so we had a certain target sort of thinking that 2014 was going to represent an FSA sales volume and net revenue new volume that would be comparable to 2013.
And I think while we may fall little bit short on the asset component we do expect to be pretty close in terms of the revenue generated off of that sales volume being very comparable in 2013.
So again all-in-all in an era where there is less money in motion I think thats actually a pretty good result and as I said we are seeing retention at an all-time high which again adds to the margin and to the profitability of the business.
Okay and then just one last one just on that same topic.
So I think Dan you had said earlier or somebody had said earlier that about 73% of new FSA sales are going into Principal Fund how high do you think that number could go? I would imagine at some point youll hit a ceiling but I just dont know if you have a sense of how high that number could go? Yeah I think the ceilings a 100%.
You could actually do a 100% you think? Well I like think we could because investment performed just good.
In all seriousness the reality is it really differs by the size of the plan.
The smaller the plan the higher profitability youre going to have a higher percentage allocated to Principal funds and if I look at that emerging market which is under $5 million thats north of 80% 85%.
If I look at that dynamic on a 5 to 50 those numbers kind of settle in the 70s.
Its when you get to the really large cases where you get this volatility if you wanted to you can write a lot of plans where you didnt manage any of the assets and you did 100% of the record keeping.
The economics on that are not very good.
The reality is that space is going to probably end up settling into that 50% to 60% of Principal managed accounts.
The good news is weve got really good value proposition with the service package and investment performance is good which leads to being more selective more disciplined and we just finished a institutional client conference in September with some of our largest clients had the opportunity to showcase what were doing some of the new plan -- some of the new investment options some of the new services in particular about helping their future retirees do a better job planning for retirements called Plan Works.
The feedback could not have been more positive.
So again it reinforces that we feel that our strategy is very much on point.
We may see sales as Larry pointed out measured by assets down say 5% or 10% on a full year basis relative to a year ago.
And at some point we may have a more sedate conversation about the difference in our model that values assets under management versus assets under administration because those are two very different models and I suspect the industry will start bifurcating to some extent along those lines.
Yeah if I can add to reinforce Dan points Dan made some excellent points but I would emphasize that his team and mine in other words the retirement services people and the product people within Principal Global Investors work very very closely together designing capabilities that provide outcomes that are attractive to the plan participant.
And thats why ultimately were doing better in terms of the allocations that are coming both from the fund sponsor level and funds participant level.
Its not as well as something I would argue the strongest suite of investment products in the industry that makes us so confident we can keep in on in this direction.
And those large cases that youre talking about where maybe you get a smaller than average percentage of the asset management mandate is that forming about a third of your new business? Yeah thats probably a good number.
I think in years past it could have been as much as 50% but if we settle down on a third small third medium and a third large and those large plans are ones that really value the entire suite of services products and investment line up thats probably not a bad place for our stand up.
Terrific thank you.
Thanks Suneet.
The final question will come from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Hey good morning everybody.
Mostly asked and answered but I am interested in any update you might be willing to give on expansion in Asia and of course particularly in China anything happened in the quarter? Okay this is Larry Steven.
So as you know weve had a very successful -- Ill talk about China first and then make few comments on Asia and see if Luis wants to add anything.
Weve had a successful mutual fund company in China since 2006 and again for those not as familiar with our businesses or partner there is China Construction Bank which is a very large state-owned bank today probably the third or fourth largest bank in the world.
And thats been a very successful effort in the mutual fund and asset management space.
But the desire is to hopefully someday get into the retirement business in China.
That business exists today its called Enterprise Annuity but its been limited to local companies.
And so we continue to travel over there to visit with regulators recognizing their need to deal with aging which in China is one of the most aged populations on the earth because of the one child policy.
So we remain hopeful although I dont think well have anything to announce in the near term on that particular project but we do remain hopeful that overtime we think if and when they expand that industry well be one of the first ones allowed in.
More broadly across Asia Steven its a great question and what I would say is and I mentioned this in the opening comments there is more activity and some of that is in Asia and most of that is coming out of banks primarily European banks but some U.S.
banks who are in the process as I think everyone knows of having to get out of geographic markets that are not meaningful and having to get out of tangential businesses that are not meaningful.
So the regulatory pressure on the larger banks continues to be pretty severe and that gives companies like Principal I think a great opportunity and weve done a number of acquisitions in Asia although theyve been pretty small.
You may remember last quarter we announced an acquisition in Thailand thats kind of small on one hand but it actually doubled the size of that Thailand business.
So again its a matter trying to sort of get to scale within each of the seven countries in Asia where we operate.
So anything you want to add Luis? No okay I hope that helps Steven.
Yeah I appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
All right take care.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
Yeah I just wanted to say thanks to all of you for joining us on the call this morning.
Were very pleased with our results to-date in 2014 and we look forward to a strong finish to the year and so with that thanks for joining us.
I hope to see many of you on the road in the coming months.
Have a great day.
Thank you for participating in todays conference.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 12 PM Eastern Time today until end of the October 31 2014.
8844037 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056 U.S.
and Canadian callers or 404-537-3406 international callers.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group's fourth quarter 2014 financial results conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's fourth quarter earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; COO Dan Houston; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valdes Principal International; and Tim Dunbar our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before we get to the prepared remarks I'd like to remind you of an upcoming investor event in Santiago Chile on March 10 and 11.
Executives from our Latin American business will provide an update.
This is a great opportunity to learn more about these businesses and we hope you can make it.
Information can be found on our Investor Relations website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
This morning I'll comment on three areas; first I'll discuss 2014 results; second I'll provide an update on the execution of our strategy; and I'll close with some comments on capital management.
I'll then turn the call over to our newly appointed President and Chief Operating Officer Dan Houston for some comments on key growth metrics for 2014 followed by Terry with his normal CFO report.
2014 was an outstanding year for The Principal with record total company operating earnings of $1.3 billion a 24% increase over full year 2013 results.
Full year net income was $1.1 billion a 26% increase over 2013.
Perhaps even more impressive than the record total company operating earnings is that each of our four operating segments had record earnings for the year.
Our ability to achieve these strong results while still facing continued macroeconomic volatility reflects our scale in each business segment the strength of our diversified business model and the ongoing momentum in our businesses.
Since 2009 we've grown earnings per share at a compounded annual growth rate of 15%.
We've done that predominantly through operating earnings growth which drives a long-term increase in shareholder value and not relying on share buybacks to increase earnings per share which can only have an impact for few years.
In addition two-thirds of our earnings are now generated from our fee-based businesses compared to roughly half five years ago.
Our strong financial position has created a great foundation from which to grow for years to come.
Total company net cash flows of $18 billion for the year contributed to record assets under management of $519 billion which increased 7% over 2013 despite a $14 billion negative impact from foreign exchange rates.
These outstanding results position us going into 2015 with a much higher asset base from which to continue to grow revenue and operating earnings even during periods of macroeconomic volatility.
Next I'll comment briefly on the long-term power of our strategy and some positive developments we see contributing to our growing momentum.
Though we refined and evolved our strategy overtime to remain competitive and take advantage of long-term growth opportunities we've never wavered from our core goal of helping individuals around the world achieve financial security.
Our strategy was built around three core trends that today are more relevant than ever.
First aging populations around the world; second financially constrained employers who want to provide affordable and attractive benefits to attract and retain global talent and finally financially constrained governments that can no longer support government provider retirement programs causing individuals to look to their own resources for financial security.
Across the globe we have achieved a market leadership position that enables us to meet the needs of individuals looking to save invest and protect their assets over the long-term.
Improving macroeconomic and employment conditions in the U.S.
are making it easier for individuals to take control of their financial futures with help from the Principal.
As the employment picture improves move individuals can save for retirement and participate in benefit programs that protect their income.
We're seeing this trend in Full Service Accumulation with a number people making a deferral increased 7% compared to a year ago and Specialty Benefits had the highest ever full year in-group growth of 1.5% in 2014.
Principal Funds continues to have great success executing on a strategy focused on asset allocation multi-manager funds that address risk inflation and income needs.
Principal Funds is now the 16th largest advisor sold firm up from 17 in 2013.
In 2014 we launched seven new funds as we continue to expand on our outcome-based solutions.
Many of you had the opportunity to hear from several executives from Principal Global Investors at our investor event in November.
Jim and his team discussed the increasing demand for tailored solutions among retirement retail and institutional investors.
Our diverse group of specialized investment boutiques coupled with multi-asset expertise positions us to customize solutions and capitalize on this trend.
Principal International's recent announcement of our planned acquisition of AXA's pension business in Hong Kong is one of eight strategic acquisitions we've done since 2008 totaling over $2.5 billion in capital deployed.
The acquisition which we expect to close in the second half of 2015 will add scale to our current business making us the fifth largest mandatory pension provider in Hong Kong.
Importantly the deal also includes a 15-year exclusive distribution agreement with AXA which has 4 500 agents in Hong Kong.
This gives us additional opportunities to grow market share as the mandatory and voluntary pension markets continue to grow.
Finally I'll provide an update on capital management for 2015.
Our fee-based business model allows us to generate free cash flow and strategically deploy it to create long-term value for shareholders.
We remain well-positioned to deploy capital through a variety of options in addition to supporting organic growth.
In 2015 we expect to deploy $800 million to $1 billion of capital beyond the capital needed for organic growth including the $335 million already announced for the AXA acquisition.
Last night we announced a $0.36 per share common stock dividend payable in the first quarter which is a 6% increase over the dividend paid in fourth quarter 2014.
As a reminder our 2014 common stock dividend was up 31% over 2013.
Additionally the merger and acquisition pipeline remains active with opportunities to further enhance our global retirement and investment management platform.
We will continue to look for strategic acquisitions as a good way to build long-term value for shareholders.
In closing I remain confident in our ability to deliver sustainable profitable growth in 2015 and beyond.
The Principal is in a strong competitive position with proven success and a unique business model that positions us to provide long-term value for our customers and our shareholders.
Now I will turn the call over to Dan Houston.
Dan's 30-year carrier and proven leadership give him a clear view of where the company will go in the future.
I look forward to working with him in his new capacity.
Dan? Thanks Larry.
I'm excited about my expanded role and look forward to working with the teams on continued implementation of our strategy.
The fundamentals of our business remain strong and we continue to build on our leading positions providing continued momentum going forward.
Following are some of the key growth metrics that contributed to the outstanding results in 2014.
Full Service Accumulation full year sales were $8.7 billion.
We continue to focus on striking the right balance of growth and profitability in this business.
We had fewer large planned sales in 2014 than we've had in previous years which led to a decrease in transfer deposits and net cash flows for the full year.
To demonstrate that point net cash flows from our small-to-mid size markets were 2% of beginning year account values in that space in line with our expectations.
With strong investment performance and key differentiators like Principal Total Retirement Suite we remain confident in our ongoing competitiveness of the Full Service Accumulation business.
Principal Funds had record sales of $20 billion in 2014 and the fourth quarter was the 20th consecutive quarter of positive net cash flows.
At 8% of beginning year account values Principal Funds' full year net cash flows were more than 3x the industry average.
Principal Global Investors had record total assets under management of $314 billion as of yearend driven by continuous strong investment performance and full year total net cash flows of $2.4 billion.
Principal International reported assets under management of $115 billion at yearend.
Record full year net cash flows of $13 billion were up 54% over 2013 and 68% on a local currency basis.
We continue to see momentum build in our Asian businesses with 15% of full year net cash flows from this region up from 6% in 2014.
We're also executing on our full product suite strategy in Chile with full year voluntary net cash flows doubling from 2013.
In Individual Life the business market strategy continues to be a differentiator for us with 2014 being the second highest year of non-qualified deferred compensation sales.
Specialty Benefits had record full year sales of nearly $300 million up 10% over 2013.
These strong sales combined with strong persistency drove premium and fees up 7% over 2013.
Our solutions remain very attractive in the small and midsized employer market.
With a competitive environment that is constantly changing we remain laser focused on meeting evolving customer needs and demand in ways that differentiate us in the marketplace.
Top tier investment performance is clearly critical.
71% of our rated mutual funds have a four or five-star Morningstar rating.
And as Slide 5 shows at least 85% of Principal's investment options were in the top half of Morningstar rankings on a one three and five-year basis at quarter-end.
Additionally two of our mandatory provident funds in Hong Kong were recently awarded the Gold rating by the MPF rating agency.
Exceptional service matters as well.
In 2014 we retained 95% of Full Service Accumulation customers our second best year on record.
And Specialty Benefits division retention rate in 2014 were the highest they've been since 2006.
In addition we continue to garner recognition for our Latin American businesses.
Cuprum recovered customer satisfaction and investment performance recognition from the Chilean pension regulator throughout 2014.
And Brasilprev our joint venture with Banco do Brasil was once again recognized as the most admired private pension company in Brazil.
The last point I'll highlight is the importance of attracting and retaining best-in-class employees who have specialized expertise.
During the fourth quarter the Principal earned the top spot in it's category in Pensions &amp; Investments' annual survey of the best places to work in money management for the third year in a row.
We view this as a significant accomplishment and one that evidences our ability to attract and retain top investment talent.
Terry? Thanks Dan.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter and full year net income including performance on the investment portfolio and I'll close with an update on capital deployment.
The fourth quarter was a strong end to an outstanding year.
Total company operating earnings were $324 million up 13% over the prior-year quarter.
Operating earnings per share of $1.09 were a 14% increase over fourth quarter 2013 results.
Moving to Slide 6 you'll see that we normalized fourth quarter 2014 earnings by $0.02 or one-time tax items in our Corporate segment.
On a normalized basis earnings per share were $1.07 up 11% over a year-ago quarter.
We also removed the one month lag from reporting of Cuprum results during the quarter.
The earnings from the additional month were reduced by lower than expected encaje returns and additional investments in the business to support future growth.
For the year return on equity excluding AOCI was 14.2%.
This is a 210 basis points improvement from a year ago.
Organic growth contributed 150 basis points of the increase as operating earnings growth outpaced mean equity growth of 6%.
Our current return on equity excluding AOCI includes exchange rate movements in earnings but not in the equity calculations.
If similar to other companies with large international operations we adjusted the average equity for the exchange rate movements the return on equity would be 15.1%.
Now I'll discuss business unit results starting on Slide 7 with the accumulation businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
Operating earnings of $168 million were up 12% over the adjusted fourth quarter 2013 results.
Net revenue was up 5% over the prior-year quarter and up 10% for the year.
Full year pre-tax return on net revenue improved to 34%.
Full Service Accumulation operating earnings were $106 million a 14% increase over the year-ago quarter.
For the year net revenue grew 9% and the pre-tax return on net revenue was 35%.
As previously discussed we expect margins to come down in 2015 due to expense growth outpacing net revenue growth primarily due to investments in the business.
In addition 2014 benefited from higher than expected variable investment income.
Full Service Accumulation had net outflows for the quarter of $850 million.
Quarterly results can be lumpy so it's important to focus on the longer term.
For the full year while dollars of lapses were up 6% in 2014 due to account value growth the withdrawal rate was 100 basis points lower than the prior year.
Importantly as we look at all key metrics for Full Service Accumulation it's clear that business remain strong and competitive.
Recurring deposits grew 7% in 2014 and we added nearly 1 000 net new plans and 135 000 net new participants.
In addition as a result of strong investment performance customers and advisors directed approximately 75% of the 2014 new sale asset into Principal branded investments.
Principal Funds fourth quarter operating earnings were up 20% from the year-ago quarter to $26 million.
For the full year operating earnings surpassed $100 million for the first time up 30% over 2013.
Principal Fund sales were the second highest quarterly result ever at $5.6 billion.
Individual Annuity operating earnings were $29 million for the quarter.
Increased fee revenue on our variable annuity business due to market appreciation continues to offset spread compression in our fixed deferred block of business.
Slide 8 highlights the guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services.
Fourth quarter operating earnings of $27 million were up 4% over fourth quarter 2013 results.
Net revenue was up 3% over the prior-year quarter and up 8% for the year.
The 2014 pre-tax return on net revenue improved to 82%.
Full Service Payout forth quarter sales of $464 million were higher than full year 2013 sales as we continue to see opportunities in the small to midsized pension close-out market.
Turning to Slide 9 Principal Global Investors' quarterly operating earnings were a record $36 million.
Earnings benefited this quarter from seasonal performance fees and an increased stake in Columbus Circle Investors.
The full year pre-tax margin increased to 26.5% as we continue to improve margins by gaining scale and providing investment on options that are in demand.
As a reminder earnings in Principal Global Investors are impacted by seasonality with first quarter typically the lowest due to timing of certain expenses and fourth quarter typically the highest due to performance fees.
Slide 10 shows quarterly operating earnings for Principal International of $63 million.
As I mentioned earlier we removed the month reporting lag for Cuprum which was reduced by lower than expected encaje returns as well as additional marketing related expenses.
Principal International continues to perform well on a local basis.
Operating earnings were up 16% over the prior-year quarter after adjusting for foreign exchange rates.
For the year combined net revenue was up 14% on a reported basis and up 24% on a local currency basis.
Combined pre-tax return on net revenue was 51% for the year.
As shown on Slide 11 Individual Life operating earnings were $28 million for the quarter.
Claims experienced for the quarter was in line with expectations.
We mentioned on our previous call that we were doing an in-depth review of the recent elevated claims experience.
The analysis has reinforced our ongoing belief that the elevated claims experience in recent quarters was random fluctuation associated with risk-based business and not a systemic issue.
Moving to Slide 12 Specialty Benefits operating earnings of $28 million were up 3% from the year-ago quarter.
The overall loss ratio for the quarter remained favorable at 65% better than our expected range.
For the full year premium and fees were up 7% and full year pre-tax operating margin was 11%.
Seasonality also impacts operating earnings in U.S.
Insurance Solutions with the highest results typically in the fourth quarter and the lowest in the first quarter.
The Corporate segment reported operating losses for the quarter of $26 million better than our forecasted range of $32 million to $37 million of operating losses.
Results this quarter benefited from some one-time tax adjustments in the Corporate segment.
For the quarter total company net income was $270 million including realized capital losses of $53 million.
Net credit-related losses of $8 million were a strong result improving 67% from the year-ago quarter.
Net income was negatively impacted by $44 million due to the impairment of Liongate our hedge fund of funds boutique during the quarter.
Full year credit-related losses were $56 million a 33% improvement over 2013 results.
Unrealized gains were $2.9 billion at quarter-end.
Due to our asset liability management expertise and strong liquidity changes in unrealized gains or losses due to interest rate movements do not result in forced assets sales in periods of stress.
In addition our predominantly fee-based business model limits our sensitivity to interest rate movement.
As outlined in Slide 13 our approach to capital deployment is balanced and focused on increasing long-term value for shareholders.
We deployed $855 million of capital in 2014.
This is more than three-fourth of our net income for the year demonstrating our ability to generate capital and strategically deploy it.
The full year common stock dividend was $1.28.
This is a 31% increase over full year 2013 and we continue to increase our payout ratio.
Our capital deployment in 2014 also included $200 million of share repurchase $100 million surplus note redemption and $180 million increase in our ownership percentage of Columbus Circle Investors.
In 2015 we expect to deploy $800 million to $1 billion of capital in a strategic and balanced manner.
In closing while macroeconomic factors such as the strengthening U.S.
dollar and low interest rates are providing near-term pressure we remain confident that our diversified business model positions us well for future growth across various macroeconomic environments.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Terry I have a question about Slide 6 and the normalized items.
If I add back $0.02 per share for tax adjustments that still implies a tax rate in the high-teens which is below your 2015 guidance of 21% to 23%.
Can you just discuss what was going on with the tax rate and if the 2015 guidance still stands? I'll just have Terry take that.
You're absolutely right.
It's a little bit lower than what we had anticipated in our outlook call.
We still think that that 20% to 22% is a good effective tax rate for the overall organization.
However if you look at what happened at the early part of this year we had some true-ups in the prior year.
So if you were to adjust for that you'd be around closer to 20% for the year.
So we still think that that's a very good rate taken into consideration the adjustments that we had in the fourth quarter in the Corporate segment.
And then if I could just ask one follow-up about Liongate.
I'm just wondering what the thought process and impairingness was? And considering that you seem committed to doing further M&amp;A to deploying capital in that manner how can we have confidence that we're not going to see more impairments in these acquisitions you're making? Sean I'll make a couple of general comments and then have Jim comment specifically as it relates to Liongate.
First of all again if you go back and look over the longer course of history I think that our success with our asset management boutique acquisitions has been really second to none.
For example we mentioned last quarter the additional purchase of an interest from 70% to 95% in Columbus Circle Investors and that's the boutique that we've grown from under $4 billion to $16 billion over the point in time that we've had it.
I could give you similar statistics around Spectrum and other asset management boutiques.
So the challenge as it relates to goodwill often is actually in the early years after you acquire a boutique because if the macro environment changes the way accounting rules work you run closer to the edge so to speak and in fact the hedge fund of funds business has been a bit of a troubled space in recent months as there's been a lot of volatility and kind of a lot of churning around in the hedge fund space.
So again my emphasis here Sean would be to say that I think Jim and his team have done outstanding job over the longer term and Liongate is actually more of the one-off circumstance.
So I'll ask Jim to cover that for you now.
Yes.
Sean as Larry said this is a portfolio and the IRR on the portfolio of boutiques ranges almost all of them from low-teens to high-teens.
So it's been one of the best ways of deploying capital that we have had available to us.
The hedge fund of fund space has had headwinds as Larry described and that together with some performance glitches in 2013 which since have been fixed the performance since then is pretty strong led to some losses of assets and revenues and that's what led us to impair this particular asset.
In terms of the process of impairment thinking of how this might affect other boutiques this one is it's just over 50% stake and so was accounted for on the equity method rather than consolidated that means from an impairment it's looked at legal entity level and that was really the background to the impairment we had on Liongate.
With the growth in all the other boutiques and with the only other equity method boutique being Finisterre which actually has grown very strongly has almost doubled in assets in the three years we've been associated with them.
So I think I'm pretty confident that the strategy remains sound and we don't see any other impairments on the horizon on the evidence at the moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Want to go back to the comments on withdrawals and sales in FSA and maybe get a little more color as to what's driving what seems to be a little bit of weakness there at least seasonally speaking.
I understand there is more pressure from the large case market but at the end of the day I thought that pressure was already there in the last few quarters so was little surprised to see numbers maybe a little bit below expectations.
I'll make a few comments and again I'm sure Dan will want to add.
So first of all as it relates to fourth quarter recognize that sales results in fourth quarter for FSA were actually quite good.
They were at $2.8 billion bringing the year-to-date $8.7 billion.
Now while that $8.7 billion is a little bit below what we might have expected going into the year I would also say that there has been as a general perspective there has been a little less money moving in the marketplace.
And I can tell you as somebody who has been involved in the Full Service Accumulation business for more than 30 years we'll just leave at that this is something that you always see.
When you have a very strong equity market like we had in 2013 there will be fewer assets in motion.
It just inevitably turns out that way.
I think that's more of a psychological factor among plan sponsors and advisors than anything else.
So on the flip side our 2014 was a second best year for retention of existing Full Service Accumulation cases that we've ever had.
So you do have sort of parallel dynamics that have been kind of going on within the FSA market.
I think it's my judgment and Dan can offer his opinion here in sec.
It's my judgment that actually that kind of competitive environment and that kind of pricing environment has actually been more rational in 2014 than it has been in prior periods.
I think in prior periods coming out of the financial crisis everybody was sort of scrambling given the depth and pain of the financial crisis.
Everybody was kind of scrambling to rebuild their retirement business and frankly we were part of that as well.
But I think post 2013 and 2014 things have now sort of settled down and the dynamics of the Full Service Accumulation business have sort of gone back to normal.
We are seeing salary growth.
We are seeing new participants added.
We are seeing increased deferral rates.
So the normal factors that drive FSA revenue increases are more solidly in place.
So I wouldn't want you to get too distracted by a quarter or a year.
I think as we said in our comments all the elements of health are very very strong in FSA.
So with that I'll ask Dan to comment.
And maybe just before that just to clarify when I talked about weak sales I'm talking for the fourth quarter not relative to other quarters of the year so seasonally adjusted.
I would say the fourth quarter sales are actually relatively strong compared to a year ago.
I think you can identify a couple of areas.
One is that for the full year we ended up having 11 large plans over $100 million a year ago versus six this year so again disciplined underwriting on those plans.
The other area where we saw some withdrawals was relative to large M&amp;A where we may have had a smaller piece of the pie the acquiring company was maybe two or three times our size.
Larry spoke specifically to the issue of second best retention year ever; reoccurring deposit of 10% we had good matching contributions strong profit sharing contributions new hires are in that mix.
Whenever you can hold withdrawals to 6% on a 12% increase in account values and still retain your in force business and be more selective on choosing new plans I think it speaks to the strength of the product line.
And lastly as we said in the script we did have net cash flow for that SMB market right at 2% well within the range.
And that where the shortfall really falls is in that large $100 million market which we know is volatile.
Last comment I would make is you could sell two or three large plans in the fourth quarter of this year and we probably wouldn't be sitting here today having the conversation about sales or net cash flow.
And so it really does boil down to being selective and more particular about the plans we want underwrite.
Hopefully that helps.
And then my second question probably is best for Terry.
So looking at the 10-year yields-to-date about 100 basis points below of the yearend assumption that you came out at the time the outlook and I realized during the prepared commentaries that overall the fee business is less sensitive to rates but at the end of day there is some sensitivity.
Maybe you can help us think about this sensitivity both the balance sheet and income statement? Terry you want to make some comments? As we talked about in the past the sensitivity that the Principal has to the lower interest rate environment is probably a little bit less than what we've seen in some of our insurance peers because of the strong asset liability management.
As you said our fee-based businesses are 60% to 65% of our earnings albeit there are some businesses that are affected by this life business our spread businesses.
It does have a little bit of drag as the interest rate environment goes down what we are seeing on the 10-year treasury.
Although the 10-year treasury is not necessarily the only point that we look at.
It's across the yield curve and so as that yield curve flattens out it will have some other impact on us as well.
So I guess we can say that the drag that we'd have from our current interest rate environment maybe had a little less than 1% or so in terms of earnings for next year in 2015.
Now that being said the other part of that is the impact that it would have on sales.
As you can see we could have some drag on future sales and the fixed deferred annuity area which we've considered somewhat opportunistic.
But one of the things that's been counter to that is our Full Service Payout business that taking over that closeout business.
We actually have our highest quarter ever in the fourth quarter with $464 million of earnings.
And so that's an interest-sensitive business as well.
So we do see that the lower interest rate environment will have an impact on us albeit it will a little bit lower than what you've seen in some of our insurance peers.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with KBW.
First on FSA I was hoping to clarify one thing.
It looked like the rate of transferred deposits relative to sales was lower than normal.
Was there some aspect of timing where some sales didn't hit transfer deposits that you'd normally expect this quarter? This is Larry.
There was.
So I'll have Dan cover that.
Yes Ryan good catch.
We did have a sale that was reported late in the fourth quarter of 2014 here it will fund in 2015.
So as you point out it's just a little bit lumpy.
It's just a matter of which quarter it fell into.
Can you quantify how big that sale was? I'd probably just not try to quantify that at this point in time.
But it was a decent size plan well in excess of $100 million.
I think again when you're interpreting therefore when people kind of try to interpret into some degree over-interpret the net cash flow in a business like Full Service Accumulation.
I mean literally it can be the decision on planned sponsors do I send Principal their money on -- the transfer deposit on December 28 versus January 2.
And that can be the difference in whether net cash flow is negative or positive.
So that's why again the real way to think about this business is to look at in on sort of either a trailing 12-month basis or some sort of calendar-year basis and not try to assess whether some trend in a particular quarter represents a new trend.
I would caution anyone again trying to do that for this kind of a business.
And then I wanted to revisit the preferred stock that you can call in mid-2015 which seems to pretty likely to be a good economic decision to do that.
But curious how you're thinking about the potential funding for doing that? I'll maybe ask Tim.
Tim not only oversees the investment portfolio but also heads up capital markets and works with Terry around all of our capital structure.
So I'm going to have Tim cover that for you.
Yes right now we are reviewing plans for the preferred securities that as you said are open to prepayment or open to payment in mid-year.
We look at that just in terms of what the after-tax cost to the organization is in different ways that we can fund that.
But we haven't made our plans specifically for those yet.
We are looking at that and view that we have a fair amount of flexibility.
We don't need to call them but we certainly can if we want to.
And am I correct that in your outlook guidance that that did not contemplate doing anything with those? That is correct.
It did not contemplate paying those off.
Just to add a really quick comment to that.
Again the existence of preferred stock on our capital structure is it really goes back again to the days when we were far more of an insurance company than this sort of investment management company that we are today.
And I think when you look at capital structures from those that are asset management or investment management you typically wouldn't see preferred stock in their capital structure.
So that's just to note that.
And that's another part of our thinking as we have that opportunity to take those out.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
My question is for Dan and you commented about the strong fund flows in Principal Funds three times industry average I believe for 2014.
How long do you think that pace could continue for in terms of outperformance that is? Again I'm sure Dan want to add some comments.
Again the job that has been done by our team around the mutual fund business over the time since we bought Washington Mutual in 2007 has been really really extraordinary.
And I think we're now in our 20 quarter maybe it's our 22 quarter of positive net cash flows.
And what's really been interesting is to see that we've actually been maybe not only continuing to outperform but maybe increasing the level of outperformance.
And it's a combination of really two things.
One is I think its great product development.
And in general again we've commented on our outcome based strategy for our retail funds.
And secondly of course it's based on having outstanding investment performance which is predominately to the credit of Principal Global Investors.
So we do have a number of new product launches.
We launched seven new products in 2014.
We're going to launch a number of new products in 2015.
So I would have a full expectation for sales in 2015 that we're going to see at least a decent increase in sales albeit when you get to the level of $20 billion in sales sometimes it can be a little difficult to put up big increases against that.
But I certainly have every expectation that we're going to continue to see very strong flows there.
And having put enough pressure on Dan I'll let him comment.
Yes I share you enthusiasm Larry.
We'll have a strong lineup.
And as Larry pointed out we did have a very strong year for net cash flow that is 20 consecutive quarters.
What's probably most exciting to me about the success we enjoyed this past year it wasn't one fund it wasn't any one asset class so it was collectively across the board with real estate fixed income equities asset allocations and the hybrids and adds with the existing portfolio.
And again Nora Everett and her team have worked very closely with Jim and his team to develop this outcomes-oriented strategy solving for problems related to income and growth and waiting in the wings inflation solutions.
This is very popular among advisors.
They look at this as being very favorable in terms on bringing to their customers which is why you noticed that we moved up one notch among the advisors sold funds.
As Larry pointed out we've got seven new products rolled out throughout 2014 across real estate emerging market credit opportunities additional lifetime hybrid as well as small company stocks again across the whole range of asset classes.
And so I remain very enthusiastic about our ability to grow our funds business.
Yes and I know Jim wants to add a comment too.
This is really just a comment about what happens next since you are asking why have we been so strong and where does it go next.
I would point out that in the last year or two the market has had very little appetite for active equity strategies in general.
We have in that time developed what I would argue as one of the best ranges of active equity strategies in the industry.
So as appetite changes perhaps towards emerging equities at some point or towards small and mid-cap equities I think we have a very good range to actually pickup the momentum rather than lose it as client attitudes and preferences shift.
I hope that helps.
And if I could just ask one question on the expense side of FSA margins likely to come down in FSA as expense growth outpaces net revenue growth.
Can you give any granularity on that? And if this should be a little bit of a multi-year phenomenon or if we should just expect '15 to be a higher expense year and then level-off from there? Again I think we spoke to that a little bit certainly in the outlook call and I will have Dan comment in a minute.
I want to again just take a step back and kind of remind everybody on the call about the high level of performance that is already embedded if we're talking about a sort of 30% to 32% kind of a pre-tax return on revenue.
That is in and of itself a really outstanding result when you think about it.
I mean that's again the equivalent.
If you were to put that in ROE return on equity terms I mean that's an ROE that's in that mid-to-high 30% range.
And there is an upper limit as to how far you can drive margin.
So I think that any of our shareholders would be very very happy if we have a five 10 15 20-year period where we can demonstrate a 30% to 32% return on net revenue over that period of time.
That is simply outstanding performance that probably can't be really matched by any other type of business within financial services.
So that's just sort of a background comment.
And again looking at trends from 2014 to 2015 or whatever whatever we're going to be influenced by DAC and other things that are a bit variable and non-recurring.
So again don't read too much into that.
Think broadly and more longer term about the return that is coming out of that business.
So Dan you want to comment? When I think about FSA I think it's probably one of our strongest areas for process improvement and driving cost out of the business and at the same time maintaining strong customer service scores by both our advisors' participants and planned sponsors.
Fourth quarter was a little bit lumpy.
It had some expenses in there.
When you parse it out you find out if you take for the quarter comp and other less management fees we're actually down by about 2%.
So again good expense management.
When you look at the one-offs here and again I do not view these as a systemic it's around some of the true ups around DAC some commission printing postage security benefit sales comp.
We rolled out a new mobile application and promoted that.
We had a new landing page for participant education both launched in the latter half of 2014 which showed up as a little bit higher expense.
But overall as Larry points out very very expense minded and disciplined about making sure that we manage these very aggressively.
We'll always have some higher variable costs as sales increase.
You saw that in the mutual fund line.
You also saw that in Specialty Benefits where you don't have the DAC incapabilities that we do in most of our Full Service Accumulation.
Hopefully that helps.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
So first question on the PGI business.
The unaffiliated flows I think were negative this quarter and part of that might have been Columbus Circle but maybe if just Jim could give us a little bit more detail on that.
And then secondly on share buybacks you outlined the $800 million to $1 billion in deployment goal and I think your dividend is based on the present rate are going to be close to $430 million or so this year than the AXA deal's $335 million.
So it implies that what's left for deals and share buybacks is less than $250 million and then you've got the preferred stock potentially being called.
And also my question was you didn't buyback any stock in the fourth quarter is it possible that you don't do any buybacks in 2015 if you do find additional deals and/or if you retire the preferred stock? So I'll try to give you a little bit of insight on the first one.
And I'll have Jim cover the unaffiliated and then if Terry wants to or Tim wants to add something they can certainly to do that.
First of all I think on your second one Jimmy I mean I think certainly first of all I agree with all of your math.
And so I think what you would expect for share buybacks if that's the specific question for 2015; generally speaking I think what you would expect would be and we've said this many many many times our first priority in terms of share buybacks is to try to make sure we cover the anti-dilutive portion.
So we would do share buybacks generally speaking with the idea that it would at least keep our share count flat.
And we gave outlook in early December on what we expected the share count to be.
As I said in my comment Jimmy we are seeing have been and continue to see more opportunities for the kind of M&amp;A that we like either within the asset management space maybe within the international space maybe within the retirement space.
We're actually seeing more of that than we have seen in a very long-time.
And again a lot of that is coming from the restructuring that is having to go on by some very very large financial services companies as they sort of remake their strategy post the financial crisis.
So I think it's in the interest of building long-term shareholder value for us to make sure that we're looking at every one of those opportunities.
And when we can make very nice accretive acquisitions like we think we will do with the AXA Hong Kong acquisition we remain very very interested in that.
So I would expect again kind of limited share buyback.
Certainly want to do the anti-dilutive whether we do anything beyond that probably really will depend on our success kind of in the M&amp;A space.
And so with that I'll let Jim comment on unaffiliated.
In the quarter the main negative on the unaffiliated flow was in our equity boutique.
If you add up Columbus Circle or it in Principal Global equities you had a net outflow of a bit over $1.5 billion.
Most of that is client allocation away from active equity strategies and particularly active core equity strategies.
There was one particular piece which you allude to in Columbus Circle where about half of Columbus Circles' lost assets were related to a portfolio manager departure in fact our hedge fund portfolio manager.
The clients were taking some really quite big profits that they've made over the last two or three years.
Some times you get a few hundred million flowing out with a big profit and it's hard to say that that's bad for the clients.
They are locking in profits.
Our challenge is to find the next idea to make clients money worth.
So that's the outflows.
In terms of the inflows I am delighted with for example Finisterre Capital who just this week got an award in London from the industry for the best emerging market hedge fund of the year.
They're in emerging debt and are seeing quite strong growth.
Other high-yielding strategies including Spectrum with preferreds post with high yield.
Real estate has been a very much in-demand area.
So it's a balance of some pretty big outflows on the active equity side and some inflows elsewhere.
I think if I were to sum up the year as a whole though I would say that I am very pleased with our new sales that were once again over $16 billion in these active specialty strategies for the non-affiliate business very similar to the previous year.
So sales are not the issue.
I am a little disappointed or somewhat disappointed in our retention.
It's fair that the clients take the money out of these particularly active core strategies.
Our challenge and our management is very much on it and to make sure that those same clients look at our high added value specialties.
So we are making vigorous efforts to improve the net flows.
And really the focus is on retention and making sure that those clients are coming out active core strategies and see the interesting stuff and the high performing things we're doing.
And Larry just following up on your optimism about the M&amp;A pipeline.
Can you just briefly discuss the businesses and regions that you're targeting and where you see the most opportunity? Well again as I said I think that there is opportunity in the U.S.
but I think we are seeing more opportunity in asset management and in international.
And the other thing that I would say and by the way within international I think it is a little bit at the moment I think the trends has been it's a little bit more in Asia.
And again this is often times coming much like the AXA acquisition Jimmy this is coming more from European financial services companies who are as I said earlier still sort of recrafting their strategy post the financial crisis.
And again often from the standpoint of pressure from regulators trying to kind of simplify their business model which can be a benefit for us.
So again that's going to continue to be an opportunity and we're going to continue to prioritize that.
The last thing I'll say is there is also of course the opportunity Jimmy that we can much as we did with Columbus Circle in terms of buying a bigger percentage of an asset management boutique we also have potentially the same opportunity with some of our other international joint ventures as well.
So that's another one that some times we don't mention as much.
But that's a great opportunity because these are already high-performing highly-profitable companies where the incremental return on capital is very very high.
So we also continue to look at that opportunity.
Your next question will come from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
I had one quick follow-up for Terry.
There was a question about the tax rate.
And just thinking about the 21% to 23% range that I think you provided in your outlook for 2015 I believe you mentioned in response 20% to 22%.
I just want to make sure that that was a 2014 comment or has the outlook changed a little bit for the better? No John I think the 20% to 22% now is probably the run rate that we would see for '14 as well as going into '15.
As you take in effective tax rate a federal rate of 35% to get down there you have a benefit from some dividends we receive.
We also have equity method of accounting that has a play on that.
We have tax favored investment.
We also have foreign tax credit as well.
And then the redeemable non-controlling interest impact on our business.
So that last one is what drove down that 1% from that 21% to 23% and that's somewhat volatile as we go into the year.
Now as we talk about effective tax rate first quarter of each year we have to true-up for what happens in the prior year and that goes positive and negative adjustment to taxes but we do adjust our accruals.
So to the point that we were making earlier the lower effective tax rate that we're seeing at this point in time in large part is due to a true-up a positive lower tax rate impact on from 2013 that we reflected in 2014.
Hopefully that helps.
And then looking at Principal International if I just look at the combined net revenue in 4Q and I don't want to get overly focused on a single quarter to your point Larry earlier about trends but that combined net revenue is only up 5% year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
And that's despite I'm guessing there is some benefit from that extra month of Cuprum in that number.
That's a huge decline in terms of the growth rate from the first nine months which I think was up 17% or 18% year-over-year.
So can you give us some sense for what drove that? Is it really just primarily currency? And how should we think about that relative to your outlook I think which was for 8% to 10% growth in 2015? I think there is two factors at work.
I think there's two factors at work there in the current quarter.
One is FX which you mentioned.
The other one that is at work there is encaje return which were certainly more challenging in fourth quarter than they were in third quarter.
So again as I said before trying to judge net revenue growth in any sort of one quarter is a little bit difficult.
Having said that if you asked us kind of normalizing for everything adjusting for local currency adjusting for encaje adjusting for everything else kind of what's the underlying growth and run rate of the business our answer would be in that 15% 16% range on a local currency basis and adjusting for encaje.
So I hope that helps.
And then the last one I've got for you real quick if I can sneak in and it's a bigger picture question.
Over the last several years there's been a lot of talk obviously with oil down where it's at about how big a driver of employment growth in United States effectively the energy sector has been.
And I guess now with oil down where it's at and a lot of capital investment getting cut likelihood that there is going to be some -- well it's already started but likelihood that there will be more employment cuts.
I guess I am thinking bigger picture.
Have you guys thought about this how big of a contribution has that energy revolution if you will in the U.S.
played toward your growth in the last four or five years and thus how big of a potential pressure point might it be if this plays out? Well there is lot backed in there John.
So let me make a few comments.
Jim I know would want to comment as well.
I have been a little bit surprised as I sort of watch the market press and other things commenting on the drop in oil prices the extent to which it's taken on an overly negative term.
I actually have little doubt that on the net-net basis the decline in oil and energy prices is a positive thing for the U.S.
economy.
Now if you are in the oil business or in the energy business it could be very painful to you.
And to your point there are going to be layoffs and other actions taken within the oil and energy sector but if you think about how pervasive falling oil prices are in terms of helping consumers have more money in their pocket which helps all retail companies.
If you think about the reduction in cost for manufacturing and then you think about all of the manufacturing entities there are throughout the United States.
Again I have little doubt that net-net it actually will help to stimulate in some way a job growth in the United States.
So I think some of the decline in oil price is kind of secular but certainly I don't necessarily think we're going to be looking at $45 oil for the next 10 years.
So oil will find its natural sort of landing spot somewhere between the $100 and the $45 and that will happen over time.
So there is going to be adjustments in the energy sector adjustments in the oil sector but I think there will be more than compensating adjustments in other portions of the economy.
And with that I'll turn it over to somebody who knows a lot more about it than I do which is Jim McCaughan.
First I'd just want to say I appreciate that commentary Larry very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Larry.
You're too kind.
I would point out that we are very diversified across the whole economy by industry and by location.
So the stimulus that Larry mentions will be important and probably a pretty big majority of the areas where we have business.
So our sensitivity to jobs is not something that would cause us too much concern at the moment.
Indeed I'd point to a piece of research that's been mentioned fairly widely that was done by our economics area and came out about two weeks ago which was really about the tightness of the labor market and where pay rises are within all the data for over 3 million plan participants that we regularly see.
And that was suggesting that within that small midsize business area there is better pay growth than there is in the economy as a whole.
And we think that's actually a very optimistic sign that not only are those clients in general are doing pretty well but the labor market is tightening in that area and that will be good for the kind of businesses we have.
Our final question will come from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Larry I'd like to go quickly in a different direction.
The administration presumably in support of the DOL recently published the letter talking about fiduciary responsibilities and qualified plans.
They did point to potential issues that they saw in 410k and other defined plans.
I was wondering if you can maybe comment on regulatory issues out there.
I can because I can tell you that both Dan and I along with Greg Burrows and our government relations' team in Washington spend a lot of time on this.
Also as you know I am the 2014 Chairman of the Financial Services Round Table which is one of the trade organizations that works very hard on this issue and many other issues.
The issue the specific one Steven that you mentioned relative to the Department of Labor considering whether additional kind of rules are necessary around how advisors and pension providers interact with plan participants.
Again as you know but others may not on the call this has been an issue that's been sort of bubbling for a number of years.
I think bubbling for a three or four or maybe even five years.
And lately there has been perhaps a belief as a result of memo that was written inside the Whitehouse by National Economic Council and made its way into the public sector that the administration and the Department of Labor maybe thinking about taking some action here.
I would say that from my more detailed conversations and they include a conversation outside and inside the Whitehouse that I have had on this topic I really believe the primary area Steven that they are looking at is in the area when participants terminate or retire and they move out of the 401k plan into a rollover IRA.
There is some focus on the question about how you provide information and education to plan participants inside the 401k but the primary focus I think they have is on the rollover IRA situation.
Again we feel strong and I think the industry feel strongly that participants need access to good information and good education in order to help them make the right decision when they come to benefit of end time.
And I think the devil again is going to be in the details of how those rules if it does go forward how those rules would be crafted because the worst result would be to not allow financial advisors to be able to Council with planned participants determination retirement to figure out what is a good choice for them in terms of benefit of event.
So we're going to continue to work on the issue.
The industry is very united across this.
There are a number of trade organizations that are working on it.
And I would just as a last point say when we ask or when I have been in these meetings and I ask examples because if there is bad behavior going on out there it's in our collective interest to make sure that that doesn't happen.
We take as some very significant responsibility to work with our plan participants.
And when we ask for examples we can better understand the problem.
I will say specifics tend to not be very forthcoming around where the examples are so we can help to fix them on our own.
So more to come appreciate you raising it we're very focused on it.
This is a important issue for America.
It's an important issue for the baby boom generation.
It's a very important issue for principal and our customers.
Larry just a follow-up.
The letter also concentrated on revenue sharing.
Is that a factor in your business? Well in a way Steven I think that issue has been sort of wedded and dealt with.
And I think for the better because I think today the disclosure that is out there today around revenue sharing is pretty complete.
And we've always believe and we definitely believe that transparency is the best medicine if you will.
So we've always had a lot of transparency around all things revenue sharing and I think now the industry is in that mode as well.
So I think while there maybe sort of some questions or comments in that particular treatise on that.
I don't think that's really the focus for the DOL.
I think it's more in the relationship between financial advisors and plan participants.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
End of Q&amp;A Well thanks everybody for joining us today.
When I just say that again we look at our 2014 results and we're very very pleased overall with the year and we're very very pleased that 2014 was a year that we had not only record earnings for the company but record earnings for each of our business segments.
We do see momentum has been very strong behind every one of our businesses that again as a result of great investment performance and very good day-to-day execution by our team.
So again thanks for your interest.
We look forward to seeing many of you on the road in the near future.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 1 o'clock PM Eastern Time until end of day February 6 2015.
43546285 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056 U.S.
and Canadian callers or 404-537-3406 international callers.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you again for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group First Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers have completed their prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's first quarter earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our Web site at www.principal.com/investor.
Following a reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman; COO Dan Houston; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valds Principal International; and Tim Dunbar our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The Company does not revise them or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
This morning I'll comment on three areas; first I'll discuss first quarter results at a high level followed by more detailed comments from Dan and Terry; second I'll comment on the environments surrounding our businesses and I'll close with some comments on capital management.
As Slide 4 shows the Principal delivered strong results in the first quarter.
First quarter operating earnings of $326 million were up 3% over the year ago quarter and are the second highest quarterly earnings on record in what is normally a seasonally low quarter this compares to a very strong year ago quarter that benefited from large real estate sales and higher prepayments which contributed to higher variable investment income across the businesses.
Persistent macroeconomic factors including low interest rates strengthening U.S.
dollar and low inflation all massed excellent results in the first quarter.
If you adjust for these macroeconomic factors operating earnings growth would have been in the 10% to 12% range over the year ago quarter demonstrating the strength of our teams ability to execute.
On a trailing 12 month basis operating earnings grew 16% over the same period a year ago.
Our ability to generate above market earnings growth speaks to the strength of the fundamentals of our business and the power of our diversified business model.
The first quarter was a good demonstration of our ability to strike the right balance of growth and profitability.
Total company net cash flows of $9 billion in a quarter were double the year ago net cash flows and contributed to record assets under management of $530 billion.
Assets under management increased 7% over the year ago quarter despite a $25 billion negative impact from foreign exchange rates.
As I have said before net cash flows and assets under management are leading indicators of future earnings growth.
Next I'll comment on the current operating environment for our businesses and some positive developments we see contributing to our growing momentum.
The Principal is the leader in retirement and asset management and we are passionate about helping people save and invest to meet their long-term financial needs.
Throughout my 43 year career I've served on many industry committees that focused on ensuring that we have an environment conducive to helping people prepare for retirement.
I along with other members of Principals leadership team have met with leaders in Washington and around the world many times to advocate a system that works to benefit those who need it most middle and lower income workers.
Since ERISA was passed in 1974 I've seen approximately 40 different pieces of retirement legislation and regulation.
The latest is the recent Department of Labor proposal potentially redefining the fiduciary rules for operating in the retirement business.
While it's too early to know the precise impact of these proposed regulations and while Ill acknowledge there could be challenges I'll offer two initial observations; first this proposed regulation will continue to further complicate the U.S.
retirement plan industry.
This increased complexity will continue the 30 year trend of market share shifting from second and third tier players the recognized leaders like the Principal; second it's clear that the underlying intent of the proposed regulation is to encourage more in plan solutions for job changers and retirees.
This should improve our asset retention rates overtime from what is today an industry-leading percentage of 50% to 52%.
I believe the net impact of the proposed regulation will shift some of the influence from the advisor and brokerage firm to the retirement services provider.
Our value proposition as a total retirement solutions provider remains a key differentiator for advisors and for plan sponsors.
Our focus on helping plan participants take the appropriate actions to save for retirement and our ability to serve plans of all sizes garners high client satisfaction scores year-over-year.
We've received an average overall satisfaction score of 95% over the last three years in plan sponsor surveys conducted by Chatham Partners and the Principal contributing to industry-leading retention rates.
We will not waiver in our commitment to provide a industry-leading total retirement plan solutions including new and innovative in plan solutions and to working with advisors who share our goal of helping people save.
Our established infrastructure of locally deployed and experienced sales and service professionals and strong advisor relationships are not easily replicated by new entrants into the markets we serve.
As a global asset management leader we continue to also provide investors around the world the outcomes-based investment solutions they seek.
Despite a general shift to more passive strategies among institutional investors were still seeing strong interest in our fund line up that focuses on alpha generating strategies continued strong investment performance and a broad platform of outcomes-based investment options drove nearly $5 billion of net cash flows in Principal Global Investors and Principal Funds in the first quarter.
As you know Principal International has become an increasingly important part of our growth strategy.
Last month many of you took the opportunity to attend our investor event in San Diego Chile or listened to the Web cast.
We hoped you came away with a much greater understanding of the power and long-term growth opportunity of our Latin American operations.
The Principal's long time retirement expertise combined with marquee distribution partners in those countries uniquely positions us to capitalize on the tremendous opportunity created by the undeniable savings needs of the fast growing middle class in those countries.
The management teams in Brazil Chile and Mexico are keenly focused on being a leading retirement and asset management provider in these key markets.
Cuprum continues to perform exceptionally well and remains a leading pension provider in Chile.
The opportunities in the voluntary market are taking hold as well with Cuprum in the top spot for voluntary market share among Chile and AFP providers.
Voluntary sales in Chile increased 33% over the prior year quarter on a local currency basis.
The success of Cuprum is further validation of the strength of our acquisition strategy Brazil perhaps was market-leading.
Trailing 12 month net cash flows in PGBL and VGBL were 53% of the industry at the end of the first quarter.
This contributed to the Company recently capturing the highest market share by total assets under management as well according to third-party sourced data.
Our leadership positions in Latin America and increasing presence in Asia are proofs that global expansion strategy we put into play more than a decade ago is absolutely the right one for long-term growth.
Finally I will provide an update on capital management.
Our fee based business model allows us to generate free cash flow and strategically deploy it to create long-term value for shareholders.
We've remained well-positioned to deploy capital through a variety of options in addition to supporting organic growth.
Through the first quarter we've already announced plans to deploy more than $700 million of capital in 2015 on common stock dividend increases a stock repurchase authorization announced in the first quarter and our planned purchase of AXA's pension business in Hong Kong which is on-track to close in the second half of the year.
Last night we announced a $0.38 per share common stock dividend payable in the second quarter.
A 6% increase over the prior quarter which is the eighth increase in the last 12 quarters.
Additionally the merger and acquisition pipeline remains active with selective opportunities to further enhance our global retirement and investment management platform.
Before I turn the call over to Dan I want to highlight one award that Principal received in the quarter which in my view is one of the more important recognitions we've received.
The Ethisphere Institute recognized the Principal as one of the 2015 world's most ethical companies.
The designation recognized our efforts to conduct business by fostering a culture of ethics and transparency at every level of the Company which drives quality for our customers timely information for our shareholders and deep involvement in our communities.
In closing I remain confident in our ability to deliver sustainable profitable growth throughout 2015 and beyond despite the challenging macroeconomic environment.
The Principal remains well-positioned for continued growth with proven success and a unique business model that positions us to provide long-term value for our customers and our shareholders.
Dan? Thanks Larry I will cover two things this morning.
First I will share some positive trends in our U.S.
Insurance Solutions business then I will talk about our truly outstanding results for our retail retirement and institutional investment platforms.
In the supplement we provide trailing 12 month growth trends over the most recent five quarters.
Individual life premium and fees have trended from a 2% decline to 5% growth and Specialty Benefits premium and fee growth has doubled from 4% to an adjusted 8%.
Specific to sales 63% of individual life sales in the quarter were from the business market as business owners continue to seek our expertise for their long-term planning needs Specialty Benefits had its second highest sales quarter with 110 million in sales as we continue to be very well-positioned in our core market in diversified industries.
Further improving employment trends for small and midsized companies continues to contribute to underlying growth in our U.S.
businesses.
On a trailing 12 month basis Specialty Benefits in-group growth was 1.8% its highest level since 2006.
I will now talk about our investment management platforms starting with a little more color around first quarter net cash flows.
Principal Funds delivered record net cash flows of 2.6 billion its 21st consecutive quarter of positive flows on a record 6.6 billion in sales.
Mutual fund sales have grown every quarter over the last five quarters.
Principal Global Investors delivered near record unaffiliated net cash flows of 3.2 billion for the quarter on strong retention and demand from investors seeking income and yield.
We continue to expand our global investment management presence with two-thirds of the unaffiliated assets under management coming from investors outside of the U.S.
and clients in more than 70 countries.
Moving to our retirement platform Full Service Accumulation flows were 1.7 billion for the quarter on 2.8 billion of sales and continued strong retention.
Strong growth in reoccurring deposits was also contributor to flows reflecting employment growth in the existing plans and some traction around our retirement readiness initiatives.
Principal International delivered net cash flow of $2.3 billion an increase of 41% from a year ago on a local currency basis this drove assets under management up 23% on a local currency basis.
First quarter was also marked by notable third-party recognition for our asset management franchise.
First and at the annual ranking of mutual fund families Barron's Magazine named Principal Funds a top five fund family based on one year performance and number nine in the five year timeframe.
Second for the third year in a row the Principal Global Real Estate Securities Fund received a Lipper Award as the best global real estate fund over a five year period.
Third our CPAM joint-venture was recognized as a 2014 best international equity portfolio manager and best three year international equity portfolio manager for the FTSE Shariah World Developed by the employee provident fund in Malaysia.
And finally Cuprum ranked first for investment performance among AFP providers in Chile and four out of five strategies for the one and three year time periods at quarter-end.
The fifth strategy ranked number two for both time periods.
Helping to drive these strong flows and recognition is competitive investment performance.
79% of our rated mutual funds have a four or five star Morningstar rating.
And as the Slide 6 shows at least 85% of our Principal investment options were in the top half of the Morningstar ranking on a one three and five year basis at quarter-end.
As you know targeted funds are an important investment option for plan sponsors more than one-third of full service accumulation assets under management are in target date funds with 100% of our target date funds in the top half of Morningstar rankings across all time periods at quarter-end.
We recently announced changes to align Principal Global Investors and Principal Funds and created a more integrated investment management operation.
I see this move is having meaningful benefits particularly in the areas of product development and distribution.
The leadership changes were effective immediately later this year we will provide more information about changes to financial reporting in addition to addressing many of the other requests from stakeholders regarding our financial supplement.
Our team continues to be laser focused on executing our global investment management strategy and providing innovative solutions to our customers.
No doubt our best years are ahead and our growth in the first quarter continues to build on the strong momentum of our businesses.
Terry? Thanks Dan.
The teams have delivered strong results in the first quarter while operating earnings were aided by some one-time items that I'll address shortly the strength of our business fundamentals and proven ability to execute continue to drive our company forward.
This morning Ill focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter net income including performance of the investment portfolio and I will close with an update on capital deployment.
Total company operating earnings for the first quarter was $326 million up 3% over a very strong year ago quarter.
And at the end of the first quarter return on equity excluding AOCI was 14% this is 100 basis points improvement from a year ago.
If we adjusted the average equity for exchange rate movements as other companies with large international operations do the return on equity would be 15%.
Excluding the corporate segment 65% of the Company's earnings were generated from our fee-based business.
This diversification allows us to perform well despite pressures from the continued low interest rate environment flat equity market performance in the first quarter and a strengthening U.S.
dollar.
Moving to Slide 7 we normalized first quarter 2015 earnings per share of $1.09 down by $0.04.
The following one-time items positively impacted the earnings per share in the quarter.
retirement and investor services accumulation earnings benefitted $0.03 from the true up of prior year dividend accrual in full service accumulation and a payment received related to the transition of part of our trust business to a third-party and Specialty Benefits operating earnings benefitted $0.01 due to the net impact of a recovery of reinsurance premiums that was partially offset by higher expenses primarily from prior year true ups.
After normalizing both periods earnings per share increased 5% over the year ago quarter the growth rate was massed by items that we don't typically normalize for such as the strengthening U.S.
dollar and Latin American inflation.
Now I'll discuss some of our business unit results staring on Slide 8.
The accumulation businesses within retirement and investor services had adjusted operating earnings of $177 million.
This is a 5% increase over adjusted first quarter 2014 results.
Strong fee growth of 9% was offset by decline in variable investment income.
Trailing 12 month net revenue was up 7% which lead to 100 basis points increase in pre-tax return on net revenue to 34% compared to the year ago quarter.
Full service accumulation operating earnings were 114 million in the quarter down 4% compared to the year ago quarter after adjusting for the dividend accrual benefitted both periods operating earnings increased 4% over the first quarter 2014.
Net revenues of $330 million were slightly lower than a year ago quarter due to lower variable investment income.
Principal Funds first quarter operating earnings were $27 million an 8% increase over the year ago quarter.
On a trailing 12 month basis reported revenues were up 12%.
Over that timeframe revenues net of pass through commissions were up 17% and our return on adjusted revenue was 35%.
Record sales in the quarter along with higher sub-advisory fees contributed to higher expenses compared to the year ago quarter.
Strong investment performance and flows contributing to a record account values of 128 billion at quarter end for the total Principal Funds complex.
Individual annuities operating earnings were $37 million for the quarter.
The results were positively impacted by strong fee revenue growth of 14% in variable annuities which helped to offset the impact of spread compression on our fixed deferred business.
We expect normal quarterly volatility in this business.
Turning to Slide 10 Principal Global Investors operating earnings for the quarter were 31 million this is a 14% increase from the year ago quarter in what is typically a seasonally low quarter due to timing of certain expenses.
First quarter 2015 benefitted from performance fees that were partially offset by lower transaction fees and higher expenses.
The trailing 12 month pre-tax margin continued to increase at 26.6% from a reported 25.2% in the year ago quarter.
Slide 11 shows quarterly operating earnings for Principal International of $60 million.
Slightly stronger than expected encaje returns were offset by a negative impact from inflation.
Combined that revenue grew 21% on a local currency basis the strengthening U.S.
dollar suppressed operating earnings by 16% and assets under management by 21% compared to first quarter of 2014.
Principal International continues to drive strong results with operating earnings growth in the mid-teens on an adjusted local currency basis.
Turning to U.S.
insurance solutions operating earnings were 55 million a 27% increase over the year ago quarter.
As shown on Slide 12.
Individual Life operating earnings of $26 million were a 20% over the adjusted year ago quarter.
Adverse mortality impacted the year ago quarters results while first quarter 2015 had a return to expected claims experience.
Turning to Slide 13 Specialty Benefits adjusted operating earnings of $26 million were essentially flat compared to a strong first quarter of 2014.
As a reminder first quarter is impacted by seasonality and is typically the lowest quarter of the year.
Premium and fees grew 9% over the year ago quarter on an adjusted basis and the adjusted loss ratio of 66% is within the targeted range of 64% to 70%.
For the quarter total company net income was a record $440 million including realized capital gains of $13 million.
Net credit related losses of $6.5 million were the lowest quarterly loss since before the financial crisis.
Our portfolio continues to perform in line with expectations and better than our pricing models.
The real estate market is performing very well and we expect mortgage and structured credit risk losses to continue to trend down.
Net income benefited from $75 million of other after tax adjustments in the quarter.
The adjustments included the deferred tax benefit related to the merger in Chile which was offset by a loss due to an update on our uncertain tax positions in the first quarter.
As outlined on Slide 14 we continue to target $800 million to $1 billion of capital deployment in 2015.
In the first quarter 2015 we paid a $0.36 common stock dividend and we announced last night a $0.38 dividend payable in the second quarter.
On the trailing 12 month basis the common stock dividend is 27% higher than the same period a year ago.
In addition we repurchased $50 million of shares in the first quarter which completed our previous authorization.
Our Board of Directors authorized a new $150 million share repurchase program in the first quarter thats still outstanding.
We continue to first focus on anti-dilutive share repurchases and depending on other capital deployment options buying back shares opportunistically.
Our 2015 expected capital deployment range also includes the $335 million already announced for the AXA Hong Kong pension business acquisition which should close in the second half of 2015.
Our approach to capital deployment remains balanced and focused on increasing long-term value for shareholders.
In closing while macroeconomics factors such as the strengthening U.S.
dollar and low interest rates are providing near-term pressures the strong business fundamentals and our proven ability to execute are driving continued momentum.
We remain confident that our diversified business model positions us well for future growth across various macroeconomic environments.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
I wanted to follow-up with Terry around capital deployment this year.
I think you have the opportunity to call a 300 million of perpetual preferred stock in June.
So just doing the math if you are still planning on deploying between 800 million and 1 billion you have already allocated 335 million to the asset transaction.
I think you are going to pay at least 450 million common dividends.
If you were to call the preferred with that I guess is that factored into your 800 million to 1 billion estimates? Hi Sean this is Larry I will just get that over to Terry for a comment.
As we have mentioned before we have the ability to call the preferred shares in June.
They were issued back in 2005 and they have a pretty high coupon rate just a grossed up basis they are around 10% and 8.6%.
So given our move to a more longer term investment operation thats moving to less capital intensive fee-based businesses were reviewing our capital structure and were taking into consideration all the audiences that we have.
And so were evaluating our options at this point in time but to your question the $800 million to $1 billion does not include anything that we would do in terms of the preferred shares.
And then I guess a question for Larry.
Keeping in mind that the DOL proposal.
And given the fact that a low cost provider has made its intentions known that it wants to move into the small and medium business for a 1K plan business.
Do you think that I guess I just want to hear your thoughts on if thats going to materially impact your business given that advisors may believe that they have increased liability in placing small and medium businesses in retirement plans? So a couple of things there that are frankly a little bit independent but in the earlier remarks Sean you heard me comment with respect to the DOL fiduciary proposal.
Now again I will say like others and other companies that have commented kind of early on in the process it's a 1 000 page think about that for a second it's a 1 000 proposed regulation and -- but the -- if I step back from that for a second I step back from the details what we're talking about is an even more complicated landscape for our retirement plans not just from a potential legal perspective but just overall more complicated and every time this happens and again I've seen it for more than 30 years it redefines what scale is in the sort of 401(k) and retirement plan business and it will continue to push I believe it will continue to push market share from second and third tier more local players that frankly just don't have a platform the compete they don't have an investment option line up to compete and these increasing kind of compliance and the regulatory costs are going to make it more and more difficult and as you know 70% of our business is takeover business in other words 70% of our business is business coming from second and third tier players who find it difficult to compete so I think that pressure is going to continue to be there.
Now with respect to Vanguard first let me say I have tremendous respect for Vanguard as an organization.
I have tremendous respect for the business model that they have constructed.
But I do believe Sean I do believe that that business model is not appropriate for every investor every retail investor neither is it appropriate for every small or medium employer because the reality is most small and medium employers access the market through advisors and they need a lot of help and sort of handholding through the process of not only setting up the plan but servicing out on an ongoing basis and that's very difficult to do that well when you are a low fee player like a Vanguard is so again we respect them but we think that our advisor driven model is really going to be at the end of the day is going to be the winning model in the small and medium space.
So I hope that helps.
And your next question comes from the line of with Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
This is going to be a long beating of the stead horse.
But Larry on the DOL proposal to follow-up to Sean's comment one of the big issues that I see is that a differential compensation and that differential compensation will not receive the best interest contract exemption.
I believe you pay on volume to your advisors as well as on fund choice and I'm wondering about your views of this as a sales model going forward? Well I mean again I want to just start by saying I think it would be premature for any of us to necessarily draw conclusions at this point with respect to what may or may not be allowed I guess with respect to compensation generally what I would say is that we believe that transparency is the best way to sort of deal with overall to deal with compensation issues and I think that the department of labor would agree with that.
And I can tell you that going all the way back to ERISA in 1974 we have been among the leaders frankly well out in front of many competitors in terms of making sure both at the time of sale and on ongoing basis that our retirement plan customers have a full and complete understanding of compensation both direct compensation plus any other volume related compensation that may be attached to that if for some reason volume related compensation were to go away for some fashion and frankly I don't know why it would because it is not necessarily any sort of amount that's taken from our plan participants but that were to go away were still on a very level playing field were still dealing equally with the other retirement service providers and to squeeze of course as you would recognize Steven the squeeze is actually going to come on the financial advisors and the brokerage firms the squeeze is not necessarily going to come on the retirement service providers.
Believe me at Raymond James were well aware of that.
I guess what I'm interested in here though is fund choice as well do you see fund choice changing maybe being forced by advisors to move away from your proprietary offerings? Well.
That's another interesting question so let me make a few comments on that.
First of all again we've never had a business model where we are trying to put proprietary funds on a platform in some less than clear fashion as a way to sort of try to stuff proprietary product inside a retirement plan.
So for example if you look at our target date funds Steven I would say we are today still one of the few that has outside managers in as a part of our target date fund line up because while we think PGI is one of the top global asset management companies in the world the reality is they can't do everything perfectly and so they are going to be situations where it's appropriate to bring in outside managers.
I think the real test here and the real issue is going to be do your proprietary funds compete do they compete in terms of investment performance do they compete in terms of fees and if they compete in terms of investment performance and fees then I can't see any reason why the Department of Labor would just per se wall off your ability to put those investment options which are value-add for the participant why they would not allow those to be on the platform.
Final point I will make is as Dan commented when you are sitting here today with A5 or more percent of your investment options in the top half of their Morningstar peer group it would be our investment performance stands on its own not only inside our retirement platform but frankly through the DC investment only space which has been one of the fastest growing parts of our business where you can kind of see the strength of our investment platform and the interest that it has not only to Principal's retirement customers but retirement customers of other service providers as well.
And your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
One question on 401(k) sort of profitability I guess as we think holistically for Principal overtime is it a more important driver the basis points kind of fee that is charged or is it the level of assets managed? When I say level of assets managed in sort of proprietary offerings? Yes so this is Larry and I will have Dan probably want to comment as well.
But what I would say is that there isn't meaningful -- there really is would be no meaningful difference with respect to proprietary versus non-proprietary.
And we've tried hard over the years to have a business model that doesn't necessarily result in largely different returns by plan size.
So for example your small plans are two or three times as profitable as your large plans.
Now I am not saying there arent some differences by size now are there some differences that all of a sudden proprietary assets were a 5% of a single plan.
But when you think it's really important financials are subject to the investment decisions that are made by plan sponsors and advisors.
So I think again I just wanted -- I know some have commented on sort of a decline in margins from first quarter 14 and what I want to suggest is that margins in those periods of time were actually above what we would consider to be normal industry trend.
So were very pleased very pleased with where we are today with respect to the return on net revenue for a full service accumulation.
So I'll let Dan add a comment.
Yes thats right Larry the variable investment income a year ago was quite strong relative to the current quarter and certainly we saw traditional P revenue arise during that period of time.
The other comment I guess I would make about the profitability profile of these plans has a lot to do with TRS.
And so to the extent that we have more than just a 401(k) relationship there is defined benefit there is ESOP and there is deferred compensation that clearly becomes a variable in terms of the earnings that could be generated from that plan.
The second component of course is our ability to retain assets.
So those are number of plans we have the ability to retain assets in a Principal rollover IRA or somehow the stay within the plan and then the last part I would say is remember that were paying market pricing or near market pricing for the majority of the plan assets managed by PGI and of course PGI is capturing a component of profitability as well.
So I think you do have to look at this from a much more macro-comprehensive way than just simply getting it down to either what the investment option is or whether or not it is a small plan or a large plan.
And thats what I was asking holistically to Principal combining kind of the revenue for both FSA as well as PGI.
But I guess am I interpreting your comments correctly that based on your pricing you are targeting the same return whether you are assuming a plan say has 25% of the assets managed in Principal Funds or it has 75%.
You would factor that expectation into your pricing and target a similar return for both cases? Thats certainly our intention thats certainly and what I would call our core base pricing strategy.
Correct.
And would that pricing be sort of variable overtime if you saw the kind of allocation to proprietary funds shift in one direction or another? Yes if there is any one thing I have seen in the last 30 years is a constant resetting of pricing and of course we have the benefit of having one of the most efficient record-keeping administrative platforms out there.
And so again we keep on working on the expense side so that we can continue to be market priced and still in the meantime maintain reasonable margins.
And if you look at that margin range of 30 to 32 for full service accumulation that certainly will be in the top quartile in the industry.
So again I think we hit it on both sides we hit it through effectively managing our expenses and driving out efficiencies and we get it by having top-tier investment performance which certainly helps drive revenue and assets under management.
And your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to turn back to the Vanguard as a competitor.
And if I look at the market data if I understand correctly they partnered with the Census and the two basically have a top five market share in the under a 1 000 employee market.
So when I think about Principal going out in China win a new account or I think you have mentioned in the past that you believe the market is underserved.
What gives you the confidence that a new account that doesn't a retirement plan today would chose the high service higher fee proposition over a low service low fee proposition when they have nothing in the past? Sure.
Yaron so it's a very good question.
So let me just make a few comments and obviously Dan has a lot of perspective having actually have been in the field and done this in the real world so I'm sure hed want to comment as well but I cannot emphasize enough having again it's been a very long period of time in this business that retirement plans have to be sold they have to sold in the small employer marketplace so say any under 100 life even under the 250 life market they have to be sold there isn't -- there are a very few small business owners that would sort of wake up this morning and say okay today is the day I've been thinking about and today is the day I'm going to go out there and get bids for my 401(k) plan it just doesn't work that way in the real world and this is why the financial advisors role we believe is so critical in order to extend the coverage inside the under 100 life marketplace it is the advisor who is really the one who if you will creates the opportunity through conversations to business owner brings in several proposals because the business owner themselves aren't that knowledgeable in these issues and ultimately helps them make a good decision for themselves and their employees.
Now there is probably a 10% I make that number up I don't know what it is but there is a 10% to 15% of the market that the owner would consider themselves very financially sophisticated they might feel like they don't need a financial advisor but I will tell you Yaron my experience is that's a relatively small percentage of the universe and even that proportion probably doesn't really again have the capability to go out on their own and sort through record keeping systems compliance issues plan design issues on their own there was a day when we had a 401(k) plan in a box you could buy 401(k) plan from Principal and many other in the early days of the Internet on a self serve basis and quite frankly we folded that particular product after about three years because they wasnt enough demand for it so anyway I hope that helps and Dan wants to comment.
Yes just a couple of comments and again thanks for the question firstly if I had to start is compounding on what Larry said it's more than just plan level service it is a participant services it's local service relationship management it's things like retire secure and plan works when you sit down with an employee of less than 50 or 100 employees let's say they don't want an unsuccessful plan well what's an unsuccessful plan it's low salary deferral low participation and confusion among the employees on what it is that is available to them it is the financial advisors that are representatives from Principal that make these plans come alive to the average small to medium sized business employee and that has everything to do with driving participation increasing salary referrals staying in the plan making sure they've got good investment diversity and then also just a reminder there is really two parts two halves to expenses related to the plan one is related to the asset management fee and one is related to the record keeping administrative cost.
When it comes to record keeping administrative cost whether it's a Census or Vanguard partnership or Principal those are going to be very-very comparable when you look at the fees associated with asset management then it gets out into an active passive debate I went back and took a look at our existing block of business this is our existing 401(k) plan block and our merging plans of less than $5 million 96% of those plans today make available a low cost index option 99% of all of our clients over $5 million already have a low cost at least one index investment option so again it's really not low fee low service high fee high service it is how do you want to spend if youre a investment lineup do you want to have heavily more biased on lower cost investment options so you can use our collective investment trust you can use our index suite and you can supplement that with more actively managed funds but then you have the separate conversation around record-keeping and administrative related expenses and believe me you do some of those economies of scale on the small case market so again if you already have a lot like Principal does over 35 000 plans we know how to service a small client that chooses passive or CITs as their investment option hopefully that helps.
One follow-up Larry when you talk about the deal or proposal it sounds like it's actually you view that's more of an opportunity that many potential threat but I'm curious to hear your thoughts as to where you make see where you believe in these early days there could be more pressure on your business whether it is from a compliance spending side or other? Yes yes Yaron while you answered the question the -- and first of all in my comment what I'm trying to do is to just have people understand does that when there is a 1 000 page proposed regulation like this there is both challenge and opportunity and so we well understand the challenge side and many others do as well and my only point was to suggest that there is opportunity as well so the things that are challenges it's simply the kind of increased complexity and at least by my view and again this is based on many-many years of experience when you have a 1 000 page proposed regulation that is kind of sitting there and is not yet final and nobody really knows what the rules are I can assure you thats an environment where it's going to be very difficult to see many new plans be formed right.
Because if you were thinking about putting in a 401(k) plan this sort of a thing at the margin is going to cause you to say you know what I'm going to wait a year I am going to try to figure out what this regulation looks like.
So sort of at the margin I think as far as new plans are concerned I think it's going to be a bit of a dampener but on the other hand I think for us and for other retirement service providers that really have the scale and the technical expertise to compete again more importantly whats going to happen is there is still about a 1 000 players in the 401(k) industry today a thousand players.
There shouldn't be a 1 000 players in the 401(k) industry.
And so there is going to be 500 of those that are going to be going through an analysis of whether they really want to stay in the business once all of those regulations are finalized and we understand what the new rules of the game are going to be.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
And my question is directed to either Larry or Dan whoever feels best to answer my question.
Here it is it's my sense that distributors think of conflict of interest not only in of actuals but also perceived.
So my question is why isnt the conversion between the customer and the broker or the advisor going to go something like the following.
Customer walks into the Smith Barney office Merrill Lynch office the broker there recommends a Principal product as well as a majority of is 100% of Principal Funds broker points out outstanding track-record and -- but in the end in order to avoid even the perception of conflict of interest the broker decides then in order to avoid liability is just too risky to have all these Principal Funds he is speaking to himself and he ends up recommending a different mix of funds with fewer Principal product and then would otherwise have been the case.
Why isn't that going to be the discussion and the ultimate outcome here? So again I will make a few comments and ask Dan to weigh in as well.
So with respect to the first part of your hypothetical so the customer walks into Smith Barney or Morgan Stanley or whatever of course it works the other way of course its the Smith Barney broker who walks into the small employers office because thats again the way these plans gets sold.
And the first thing I would say is that of course that broker isn't going to present singularly a Principal proposal.
I mean I don't know the average but my guess that in the initial stages any broker is going to present -- first of all after they go through a discovery process with the small employer what are you looking for they could present as many as five to seven different retirement services providers and it's through subsequent conversion and involvement with our sales team which again is among the best in the industry and locally deployed that the financial advisor and the small employer then ultimately decide okay out of these five to seven quotes which one am I going to select who is going to be the retirement services provider.
Now you are correct that more and more today the choice of the provider the retirement services provider is somewhat separated from the choice of who's going to manage the assets.
So it's a kind of the second step decision.
Again go back to what I said before first of all when Principal's investment options are high performing options in the top half of the Morningstar peer group or the top 25% or the top decile and investment fees are competitive there isn't any reason in the world there isn't any reason in the world that a rationale advisor and a small employer wouldn't see fit to put that on the platform.
I mean the reverse situation could be equally true.
So again when I think when it comes to investment platform what you need to sort of think about is it's a very level playing field.
And what PGI and some of our other chosen sub-advisors bring to us is product that is manufactured specifically for retirement plan clients.
Many of the competitors that are out there are using kind of share class versions of their retail funds that aren't manufactured for the retirement space.
So it's one of the unique differentiators of Principal and I think its going to continue to service well albeit were going to have to negotiate kind of a new set of forces and factors but again I remain very confident having seen us go through 40 years of these changes in legislation and regulation I'm highly confident that were going to figure out the right way to compete whatever the new business model is going to be.
To that point Eric and good morning this splitting of the decision between the plan services and the investment lineup thats been in place for the better part of five to 10 years we have got people today whose sole job is to make the call on those alliance partners and the various investment management firms to educate them and inform them on the particulars of the Principal investment lineup.
You see part of that is showing up in the results for DCIO.
So again it's a split decision today Larry commented earlier on the earlier question relative to our very-very market competitive target date funds which find themselves in about 40% of the lineups thats already multimanager and thats in recognition of plan sponsors and advisors desire to have best-in-class in the investment lineup.
So although there may be a bit more disclosure a bit more debate and discussion I got to believe that the reasonable fiduciary the trusty and making these decisions looks at the fees looks at the performance looks at the line up and is going to in a very similar way that they do today get the appropriate line up and no doubt it's going to be multi manager.
Eric Jim McCaughan want add just one quick comment as well.
Sure.
Eric it's Jim here.
I just want to add to Dan's point about the split decision that we welcome transparency and so that should give us opportunities in the DCIO space the reason these plans sponsors and plan participants choose us is as have been described it is investment performance it's the multi-asset multi-manager products target date target risk increasingly global diversified income diversified real assets those are all extremely attractive carefully constructed products as Dan described specifically for the retirement market with those products transparency should help us not hinder out looking to the future and we see that great growth opportunity in the DCIO space if as one hoped the move continues to be towards greater transparency.
And your next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Jim could you give some additional color on the drivers of PGIs strong flows in the quarter and then also commentary on the current pipeline? On the institutional side we've been nicely building up flows and as Dan described of the strong international component a lot of different countries different parts of the world we've been nicely building up sales over the last two to three years and what happened in the first quarter is we continued the momentum of sales it was growth but not massive growth this is not an usual quarter in terms of institutional sales but we tightened up our act in retention and that was really the issue that led to the very-very the positive that led to the very strong institutional cash flow in the first quarter.
In terms of where it's coming from its true that it's very diversified in terms of investment category the bias I would say there is if I look through our list of sales is towards different kinds of income biased products whether it's our assets underlying diversified income funds investment grade credit high yield preferreds emerging debt and then income equities has been a very strong capability for us real estate and REITs so it's very diversified across countries and across investment capabilities and really the difference this quarter to each quarter last year that made us stronger was greater retention.
Now looking forward I do see the continued development of the pipeline of new business as being very encouraging.
We also has a senior management team get to see all our substantial clients on a very regular basis and I would say the tone of those meeting is currently extremely solid we feel very confident that the improved retention can be continued now clearly that depends on future events but the current tone is extremely good.
And then one on the deal or proposal if I could there is a carve out for plan brokers providing advice to plan sponsors on plans that's over 100 participants or over 100 million in assets in terms of the lack of the carve out for the smaller plans is that something you think is appropriate or would that be something that Principal would be lobbying to get changed in the final rule? Ryan this is Larry.
I mean again I cant size enough this is 1 000 pages this is proposed regulation I'm not going to sort of claim to be an expert on carve out versus non-carve out what I would say is that what seems logical and reasonable to me is that we have kind of a single set of rules with respect to investment line items we have a sort of single set of rules that we operate by whether it's whether it's a Fortune 100 plan or whether it's a 15 life tool and die maker in Rockwood Illinois so what we will lobby for once we sort of understand what the overall proposed rules are what we will lobby for is that we have a consistent standard really across all plan sizes we will argue for a level of transparency that's appropriate and the reason I say that is we are not -- I don't think there is advantages in saying a distributing prospectuses for example as an example of overkill but we really do believe in transparency we really do believe in an informed customer we really do believe in working with well informed brokers who have great expertise to bring to the table in terms of advising the small plans sponsors so those are the things that will be focused on and I'm confident at the end of the day Ryan the Department of Labor wants to do the right things here we've had many-many meetings with them these are very experienced people who know this landscape very well and at the end of the day we share with them a responsibility to see retirement plan coverage grow in this country at the end of the day success in terms of retirement outcomes is going to depend on 401(k) plans and we are not going to go back to the client benefit plans and so were going to continue to press the case to the Department of Labor that we need to have a fair rules transparent rules consistent rules so that we can see retirement plan coverage continue to be extended among employers of all size.
So Dan any comments you want to add.
No I think that really wraps up nice Larry.
And we've reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
Well I just want to say thanks everybody for joining us on the call today.
We are continuing to be very pleased by our results and our results in the first quarter and the ongoing momentum of our business.
We think that the credit for the recent results and the strong momentum really goes to our experienced teams that are all over the globe executing on behalf of our customers every day.
We do believe the macroeconomic conditions are going to remain challenging but as we look forward we think the diversified nature of our business is going to allow us to continue the positive momentum.
So with that thanks very much and I look forward to seeing many of you on the road in the near future.
Thank you participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 01:00 PM Eastern Time until the end of day May 01 2015.
21890644 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056 for all U.S.
and Canadian callers or 404-537-3406 for all international callers.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Principal Financial Group's Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
There will be a question and answer period after the speakers have completed their prepared remarks.
We would ask that you be respectful of others and limit your questions to one and a follow up so we can get to everyone in the queue.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's second quarter earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following the reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Larry Zimpleman and COO Dan Houston and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors and Luis Valds Principal International.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before we discuss the quarterly financial results I want to announce an investor workshop we're holding on November 6 in New York City.
Jim McCaughan from Principal Global Investors will discuss the benefits of the consolidation for our retail and institutional investment platforms which will further enhance our position as a global leader in the retirement investment management.
In addition our CFO Terry Lillis will provide information about enhancements for our financial supplement.
The reporting changes will go into effect for our fourth quarter 2015 earnings release which will provide further clarification on the key performance metrics for our revolving and diversified business model.
Now I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks John and welcome to everyone on the call.
This morning I'll comment on three areas.
First I'll discuss second quarter and year-to-date results at a high-level followed by more detailed comments from Dan and Terry.
Second I'll provide a strategic update including comments on the environment surrounding our businesses.
And I'll close with some comments on our capital management strategy.
If you turn to slide 4 you'll see the key themes from the quarter.
The Principal has shown great consistency in growth of assets under management and operating earnings since the financial crisis.
The second quarter was a continuation of these strong results despite macroeconomic headwinds.
Operating earnings were $324 million for the quarter resulting in year-to-date operating earnings of $650 million.
This is the 9% increase over the first half of 2014 when you adjust both time periods for normalizing items and foreign exchange rates.
For the quarter total company normalized operating earnings adjusted for foreign exchange rates grew 11% over the year-ago quarter.
The strong results this quarter demonstrate the team's outstanding ability to execute on our strategy despite persistent macroeconomic challenges such as the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Foreign exchange alone suppressed operating earnings by $12 million compared to the year-ago quarter.
Our diversified business model contributes to our overall success and is a differentiator.
The second quarter is a great example of that.
While we remain focused on growing our less capital-intensive fee businesses our annuity and insurance businesses also continue to grow and they provide a consistent source of earnings that help in times of volatile macroeconomic conditions.
We generated strong underlying growth across the businesses in the second quarter again demonstrating our ability to strike the right balance of profitability and growth.
Second quarter net cash flows of $8.2 billion contributed to year-to-date flows of $17.6 billion driving quarter end assets under management to a record $540 billion.
Assets under management were 4% higher than the year-ago quarter despite a $27 billion negative total company impact from foreign exchange rates.
As I have said before net cash flows and assets under management are leading indicators of future earnings growth.
Next I'll comment on the current operating environment for our businesses and provide some examples of how we continue to position The Principal for long-term growth.
Regarding the Department of Labor's proposal to expand the fiduciary rules for the retirement business as you likely know the comment period has ended.
However the process is far from complete as regulators trade organizations and plan providers continue conversations with the Department of Labor with regard to shaping a future of America's retirement savings system.
As an industry leader The Principal shares the Department of Labor's desire to help Americans achieve a secure retirement.
We're particularly concerned that instead of increasing access the proposed regulation as presently drafted would actually diminish participant access to guidance education and assistance.
As I stated last quarter and as many others have noted the proposed regulation will add significant complication to the U.S.
retirement plan industry making it more difficult for individuals to access the professional help they need to better prepare for retirement.
The increased complexity will also challenge smaller plan providers to compete against industry leaders like The Principal.
I believe the main intent of this proposed regulation is to encourage more in-plan solutions for job changers and retirees.
This could result in an improvement over time of our asset retention rates from what is today an industry-leading percentage of 50%.
I'll now provide a few updates on the execution of our strategy as we continue to build out our Global Retirement and Asset Management businesses.
Our acquisition of AXA's retirement business in Hong Kong is on track to close September 1.
The acquisition will add scale to our current business making us the 5th largest mandatory pension provider in Hong Kong.
Importantly the deal includes a 15-year exclusive distribution agreement with AXA's network of more than 4 000 agents.
This provides additional opportunities to grow our market share as the mandatory and voluntary pension markets grow in Hong Kong.
The success of our distribution partnerships with Banco Brasil and HSBC in Mexico are a good proxy for our ability to partner with marquee distributors and grow market share in key emerging markets.
Principal Global Investors will begin to manage larger portions of the assets from the acquired business over time.
The breadth of their investment capabilities along with their strong investment performance and established position in Hong Kong adds to the long-term value of this acquisition.
The Principal remains the number one provider in Chile for voluntary solutions and recently Cuprum achieved the highest market share among Chilean AFPs.
Total voluntary assets under asset management in Chile at the end of the second quarter were 28% higher on a local currency basis compared to the prior year quarter.
And year-to-date net cash flows increased 52% over the same period in 2014.
This growth speaks to the success of the integration of Cuprum and our competitiveness across the full spectrum of long-term savings products in Chile.
Finally I'll provide an update on capital management.
Our capital management strategy remains balanced and aims to increase long-term value for shareholders.
We have already announced plans to deploy more than $800 million of capital in 2015 through common stock dividends stock repurchase authorization our closing on AXA's pension business in Hong Kong and increased ownership positions in PGI investment boutiques.
In addition last night we announced a $0.38 per share common stock dividend payable in the third quarter.
On a year-to-date basis our common stock dividend is up 19% over 2014 and our current dividend payout ratio percentage is in the upper-30s.
Additionally our acquisition pipeline remains active across our businesses and we recently began executing on the $150 million stock repurchase authorization.
With the strength of our operating earnings and net income in 2015 we expect to be in the upper end of our $800 million to $1 billion range in 2015.
Before turning the call over to Dan I'd like to call your attention to slide five which shows third-party recognitions received during the second quarter.
I'll point out a few.
Attracting and retaining top talent to drive innovation particularly in technology is critical in our focus to make it easier for advisors and customers to do business with us.
The Principal was recognized by two different publications for our ability to do just that.
For the 14th year in a row Computerworld named The Principal as one of the 100 Best Places to Work in I.T.
Additionally for the 18th time we placed on InformationWeek's Elite 100 a list of the top business technology innovators in the U.S.
Finally The Principal moved up to number 282 on the Fortune 500 List for 2015.
In closing I remain confident in our ability to deliver sustainable profitable growth in the second half of 2015 and beyond despite the challenging macroeconomic environment.
We continue to focus on executing our strategy and positioning ourselves for growth to generate long-term value for our customers and shareholders.
Dan? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Larry.
Teams drove strong underlying growth across our businesses as we continued to successfully meet the evolving needs of our customers.
The following are some examples of strong results from the quarter.
I'll comment first on our Global Retirement and long-term saving businesses.
Full Service Accumulation continued to drive profitable growth.
Second quarter sales of $1.6 billion were 14% higher than the year-ago quarter.
The underlying growth metrics and the business remain strong with growth in reoccurring deposits plan account and active participants all up for the quarter.
This reflects improved employment trends as well as our efforts to continue expanding participation in deferral rates through better plan design.
Principal International continues to drive strong growth with reported assets under management increasing 21% on a local currency basis over the prior year quarter to $118 billion.
Including China total assets under management in Principal International reached a record $152 billion.
Strong sales in Brazil Chile and Southeast Asia contributed to quarterly net cash flows of $3.6 billion a 9% increase over second quarter 2014 on a local currency basis.
With 27 consecutive quarters of positive net cash flows Principal International's growth has been remarkable since launching some 25 years ago.
Next I'll comment on our global investment management businesses.
In the U.S.
Principal Funds remains the 15th largest advisor sold fund family at quarter end with a record $129 billion in account values across the retirement and retail markets.
Strong sales of $5.4 billion contributed to Principal Funds' 22nd consecutive quarter of positive net cash flows.
This growth is coming from multiple distribution channels including the DCIO channel or investments were placed on other record-keeping platforms.
In addition 47 000 advisors sold a Principal Fund in the first half of 2015 a 23% increase over the first half of 2014.
Principal Global Investors ended the second quarter with record total assets under management of $328 billion and record unaffiliated assets under management of $121 billion.
Success across multiple asset classes has helped drive total Principal Global Investors' year-to-date net cash flow to $9.5 billion.
Underlying this growth are two key components competitive investment performance and product innovation.
69% of our rated mutual funds have a Four or Five-star Morningstar rating.
As slide six shows at quarter end 87% of Principal's investment options were in the top two quartiles of the Morningstar rankings on a one-year and three-year basis and 91% were in the top two quartiles on a five-year basis.
In April Lipper rated Principal Global Real Estate Securities Fund as the Best Global Real Estate Fund over the five-year period.
Target Date Funds remain an important strategy for retirement savings and are a key competitive differentiator for us.
100% of our Target Date Funds were once again in the top two quartiles of Morningstar rankings across all time periods at quarter end.
Offering a variety of innovative retirement income solutions is critical as investors' needs change and they seek outcome-based solutions.
Earlier this month Principal Funds launched the first in a series of actively managed ETFs the Principal EDGE Active Income ETF which is traded under the ticker symbol YLD.
It seeks to provide investors with income through changing market environments and over market cycles by actively managing risk.
This ETF adds to the breadth of our successful income-generating solutions that The Principal offers across a diversified base of outcome-oriented multi-asset strategies.
Through Principal Funds and Principal Global Investors retirement and retail and institutional investors have access to investment options across a variety of platforms such as the new ETF collective investment trust separate accounts UCITS 40 Act funds.
Next I'll provide a few performance highlights from our U.S.
spread and protection businesses which not only provide diversification for our company but more importantly provide additional retirement savings and protection options that our customers seek.
Full-service payout had $700 million of sales in the second quarter.
The sales pipeline is active yet we remain opportunistic and look for business that will drive expected returns in the mid-teens.
Our ability to handle more complex plan design makes The Principal a key competitor in this market.
Specialty Benefits had strong premium and fee growth of 9% on a trailing 12-month basis compared to the same period a year ago.
The loss ratio improved from the prior-year quarter and remains at low-end of our target range.
Employee benefits are a priority for businesses and our diversified portfolio continues to resonate and the market is reflected by above-market growth and excellent retention.
This along with our strong financial performance makes The Principal a key player in this business.
Individual Life grew premium and fees 5% on a trailing 12-month basis.
The business market drove 56% of year-to-date sales as we remain disciplined and execute on our target market segment strategy.
In closing I'm exceptionally pleased with the team's ability to consistently meet our customers' needs and drive growth across our businesses.
Terry? Thanks Dan.
Second quarter earnings were strong despite ongoing macroeconomic challenges providing momentum going into the second half of the year.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter net income including performance of the investment portfolio and I'll close with an update on capital deployment.
Total company operating earnings in second quarter were $324 million flat compared to reported earnings in the year-ago quarter.
The strengthening U.S.
dollar and the added expenses to redeem our preferred shares masked the strength of second quarter 2015 earnings.
Net revenues increased 6% over the year-ago quarter despite the headwinds.
At the end of the second quarter return on equity excluding AOCI improved 50 basis points from the year ago to 13.8%.
When we adjust the average equity for exchange rate movements the return on equity was 14.7% up 100 basis points from a year ago.
Moving to slide 7.
We normalized reported second quarter 2015 earnings per share of $1.09 up $0.01 to $1.10.
The following items impacted earnings per share in the quarter.
Higher than expected variable investment income benefited Individual Annuities by $0.01.
And the Corporate segment was negatively impacted by an additional $10 million of expenses related to the redemption of our preferred stock during the quarter.
This was partially offset by the timing of certain expenses.
The net impact to Corporate was a negative $0.02.
Lower than expected encaje returns in Principal International were partially offset by higher than expected inflation.
The net result did not impact total company earnings per share for the quarter.
After normalizing both periods earnings per share increased 7% over the year-ago quarter despite the negative impact from foreign exchange rates.
If we adjust for the impact of foreign exchange earnings per share increased 11%.
Now I'll discuss some of the business unit results starting on slide 8.
The Accumulation businesses within Retirement and Investor Services reported record operating earnings of $190 million.
Normalizing both quarters operating earnings increased 6%.
Trailing 12-month pre-tax return on net revenue of 33% continues to be at the high-end of the stated range for the year.
Full Service Accumulation operating earnings were $116 million in the second quarter flat compared to reported year-ago quarter.
Net cash flows were higher than the year-ago quarter due to strong sales of $1.6 billion recurring deposit growth of 7% over the prior year and excellent retention rates.
This growth drove higher fee-based revenues in the quarter.
Trailing 12-month pre-tax return on net revenue is an industry-leading 33%.
The tax rate for the quarter was below our long-term range as dividends received continue to outpace pre-tax earnings growth.
Principal Funds' second quarter operating earnings were a record $29 million a 14% increase over the year-ago quarter.
Sales of $5.4 billion were up 15% from the year-ago quarter contributing to industry-leading net cash flows.
On a trailing 12-month basis our pre-tax return on adjusted revenue is 35%.
Individual Annuities reported operating earnings of $38 million including $3 million of higher than expected variable investment income.
Normalized operating earnings increased 8% over the year-ago quarter.
Growth in variable and income annuities more than offset spread compression on our fixed deferred block.
Net revenues of $118 million were up 17% from the year-ago quarter driven by strong sales.
We anticipate quarterly operating earnings for the rest of 2015 to be in the $32 million to $36 million range.
Turning to slide 10.
Principal Global Investors operating earnings for the quarter were $32 million this is a 15% increase from the year-ago quarter.
Trailing 12-month pre-tax margin grew to 27% compared to the reported 25% in the year-ago quarter as we continue to add scale.
The investments we've made in building out our global distribution platform are taking hold and we see a strong and diversified pipeline.
Slide 11 shows reported quarterly operating earnings for Principal International of $59 million.
This quarter's lower than expected encaje returns were partially offset by higher than expected inflation.
On a local currency basis and normalizing for encaje and inflation operating earnings at mid-teen growth over the year-ago quarter.
Combined net revenue grew 19% on a local currency basis.
This strong performance despite the macroeconomic challenges within the markets we operate demonstrates the opportunities generated by helping our customers with their long-term savings needs.
Turning to U.S.
Insurance Solutions operating earnings were a strong $59 million a 20% increased over the year-ago quarter.
As shown on slide 12 Individual Life operating earnings of $26 million were a 32% increase over the year-ago quarter due to improved mortality.
Turning to slide 13.
Specialty Benefits operating earnings of $33 million were 12% higher than the second quarter 2014.
Premium and fees were up 8% over the year-ago quarter due to strong retention and year-to-date sales.
The loss ratio of 65% remains at the low-end of our targeted range.
Our Specialty Benefits division continues to provide essential protection solutions to customers in our core markets in small- to mid-sized businesses and has performed consistently well.
Corporate operating losses were $42 million.
The successful redemption of our preferred stock temporarily increased expenses in the quarter but will provide future benefit through interest expense savings.
In the near-term these savings will be partially offset by projected closing costs associated with the AXA transaction.
We still anticipate full-year Corporate operating losses to be in the previously announced range of $130 million to $150 million.
For the quarter total company net income was $241 million including realized capital losses of $83 million.
In second quarter 2015 our credit-related losses of $2 million are significantly better than our pricing assumptions.
The realized capital losses were predominantly related to hedging activities associated with the longer duration Full Service Payout and Individual Annuity products.
We utilized derivatives on a daily basis to match the duration of our assets to liabilities.
If interest rates rise like in second quarter the value of our hedges decline.
However our strong asset liability management will result in the decline being offset when we invest in higher yielding assets.
Similarly changes in net unrealized gains or losses due to interest rate movements do not result in an economic impact.
Our asset liability management expertise combined with strong liquidity allows us to avoid forced asset sales in periods of stress.
Our capital deployment strategy is flexible with multiple options including dividends acquisition opportunities and share repurchases all aimed at increasing long-term shareholder value.
As shown on slide 14 in the second quarter we paid a $0.38 common stock dividend and we announced last night a $0.38 dividend payable in the third quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis the common stock dividend is 22% higher than the same period a year ago.
Our 2015 expected capital deployments range includes $335 million already announced for the AXA Hong Kong pension business acquisition which should close on September 1.
Additionally we increased our ownership in PGI boutiques for a total investment of $20 million.
As previously announced our board of directors authorized a $150 million share repurchase program in first quarter 2015.
Although we did not execute on this program during second quarter as we focused on debt refinancing we are now repurchasing shares.
In closing we're extremely pleased with the continued momentum driven by our teams' proven ability to execute positioning us for future growth in various economic environments.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
And your first question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks good morning.
Terry can you give a bit more detail on the expected amount of AXA closing costs and the timing of when those will hit? Good morning Ryan.
I'll just have that go to Terry.
Yeah Ryan what we talk about in terms of the closing costs or any expenses that run through the Corporate segment we look at a long-term basis.
And we think that for the year we stated that $130 million to $150 million was going to be that number.
Now to-date we have looked at a little higher costs and that includes the acquisition costs associated with AXA or any other business.
It also included the costs associated with the preferred shares that we called this year.
So we think that the run rate in the subsequent quarter will be about the same as it would have been that $32 million to $37 million range.
Now that being said the AXA costs will probably come in in the fourth quarter  excuse me in the third quarter.
We expect that to close on September 1.
But we are going to have savings from the preferred share calls as well.
So we think that that run rate will be about the same for Corporate in the third quarter as it has been in the past.
We haven't really called out any AXA acquisition costs per se.
Hope that helps? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay got it.
Yeah it does.
And then shifting to PGI could you talk a little bit more about the underlying drivers of the strong flows and as well as how does the pipeline look at this point? Sure Ryan.
I'll have Jim comment.
But what I would say is it's great to see when it is across multiple asset classes and multiple boutiques which it frankly has been and continues to be and we certainly saw in the second quarter.
But I'll have Jim give you a little more detail.
Global Asset Management &amp; Chief Executive Officer Principal Global Investors</span></strong> Yeah thanks Ryan.
If you look at the flows as Larry said they have been quite diversified.
We've seen strong institutional flows actually around the world in fixed income into investment grade credit into high yield both in (28:29) Principal Global Fixed Income and into preferred securities.
So there's been quite a strong development of the fixed income assets in the institutional market which is an interesting contrast actually to the U.S.
retail platform where actually the movement has been more towards equities and to real assets.
So that would be part of it.
We've seen very strong interest in our real estate both private real estate where I think it was public that (29:05) one of the biggest investors in Australia is using us as their private real estate people in the U.S.
And other clients have been pretty good to us in private real estate.
And we are stepping up our game there actually and doing much bigger deals in gateway cities which are actually doing in economic terms relatively better than a lot of the country.
Also in real estate REIT has been a successful capability and over the last six or seven years we've developed into a leader in global REITs.
Equities the net flows have been much less because the market has had less appetite to grow equities in the institutional market.
But on the balance we've been doing some quite good positive things there.
So it's across the board and that actually is a very important objective of ours because you really want to be guarded against any kind of rotation.
And in the institutional market we feel we are very well guarded against that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> And can you just comment on the pipeline as you look forward to the rest of the year? Global Asset Management &amp; Chief Executive Officer Principal Global Investors</span></strong> Yeah sorry Ryan.
We do monitor the pipeline in real terms.
I see all the large ones because we put them through a fee committee if they are asking for a discount on our ADV skills.
That means senior management tends to have a pretty good finger on the pulse of the large mandates.
And I can tell you we've been busier than ever in the last few months there.
It doesn't mean that there's any $1 billion mandates coming in but there's plenty of $200 million and $300 million mandates.
Sales year-to-date have been well up on last year and the current activity in the institutional market makes us feel very confident about the second half.
And just as one additional data point Ryan I think if you look at PGI's institutional sales and of course again sometimes there's a sort of lag coming in I think there's a little over $2 billion in their sales pipeline that has not yet come in.
So we expect that will come in over the next few quarters.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you Ryan.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi thank you.
This quarter you had about $200 million or a little bit more of net debt issuance.
Is this something that we should think of as potentially deployable capital that could take you above the $800 million to $1 billion target you have for 2015? Yeah Erik.
This is Larry.
First of all of course we were excited to have the opportunity to lower our overall cost of interest through the kind of restructure with the senior debt and junior subordinate is and then taken out the preferreds.
As you noted the net there was about $250 million.
And really there wasn't  I mean the primary thinking there was simply that the market opportunity was very great.
There was tremendous demand for each of those two tranches and it just seems like a very good time to be in the market.
We don't necessarily have a plan as we sit here today for that $250 million but as I said in my comments there is kind of a steady flow of opportunities that come along.
So while I don't forecast or expect that we'll be deploying that in the near near-term I do think over time if we can find an interesting opportunity it obviously gives us just a little more cushion.
So we feel good about that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then Larry if you could maybe go into a little bit more detail on your comments around the DOL rules potentially leading to higher asset retention rates over time just maybe why you think this could be the case? Yeah.
Well first of all again I've been around a very long time as you know Erik and I've seen about 40 different legislative or regulatory changes although I would be the first to say this one is of more significance than most.
But it seems to me  it seems to me that the primary area here that the DOL seems to have some concern about is with respect to what happens with retirement assets when a benefit event occurs.
And while Principal has been a bit of an exception to the industry when you look at the industry a very high percentage of those assets at benefit events so if a person terminates or retires at benefit event those assets go into a rollover IRA.
Now I think there's plenty of very logical reasons why that happens because usually at that point that person at benefit event wants to move into a more individualized or retail relationship and a rollover IRA is a great fit but what the DOL proposal would do is clearly put up what I referred to as sort of some flashing yellow lights around that; in other words a significant amount of transparency and disclosure a signing of some additional forms et cetera et cetera.
So I think if Principal can continue to be creative with our in-plan solutions I think the easier path for benefit event going forward the easier path could well be to find a way to keep those assets inside the plan but in enough of a separate mode if you will that individuals who terminate or retire will feel comfortable doing that.
And we've got a team that's working really hard on that.
And I'm sure they're going to come up with great ideas.
So I think that's what is going to potentially lead to improved asset retention over time is simply that the balance changes and it isn't so automatic that the money goes into a rollover IRA there'll now be more equivalence between moving to rollover IRA or staying inside the plan and I think that's a big opportunity for us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Appreciate the comments.
You bet.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning everybody.
Terry a quick numbers question for you.
Talking last night with Brenda (35:24) about the FSA tax rate being so low and you noted it was lower than you expected because of the DRD.
I don't expect dividends for corporate America to go down anytime soon.
Is it possible that the tax rate FSA stays lower for longer than you would have ever expected? Thanks Steven.
One of the things that I think it's pretty important is to look at the effective tax rate at the total company level rather than any individual business units albeit I'll answer your question in a second here.
But I do think that you'll see distortions that could occur in any particular period so we do take a longer look at this.
And so one of the things that we believe that the effective tax rate for Principal in the total is probably in that 20% to 22% range now that takes into consideration the DRD that you mentioned also foreign tax credits that we would get from our international operation and also some accounting noises that we're getting here.
But one of the things associated with the DRD is that right now we see that we're getting a bigger benefit than we would have normally seen and because as you mentioned companies are paying more dividends now than they were.
Now is that trend going to reverse in the future? We all have our opinion about that.
And I don't think that that's really going to be the case.
But I think another thing that's probably maybe as significant for us is the investments that we have and what we're seeing.
Those investments that are selected by advisors or individuals are moving more towards Principal-branded funds because of the strong performance that we've had as well as the target date which is a solution for them.
So that being said it could be sustainable in the near future.
However long-term long-term I don't think that that should be the case.
Because I think our pre-tax earnings will grow faster than the dividends that are being paid.
I mean we're also seeing that the investment strategy will change to non-equity U.S.
domestic equity investments and we have a lot of opportunities.
And you're also seeing that the businesses outside of the U.S.
or the life company are growing faster.
So I do think that in the near-term it could be very sustainable.
In the long-term we're not looking at it as being this low for the Full Service Accumulation segment.
So 5% to 7% is still probably a pretty good estimate for that business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
Hope that helps? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah it did.
And then following up for Dan.
Terry you mentioned the amount of proprietary business that you're doing you've got the DOL.
Could you tell us of the  was it the $1.6 billion of sales in FSA how much of that was done through proprietary distribution? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Proprietary distribution or proprietary investment options? Inc.</span></strong> Dan are you there? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Can you hear me? Steven can you hear me? Take them both.
Yeah go ahead.
His line's disconnected sir.
Yeah just go.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
I'll go ahead and answer the question even though it looks like Steven may have dropped off.
So two things.
We get about 5% of our asset flows through our proprietary distribution.
We receive about 10% of our case counts comes through proprietary distribution.
But again as Larry was outlining his comments on DOL we don't think that's going to have a measurable impact on how we go about continuing to support the Principal advisor network in the future.
We have had a strong history in the past of selling our plans with and without proprietary investment options.
And again we don't see that becoming a challenge nor do I see it becoming a substantial issue that will require adequate disclosure as we retain assets that benefiting for those people who are changing jobs or retiring.
And this is Larry.
And to the extent that Steven was asking about deposits what I can say is that so far about 60% of our deposits into the Full Service Accumulation business go into kind of Principal proprietary or multi-boutique manufactured solutions.
So again that's a strong number but when you have virtually 90% of your investment options in the top half of the Morningstar peer rankings on a one three and five-year basis I think that's very very well earned.
So it's certainly is one of the differentiators is our ability to drive assets into proprietary options.
And your next question is from the line of Colin Devine with Jefferies.
Good morning.
A couple of quick questions.
Just exploring the DOL situation a little bit more Larry and I know it's hard to put a  much of a hard number on this but if one outcome was you saw a reduction in proprietary funds in your plans so let's say they were down 10% how significant if you can give us some idea would that be for PFG's earnings? That would be the first question.
Sure.
Well to be candid Colin I don't have a numerical number for you.
And that's not really at this point to be honest anything that we've modeled in particular.
I think that it's been clear to me  now others may have a different opinion but it is clear to me that the focus here isn't really around proprietary assets.
And certainly the PGI options are very much standing the test of time with respect to performance and appropriateness for retirement plan investing.
So if for some reason that were to again have a higher threshold with respect to your own proprietary assets which I think we can meet any threshold but we'll do the same thing we've done for the other 40 legislative regulatory changes.
We'll take a look at it we'll adjust we'll adapt we'll find a path forward and net-net Colin as I said in my comments I really believe that what's going to continue to happen is market share is going to continue to move from second and third tier providers to first tier providers.
And I certainly consider Principal in that top tier.
Global Asset Management &amp; Chief Executive Officer Principal Global Investors</span></strong> And Colin can I add please to what Larry said.
If we did get into a situation and reiterating we don't expect it where some unexpected feature of the DOL changes led to headwinds for our proprietary assets and to our Full Service Accumulation then you would be in a situation where there was a huge opportunity on other people's platforms for our strongly performing investment options with very strong multi-asset and outcome oriented capabilities.
So the situation you outlined could actually be a really good one for us given the choices we would have on other platforms.
Okay.
Thank you for the comments on that.
Because I think that certainly is one risk that people foresee is out there.
Changing the subject a little bit with the DOL if we look about what  and frankly what you're doing right now in terms of in-plan annuities can you talk a bit about the potential for that? Are you starting to see any measurable take-up on the sort of qualified life annuities? Yeah I can have Dan comment too.
I would say first with the direct question you asked with respect to the qualified life annuities Colin I think there's  it's fair to say there's interest but there's not really much in the way of actual usage of that at the moment.
And I don't think it has anything to do with DOL or retirement plans.
I think it has to do with the low level of interest rates.
So I think that's really a question of if and when interest rates increase then I think there would be more consideration of that option.
Obviously we put a full or will put and are putting a full array of in-plan solutions and have had for years frankly a full array of in-plan solutions inside of our qualified plans.
And that includes all the way from of course at benefit events simply leaving in a personal retirement account.
Again it's kind of a quasi-separation from retirement plan.
So that's more of an individual relationship but the plan assets are still in-plan.
It includes opportunities for systematic withdrawal for retirees so if retirees decide they don't want to buy a fully guaranteed life annuity but they want to get systematic withdrawals we can do that.
Or as we just said we can buy some portion of the account or all of it can buy a life annuity.
So we really have that full range today and while we'll continue to look at that and enhance that I think that's really where our opportunity lies.
So Dan any further comment? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Really well said.
And I think Colin the reality is most individuals during the accumulation phase aren't thinking how they're going to draw it down or what the payout period looks like.
So in-plan really I think starts morphing into at benefit event.
I'm a job changer I'm a retiree what are my options? And so maybe five year seven years leading up to that important date 55 57 62 65 or 67 whatever the appropriate age is that person wants to see options.
Now the good news is the way Jim manages the money most of what we're managing is long-term retirement savings oriented strategy.
So whether it is a systemic draw-down whether it's the purchasing of an income annuity whether it's the retaining the money within the plan to  and many times experience a lower overall administrative cost and investment management fee there are so many different choices for that participant to make which really now ties us back to the DOL.
We've got to be in a position where we can have a substantive conversation with someone nearing retirement on what their options are.
And to-date as you know we've been quite successful in retaining about 50% of those assets because of our ability to have that information and have those conversations.
Thank you.
Now I have two final ones.
M&amp;A is clearly the topic of the day perhaps.
As we look at look at the group business Larry Dan what StanCorp went for (46:10) obviously your group business is doing very well.
But it's not necessarily core to your retirement business.
Does this give you pause to sort of rethink that? With that is there any update perhaps you could share on where your largest shareholder stands in terms of Nippon Life? And then one other one for Larry.
With respect to retirement at Principal is it mandatory at 65? I appreciate you're sort of within a year of this now.
Okay.
Thanks Colin.
It's got to be asked at some point Larry I know.
Yeah yeah.
And the company might be the better for it Colin.
We'll see.
With respect to the group business again appreciate your question.
I would say the group business is really is strategic for us and offers a lot of really competitive advantages for us.
It certainly continues to introduce us to a lot of brokers.
It's very key for small-medium business which is really the heart of our strategy.
And probably as important in an element we don't necessarily give as much commentary about is as I said in my comments it is a great diversifier.
And so from an overall company perspective the quarter-by-quarter stability and the fact that the things that drive the group insurance business are not the things that drive fee-based businesses we think is a real advantage for the company.
So I know the board is very happy with how that business has been run.
We have a tremendous team there led by Deanna Strable and of course Dan as well.
And I foresee us continuing to grow our market share in the group business and in the voluntary business.
With respect to Nippon Life I mean they have been a large share  they've been a meaningful shareholder but that's a 25-year relationship.
And so it really just reflects a long-term view I think on their part and a good relationship between our two companies.
But at the end of the day we are executing on businesses the retirement business the mutual fund business the asset management businesses that are not really consistent with the businesses that Nippon Life has been in historically and continues to have an interest in which is almost exclusively the insurance business.
So I would say that in that sense there isn't maybe as much carryover there as one might expect.
Obviously our strategy is to remain independent.
We've had a great track record since the period of time we've been public.
Our board is very very happy and supportive of our strategy and the execution.
With respect to retirement here at Principal I think it is true that Larry is the only one I believe that is  that has a retirement age of 65.
So I think it doesn't apply generally but I believe the way our bylaws are constituted the CEO is required to retire at 65.
Now I suppose like all things that could be subject to change but I don't expect it.
The one thing I'm proudest about of this company is the very strong very deep bench and talent that we have here.
And just as Barry and Dave Drury and Dave Hurd who were strong CEOs in their time and hopefully Larry's done a decent job.
The ones that'll come after Larry will do an equally and probably even better job than that.
So that's not anything I stay awake at night and worry about.
Thank you.
And I think they'll have a tough act to follow but thanks.
Okay Colin.
Appreciate the words.
Your next question is from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I'd like to follow up on the theme of the Department of Labor and maybe specifically more so related to the seller's carve-out and the platform provider carve-out.
I understand this is a fluid situation in terms of how the rules develop but as written what's your interpretation of the platform carve-out and how much of the business particularly in the small case might apply to that exemption? Seth this is Larry.
I'll just have Dan comment on that.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Seth.
Thanks for the question.
And frankly I think again it's way too early to speculate.
There's a lot of ground to still cover not just about the carve-out but the balance of the regs that have been presented.
And so when I think about this topic I really start at the top and think about the DOL.
They don't want to see workplace retirements to go away.
There's no question in my mind about that.
The second is if you look at the workplace retirement savings in the past there's $22.5 trillion that's now been saved in the public and the private sector between DB and DC.
Of that $15 billion is defined contribution and IRAs rollover IRAs for the most part that's $15 trillion that have been saved in a voluntary system primarily through the workplace.
You can look at the last few years there's better plan designs that should improve coverage and adequacy.
Advisors clearly have contributed in a meaningful way to the success of the workplace retirement plans as we know them today.
And the reality is the average American worker needs advice and guidance and left to their own devices that are somehow relying purely on technology as a way to save for retirement it won't get it done.
So whether it's the carve-out exemption or half a dozen of the other provisions within the proposed regulations I think we have very good facts to back up the position that what we have today is working quite well.
I think about  just in the case of the smaller plans they're probably in the greatest need for the advisor.
And in the greatest need for a company representative to come out and appropriately design a plan.
And so to the extent that the decision-making and I would tell you today the vast majority of the decisions for large medium and small plans they bifurcate very much their decision based upon the record keeping administrative services and then separately from the investments.
And no doubt the DOL will ultimately and again if you read Secretary Perez's comments from his testimony earlier this week he wants to work with industry.
He wants to find ways to do this.
And so when it gets down to the investment options clear adequate disclosure as we have in the past transparency about the fees transparency about of the mechanics of these plans I think will allow us to end up with a set of final regs that won't significantly disrupt the way in which advisors and a company like Principal currently provide plan services to small employers.
Hopefully that helps.
That does.
And if I could just follow up on the topics of proprietary products and I appreciate the commentary in terms of leading performance of Principal products and appropriateness of those suggestions.
Just to be explicit about it as currently sold do agents  are agents' compensation directly tied to the uptake of proprietary products or is it completely independent of uptake of Principal's products among plan participants? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's levelized commissions.
It doesn't differentiate.
It's levelized commissions and proprietary or other assets are not a factor in terms of any compensation for the financial advisor.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would say Seth to this point and I appreciate the question we're winning investment mandates because we got 91% of our investment options in the top two quartile rankings of Morningstar that is just lights out performance for five year.
One and three year kind of in that 87% plus.
And again I can't emphasize enough we've been in an open architecture choice environment for a decade.
And employers know that participants know that and certainly the advisors know that.
So again I don't think there's any sort of  because Principal provided the record keeping administration they "had to take the proprietary options".
They're separate decisions and again it's strong performance.
And frankly strong performance across a broad set of asset classes made available.
We've got 100% of our target date series in the top two quartiles.
And again that's going to capture about a one-third of the assets.
So it will be open architecture it's going to continue to be competitive.
And even with the DOL we'll have to continue to adequately represent the product for what the cost is and what the performance is.
Great.
Appreciate the comments.
Thanks Seth.
Your next question is from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just wanted to start on the share repurchase program and just the way that you guys talk about capital deployment.
So the $150 million board authorization so that is what you are committing to do in 2015? We don't have any fixed period on that Suneet.
So as we said in the opening comments we are or have in the third quarter repurchased a very modest amount of shares with respect to that part of the authorization.
But our strategies are always kind of open-ended with respect to that and it's very situational based on what we think is the most effective use of the capital at the time we put it to work.
Okay got it.
And then when we think about the benefit event that you talked about with respect to the FSA business and 401(k) rollovers what  and maybe you answered this and I just missed it but what percentage of the money in motion at those events goes into either a Principal Fund or a Principal Annuity be it fixed or variable? I think what you're asking there Suneet is kind of what percentage  so again we retain about 50% of assets at benefit event.
And then part of that question is how much of it ultimately I think finds its way into I will say a rollover IRA at Principal where it might go into an individual annuity or a mutual fund.
As a respect of  again one of the very popular options is what we called the personal retirement account where the person simply continues to leave their assets invested as they were often prior to retirement.
And their sort of account is walled off in terms of personal retirement account.
And that is the single most popular choice at benefit event.
And then they can make subsequent decisions on that.
So Dan comments on how much is PRA versus goes into other retail products? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's about half and half.
About half and half.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just the last thing for Terry on the increase in annuity earnings run rate.
I think if I think back to what prior guidance was it looks like maybe a 10% increase midpoint to midpoint.
Account value growth has been much lower than that 10% I think it's been more like 2%.
So is there anything going on there that's giving you the confidence to raise your earnings guidance especially given the interest rate environment remains challenging? Suneet there's three different types of businesses within our Individual Annuity.
You have the variable business that we sell through our proprietary network.
We also have immediate or income annuities that we sell through a couple of different channels and then the fixed deferred annuity is also sold through bank channels.
Now that fixed deferred annuity you're seeing spread compression in that and so that's really been kind of a drag on operating earnings over the last few years.
And it's really declined from probably closer to 60% to 70% of the account value.
Now it's down in that 40% range.
You're seeing a growth in the variable at a bigger pace.
Now that variable annuity is again it's probably closer to 45% of the account value and probably closer to 50% of the earnings of that business.
And that's growing at a little bit faster pace as well.
Now the third piece that I mentioned was the income annuities and we've had a pretty nice steady run on that business again; and that business albeit it's only probably around 10% of the account values and maybe 15% of the earnings.
But those two income and variable annuities are growing faster than the fixed deferred annuity piece.
And that's why we're seeing a little bit more of an uptick in that run rate for that business.
Albeit this quarter we did have some strong variable investment income that we had called out so that's why we thought that $32 million to $36 million is a good run rate for that business.
Hope that helps.
Yeah it does.
Thanks.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Zimpleman your closing comments please.
Thanks everybody for joining us for the call today.
We're very very pleased with our performance in second quarter and frankly our performance over the recent quarters and certainly in 2015.
And we look forward to continuing that business momentum going forward.
So thanks again for listening.
Hope everybody has a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 1:00 P.M.
Eastern Time until the end of the day July 31 2015.
71099087 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056 for U.S.
and Canadian callers or 404-537-3406 for International callers.
Good morning and welcome to The Principal Financial Group Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers have completed their prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to The Principal Financial Group's third quarter earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
Following the reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Dan Houston; and CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks.
Then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available for the Q&amp;A are Nora Everett Retirement and Investor Services; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valds Principal International; Deanna Strable U.S.
Insurance Solutions and Tim Dunbar our Chief Investment Officer.
Some of the comments made during this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before we discuss the quarterly financial results I want to remind you of the investor workshop we're holding on November 6 in New York City.
Dan Houston Jim McCaughan and other members of our leadership team will provide an update on our strategy and discuss the benefits of integrating Principal Funds and Principal Global Investors.
Additionally Terry Lillis will provide an overview of the enhancements we're making to our financial supplement.
Registration details are on our website.
We look forward to seeing you there.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Dan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks John.
And welcome to everyone on the call.
As this is my first earnings call as CEO I would like to take a brief moment to thank our Chairman Larry Zimpleman for his many contributions throughout his 44 years at The Principal and especially as CEO.
He not only had led us through the financial crisis but and also helped us evolve from a domestic employee benefits company to a global leader in retirement and investment management.
I am proud to lead our company in executing on the strategy firmly established during Larry's tenure and will continue to focus the company on delivering sustainable profitable growth.
Larry remains Chairman of our Board and we'll continue to benefit from his guidance and tremendous breadth and depth of knowledge.
I would also like to welcome Nora Everett President of Retirement and Investor Services; and Deanna Strable President of U.S.
Insurance Solutions to today's call.
They will be available to answer questions at the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
I am incredibly proud of the strength and commitment of our leadership team who are all industry experts in their respective fields.
Now I'll provide some comments about our results.
As John mentioned there are slides related to today's call on our website.
The key themes for the quarter are outlined on slide 4.
The businesses delivered solid results in the third quarter especially given strong macroeconomic headwinds from market and interest rate volatility and the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
The results generated this quarter demonstrate the revenue and earnings stability that our diversified business mix provides in a variety of market conditions.
Strong fundamentals and focused execution across our businesses resulted in total company operating earnings of $317 million in the third quarter driving the year-to-date total to $967 million.
Year-to-date net income is strong at nearly $1 billion.
Our continued ability to generate growth enables us to increase long-term value for shareholders through capital deployment.
Last night we announced a fourth quarter common stock dividend of $0.38 per share and our Board authorized a new share repurchase program.
These actions signal our confidence and our ability to grow earnings in 2016 and beyond.
Terry will provide additional details on third quarter financials including normalizing items that impacted results.
Despite unusual items this quarter our businesses continued to achieve solid underlying growth.
On a trailing 12-month basis total company net cash flows were $25 billion and we ended third quarter with $516 billion in assets under management.
Strong investment performance continues to be a differentiator and is a foundation for future operating earnings growth.
45 of the rated mutual funds or 78% have a four-star or five-star Morningstar rating.
Additionally as slide 5 shows at quarter end 86% of Principal's investment options were in the top two quartiles of Morningstar rankings on a one-year basis and 91% in the top two quartiles on a three-year and five-year basis.
Finally 100% of our Target Date Funds were once again on the top two quartiles of Morningstar rankings across all time periods at quarter end further enabling us to help more customers achieve financial success.
This performance translated into strong flows across our retail retirement and institutional platforms.
Principal Global Investors ended the third quarter with total assets under management of $324 billion including $120 billion of unaffiliated assets under management.
Third quarter unaffiliated net cash flows of $2 billion were a large portion of Principal Global Investors' third quarter net cash flows of $3 billion.
Success across multiple asset classes along with our global distribution footprint have helped us build scale and drive strong growth.
Principal Funds had its 23rd consecutive quarter of positive net cash flows.
The combination of strong and diversified distribution channel and a broad mix of investment options aimed at solving for favorable outcomes drove strong sales of $5 billion for the quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis Principal Funds sales were up 22% and both our equity and fixed income flows were four times the industry average versus the same period a year ago.
Third quarter 2015 marked Principal International's 28th consecutive quarter of positive net cash flows.
On a trailing 12-month basis net cash flows were $12 billion.
Highlighting the negative impact foreign exchange has had on our results reported assets under management of $106 billion for Principal International included a $34 billion negative impact from foreign exchange rates over the last 12 months.
More than a decade ago we focused Principal International's strategy to serve the retirement and long-term saving needs of the rapidly growing middle classes in select emerging markets.
We knew that emerging markets would have volatile time periods.
That's the nature of emerging markets.
However our consistently strong growth metrics in Principal International demonstrate that the long-term growth opportunities outweigh bouts volatility.
Despite the recent volatility in these markets tremendous growth opportunities remain and we're just as confident as we've always been about our ability to capture market share and continue to grow over the long-term.
The success we have achieved in Principal International is driven by two key advantages: our expertise in providing the savings solutions customers seek and our partnership with marquee distribution networks which is critical for success in international markets.
For example our long-term exclusive distribution partnership with Banco do Brasil the largest bank in Latin America provides us access to their large customer base where to date we've reached just 3% of their customer base.
As a state-owned bank with a quality reputation customers in Brazil view Banco do Brasil as a safe haven particularly during volatile periods.
Our tax advantaged individual retirement products remain in favor garnering Brasilprev $1.2 billion of net cash flow in the third quarter.
This strengthened its position as the number one private retirement provider in terms of net cash flow and assets.
In addition during the quarter Brasilprev received multiple awards including recognition as one of the most innovative companies in the Brazil pension industry.
Additionally our partnership with China Construction Bank the second largest bank in the world has generated $26 billion of net cash flows in China on a trailing 12-month basis.
The continued growth in China makes us a formidable player in this market.
As other pension and other long-term savings opportunities materialize in China we're well positioned to capitalize on those opportunities in this long-term strategic market.
Another key focus is on enhancing and expanding distribution.
A main driver of growth in Principal International has been our successful implementation of strategic acquisitions such as Cuprum in Chile and HSBC in Mexico.
We've closed on the acquisition of AXA's pension business in Hong Kong on September 1 and the transition is proceeding smoothly.
The acquisition adds $3 billion of assets under management to our current business making us the fifth largest mandatory pension provider in Hong Kong.
Importantly the deal includes a 15-year exclusive distribution agreement with AXA's network of some 4 400 agents.
This provides additional opportunities to grow our market share as the mandatory and voluntary pension markets grow in Hong Kong.
Turning to Principal Funds our ongoing advisor development efforts have driven double-digit growth year-to-date and a number of advisors selling our funds to 52 000.
Principal Funds is the 16th largest advisor-sold fund family in the U.S.
and we continue to grow our market share.
Our advisor centered distribution strategy provides us a competitive advantage for our U.S.
retirement business as well.
Year-to-date alliance channels accounted for more than 75% of our Full Service Accumulation sales.
Third quarter sales of $1.5 billion were largely driven by sales in the small and medium size business market.
This market has been a long-term focus for Principal as it's historically been underserved.
Additionally we continue to grow the number of plans in the large market as plan sponsors of all sizes seek our retirement benefit solutions for their employees.
In addition to building strong distribution partnerships we've built our leadership position in the retirement industry by providing solutions from hire through retire and we continue to successfully execute on that strategy.
The underlying growth metrics in Full Service Accumulation remain strong with third quarter recurring deposits up 7% for the quarter and year-to-date.
Plan count and active participants continue to increase as well.
This growth reflects our efforts to continue to expand participation and deferral rates through innovative plan design features in addition to improved employment trends.
The U.S.
is still the largest retirement market in the world and there's still a lot of work to be done as people are not yet saving enough for a comfortable retirement.
As a leader in the industry we remain actively engaged in working with others to ensure the proposed regulations from the Department of Labor protect efforts to help Americans achieve a secure retirement.
Providing protection solutions in addition to retirement and long-term savings options is important to our strategy of helping customers achieve financial success.
And Specialty Benefits our competitive benefit solutions and strong distribution networks helped drive an 8% increase in year-to-date normalized premiums and fees.
We continue to see in-plan growth quarter-over-quarter and the loss ratio remains favorable at the low end of our targeted range.
Business market sales in Individual Life remained strong and made up nearly 60% of sales in third quarter.
These plans help small and medium size business owners with the business continuity strategies as well as enhance our total retirement suite through robust non-qualified plans.
In closing I'm excited about the tremendous long-term growth opportunities ahead.
I remain optimistic about our future despite continued global macroeconomic volatility.
I'm proud of our dedicated employees who continuously demonstrate their ability to execute on our strategy.
It's their commitment to meeting the needs of our customers that will continue to successfully drive the company forward.
Terry? Thanks Dan.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter net income including performance of the investment portfolio and an update on capital deployment.
Third quarter continued to build on the momentum from the first half of 2015 as the fundamentals of our business remained strong.
However results were masked by ongoing macroeconomic headwinds.
Operating earnings for the quarter were negatively impacted by the combination of the strengthening U.S.
dollar negative equity markets and lower interest rates.
The impact was partially offset by our annual actuarial model and assumption review.
In addition on a total company basis variable investment income was down compared to the prior year period due to lower than expected prepayments on U.S.
investments.
Total company reported operating earnings were $317 million or $1.06 per share.
Slide 6 shows the normalizing items for the quarter.
As we typically do in the third quarter we completed our annual review of actuarial models and assumptions.
The review resulted in a net benefit to operating earnings of $0.11 per share.
Notable impacts of the review include reducing interest rate assumptions other assumption updates and model refinements.
Other normalizing items for the quarter include a $0.06 negative impact from additional expense recognition in Full Service Accumulation and Individual Annuities due to market declines as well as lower variable investment income in Individual Annuities and a net $0.03 negative impact to Principal International's earnings per share due to lower than expected encaje returns and an impairment resulting from the review of specific intangibles associated with our 2012 purchase of Claritas our Brazilian mutual fund operation.
These were partially offset by higher than expected Latin American inflation and variable investment income in Chile.
On a normalized basis earnings per share were $1.04 down $0.01 from the normalized third quarter 2014.
After adjusting for foreign exchange third quarter earnings per share grew 6% over the year ago quarter.
Additional detail about the actuarial review and intangible asset impairment is outlined on slide 7.
At the end of the third quarter return on equity excluding AOCI was 13.2%.
When we adjust the average equity for exchange rate movements the return on equity was 14.5%.
Now I'll discuss business unit results.
The accumulation businesses within Retirement and Investor Services reported operating earnings of $143 million.
On a normalized basis operating earnings were $180 million for the third quarter 2015 flat compared to the year ago quarter.
Slide 8 shows that quarterly net revenue was up 1% compared to third quarter 2014 and up 4% on a trailing 12-month basis.
Adjusting for the actuarial assumption review trailing 12-months pre-tax return on net revenue was 32%.
This margin remains attractive and is within our guided range.
Normalized Full Service Accumulation operating earnings were $110 million down 3% from the year ago quarter due to lower revenue and slightly higher expenses.
Net cash flows for Full Service Accumulation were slightly negative for the quarter as we continued to balance growth and profitability.
Year-to-date flows were a positive $2 billion and we're still on track to end 2015 within our targeted 1% to 3% of beginning year account values.
Principal Funds third quarter operating earnings were a record $30 million an increase of 6% over the prior year.
The trailing 12-month pre-tax return on revenue continues to improve as we grow scale.
Strong investment performance and flows contributed to account values of $122 billion at quarter end for the total Principal Funds complex.
Individual Annuities normalized operating earnings were $33 million for the quarter an 8% increase over the prior year quarter.
We continue to believe that the run rate for this business is in the $32 million to $36 million range in normal operating conditions.
Looking at slide 9 operating earnings for the guaranteed businesses within Retirement and Investor Services were $21 million.
Full Service Payout had adverse mortality in the quarter that was within our expected range of fluctuations.
In the third quarter we had almost $700 million of Full Service Payout sales bringing the year-to-date total to $1.5 billion.
We continue to approach our guaranteed businesses opportunistically.
Turning to slide 10 Principal Global Investors quarterly operating earnings were $30 million a 20% increase over the year ago quarter.
Trailing 12-month pre-tax margin was 27% an increase of 190 basis points over the same period a year ago.
Net cash flows of $2.9 billion during the quarter highlight the confidence investors have in our diversified solutions.
The net cash flows have been driven by our yield-oriented products and are a direct result of our investment in our global distribution platform.
Assets under management for Principal Global Investors increased 6% over the prior year quarter to $324 billion.
Unaffiliated assets under management ended the quarter at $120 billion also a 6% increase over the year ago quarter.
Slide 11 shows normalized quarterly operating earnings for Principal International of $54 million.
Third quarter operating earnings were negatively impacted by $18 million due to foreign exchange on a quarter-over-quarter comparison.
On a local currency basis Principal International drove year-over-year growth in the mid-teens.
Included in the normalization is the $11 million impairment of intangibles in Claritas our mutual fund operation in Brazil.
The impairment recognizes the loss of some specific assets under management and distribution in force at the time of our 2012 acquisition as investors' sentiment shifted to less volatile fixed income investments.
Claritas has largely maintained its assets under management by continuing to develop market-driven investment solutions often leveraging The Principal's global asset management capabilities.
This global synergy is becoming a strong competitive advantage given recent regulatory changes allowing more Brazilians access to overseas investments.
We remain committed to offering a broad lineup of appropriate long-term investments to our customers and Claritas remains a critical piece of our Latin American strategy.
As shown on slide 12 Individual Life reported $73 million of operating earnings in the third quarter reflecting a benefit from the actuarial assumption review and model enhancements.
The adjustments better reflect actual experience and are predominantly prior year experience adjustments.
Normalized Individual Life operating earnings were $31 million for the quarter a 33% increase over a normalized prior year period helped by favorable claims experience.
On a trailing 12-month basis the normalized operating margin was within our targeted range.
Moving to slide 13 Specialty Benefits reported operating earnings were $42 million reflecting the benefit of the actuarial model enhancements.
Normalized quarterly operating earnings were a record $34 million an 8% increase over the prior year quarter.
The normalized loss ratio for the quarter was 64% well within our expected range.
The normalized trailing 12-month pre-tax operating margin remains strong and within our targeted range.
Corporate operating losses were $37 million.
This includes expenses associated with the closing of the acquisition of AXA's pension business in Hong Kong.
We still anticipate full-year 2015 Corporate operating losses to be in the previously announced range of $130 million to $150 million.
For the quarter total company net income was $300 million a strong result reflecting the benefit of our diversified business model.
Net credit related losses were $6 million for the quarter and continue to be below our long-term expectations.
Our capital deployment strategy remains balanced as we leverage multiple options to increase long-term value for shareholders.
Slide 14 shows that year-to-date we have deployed $885 million of excess capital.
In the third quarter we closed on the AXA acquisition paid a $0.38 common stock dividend and opportunistically repurchased 2.2 million of our shares.
Yesterday we announced a $0.38 common stock dividend payable in the fourth quarter bringing our full year common stock dividend to $1.50 per share a 17% increase over the full-year 2014 common stock dividend.
With the fourth quarter dividend our 2015 capital deployment amount will be nearly $1 billion.
Additionally yesterday we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $150 million share repurchase program.
With the recent completion of our previously $150 million authorization this new authorization is an acceleration of our 2016 capital deployment plan and allows us to continue to repurchase shares opportunistically.
In closing this quarter demonstrates that our diversified business model positions us well for future growth in various economic environments.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operators please open the call for questions.
The first question comes from John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Good morning everybody.
Dan I guess a question to start.
With the change in management recognizing that there's likely very little if any change in strategy just a question for you about capital deployment.
I realize that the longer term track record here on the acquisition side remains very sound but given the recent intangible impairments when you look at Liongate and Claritas I am curious whether you might have a different view about the method of deploying free cash flow and capital as we look forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah John thank you for the question.
Just a couple of comments and I've got to appreciate your perspective but our capital strategy will remain the same.
It's going to be a very balanced approach.
Increasingly we become more driven by our fee businesses which gives us frankly more flexibility.
We can demonstrate through a lot of Jim's operations when I think about WM Funds and Morley and Spectrum and Origin and Finisterre HSBC Mexico these are really really strong results.
When I look at the Luis' Cuprum AXA Brasilprev and the exclusive distribution agreement that was added to we've got actually a very strong track record of executing on successfully integrating companies that we've acquired supplementing our organic growth strategies.
Having said that in the case of Liongate that you cited Liongate I think is a one-off.
It was an asset class that our timing wasn't good.
The performance was underwhelming and caused us to lose a lot of the assets.
We recognized that we did our due diligence we did our look back and certainly understand perhaps how we could go about acquiring an asset like that in the future.
And frankly I would even put Claritas in the same category.
That's a different sort of impairment on an intangible.
And maybe with that I'll ask Terry to provide some additional comments.
But again I would say John we remain quite confident about our ability to successfully execute our capital strategy.
Terry? Hi John it's Terry.
No I  sorry Terry.
Yeah.
Yeah this is Terry.
As you know each quarter we take a look at all of our assumptions.
But in the third quarter of each year we do a thorough review of the intangibles the goodwill as well for each of our businesses.
And that's similar to the actuarial model and assumption review that we also do.
And we look at all the tangibles as well as intangibles whether they're finite lived or infinite lived.
And in this case in particular with Claritas we reviewed it this quarter and we looked at the particular fund at the time of the purchase when we acquired Claritas.
And the macroeconomic conditions have really changed and become much more challenging for the mutual fund business within Brazil and as a result associated with this one particular fund that went out of favor and we had to impair the intangibles that were associated with it.
These were related to the investment management contract that we had the value of the customers in the fund the distribution agreements.
These all moved away from us.
And so we had to impair those specific impairments associated with that.
And we had to impact in the current quarter.
Now that's about $23 million for the 100% of which we had 60% of that impairment.
Now because of the timing of this we also looked at it in terms of the goodwill associated with Claritas.
And we did not impair that which is probably more important to us in terms of the long-term.
As Dan noted it's a significant player in our Latin American strategy both on the asset management side as well as on Principal International.
And they've proven themselves.
They've actually replaced much of the assets under management by developing some other market driven investment solutions that have been very strong by leveraging as I mentioned earlier in the call Principal Global asset management capabilities.
And so it still has a competitive advantage for our product.
So we didn't feel that there was an impairment there.
Now that being said and where the question would go is are there other impairments out there of goodwill or of an intangible? But we do as we do with actuarial review and assumptions we do a thorough scrubbing of the goodwill and we're seeing a strong cushion on all the remaining intangibles as well as goodwill.
Hopefully that helps.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> John did you have a follow-up question? I appreciate that.
Yeah I wanted to ask a question about Principal International.
In particular I guess I wanted to focus on Latin America.
Obviously flows remain positive but net flows slowed down.
And I don't think that's that surprising.
But I was wondering if we could get an update on conditions locally particularly in areas such as Brazil Chile and maybe even Mexico where clearly the economies are weaker.
And in the case of Brazil in particular there's been a lot of press about the very worried state of the pension market there and what a mess that is economically for the country.
And I'm wondering what you think it might mean for Principal's opportunities.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah really good question John.
So I appreciate that.
And I'll make a couple of overarching comments and then flip it over to Luis to add some color.
It's an important driver for PFG it represents roughly 25% of our earnings and I would just remind everyone on the call we've got 28 consecutive quarters of positive net cash flow that are being driven by Principal International.
And I'd also say that we have tremendous partners.
I think about China Construction Bank and Banco do Brasil who are very much entrenched in these local markets and add enormous firepower to our ability to distribute our products.
And when we do our look back on places like China and India and Brazil and Mexico and Chile some things haven't changed.
They're still a very significant emerging class growing.
These are middle income investors and people who will save for retirement.
Aging the demographics are even more severe than they are here in the U.S.
so they need these products they need these solutions.
We know government is not in a position to take over these responsibilities in any of these countries and we know that to date they've embraced very much a private sector approach to solving the problems.
But with that let me throw it over to Luis to add some additional color John on those specific countries you cited.
Thank you Dan.
Thanks Dan.
John a very good question indeed particularly talking about Mexico Brazil and Chile and where they are at.
Three different countries three different problems totally different.
In Brazil essentially what we have we have a country which is certainly fixable that the political crisis is obstructing the economy's recovery.
And meanwhile we're going to live within this economic  political turmoil.
It's going to be very difficult that the fiscal adjustment that is really needed is going to go through.
So probably we're going to have another year year and a half that we're going to see this political turmoil that certainly the Brazilians are going to be able to fix this.
Whatever is going to be that solution if the Minister of Finance currently Levy he knows very well what they have to do but politically speaking he has to be unleash in order to fix the problem.
As I am saying Brazil is fixable.
What Dan said is very important.
The fundamentals in Brazil there will remain and the proof of that is that that strong and big and large middle class is the one that is keeping our net customer cash flows in a very positive environment month after month and quarter after quarter.
And we continue growing.
And if you are looking our results coming from Brazil and you particularly are paying attention Brasilprev is putting in nominal terms and in U.S.
terms it's demonstrating a flat result year-over-year in the nine months period ended.
It means it has been able to grow at 30% plus year-over-year.
The situation for Mexico is a little bit different.
The situation is a much more stable economy very tied to the U.S.
economy.
So we have to pay a lot of attention about what is going to happen to the U.S.
economy and then we're going to have some conclusions about Mexico.
Unfortunately they went through very important reforms particularly the energy reform the most important reform wrong timing.
But we will see what is going to happen but Mexico we are not  Mexico is in a total different stage.
Chile they have to readjust their economy a little bit.
They are highly dependent on the commodity cycle.
They have to readjust their macroeconomics but Chile is still a double A minus country so they have the highest rating among the emerging countries in Latin America.
So our strategy  we remain very clear with our strategy is the right combination between voluntary money and compulsory money and has been proved that is a very solid and sound and successful strategy.
And we see that we don't have any reason to start changing our strategy and we remain very confident about the future of our operations in Latin America.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Very good.
Thanks John for your question.
Really really appreciate the color.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Very good.
Your next question is from Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First just a separate follow-up on the international business.
It looked like China earnings were up pretty significantly.
I was just hoping you could give a little bit of an update on what's going on there and if that's sustainable.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Ryan thank you.
And yeah you're right.
This is a quarter that we've called that out.
It has increasingly become significant both from a profitability perspective net cash flow as well as sales.
And so Luis you want to go ahead and provide some additional color? Yes absolutely.
Ryan I mean  and again this is the result of our own strategy.
As we have said we're very much more patient oriented long-term saving oriented so our offering and value proposition in all of those markets is in that sense.
So as long as we start having this kind of choppy road in China and very volatile market essentially what is happening is customers are flying into  they fly to quality and they are looking for a safe harbor.
And that is exactly what we're offering there.
So we're perceived in our JV attached to the CCB which is the second largest bank in China we are perceived as a safe harbor.
And we have had this tremendous amount of net customer cash flow.
So that in essence in one year we doubled the size of our company.
So we're running a company with $41 billion in total AUMs and we think that we're going to continue looking and facing that kind of reality.
So all these kind of things that happened in China the wealth management products and the shadow banking system it seems to me that money is playing away from that kind of solutions and looking for very serious managers and partners like we are in China.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Yeah very helpful.
Thank you.
And just shifting to FSA can you talk about the pipeline as well as just generally what you're seeing in terms of plan sponsors and proposal activity and retention levels? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah very good.
I'll make a couple overarching comments and then throw that over to Nora Everett to answer some questions.
I was reflecting on this in preparation of the call.
Just a couple of weeks ago we hosted roughly 130 of our clients down in Florida.
This would have been larger clients and it's an opportunity to sit down face to face with our client council.
It also is an opportunity to spend a couple of days just getting to know them better and to hear their candid views.
And I walked away with a few.
One was they value what we do significantly.
We are making a difference.
They increasingly look at us as an outsourced partner to handle matters related to their benefits and in particular as it relates to the retirement plan.
I was reminded about how much the relationships matter in this.
They are very close to their relationship managers and we have a long-tenured group of professionals out there that work with our clients every day.
Then I also couldn't help but notice during our session regarding investment choice and performance Jim was there and presented along with other peers or his contemporaries to present our platform.
And as you know we have very strong investment performance which is well received by our clients.
And then lastly it seems like most of the conversation isn't around the funds and fees.
It was around what can we help them with as it relates to plan design to get to better outcomes.
And maybe with that I'll just throw it over to Nora to help answer specific questions on the pipeline and outlook for FSA.
Sure.
Good morning Ryan.
We're actually really pleased with the growth and momentum in our pipeline.
As you know we don't give sales guidance but we're seeing double digit increase in that pipeline.
Now remember the lifecycle the sales cycle here can be rather long so a lot of that we'll see impact in 2016.
But we're particularly happy to see that our core SMB and the core SMB space we're seeing that pipeline build.
And we expect typically over half of our new sales AV account values to be in that SMB space.
So continued success with our alliance firms continued success with our TPA channel.
And in particular this total retirement suite differentiator of ours we see that on the sales front and continue to see pretty significant build around that TRS suite.
So even though we're not giving sales guidance I would point you to net cash flow.
We expect to meet the guidance we've given between 1% and 3% beginning of the year account value.
I would say that given what we see today it will likely be the lower end of that range.
And there's always the caveat in our business that one or two plan decisions whether it's timing or something else can shift that number a bit.
So we're always a little bit careful about trying to predict.
But with that said we're really pleased with the growth and momentum in that sales pipeline.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Ryan thanks for your question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Hi.
First question is on the actuarial review and the 50 basis point reduction in interest rates.
Can you comment on the long end of the curve where does that put you from an absolute standpoint? What is the absolute rate assumption that you're now using? That's question number one.
And then just relatedly can you talk about the mechanics that resulted in no net charge and the fact that it was favorable overall? What were the other offsets within the assumptions that more than offset the negative impact of interest rates? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Very good.
Thanks Tom for those questions.
I'll just have Terry go ahead and respond.
Yeah Tom this is Terry.
On the long end of the interest rates we look at the 30 years out plus.
And as you can do with any actuarial reserve we try to make our current best estimate of what's going to happen in the future.
And none of us have a clear crystal ball in it but what we do is we look out and see what the trends are and then make some adjustments.
Back in 2012 we looked at the long-term interest rate and lowered it as well and also changed the trajectory of it.
But now we're seeing that that interest rate environment is staying longer and longer out into the future.
So we looked out 30 years and we lowered our long-term rate by 50 basis points.
Now that is meaningful probably most for the life insurance business.
The other businesses have a shorter duration so when we look at the trajectory to get to that longer term rate we also took an impact on that and smoothed out or reduced that short-term rate.
So the impact that we saw was probably closer in that $25 million to $50 million range.
Offsetting that though as I mentioned before we have to look at our current best estimate on all the actuarial balances: reserve DAC.
We have to look at what else is out there in terms of other refinements on how we recognize reinsurance premium mortality improvement.
We looked at revenues et cetera and so  and margin out into the future anything that might affect EGP.
So there were more than positive offsets that we have reflected to our experience on the business that we've written in the past and predominantly in the life area.
Most of that has been due to prior year experiences.
So the current guidance current GAAP guidance that we're utilizing is to come up with our best estimate where we think it'll be in the future.
And as a result we took a reduction in long-term interest rate but we backed up these others.
So it created a huge amount of noise this quarter and it varied by different business units but in large part the lower interest rate environment was a negative more than offset by our experience adjustments in terms of mortality and other model enhancements.
Hopefully that helps.
That was helpful Terry.
So after making the 50 basis point reduction and I heard you on the Life Insurance side that was the most impacted business what is the actual level you are now at when you look at the very long duration interest rate assumption? What is the absolute level right now? Yeah the absolute level we probably  we're not going to share that in terms of the absolute level because there's multiple parts to it.
There is the risk free rate.
We could use a 10-year Treasury as an example of that.
We also look at the spreads that we would price for and what we're getting on our investments default rates credit analysis et cetera.
So there is a lot of things that come into it which we're not going to share in terms of what we think were the absolute rate would be.
But just to give you a little bit of color little color as I mentioned earlier the longer term end of the curve that probably affects the life business the most some of our other businesses have shorter durations.
So the shape of the yield curve is very important as well.
So if you were to say right now we would say and just used as a risk-free rate of return for our businesses just as a proxy but you have to look all along the yield curve use the 10-year Treasury where it currently is right now.
And a 10-year Treasury is around that 2% range.
At what we look out into the future is over the next 30 years it would grade up to probably maybe 25 basis points a year for the next 10 years? Right.
And your guess is as good as ours.
And then it probably remains flat thereafter.
So that kind of gives you an idea where we're looking out 10 years but then on top of that you have to put our pricing assumptions or spreads that we're getting et cetera.
So that gives you a little bit of a basis point.
Was that helpful? Okay.
Okay thanks.
And then just  and just one follow-up question.
Just on Hong Kong I saw earnings came down a bit.
And I know you have the acquisition going on there.
But I believe you mentioned the restructuring or costs associated with integration were flowing through Corporate other.
So can you give a little help on the earnings progression that we're going to see from AXA Hong Kong and timing around that? How that's going to earn in from an earnings contribution standpoint? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah very good.
Luis can give you some color on that.
Okay Tom.
Essentially meanwhile we are going through the integration of AXA for the next quarter.
AXA is going to be neutral if not a little bit negative for Hong Kong.
Next year we're expecting something in the range of $7 million to $7.5 million total impact in our after-tax OE for Hong Kong.
Does that help? Yes thank you.
Tom this is Terry.
I'm going to add just a little bit.
You mentioned in the Corporate segment this quarter we only included the closing costs associated with that.
And then the rest of it in the future will come through Principal International.
Got you.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay thanks for calling in Tom.
Our next question is from Sean Dargan from Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks and good morning.
I have a question about your capital deployment strategy.
Last year we saw three different dividend raises over the course of the calendar year.
It's been flat at $0.38 over the four quarters this year.
You've talked about getting to a 40% payout ratio I'm just wondering if anything's changed in your thinking? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No not at all Sean.
And again thanks for calling in this morning.
Our commitment still remains the same relative to our dividend payout.
If you look at it over a trailing 12-month basis it's up 17%.
The targeted payout still is right at 40%.
I think if you did your math it's somewhere around 36% today.
So it's right well within the range.
And that over the course of the next couple of years we would expect to have the dividend securely at that 40% absent something dramatic happening.
So hopefully that helps.
Inc.</span></strong> It does.
Thanks.
And coming back to Principal International the underlying trends have been okay I guess considering what's been going on in the local markets but the U.S.
GAAP results are obviously being obfuscated by the FX headwinds.
Have you given any thought to hedging the income statement impact of FX or is it just too expensive now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah with that maybe I'll have Terry go ahead and tackle that question.
Yeah.
Sean this is Terry.
As we look at this we see this as more of a translation issue.
The revenue that's generated in the international companies also has expense associated with it at the same currency rate.
And so we're really translating it back to the U.S.
So if we were to try to hedge this first off it would be very expensive because we're in multiple countries.
Second we wouldn't get hedge accounting treatment so we'd just create some additional volatility.
We just see that this is a translation so that's why we provide the information on a local currency basis as well as try to give the impact of what it would be in terms of mid-teen growth rate.
We're probably mid to upper teen growth rate in terms of this business on a local currency basis.
Now that's translation.
But when it comes to an economic impact where we actually are moving capital from one jurisdiction to another we'll make a call and actually hedge that flows so that we do not lose the value at the time that the earnings are generated.
So we do make a call in terms of hedging money but as you've seen we've generated a lot of earnings outside the U.S.
And an example of it is in the Latin America as you pointed out or as pointed out before and doing the AXA acquisition in Hong Kong the money never even got back to the U.S.
So we'll make sure that the capital gets appropriately hedged as it goes from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
But in terms of operating earnings we're just trying to provide a little bit more clarity on a local currency basis and not incur the additional cost for the translation.
I hope that helps.
Inc.</span></strong> It does Terry.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sean we do spend a lot of time internally modeling these sorts of potential ideas to either hedge or not to hedge.
It's not by accident or lack of a lot of thought that gets us to where we're at with our current policies and strategies.
And if the dollar should ever weaken and we should see these foreign currencies gain some strength there is certainly some upside and some tailwind so thanks for the question.
Your next question is from Michael Kovac from Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question.
I'm just wondering given the multiples that we've seen come down in asset managers across the board how does this change any sort of opportunities that you might see for future M&amp;A? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah very good and I appreciate that.
Let me make a couple of comments then flip it to Jim.
We do keep a very active list of those asset classes that we think that could be complementary to our existing platform.
We look for potential strategies that would be uncorrelated that would support our global platform whether that's for retail or retirement or institutional investors.
And again I think our track record speaks for itself as it relates to our ability to leverage that into either separate accounts or mutual funds institutionally managed accounts separately managed accounts collective investment trust.
And so with that maybe Jim you could provide some color on valuations of these properties and where you're going.
Global Asset Management &amp; Chief Executive Officer Principal Global Investors</span></strong> Yes Michael you are right that multiples on many of the transactions over the last few years have been very high.
And if you'd asked me three years ago about the balance between organic and growth by acquisitions I would have thought three years ago we'd have done more acquisitions.
But in fact with the high multiples we have been extremely focused on organic growth and hopefully that will continue to come through the numbers.
As regards to one or two recent transactions that lower multiples and the talk of lower multiples yes that's something we'll be watching.
I would say though that the lower multiples have tended to be on firms that don't really have the kind of growth edge that we're looking for in an acquisition.
We're looking as Dan said for complementary capabilities that we can really work with our clients to use whichever clients you're talking about whether it's insurance full service the mutual fund company the international distribution and we're not seeing that a lot in the companies that are coming through at cheaper multiples.
So I don't think it's a step change but we'll be watching it.
And I think on balance the next three years could see a bit more acquisition opportunities in asset management than the last three did but I don't feel that it's necessary for us to grow.
I think our organic story is sufficiently strong on its own.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Michael hopefully you'll be able to join us on our investor workshop on November 6.
Jim will probably get into some of those details with more depth and understanding.
And some of the obvious questions are how are you able to maintain such positive net cash flow in an environment where so many of the dollars are going to passive? And I think it has a lot to do with the strategies that were created within the funds business and with Jim's institutional asset management business to work the edges as opposed to going right down the middle on some of these large cap strategies that are tending to migrate towards passive.
So again hopefully you can join us for that meeting on the 6th of November.
Yes great.
Looking forward to that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you Michael for the call.
Your next question comes from Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
I just had a couple of follow-up questions on Principal International.
First on the AXA acquisition I just want to make sure I followed on Luis' comment correctly about the earnings expectations for next year.
Was that $7 million to $7.5 million after tax the expectation for the full year or on a quarterly run rate? And thinking that you're putting up about $335 million of capital if that's the full year impact it seems like a relatively low ROE.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay thanks Erik.
Luis? Yes Erik.
That's a good question.
Next year we're not going to be able to enjoy all the synergies that we're going to enjoy particularly in 2017.
And this is due to many contracts that are tied to the AXA block of business particularly with best serve and other asset managers.
So we're going to transition that block of business in the very first six months of 2016.
So in essence my answer for you is that we're going to enjoy just 50% of those synergies in the first year and full synergies in 2017 Erik.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
That helps.
And then Terry just wanted to follow up on your comments around the impairments.
So I think were you speaking specifically about Claritas of no future impairments that you see on the horizon or was that about all international acquisitions broadly? And one thing to just clarify there I'm assuming when you do your test it's all based on local currency results and currency is not a factor is that correct? Yeah that's correct Erik.
This is Terry.
The impairments that we did we look at all the intangibles and goodwill across all of our entities not just Claritas.
Claritas is the one where we actually found an impairment this quarter.
But we've looked at every one of them.
We scrub every one of them.
And we do scrub them on a local currency basis as well as you pointed out but across all of our goodwill all of our intangibles we found that we have a significant cushion that we are not looking to impair any of those other entities across them.
That goes back to entities that we acquired many years ago.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
And just a final thing just following up on the good response to Sean's question how much of the 65% to 70% of earnings that you talk about is deployable capital? How much of that is contributed from the international business at this point? I guess thinking about it how much of the cash flow actually gets to the holding company? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Terry you want to...
Yeah yeah.
If I look at Principal International it goes to different holding companies.
We have a UK holding company.
We also have a U.S.
holding company.
And most of the earnings that are generated out of Principal International come up through that UK holding company or entities there.
So for example the earnings that are generated in the $250 million or above we'll use some of that for organic growth within those businesses.
And we also have a large portion of it available for acquisitions to fund their own acquisitions within Principal International.
So I'd say that it mirrors  the international business mirrors the total company's position in terms of available capital in that two-thirds of the earnings associated with it.
The rest is supporting the organic growth that's going on in the different entities member companies.
Hopefully that helps.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
It does.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Erik thanks for calling in.
Your next question is from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Suneet.
Thanks.
Hey good morning guys.
So Terry I just want to get back to your $1.04 normalized number.
Just a couple of things kind of jumped out at me as I was sort of trying to think through the baseline for model projection going forward.
It looked like in FSA the tax rate was once again negative even if I make the adjustments for the actuarial review and then the market driven expenses.
And I thought on the last call you had kind of guided to more of a 5% to 7% tax rate.
So as we think about kind of trending this I guess how should we be thinking about getting back to that 5% to 7% over what sort of period of time? Yeah thanks Suneet.
First off I want to say what you need to do in terms of a tax rate you need to look at the total company.
That's where we really focus our attentions and it's really over a longer period of time than just simply some quarter by quarter distortions that may occur.
Now that being said the total company effective tax rate is in that 20% to 22% range as we talked about before.
But if you go down to one of the biggest reasons for that drop is the dividend benefit that we receive.
Now most of that is concentrated within the Full Service Accumulation line.
In this quarter there was a significant negative effective tax rate as you pointed out.
However if you look at it over a period of time and you adjust for the unlocking as you said before the true-ups in the prior year you're still at a negative rate on a year-to-date basis albeit it's much lower than  it's just barely negative in terms of an effective tax rate for the full year.
So look at it over a longer period of time.
Now that being said one of the reasons it's negative right now is because you've seen some higher growth or faster growth in the dividend received benefit that we get in Full Service Accumulation than on a pre-tax earnings basis.
Now there's a lot of adjustments that you can make in order to get the earnings growth on a pre-tax basis.
In 2014 we saw a significant benefit for variable investment income that was at a much higher rate than what we're currently seeing this year.
Now why is that? Well in large part you look at what was the sentiment back in 2013 that was a rising interest rate environment.
So you saw a lot of prepayment activity going on in 2014 that we're not seeing in 2015.
So therefore the pre-tax earnings basis isn't growing as fast as the dividend received basis.
Now as you go into the future you tell me what's going to happen in terms of the economic environment in terms of the equity market that's down on a total return basis of  down about 9%.
Excuse me down 1% where we would have expected it to be up 8%.
So you've got a good point that we've got a negative effective tax rate at this point in time albeit I think that it can turn around very quickly and get into that 5% to 7%.
So again we take a longer look at it don't let the current periods distort it and then that 5% to 10% is probably still a pretty good number for FSA.
Got it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Terry and thank you Suneet for the question.
I had one follow-up if you have a second.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh please.
Go ahead.
Yeah thanks.
Again on the normalizing numbers I just want to make sure we're kind of keeping score consistently here.
Because if I think about that $0.06 that you're sort of adding back from weak markets when I go back and look at prior periods where you had favorable markets I would have thought we would have seen an adjustment going the other way.
And based on the way that we track this I didn't see it.
So is there something unusual in this quarter that the reason that you're calling out those two? Or in periods of prior strong equity markets did you have an expense adjustment kind of going the other way that maybe wasn't called out? Yeah exactly.
Suneet this is Terry again.
You're absolutely right.
One of the things that we try to do in terms of what we call out is we try to get the end number to what we believe is the appropriate run rate for that business given a more normal environment.
There will be periods where we'll have higher variable investment income because of positive markets and there will be higher expenses that offset that.
So we try not to get quite granular as we did this quarter with all the different noise items.
This is probably the most adjustments that I've been associated with in any one particular quarter.
But we do try to keep that total run rate where we're trying to net to get to an appropriate number.
Now to the point that you made about this quarter being highly unusual well we saw the S&amp;P as a proxy for the market being down nearly 7% this quarter.
That had an adverse impact on the DAC amortization for both the individual annuity area as well as the Full Service Accumulation area.
The Full Service Accumulation is a little bit more abnormal than what we would have normally seen because we've been having volatility in that business albeit it's not been the magnitude that we saw this quarter.
And in large part that is one of the model enhancements that we actually have made at the DAC model on a go-forward basis that had an impact  more than normal adverse impact in this quarter in terms of a reversion to more of a mean rate over a longer period of time.
So yeah there was some unusual higher than expected but I would not expect to see that kind of volatility on the Full Service Accumulation line in the future.
Now that said for the individual annuity line with the variable annuity which is still a relatively small block of business out of the $516 billion of assets under management we're talking maybe a $9 billion of variable annuity.
There is some volatility associated with that that will continue.
But net-net-net we're trying to get you back to a number that we think whether we can agree to disagree on this what we think is the appropriate run rate for the business in a particular quarter given the economic environment that we're seeing and where we would expect future quarters to evolve  come from.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Suneet what I would just say is in closing here running out of time is that the 7% negative performance in the quarter for the S&amp;P 500 when we would have anticipated a plus 2% that's a delta of 9%.
We think that's worth calling out.
I do think we've tried to bring that out in previous calls but we'll try to be more consistent for you in doing that where we see outperformance that really does fall out of a significant range.
And so we'll tighten that up for you in the future.
So again thank you for the call.
Yeah.
Much appreciated.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> I'd just like to thank everyone for joining us today on the call and appreciate your good questions and your interest and support.
We still remain very optimistic about the growth and the strategy here at Principal.
We remain confident that the strategy that we have around retirement investment management and protection will serve our long-term shareholders for many years to come.
Hopefully we'll see many of you at the Investor Day event in New York City on November 6.
And with that good day and safe travels.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time until end of day October 30 2015.
44931486 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056 U.S.
and Canadian callers or 404-537-3406 for international callers.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Principal Financial Group Fourth Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers have completed their prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to John Egan Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Principal Financial Group's fourth quarter and full year earnings conference call.
As always our earnings release financial supplement and slides related to today's call are available on our website at www.principal.com/investor.
I'd like to remind you that all the results follow the new format we outlined on our November 6 investor event.
Following the reading of the Safe Harbor provision CEO Dan Houston; CFO Terry Lillis will deliver some prepared remarks then we will open up the call for questions.
Others available on the Q&amp;A are Nora Everett Retirement Income Solutions; Jim McCaughan Principal Global Investors; Luis Valds Principal International; Deanna Strable U.S.
Insurance Solutions and Tim Dunbar our Chief Investment Officer.
The company does not revise or update them to reflect new information subsequent events or changes in strategy.
Risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied are discussed in the company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed by the company with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
I'll now turn the call over to Dan.
Thanks John; and welcome to everyone on the call.
Today I'll briefly comment on our financial results and certain accomplishments that position us for continued growth in 2016 and beyond.
I'll turn the call over to Terry who will provide additional details on results.
As John mentioned slides related to today's call are available on our website.
The key themes are outlined on slide four.
I'd characterize 2015 as a good year.
We delivered after-tax operating earnings of nearly $1.3 billion despite challenging conditions such as the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and underperformance of the U.S.
equity markets.
And we returned more than $700 million to shareholders in the form of common stock dividends and share repurchases.
This demonstrates the benefit of our broad diversification by business by geography by investment platforms and by asset class.
In 2015 Principal continued to build momentum through outstanding investment performance and expansion of distribution and our solutions based product set.
Full year 2015 total company net cash flows of $23 billion were 4% of beginning of year assets under management.
As we continue to attract and retain retail retirement and institutional investors this helped drive assets under management to $527 billion at year-end despite a $28 billion drag from foreign exchange.
As other major growth highlights for 2015 I'd point to Principal International's 29th consecutive quarter of positive net cash flows with $9 billion of flows for the year plus another $21 billion of positive flows from our joint venture with China Construction Bank.
On a constant currency basis Principal International grew reported assets under management by 20% in 2015; double-digit earnings growth for Principal Global Investors and nearly $16 billion in positive net cash flows; record earnings for Specialty Benefits on record sales and a 9% growth in premium and fees; continued traction delivering mutual funds separately managed accounts and annuity-based income solutions; strong underlying growth in plans participants and reoccurring deposits for our U.S.
retirement businesses and strong Individual Life full-year results as claims returned to expected levels.
As I said outstanding investment performance continues to be a differentiator and is a foundation for future growth.
For example 44 of our rated mutual funds or 76% have a four-star or five-star Morningstar rating.
Additionally as slide five shows 88% 89% and 93% of our investment options were in the top two Morningstar quartiles on a one-year three-year and five-year basis respectively.
And 100% of our target date funds remain in the top two quartiles across all time periods and year-end driving sales and retention in this key asset class and enabling us to help more individuals achieve financial success.
From the strong competitive position we remain confident in our ability to drive growth in 2016 and beyond.
Next I'll provide some examples of how we continue to execute on our strategy and further position ourselves for long-term growth.
The U.S.
remains the largest retirement market in the world and Principal has maintained its leadership position for decades through exceptional service product innovation and strong multi-channel distribution.
With the retail mutual funds business now reporting through Principal Global Investors Full Service Accumulation is now the majority of Retirement and Income Solutions Fee or RIS Fee.
To be clear the underlying fundamentals of this business remain strong.
We continue to grow plan count across plan sizes adding nearly 1 300 net new plans in 2015 and we continue to be a leader in start-up plans as we focus on expanding employee coverage.
The Principal's core target market of small-sized and medium-sized businesses is underserved creating an ongoing opportunity for us to uniquely serve this market through our network of local offices and drive consistent growth in this segment.
Full year reoccurring deposits grew $1.1 billion up 7% versus 2014.
These growth trends highlight the power of the payroll deduction component of this business.
But more importantly the work we're doing to advocate best practice plan design with employers and advisers to increase participation in savings rates to better prepare their employees for retirement.
Strong alliance firm relationships continue to be a key driver of sales for Retirement Income Solutions Principal Global Investors as well as U.S.
Insurance Solutions.
In 2015 seven different advisory firms sold more than $1 billion across our offerings with those firms averaging more than six products per platform.
In 2015 we continue to do business with more advisers and get our investments added to recommended lists platforms and model portfolios.
In 2015 we had good traction of plan sponsors adopting our retirement readiness plan design.
The primary features of these plans are automatic enrollment and automatic savings rate increases.
Additionally we launched an innovative income option in the fourth quarter which offers an in-plan guaranteed annuity to provide more income security for plan participants.
While this business remains under pressure from volatile markets we expect good growth in sales and flows in 2016 and getting meaningful growth in the pipeline.
Two other points I'd like to emphasize our U.S.
retirement business continues to be one of the highest performing businesses in the industry and continues to create tremendous value for the enterprise overall.
Slide six provides an update on fiduciary regulations.
With the Department of Labor's fiduciary regulation advancing to the Office of Management and Budget last week final regulations could be issued as early as March or April.
The Principal remains fully engaged to help ensure the final regulations work in favor of individuals trying to save for retirement.
We also remain focused on scenario planning and potential changes to business models with a particular focus on education and guidance compliance and oversight provision of investment information distribution and asset retention.
Absent clarity around the final rule we're not providing a cost estimate at this time.
But based on what we know today we do not expect a significant increase in our run rate expenses.
The Principal has a long history of successfully adapting to complex regulations our track record reflects the benefit of scale products and service breadth and top tier investments; all critical to meeting the needs of the market and diverse adviser business models.
As with prior regulatory developments we're well positioned and confident we'll emerge among the winners.
Despite volatility in emerging markets Principal International continues to demonstrate that we're in the right target markets with marquee distribution partners.
As an example our long-term exclusive distribution partnership with Banco do Brasil the largest bank in Latin America provides our joint venture Brasilprev access to more than 61 million customers.
Customers' confidence in Banco do Brasil and our tax-advantaged individual retirement products helped drive Brasilprev's full year net cash flows to $7 billion.
This growth further strengthened Brasilprev's position as the number one private retirement provider in Brazil in terms of net cash flow and assets.
Additionally we continue to gain traction in the voluntary savings market.
For example on a constant currency basis with Chile volunteer assets under management increased 17% and voluntary fee income increased 25% in 2015.
We remain confident in the long-term growth opportunities of our international operations.
Principal Global Investors which now includes retail and institutional asset management ended 2015 with $361 billion in assets under management.
Institutional sales were strong in 2015 and the pipeline is robust.
To counter the broader shift in demand to more passive or low-cost investment options Principal Global Investors launched solutions in areas where demand for active strategies remained strong including multiple new real estate offerings and fixed income strategies.
We'll continue to add to our ETF suite in 2016 and beyond as well as our portfolio of Income Solutions which will include both funds and guaranteed income options.
In December the Principal earned the top spot in the category in Pension &amp; Investments' (sic) [Pensions &amp; Investments'] annual survey of Best Places to Work in Money Management for the fourth consecutive year.
This award highlights the Principal's strong investment management culture and teams that successfully work to meet client needs every day and position us to attract and retain top investment talent.
Moving now to our insurance businesses our focus on small and medium-sized business markets remain a key differentiator and we continue to find ways to improve the customer experience.
In 2015 we piloted our Easy Elect (11:06) group benefits enrollment tool in seven markets with meaningful improvement in voluntary participation as we continue to help individuals understand the importance of protection to broader financial security.
In closing I'm optimistic about 2016 and our long-term future despite the continued global macroeconomic volatility.
Strong business fundamentals and our ability to focus on things we can control will continue to drive momentum and generate long-term profitable growth.
Terry? Thanks Dan.
This morning I'll focus my comments on operating earnings for the quarter and full year net income including performance of the investment portfolio and I'll close with an update on capital deployment.
The fourth quarter was a solid end to a good year.
On a reported basis total company after-tax operating earnings were $303 million a 6% decrease from the prior year period reflecting macroeconomic volatility.
On slide seven you'll see that fourth quarter 2015 earnings per share were $1.02 compared to a normalized fourth quarter 2014 earnings per share of $1.07 down 5%.
However on a constant currency basis earnings per share increased 1% quarter-over-quarter.
For full year 2015 reported total company after-tax earnings were nearly $1.3 billion a 4% decrease from a record 2014.
The lower reported earnings in 2015 were primarily driven by lower variable investment income and the impact from currency translation.
Year-end 2015 return on equity excluding AOCI other than the foreign currency translation adjustment was 14.2%.
The daily average change in equity markets is an important driver of the revenue for our fee businesses.
In fourth quarter 2015 despite a 6.5% point-to-point increase in the S&amp;P 500 the daily average change for the quarter was slightly higher than 1% compared to third quarter 2015.
On a full-year basis the S&amp;P 500 daily average increased approximately 7% in 2015 compared to a 17.5% increase in 2014.
As we look ahead to 2016 if the macroeconomic volatility continues as it has in January we anticipate a slowdown in revenues in our fee-based businesses.
Therefore we'll focus on things we can control and continue to manage expenses to ensure revenue and expense are aligned.
With that said we will continue to make the necessary investments to keep our competitive edge and drive long-term shareholder value.
The fundamentals of our business are strong and our teams remain focused on execution regardless of the macroeconomic environment.
Now I'll discuss business unit results starting on slide eight with RIS Fee businesses.
Fourth quarter pre-tax operating earnings of $125 million were down 10% from the year-ago quarter.
Net revenue decreased 2% from the prior year quarter primarily due to flat average account values and a decline in variable investment income.
Full-year 2015 net revenue increased 1% over 2014.
Net investment income decreased due to lower variable investment income in 2015 compared to the higher than expected levels in 2014.
On a reported basis trailing 12-month pre-tax return on net revenue was 31%.
After normalizing for the third quarter actuarial assumption review it was 34%.
RIS Fee had net outflows of $1.6 billion in fourth quarter 2015 despite strong sales of $3.1 billion.
Fourth quarter net cash flows reflect exit of a few large cases due to M&amp;A activity and continued pricing discipline as well as the timing of funding for new sales.
As a result we anticipate strong net cash flows in first quarter 2016 and full year 2016 net cash flows to be 1% to 3% of beginning of period account values as we maintain our focus on balancing growth and profitability.
Turning to slide nine RIS Spread quarterly pre-tax operating earnings were $62 million a 4% increase over the year-ago quarter primarily due to growth in account values.
On a trailing 12-month basis pre-tax return on net revenue was 56%.
The pension closeout business had record full-year sales of $1.8 billion which are double 2014 sales.
The pipeline remains strong and opportunities in 2016 look promising.
Slide 10 shows Principal Global Investors' fourth quarter pre-tax operating earnings were $102 million a 2% increase over the prior year quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis adjusted revenue increased 7% to $1.2 billion and pre-tax operating earnings grew 11% compared to the prior year period.
Pre-tax return on adjusted revenue increased to 34%.
Despite the industry's bias towards passive investment strategies Principal Global Investors generated full-year net cash flows of nearly $16 billion with $8 billion coming from institutional clients.
This is a result of outstanding investment performance and outcome-oriented solutions that are in demand.
Additionally full-year management fees increased 9% over 2014 above the 6% growth in average assets under management demonstrating client preference for higher fee capabilities that combined with increased scale led to margin improvement.
Slide 11 shows quarterly pre-tax operating earnings for Principal International of $67 million.
On a constant currency basis Principal International continues to drive mid-teen earnings growth.
On a trailing 12-month basis Principal International's pre-tax return on net revenue was 38% after normalizing for the third quarter 2015 impairment of intangible assets in Claritas.
Moving to slide 12 Specialty Benefits' quarterly pre-tax operating earnings were $57 million a 29% increase over the year-ago quarter.
Fourth quarter premium and fees grew 8% compared to the prior year quarter and the overall loss ratio remained favorable at 62%.
These are very strong results even in a seasonally high fourth quarter due to our focus on the small-sized and medium-sized business market and disciplined profitable growth.
As shown in slide 13 Individual Life pre-tax operating earnings were $30 million for the quarter.
Despite the claims experience that was in line with expectation this is at the low end of our expected range for the quarter partially due to lower variable revenue.
However full-year pre-tax operating earnings growth was strong year-over-year.
For the quarter total company net income was $254 million which includes realized capital losses of $48 million.
After-tax net credit related losses of $5 million were slightly better than expected.
The losses related to the hedging activities were predominantly due to interest rate and equity market changes.
Full-year credit-related losses were $20 million a 65% improvement over 2014 results.
Unrealized gains were $1.9 billion and the portfolio ended the year with a net gain of $1.1 billion.
Our investment portfolio is high quality and diversified by industry geography property type and individual credit exposures.
In addition we have always had a disciplined approach to asset liability management and therefore we're not forced sellers during stressed times.
At year-end 2015 our energy portfolio carrying value was 95% of par value.
Our overall exposure to the energy sector represents 5.7% of our total fixed maturity portfolio and 4.2% of our total U.S.
invested assets as of December 31 2015.
Our market value exposure in high-yield energy companies as of year-end 2015 was $280 million or less than one half of 1% of total U.S.
invested assets.
Despite the continued market volatility in the beginning of 2016 we remain confident about the strength of our investment portfolio.
As outlined on slide 14 our capital management strategy remains balanced and is focused on building long-term value for shareholders.
Our fee-based businesses drove nearly 70% of 2015 normalized earnings which generates higher levels of deployable capital and provides greater financial flexibility.
In 2015 we deployed $1.1 billion of capital which represented nearly 90% of net income.
Our balanced capital deployment includes $441 million in common stock dividends $355 million in strategic acquisitions and $275 million in share repurchases.
The full year common stock dividend was $1.50 per share.
This is a 17% increase over full-year 2014 as we continue to increase our payout ratio.
Additionally last night we announced a $0.38 per share common stock dividend payable in first quarter 2016.
While we continue to explore strategic acquisition opportunities the current equity market volatility is also providing an opportunity to enhance shareholder value through execution of the remainder of our share buyback authorization.
In 2016 we expect to deploy $800 million to $1 billion of capital in a strategic and balanced manner to enhance long-term value for shareholders.
In closing despite ongoing macroeconomic volatility we remain confident that our diversified business model positions us well for future growth.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator please open the call for questions.
The first question will come from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everybody.
I wanted to follow up actually Terry on your last statement with regards to acquisitions.
And maybe you can give us a sense of what the tone is out there.
Obviously your stock is cheaper.
That's more attractive.
On the other hand public valuations are down but then I wonder if private sellers look at those valuations and say no way and you're finding that they're pulling back.
Yeah Steven this is Dan.
Thanks for the question this morning.
And of course this has a lot to do with how we're going to deploy our capital for the best interest of our long-term shareholders.
And with that maybe I'll ask Terry speak specifically to valuations on potential acquisitions.
Yeah.
Thanks for the question Steven.
As we talked about this before we always look at it as a balanced approach to our capital deployment strategy to enhance long-term shareholder value.
As we've stated before we have more fee-based businesses.
Predominantly pretty close to 70% of our earnings are coming from fee-based businesses which is less capital-intensive.
As a result of that we have an opportunity to deploy more capital.
And if you look at what we talked about historically only about 35% of our capital's needed on organic basis that leaving close to 65% available for other deployment opportunities.
Now that said we think that we need to have a balanced approach.
We are on track to increase our dividend as a percent of that total net income percentage closer to 40% over the longer period here.
But as you look at share buybacks and you look at M&amp;A opportunities the M&amp;A opportunities are still very important to us.
We want to have an active pipeline.
We want to continue to look at that.
But as you say with the valuations as low as they currently are it makes sense for us to actually deploy capital in terms of buying back our shares because we do believe that they're undervalued at this point in time.
It's a very volatile market so we have to have that disciplined approach.
But again we're going to continue to look at capital deployment strategies and we said $800 million to $1 billion this year.
We expect to have a very balanced approach as we've done in the past.
But as you said the opportunities right now are very enticing for the buyback program.
We actually have $75 million of authorization that's outstanding at this point in time.
Steven was that helpful? Inc.</span></strong> Yes it was.
Thank you a little nuance there.
And then just one more quick one Terry do you know what the unrealized losses on the energy BEIG (24:55) portfolio? Maybe we'll have Tim Dunbar go ahead and take that he's on the call as well our Chief Investment Officer.
Sure.
So Terry I think mentioned that we had about $280 million of GAAP exposure in high-yield energy sector.
And that's at about $0.70 on the dollar.
So our book carrying value would be around $400 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
The next question will come from Eric Berg with Royal Bank of Canada.
Hi.
This is Kenneth Lee on for Eric Berg.
Just had a quick question in terms of the PGI institutional flows.
It looks like there was a bit of a slowdown in the fourth quarter.
Just want to get a better sense of what you're seeing in terms of the various boutique managers in terms of their flows whether there's a risk (25:49) emerging market debt or whatnot.
Thanks.
Yeah Kenneth.
Thanks for the question.
The one area that we look at that really had really strong results for the quarter clearly was around Principal Global Investors.
I think about that in the context of Jim coalescing a mutual fund team along with the institutional team.
When you look at the broader industry we've seen actually a lot of declines significant declines negative net cash flow.
So frankly when we evaluate Principal Global Investors and Jim's leadership in this area we think we've got a very strong result for the quarter and certainly for the year.
But Jim uncertainly you can add some color to that.
Global Asset Management and Chief Executive Officer Principal Global Investors</span></strong> Yes I'd add a couple of things to that.
The first is that the decline in net flows in the second half of the year was really around some of the large cap equity strategies particularly at Columbus Circle and Principal Global Equities where our clients have been looking at the passive alternative and going for lower fee capabilities.
Now as you saw from our flows though we more than replaced that with the higher added-value strategies that we really specialize in which range through high yield real estate small cap areas that are less efficient markets.
But net-net it was a slightly down but still positive fourth quarter.
And I'd emphasize that because many of our peer group are seeing negative flows.
One area where the peer group's seeing negative flows is sovereigns particularly central banks and sovereign wealth funds in Asia and the Middle East which are obviously under severe financial pressure.
We have some business in those areas and we have not seen those outflows yet because we are seeing much stronger investment performance and we've tended to be among the managers that got retained.
We're hopeful that'll continue but obviously there are no guarantees.
If I look at the pipeline which I think was partly where you were going we have had a very active last two months including over the holidays and in January.
And that is unusual.
Usually the institutional market globally quietens down during that period around the end and beginning of the year.
But we've seen quote activity and indeed funding looking really quite positive and I have to say we're feeling pretty optimistic about the flow potential and it's related to the investment performance that Dan and Terry both mentioned.
Okay.
Great.
And just a quick follow-up just to clarify it sounds as if because of the outflows in relatively low fee rate products and inflows in high fee rate products that means like on a revenue-adjusted basis it sounds like it's a lot more positive than the flows would suggest.
Would that be a fair statement? Global Asset Management and Chief Executive Officer Principal Global Investors</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah I think that's right.
And Terry identified some of the numbers that point to that.
We're seeing  it's not universally so but we're seeing moves towards some of our more high added-value strategies.
And it is a very tough environment in terms of fee negotiation.
We do not cut fees heavily because we are going to be eventually capacity-constrained a long way out and we need to get the business at attractive revenue rather than necessarily at all costs.
We're much more driven by revenues than we are by AUM.
Understood.
Thank you.
Kenneth thanks for the question.
Please give Eric our regards.
Will do.
The next question will come from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
I'm a little confused and was hoping to get some clarification.
Terry you had talked about the point-to-point increase in the S&amp;P this quarter really averaging I think less than 1%.
But the way I thought I understood it last quarter was that you had compared the point-to-point decrease in the S&amp;P as opposed to the daily average change relative to expectations.
So was I not thinking about this correctly last quarter or how should I think about it going forward in terms of the impact of the S&amp;P to normalized earnings? Hey Yaron.
Thanks for the question.
And clearly the daily average is what ultimately drives the revenue but I'll have Terry go ahead and add to that.
Yeah you're absolutely right Yaron.
As you look at the impact on the fees that occur it's really more the daily average asset (30:18).
And we use that as a proxy for what the movements and the impact to our account values.
So you really look at the average account value from one period to the next period.
Now actual performance of those assets also come into play versus the proxy that we use.
Last quarter we talked about a significant drop point-to-point in the S&amp;P 500 that was down 6.7% third quarter over third quarter.
That has an impact on the deferred acquisition costs and that's what we're referencing last quarter.
Now we have an expectation that you'll have anywhere from a 2% to 3% positive impact in that point-to-point time.
So if you look at that 2% to 3% versus say down nearly 7% you're talking a 9% to 10% drop that impacts the deferred acquisition model.
Now you go forward to this quarter now the point-to-point was up 6.5% as you pointed out.
Now that has an impact on the expenses but the differential between what the expectation and what the actual point-to-point was was much smaller this quarter and didn't have as significant of an impact.
Again that S&amp;P 500 is a proxy for the movement in our actual assets.
The actual asset movement was also impacted by  the domestic markets were strong in the fourth quarter.
However international markets and maybe some of the fixed income investments weren't quite as strong.
But I hope that helps.
It is really two different things: an average account value and the average S&amp;P go hand-in-hand and that typically ties to the fee base.
Whereas the expenses associated with the acquisition are more of a point-to-point.
Now if you look at the deferred acquisition costs for this quarter they were right in line with what our expectations would be for every one of our businesses.
Hope that helps.
Inc.</span></strong> Very much so.
Thank you.
And then I had one follow-up and I apologize if I missed it in your prepared comments but the G&amp;A expenses and RIS Fees were a bit high.
Was that a timing issue or are you investing more significantly in the platform? Could you maybe give us a little more color on that? Yeah.
I think there is just a little bit of noise there.
And again we make ongoing investments in the platform to make sure that we're viable.
You may have seen that we've introduced a new in-plan annuity which we're excited about.
That's just one example of that sort of investment.
But with that as a backdrop Nora do you have anything specific to add as it relates to the spike in...
No if you look at quarter-over-quarter comp and other if you see that line item actually up only $5 million 2.5%.
So that's the line I'd focus on.
And certainly to Dan's point we're going to continue to make investments in technology but that's going to be an ongoing investment not a point in time.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
So there's just maybe a degree of seasonality there? Yeah I think that's correct.
Yeah nothing to call out certainly.
Yaron thanks for the question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question will come from John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
I've got one question on a data point and then a couple of bigger picture questions for you if I could.
The question that I have on the data point is variable investment income.
On a consolidated basis Terry how much did that contribute to the fourth quarter results and how would that compare with a more typical quarter? John thanks for the question.
As you talk about variable investment income there is a lot of components that go into that.
What I would talk about in terms of variable investment income is probably prepayment activity that occurs on our mortgages and fixed income investments as well as some real estate sales that we have that also impact it.
And typically I'd look at on a quarter-by-quarter basis that we benefit from this variable investment income activity by $0.03 to $0.07 a quarter.
In 2014 it was well above average because as you're well aware everybody was anticipating higher interest rates and so the prepayment activity was really really high.
We try to call out the variable investment income when it distorts the run rate that is actually in any particular quarter.
Now if you look at this particular quarter the expectations were right in line with what we would have expected.
We saw probably a benefit of variable investment income around $0.04 little over $0.04 so it's right in line with our expectations.
So there was no reason to call it out.
Now a year ago it was slightly higher.
And if you actually look out on a run rate basis we called out probably close to $0.08  probably $0.06 to $0.08 a year ago which was well above our expectations for the year.
Hopefully that helps but I would expect it to be right in line with expectations this quarter.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
And then I have a question on Brazil.
In Principal International net flows remain very strong.
But they have slowed quite a bit if you look at it versus the last  maybe even just a year ago.
Net flows are about half the level as they were a year ago.
I'm just so curious about what's your view of the economy there is what your outlook is for ongoing growth there and whether we should expect that that continues to grow but at a much slower pace.
Yeah.
John thanks for that question because if you think about Brazil and India and China and Southeast Asia those are really our big growth engines for Luis and his team.
As you noted from the script and other conversations we think we have a excellent partner in Banco do Brasil.
Brasilprev as you know has some very favorable tax treatment of the savings vehicle and there is this flight to quality right now and so that's playing to our benefit.
Having said that you're correct some of those flows are lower than they have been historically.
And with that maybe I'll have Luis provide some additional color on the specificity around those flows in Brazil.
Luis? Thanks a lot.
John good morning.
This is Luis.
Good morning.
Talking about total net customer cash flows for PI during this year we put $9.3 billion in comparison with $13 billion last year.
If you're putting this comparison in a constant currency basis it's a minus 5%.
And we're comparing with our record year in 2014.
So I would say that the most important part of these differences at currency we had we were facing a 30% depreciation on average.
Talking about Brazil I mean Brazil continues performing very well.
We put a $6.9 billion in net customer cash flows.
As Dan mentioned our JV with Banco is going very well.
We're going to continue facing some volatility and some headwinds but all-in-all all our companies and the fundamentals of our business out there continues very strong.
Hopefully that helps.
Maybe I'll ask Jim to opine a bit on the Brazilian economy maybe more broadly in its recovery and maybe where we stand.
I think that was the latter half of your question John.
And if I could my last question was actually going to be for Jim and that's just what probability are you putting at this point Jim on a broader turn in the credit cycle beyond just energy? I'm just curious in your outlook.
Global Asset Management and Chief Executive Officer Principal Global Investors</span></strong> Very good.
Thanks.
Okay.
Now thank you.
On the last point I would say this is one of the very important questions on the U.S.
and the global economy.
And at the moment we're seeing the problems in credit really associated with the energy companies the miners and to an extent companies with very large leverage businesses in emerging markets as it's quite a tight little part of the credit market.
The way that that would become contagion would be if banks have been foolish enough to get over-committed in those markets.
If that happens you're going to see a broader credit contagion and indeed a lower flow of credit in even the U.S.
economy.
Your question really was what probability do I see attached to that.
We've discussed this at some length within our organization.
We have people with a lot of different skills on this.
But if I can distill it I would say in the next 12 months that's probably a 20% probability it's still a negative tail risk.
It is most likely that the U.S.
and global economy continue growing albeit at a slower pace than it was before but we need to be ready to defend if contagion happens and you end up with a worse economy.
In particular on Brazil I think what's gone wrong in Brazil apart from the obvious political process and commodity prices is like China they kept growth going for quite a long time by expansion of credit particularly to state-owned enterprises for infrastructure investment and so on.
That expansion of credit has probably got to about the limit.
So you're into a bit of a debt deflation situation.
The IMF I think it was just brought down their growth estimate or their recession estimate this year to in excess of 3% from 1%.
I think that's quite possible.
I think you're going to see another year of pretty severe recession in Brazil come what may but this is part of a deleveraging process.
And we've seen this with economies that slow a lot because people are not spending there's quite a lot of cash available.
And Principal International is taking maximum advantage of that right now.
This will pass it's a phase.
It could take a while but it's one where our business can do frankly okay.
Very good.
Thanks Jim.
Hopefully that helps John.
Thanks no that...
The next question will come from Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Can you give a little bit more underlying color on RIS Fee both deposits and withdrawals? And specifically recurring deposits I guess were down about 5% year-over-year.
I'm sure part of that was impacted by lower asset values so I'd appreciate any more color on kind of underlying activity.
My take on that Ryan is that FSA is in really good shape.
When I think about Full Service Accumulation and the underlying drivers of that business and when I think about it in the context of sales and net cash flow and ability just to grow that block of business so we really really feel strongly that it is a strong contributor to success.
But having said that Nora is our resident expert can speak specifically on some of these drivers.
Nora? Sure.
Good morning Ryan.
So again total recurring deposits were up 7% year-over-year that's $1 billion number that I think Dan mentioned in the script ahead of time.
What you may be focused on is the quarter-over-quarter which was up only about 3.2%.
There's some noise there.
We have some DB plan deposit noise there.
If we strip that noise away and we don't expect that to recur and we look at those core deferrals so look at the core deferrals and match that's actually up really strong quarter-over-quarter closer to 11% little bit north of 11%.
So both with regard to quarter-over-quarter and trailing 12 months we're seeing very strong growth in those recurring deposits.
We're also seeing very strong growth with regard to the number of participants that are deferring.
That percentage is up over 8%.
So when you look at the fundamentals of this business whether you're looking at plan count again we saw that increase across all of the segments; whether you're looking at startup plans in the industry we're now seeing startup plans 17% above pre-crisis levels.
So a huge opportunity in that part of the market that is completely underserved because 50% or so of those smaller employers do not today have worksite access to retirement.
We play in that space extremely well and one of the leaders in that startup plan market.
So the underlying fundamentals here are really really strong.
When you look at the fourth quarter lapses handful of large cases again we're going to win and lose on an M&amp;A basis we happened to lose a couple where the plan went to the acquirer but the good news there is the momentum we're seeing.
I might add one other thing in Q4 that we saw is one plan that came in as a sale and a very large plan north of $500 million is not going to fund until 1Q.
So once in a while as we've mentioned before we're going to get those timing issues.
But if you strip out those timing issues and you look into Q1 we're seeing very significant momentum there both with regard to our sales pipeline good momentum in the pipeline and we're also seeing good momentum with regard to retention.
So as we look into 2016 certainly we don't want to get into the prediction business but we would anticipate a pretty strong positive net cash flow in Q1.
And we would look as Terry said to be back in that range of 1% to 3% of beginning of year account values with regard to net cash flow full year.
Ryan just a couple of additional comments.
When I think about just the America marching back why do you look at group benefits or you look at our small-sized to medium-sized retirement businesses low unemployment rates are causing  will start take an increase in wages we start seeing an increase in matching contributions we see employers competing for workers which means they may strengthen adding a dental benefit adding a 401(k) match all of those things contribute to growing long-term revenues for the organization.
But again I'd highlight one of the statistics that Nora threw out.
We are now seeing new plan formation at a higher level than we saw it in last  in that 2007/2008 timeframe so a really good time for small business in the U.S.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Very helpful.
Thank you.
And then just a separate question.
I think Dan you mentioned this at one point.
I just wanted to get an update.
Do you still see a potential opportunity to free up some capital in your Closed Block within Individual Life? We absolutely do see that as an opportunity.
That's a lever that we could pull.
And while I'll ask  Deanna Strable is here and I'll ask her to tell opine on what the nature of that might look like.
Yeah just a couple of comments on Individual Life.
Obviously we've been very focused on making sure we're meeting our profitability targets both on a return basis and on earnings perspective.
Even though earnings were a little bit soft in the fourth quarter I think very strong growth when you look year-over-year.
Specific to capital obviously there's a number of things that we continue to look at to make sure that we're pulling those levers when and if they make sense.
And the Closed Block is one that is currently does provide an opportunity and we're just working together with Terry and Tim to determine when the right time might be to do that.
Obviously we want to have a place to deploy that.
The rating agencies are more concerned on making sure we keep that within our life insurance company perspective.
And so again I think it's probably more of a matter of when rather than if.
But we do think it's an opportunity that we could pull at some point in time.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Can you help us  any sort of metric to help us size how big that could be? A lot of it depends on the timing of it.
But I would say it's multiple hundreds of millions of dollars that are really trapped up in that perspective.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks for the question Ryan.
The next question will come from Michael Kovac with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Thanks.
As you discussed within the retirement fee-based business because expenses were really only up 2% year-over-year the topline brusher obviously drove margin pressure.
Can you talk about some of the specific drivers that you see going forward in 2016 in order to sort of slow that margin compression specifically thinking about the expense side? Yeah that's a good question.
Frankly I wouldn't limit that to just a conversation about full-service accumulation or RIS.
That's a company-wide item for us.
We're trying to constantly strive the right differential between our growth in revenues and our growth in expenses.
We review that on a constant basis; a lot of company-wide initiatives to go right at that specific point.
So again not limited to RIS but I know that's where your question was.
So I'll ask Nora to maybe fill in some of the blanks in your question.
Nora? Sure.
And this is not going to surprise you but one of our priorities is to make sure that we actually do continue to invest for long-term growth.
So we're going to continue to balance the need for efficiencies which we are gaining.
We're going to continue to focus on operational efficiencies.
But we've got an equal focus on making sure that we're investing for that long-term growth.
So what you're going to see is and we've given guidance on margin and that guidance on margin gives us the ability to what we believe strike the right balance between those two things because the last thing we want to do is shrink to greatness.
We've got a very sharp focus on a lot of  when you think about digital when you then about self-serve when you think about the opportunities in the small to medium business market that's our sweet spot.
So we're going to play there and we're going to play there in a way that balances growth and profitability.
It's a really good question.
The other area I think about the investment we're making in technology well beyond cyber security controls but it gets into having a digital strategy that better enables our customers to do business with us better support our adviser community better support our participants that's an investment we can't afford not to make.
And the good news is we can take that same investment and leverage it throughout the organization.
So something that works in retirement is something that we'll likely deploy internationally with Luis and his team.
And we've also demonstrated we can leverage that across Deanna Strable's U.S.
Insurance Solutions.
So a good question.
We appreciate that Michael.
Did you have a follow-up? Yeah.
If I could a follow-up here on the Department of Labor I know you're not giving any sort of large updates to the compliance cost in terms of sizing.
But have you begun spending some of that today? And I'm wondering sort of further beyond compliance costs if you're preparing anything in terms of product shifts or conversations you're having with your distribution partners in terms of sort of preparing for it in the coming months.
Yeah it's a question that I'm surprised it took this long today to get into this question.
We know it's top of mind for investors and we fully appreciate that.
I guess where I start on this question is we've been very active with the trades we're active with DOL and Congress in better understanding the implications it has as it relates to this fiduciary definition.
But from our perspective job one is to protect the interest of the American savers without taking away very valuable education and guidance which frankly most workers are very dependent on.
So we've looked at it at basically three different inflection points.
One is that initial selection of the investments.
We think that we've got that appropriately identified and the steps that we'll have to take in order to work with advisers.
And so again we think that that's very manageable.
The second is the routine inquiries that we have among our plan participants they're inquiring about a hardship loan or a standard loan or trying to get some investor education and understand perhaps better the target date investment options.
Again we think that within the definition there's a way to work with that we think there's viable solutions.
The third is around those job changers and retirees.
Again we all know they have three options.
One is to leave it in the plan.
Our reading of the understanding of the rule today would cause perhaps more people to leave it in the plan.
There are some benefits from that to the participant perhaps fewer investment options but at the same time they may very well find that the expenses are lower because it's been aggregated with a large pool of dollars.
The second is the rollover IRA either with Principal or another third-party.
And then lastly is a cash-out which we think is a bad idea for all the obvious reasons.
Again we come back to mapping what that scenario looks like as people are faced with those decisions.
And we think there are going to be necessary disclosure and additional steps that will have to be taken.
But we've got that fairly well triangulated in terms of the impact.
So we know there's more guidance there's more education there's more disclosure.
We have a large team of people that are hammering away on this issue.
We don't think it's a material change to our run rate related to expenses.
And like you we're very anxious about the next 60 days to 90 days to see what OMB produces and back to the DOL and what that might start looking like.
And I kept that at a fairly high strategic level.
But with that as a backdrop I'll throw it over to Nora to see if she's got any additional color.
Yeah just a quick comment.
You asked about third-party distribution and as you well know our model is hugely diverse.
We go across all the channels all the firms so we're out there.
We actually have a very large group a team that's been working on this for a number of months doing scenario planning and engaging with our third-party distribution partners.
And the one result of those discussions is it's pretty clear to us and again we're speculating on a preliminary reg here but it's pretty clear to us that there's going to be an array of adviser business models coming out of this change if and when this reg becomes final.
Because between ERISA and this new reg what you see is a huge amount of optionality many exceptions many exemptions and so various firms and various advisers and various broker dealers are going to take different routes from our perspective whether they go the fiduciary route with a third-party advisory service or the non-fiduciary route with a third-party advisory service whether they use the best interest contract there's a lot of optionality.
What we're doing is working with them and making sure that we're putting the systems in place to be able to service those diverse operating models across our various channels firms and advisers.
And we feel pretty optimistic that at the end of the day somebody like us who's got the scale and the expertise and the discipline to really work channel-by-channel firm-by-firm is going to have a really elegant solution to an unbelievably complex set of regulations.
Global Asset Management and Chief Executive Officer Principal Global Investors</span></strong> And can I just add something? It's Jim here.
Jim McCaughan.
Can I add that with our investment performance and our multi-asset capabilities if in the market generally platforms find it harder to offer in proprietary products we have some very strong substitutes there that we can sell into other platforms.
We would see this as an opportunity depending on how it all develops to expand our defined contribution investment only business.
Very good.
Michael hopefully that helps.
Thank you.
Very good.
The next question will come from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks and good morning.
Just one housekeeping item.
Terry forgive me if you said this already but did you say if you've bought any stock year-to-date; and if so how much? Sean we did not state that.
I just said that we had an authorization still outstanding of $75 million.
But I did also say that the valuations are pretty attractive at this point in time unfortunately but it does look like there's an outstanding authorization  we do have an outstanding authorization of $75 million and we'll also talk with the board of directors about any future authorizations that may occur.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then going back to the DOL but away from fiduciary duty there's a proposal I believe it's from the DOL to allow small employers to pool together to offer 401(k) plans to their employees.
Is that a net benefit to PFG or is that a challenge for you guys because the size of the plans would then be bigger than the SMB kind of niche that you have? Thanks for the question Sean.
We're actually on the record.
We would support that multiple-employer plan model.
We have plans in order to support that.
The other part that came out of the White House was to provide some additional tax credits and some additional incentives for small-sized to medium-sized employers to adopt a plan.
So I think clearly this is an example where the administration is recognizing that an employer-based retirement approach is the right approach and delivered through the private sector.
So again we like seeing those.
Now having said that I'll have Nora add any additional comments.
No well said.
We've been part of the movement to get those two very things on the agenda and we were really pleased to see that come out of the White House a couple of weeks ago.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Sean.
The next question will come from the Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Hi.
So the first question's just on the operating environment in the 401(k) business and just your outlook for flows.
Obviously your commentary seemed pretty positive but withdrawals picked up a lot in the fourth quarter and you mentioned M&amp;A but how much of this was because of competition and just competitor behavior on fees and other things? Sure Jimmy.
So thanks for the question.
Nora had commented on those earlier.
I'll have her repeat her comments relative to the operating environment and flows and withdrawals and some of the color around that.
The M&amp;A environment is always there.
But equally as important to M&amp;A I think about half of those withdrawals actually were attributable to plan terminations and that means they just no longer have a plan.
And that's going to happen in the small-size to medium-size employer space and you can't be as vibrant as we are in that marketplace and not have a few plans terminate after year two three four or maybe five.
But with that maybe I'll have Nora go ahead and add some additional color.
Sure.
No doubt it's competitive.
It's always been competitive.
What we're seeing in that small to medium business space the core SMB space for us is that if we actually peel that back on a net cash flow basis for 2015 we were actually well within our beginning of year 1% to 3% net cash flow.
So within that space that we've been talking about stripping out some of the larger plans from a net cash flow perspective we are proving up that we're extremely competitive.
And there are two things going on there.
One is we've got tremendous investment performance in that target date suite and we've got a huge lineup with regard to target date whether you want primarily passive whether you want primarily active whether you want it in a funds form or a CIT form.
So between the choice in the investment performance we are highly competitive in that space.
And then you add to that the fact that we're price competitive and that's why we're seeing those kind of positive net cash flows year-over-year in that core small to medium business segment of the industry.
Then on group benefits the margins are pretty good.
To what extent do you think that'll sustain? I think your margins especially in group life and disability were just very strong this quarter.
Yeah what did I tell you? It didn't happen by accident.
Deanna and her team have just done a superb job managing that group benefits business.
Deanna some additional comments? Yeah.
I think I'd make a comment.
I think you can't just look at the fourth quarter.
Obviously we have some seasonality that makes the margin in the fourth quarter a little bit higher because of dental results.
And you're right our Group life loss ratio was probably at an unsustainable level.
So I'd say probably if you just look at the fourth quarter margins probably not sustainable but I think if you look at the full-year margins we feel good about those results and ultimately can see that there's fundamentals that can carry that into 2016.
I think as Dan says I think the team's done a really really good job with this business.
We had record sales in both group benefits and individual disability record retention record premium record earnings.
And I think when you look at that relative to some of our peers in this business I think we really do have the fundamentals to drive not just growth but profitable growth which is really important in this business.
So hopefully that helps give you a little bit of color on the margin but I think full-year margin we feel good about that sustaining.
Thank you.
Thanks Jimmy.
We have reached the end of the of our Q&amp;A.
Mr.
Houston your closing comments please.
Well first I'd like to just thank everyone for joining the call today.
As I said in the beginning we felt like we had a very solid quarter.
We think we had in overall a good year.
We frankly are very optimistic about the future.
We found 2015 to be challenging in a number of different areas including the headwinds created by the equity markets sustaining low interest rates and certainly FX was not playing to our strength in 2015.
2016 as we evaluate it we think the fundamentals are very strong.
We think the strategy is still spot-on.
We'll continue to rigorously analyze our capital deployment in interest of long-term shareholders.
And again appreciate your continued support and look forward to seeing you on the road here in the next few weeks.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time until end of day February 9th 2016.
12710878 is the access code for the replay.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056 U.S.
and Canadian callers; or 404-537-3406 international callers.