And welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's Quarter End Conference Call.
Today’s discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G’s most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G's Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Please proceed.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Bob McDonald and Teri List joined me this morning.
I'll begin today's call with a summary of our first quarter results Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment and I'll conclude the call with guidance for the fiscal year and the December quarter.
Bob Teri and I will take questions after our prepared remarks.
Following the call Teri John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.
Our first quarter results marked a strong start to the fiscal year.
We maintained strong volume momentum.
We grew organic sales ahead of market growth building market share and exceeded our earnings per share growth objectives.
Volume increased 8% on an all-in basis and 7% organically driven by our strong multiyear innovation program and continued marketing investments.
This is the first time we delivered three consecutive quarters of 7% or better organic volume growth in five years.
The growth is broad-based with all regions 16 of our top 17 countries and 20 of our $23 billion brands delivering volume growth versus a year ago.
We're continuing to leverage the innovations we launched last fiscal year such as Pampers Dry Max Fusion ProGlide Crest 3D White and our new Pantene lineup in the U.S.
where they were first introduced.
We've also started to expand some of these initiatives to new markets which create new sources of incremental sales and share growth.
We've already expanded Dry Max to more than 50 countries around the world.
We've continued the global expansion of our best-in-class Pro-Health toothpaste formula we've launched 3D White in Europe and ProGlide is scheduled to expand to over 40 countries in the next 18 months.
In addition we have a full pipeline of new products that we're launching this fiscal year including Crest Clinical toothpaste Tide Acti-Lift laundry detergent Gain and dishwashing detergent and our upgrade to Downy fabric softeners all of which started shipping in the September quarter.
And we just announced the new Gillette Guard razor launch in India which is designed and priced to stimulate market conversion from double-edge blades to Gillette shaving systems.
The Guard razor is priced at about INR 15 or roughly $0.33 and the refill blades are priced at about INR 5 or $0.11.
And our testing with thousands of Indian men Gillette Guard was a 6:1 winner versus double-edge blades and has delivered important advantage as an area such as safety trust and value.
We've also continued to expand our existing portfolio into new markets.
In the September quarter we started the expansion of Febreze air care into Latin America and we began to launch all the natural and feminine care brand in Brazil.
Organic sales grew 4% ahead of market growth rates and in line with our expectations.
Pricing and mix combined to reduce sales by 3% which is a sequential improvement of one point versus the June quarter.
As expected pricing was a modest reduction to sales growth due mainly to adjustments made in earlier periods which have not yet annualized.
Going forward we expect the pricing impact on sales to turn positive as we lapped these adjustments.
For perspective the pricing changes we've made to brands such as Duracell Sheer and the large sizes of Tide will be fully in our base by the end of the December quarter as will many of the structural adjustments we've made in the Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region.
Mix reduced sales by two percentage points driven primarily by the differential volume growth rates of developed and developing markets.
Geographic mix accounted for a point of the two-point mix impact.
In the first quarter organic volume and developed markets grew 4% and developing markets grew 12%.
Product mix and price tier mix each affected sales growth by about half a point.
All-in sales grew 2%.
This includes a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange.
The net impact on sales growth from acquisitions and divestitures rounded to a one point held for the quarter.
Global market shares up versus prior year on the past six and three-month basis.
Share growth in the quarter was broad-based.
We grew share in all geographic regions and held our built share in 13 of our top 17 countries and 17 of our $23 billion brands.
Earnings per share was $1.02 up 5% versus prior year core EPS and $0.01 above the top end of our guidance range of $0.97 to $1.01.
We continue the high investment level to support our innovation and portfolio moves.
Advertising levels remained strong to drive awareness and trial of our new innovations.
Consumer impressions were up double digits versus last year.
Gross margin decreased 70 basis points due mainly to higher commodity cost.
Category mix also resulted in lower gross margin as the Household Care business which is more cost of goods intensive grew volume 10% for the quarter compared to 5% growth for the balance of the business.
We again delivered significant cost savings which contributed nearly 150 basis points to gross margin.
These savings were across all areas of spending including materials manufacturing and logistics.
These savings along with the benefit of volume leverage largely offset the commodity and mix impacts.
Operating margins declined 10 basis points due to lower gross margin.
SG&amp;A spending as a percentage of sales was down 60 basis points.
Within SG&amp;A overhead savings and lower year-on-year foreign exchange transaction cost more than offset a significant increase in marketing spending.
The effective tax rate on continuing operations was up 30 basis points versus last year to 28%.
We generated $1.9 billion in free cash flow with free cash flow productivity of 63%.
As expected these levels were impacted by the reversal of the strong marketing payables increase that we saw in the fourth quarter as we accelerated marketing spending behind innovation launches.
We continue to expect strong cash generation and free cash flow productivity in more than 90% of net earnings for the year.
With this being the case we continue to return significant levels of cash to shareholders.
In the first quarter we returned $4.4 billion to shareholders $1.4 billion of dividends and $3 billion of share repurchases.
In summary we're very pleased with our first quarter results.
It was a solid start to the year.
These results provide continued evidence that our overarching growth strategy to touch and improve the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely is working.
Now I'll turn the call over to Teri to review highlights of the business segment results.
Thanks Jon.
As Jon highlighted top line growth was broad-based across business segments and geographies.
Developing markets continued to lead the growth which generally results in negative sales mix.
You'll see that these trends are driving segment and category growth rates.
Starting with Beauty organic sales increased 3% behind 4% organic volume growth.
Geographic in category mix reduced sales by 2%.
Retail Hair Care unit volume grew in the mid-single digits led by developing markets which increased double digits.
Global value share was up almost half a point.
Head &amp; Shoulders volume increased in the mid-teens and Pantene shipments increased mid-single digits.
In Female Skin Care Olay unit volume was up double digits and value share increased almost half a point.
Shipments of Olay within the Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region increased over 50% versus prior year driven by continued geographic and product portfolio expansion.
Female Blades and Razors had another strong quarter.
Venus unit volume was up almost 20% with global value share growth of more than three points to 42%.
The strong growth is a combination of initiative launches such as the premium Embrace and Simply Venus Disposable razors.
Prestige organic volume declined mid-single digits.
Strength in the SK-II business with shipments up over 20% versus year ago was more than offset by weakness in fragrances in Western Europe.
Salon Professional volume was also down as we continued our efforts to streamline the portfolio.
Grooming segment organic sales were up 6% on volume growth of 5% and positive pricing of 1% mainly on blades and razors.
The Male Blades and Razors business grew organic shipment volume mid-single digits.
Fusion unit shipments increased by high single digits and global value share grew by over two and a half points.
In the U.S.
Fusion blades and razors' value share increased more than five points to over 35 share behind the continued strength of the Fusion ProGlide initiative.
Global MACH3 shipments were up low single digits as strong growth in developing markets was partially offset by the impact of consumers trading up to Fusion in developed markets.
MACH3 volume in China increased over 30% and almost doubled in India with the launch of the more affordable MACH3 razor and commercial initiatives encouraging trade in and trade out.
Male personal care unit volume increased mid-single digits growing across both the Gillette and Old Spice brands.
Appliances unit volume increased high single digits led by double-digit growth in Western Europe.
Braun dry shaving value share grew over 2% globally.
Health Care organic sales increased 4% on a 16% increase in organic volume.
Pricing reduced sales by 2%.
Oral Care global shipments increased high single digits.
U.S.
unit volume increased high single digits behind the Crest 3D White initiative that launched in March and the Crest Clinical line that launched in August.
U.S.
all out lead Oral Care value share is up nearly one and a half points to almost 38%.
Oral Care unit volume increased double digits in developing markets with Latin America up almost 20%.
Brazil Oral-B volume grew by more than 40% behind our Oral-B paste initiative.
Mexico Crest volume grew almost 40% and value share increased over two points behind the Crest Pro-Health and Crest Complete initiative launched in February 2010.
In India Oral-B toothbrush unit shipments increased over 50% driven by the Shiny Clean and Cross-Action brush initiative.
Feminine Care unit volume was up mid-single digits with particular strength in greater China and the Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa regions which both grew volume double digits.
China volume growth came from a combination of commercial innovation on our Whisper Overnight product growth of Naturella which launched last March and geographic expansion into additional provinces.
Personal Health Care shipments were up low-single digits developing markets grew mid-teens global growth of Vicks and Pure more than offset declines in Prisolec.
Snacks and Pet Care organic sales declined 9%.
Organic volume was down 4% and pricing declined 2%.
Geographic and category mix were a negative 2% impact.
Snacks had a strong quarter shipping high-single digits.
The growth came from the Extreme and Multigrain Pringles initiatives in the U.S.
and emerging markets strength where value increased over 30%.
Pet Care volume was down due to a temporary supply disruption during by supply-chain restructuring and process improvements and by voluntary product recall impacts.
We expect to resume full supply capacity early next calendar year.
The Fabric Care and Home Care segment increased organic sales by 5%.
Organic volume grew 9% led by double-digit growth in developing regions.
Mix reduced sales by 2%.
Pricing reduced sales by 2% due mainly to the value corrections in North America Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa that have not yet annualized.
Fabric Care shipment were up high-single digits and value share increased almost half a point with all regions improving share.
U.S.
Downy and Gain laundry detergent both grow shipments double digits.
In developing markets Fabric Care shipments increased in the low teens.
In Mexico Bold more than doubled.
In Brazil Ariel increased more than 50%.
In India strong laundry growth continued with total value share up almost two points to a 17 share behind the Tide Naturals initiative and the new base restage to Tide Plus which includes positive pricing.
Home Care had another strong quarter increasing unit shipments double digits and growing global value share by over a point.
North America volume was up in the low teens with double-digit growth across all categories and share increasing two and a half points.
The new Gain hand dish brand which launched in the U.S.
in August has reached the five share of the category as of September.
Simultaneously Dawn hand dishes grown almost three share points behind improved execution of marketing and in-store fundamentals.
U.S.
Swiffer volume is up high-single digits and shares increased over a point during by go-to-market executional improvement at the shelf.
Home Care developing markets increased shipments double digits led by the Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region with volume up over 30%.
The growth was driven by market recovery and geographic expansion such as introducing Fairy dish care in Turkey Egypt and Morocco and Swiffer in Israel.
Battery shipments increased high-single digits for the quarter.
Unit volume grew across all regions and global value share was up over half a point.
Baby Care and Family Care delivered organic sales growth of 5% and organic volume growth of 10% with developing market shipments up close to 20%.
Geographic and product mix reduced sales 3%.
Pricing decreased sales 2% behind prior fiscal year value corrections and temporary merchandising spending increases in North America Family Care to support product initiatives.
Baby Care shipments increased high-single digits and global market share was up over one point with all regions growing share for the second quarter in a row.
Developing markets increased shipments double digits versus year ago with much of this growth driven by distribution expansion in countries such as China where Pampers shipments increased about 30% and Brazil where Pampers shipments increased almost 20%.
Developed markets also had a strong quarter.
North America Baby Care value share increased one point and volume was up high-single digits.
U.S.
Pampers and Luvs both had strong growth behind solid retailers support.
Western Europe value share grew over one point driven primarily by Dry Max that was introduced in the U.K.
Belgium and the Netherlands in June and expanded into 10 additional countries in the region this quarter.
Dry Max which first launch in North America in March is currently shipping in over 50 countries around the globe.
Family Care unit volume grew double digits and value share was up almost half a point.
Charmin volume increased over 20% and U.S.
all-out led value share grew over one point.
Growth in the U.S.
came from product improvements and softness across the portfolio supported by strong consumer communication in merchandising programs.
Bounty shipments were up mid-single digits behind performance upgrades and the brand restage focusing on Bounty's clean benefits.
That concludes the business segment review and I'll hand the call back to Jon to discuss guidance for the fiscal year and the December quarter.
Thanks Teri.
Our guidance for organic sales and earnings per share growth for the fiscal year is unchanged.
Our outlook for organic sales growth remains at 4% to 6%.
Where we land within this range were driven by two factors: underlying market growth rates and our ability to grow ahead of market rates.
Based on the strength of our innovation and marketing plans and our share progress to date we believe we can continue to grow one to two percentage points ahead of market growth.
Regarding market growth our organic sales guidance assumes global markets growth 3% to 4% for the fiscal year.
This is predicated on developing market growth of 6% to 8% and developed market growth of 1% to 2%.
We saw 6% to 8% growth in developing markets in the first quarter the developed markets were at the low end of the range up only 1%.
We're updating our guidance for all-in sales growth to 3% to 5%.
This range is one point higher than prior guidance.
We now estimate that foreign exchange will reduce sales by 1% to 2% and we expect the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures will be a neutral to one point addition to all-in sales growth.
On the bottom line we're maintaining our earnings per share guidance range of $3.91 to $4.01 which equals growth of 7% to 9% versus prior year core earnings per share of $3.67.
While we've seen some modest improvement in foreign exchange since the beginning of our fiscal year we're also seeing as we often do an offset in increase in commodity costs.
We encourage you to consider these countervailing forces as you update your projections for the year just as we do when we provide our guidance.
Also as we've said on a number of occasions we provide the guidance range versus a single point estimate for a reason.
We won't change foreign exchange or commodities or back off on investments simply to deliver a top of the range number or an external estimate.
Our actions will continue to be guided by the desire to advance our strategy and by our overwriting objective of creating long-term value for our shareholders.
As far as share repurchase is concerned we continue to outlook a range of $6 billion to $8 billion for the year.
Moving to the December quarter we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5%.
We expect all-in sales growth of 2% to 4%.
Within this we expect foreign exchange to reduce sales by about 2% and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures to be a one point addition to sales growth.
On the bottom line earnings per share is estimated in the range of $1.05 to $1.11.
This compares to a very strong base period in which core earnings per share was $1.10 up 22% versus the prior year.
The base period included very strong gross margin that was aided by favorable commodity cost and marketing spending that was back half weighted due to initiative launched schedules.
In this year's December quarter we're seeing commodity cost increases and we're fully invested behind our innovation and portfolio expansion plans.
I mentioned these dynamics because it's important for our shareholders to understand that core earnings per share growth guidance are down 5% to up 1% should not be interpreted as an absence of savings or a significant step up in spending.
To the contrary the earnings per share growth rate is mainly a function of the dynamics in the base period.
In closing as I said earlier we're very pleased with the start of our fiscal year.
Organic volume was up 7% with broad-based growth across our biggest geographies and brands.
Organic sales were up 4% in line with our expectations and price mix improved sequentially by a point.
Market share continued to increase on a global basis and we held our grew share in the large majority of our top countries and brands.
Earnings per share was above our expectations and we continue to fully fund our innovation of marketing programs with our good progress on cost savings.
While we still have more work to do the solid start of the year is evidenced that our purpose-inspired growth strategy is working.
We're touching on improving lives of more consumers and more parts of the world more completely with the continuation of innovations from last fiscal year and a full pipeline of new innovations and geographic expansions.
We're better integrating our plans across categories and geographies to operate more fully as one company and were simplifying our operations reducing cost while increasing our productivity efficiency and agility.
Now Bob Teri and I will be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Obviously there's a lot of focus on top line.
But I just wanted to ask about cost savings right? So you did 150 basis points to gross margin this quarter I think about 200 each of the past two quarters.
So I mean if this level of savings is sustainable obviously it's pretty big implication to the competitive dynamic globally right? Not just promo advertising too.
So I guess the question is how sustainable is the level of savings you're seeing? And then I guess what was the prior run rate for the last few quarters that you guys have disclosed? Because it probably wasn't zero maybe it just wasn't big enough to disclose.
But can you just put some context around that and then how you plan to deploy those savings when you think about where advertising is today relative to historical levels? First let me comment on the overall levels of savings.
The 150 basis points of savings is a cost of goods number.
As you know our savings program is comprehensive across our various spend areas.
We also had about 60 basis points of savings in SG&amp;A.
So in total over 200 basis points of savings.
That level of savings should be sustainable in the near to mid-term because of our intentionality of focus in those areas.
And in terms of our desire to what are we going to use those savings for we'll continue to use them to successfully execute our strategy expanding the geographic portfolio expanding the product portfolio and investing behind that while delivering the earnings per share growth rates that we've talked about both this fiscal year and on an ongoing basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Can you just talk maybe a little bit more granularity about how far of the top line is going to trend as the year progresses? I know the volume comps are getting pretty tough.
I know you also said that pricing starts to roll off.
So have you envisioned further price increases and maybe just sort of like the pieces of organic growth would have to be sort of 5% to 6% growth in the back half of the fiscal year? Yes we will be pricing in two areas one where we have a currency devaluation pressure.
We've been executing that relatively successfully.
The other is behind our premium innovations whether that's Fusion ProGlide has that expands globally? Crest 3D White has that expands globally? But if you just take a look at the math if you will if you take our unit sales rates in the first quarter or actual rate that we delivered and you bring those out across the balance of the quarter and index them to prior year unit sales growth rates you'll see that on the math alone we pick up three points of growth in price mix and that's why we continue to be very confident that the price mix gap will narrow.
As I mentioned most of our price reductions will be annualized by the second quarter so you should begin to see the full benefit of this pickup in Q3.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with UBS.
Quick question on category growth.
It's pretty clear that a lot of the promo spending that's been put in the marketplace has not been as effective as a lot of companies that get hoped and also the retailers had hoped.
And Jon I'm just curious when you talk about category growth especially in the developing world how much do you think of that category slowdown in the developed world has been due to trade spending? And can you just give us some context on how we should think about that over the next 12 months? I can really only contextualize it in the context of our activity and what we're doing.
And as we said many times while we are fielding promotions to generate trial on our new brand initiatives promotion is not a significant part of our overall strategy.
If you look at the percentage of volume that's moving on promotion in the JAS quarter compared to a year ago in more categories than not that number is down.
So again I just don't see that being a big part of either our historical strategy or our going forward strategy.
Nik as we've said repeatedly our program about touching improving more lives more parts or more completely is supported by the best innovation program we can remember in decades.
And if you look across our results you can see that that innovation program as well as the strategy of moving more categories in the more geographies and filling out our portfolios up and down is working.
And commercial spending is not a very good antidote to a strong innovation program.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
You guys talked about profitable market share growth in the press release.
And I guess as we look at whether we look at your overall profit growth on a normalized basis adjusting for the divestiture and profit grew slower than both organic revenues and volumes.
So I guess one is that just simply a comp issue? And Jon you talked about how the marketing spending comps get easier in the back half of the year.
But can you also talk about sort of how you view that phrase profitable market share growth and will that change as we look at a more inflationary raw material environment going forward? As we talk about -- first of all we structure our plans to deliver in the long term and we're currently managing an annual plan and as we talk about profitable share growth it's in the context of that annual plan.
The base period dynamics have a very dramatic effect as we said when we first provided guidance for this year and as we've continued to say in this call.
So as we measure our sales in terms of delivering profitable market share growth it's really in the context of being on track for the full fiscal year plan which is earnings per share growth as you know of 7% to 9%.
And if people want to pick on unit profitability this quarter that's fine.
I just hope they're prepared to celebrate on the third and fourth quarters.
And your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
What I was going to ask about though is Beauty Care.
In particular I'm just sort of surprised to hear that Prestige is soft.
I know you specified Western Europe Fragrance but what we're hearing from other Prestige players is actually that things have sort of stabilized.
And I know last quarter the answer was while we weren't down as much as they were we should sort of be trued-up.
So my first bit of Beauty question's around Prestige.
The second is if U.S.
market share enough.
Maybe too early to really gauge success or not but it doesn't look like Pantene is really picking up much ground just yet.
So if you can talk a little bit about dynamics there that would be great.
Let me start first Lauren with Pantene.
The Pantene initial sales throughout the United States are mixed.
In the first month of the launch which is May Pantene grew value share in the U.S.
and in all key retailers.
Both distribution and merchandising support were strong with about six straight weeks of record display levels.
More recently though shares were slightly down versus a year ago over the past three months down about a point or 94 index versus a year ago as we've seen heavy competitive promotional activity following our introductory merchandising period.
We've identified all the key opportunities to get Pantene growing more strongly and they're obviously working to improve awareness trial and feature levels.
And we will get it going.
And in terms of your Fragrance question Lauren our data would indicate that the past three months market growth rate for the five big markets we track is about flat versus a year ago.
The U.S.
and Spain continued to contract a 99 and 96 index respectively with Germany Italy and France showing modest growth.
Our share on those markets is roughly flat.
My guess is that if other companies are portraying a more positive outlook it may have to do with their geographic footprint and be in more exposed in Fragrance for instance than we are to Asia and Latin America.
And your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.
Just thinking about kind of how the quarters are going to flow through the year obviously you're off to a great start with an upside surprise in the first quarter.
But I think what some of us are struggling with is if volume growth is going to slow sequentially as we go through the course of the year which obviously it will with tough comps and with the higher commodity prices and it doesn't sound like you're taking a lot of pricing to offset that other than the maybe easy comps on the marketing side to accelerate your core earnings growth through the course of the year sounds like a stretch.
It sounds like the cost savings are going to be sustainable but they're not going to get a lot better.
Your volume leverage is probably going to be negative.
So in terms of your confidence in that back half core EPS growth kind of what's helping you get there and feel so good today? Well first relative to commodities we have much easier comps on those in the back half.
You mentioned we have and you're absolutely right that we have much easier comps on marketing.
And I mentioned the math on the price mix dynamic which will also improve.
I also think that there is -- it's a little bit dangerous to take current volumes and assume that that's on a unit basis the best we can do.
On many of our new initiatives we're actually supply constrained at the moment.
And so that's another thing as we relive those constraints and as we expand those portfolios globally we think this as continued upside on volume.
It is a tremendous momentum in the business right now Wendy.
We try to suggest that the fact that our organic volume growth is stronger than its been in five years and that we're growing market share in roughly 60% of our category in country combinations around the world.
And we laid out for you the innovation program most of which launched in the April to June quarter and we're in the process of expanding that throughout the world because most of it launched in the United States.
And then on top of that innovation program we even have newer innovations like Guard in India and others so you have this layering of volume growth and innovation that I think bodes well for the year and bodes well for continued market share growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Sawyer with Goldman Sachs.
I just wonder if you can give a little more color on the SG&amp;A numbers.
As you look at the percent of sales it's one of the lowest -- second lowest quarterly number we've seen in the last six or seven years.
Is that a straight productivity or is there something going on in the timing of that spend or some of the geographic expansion that's influencing that? And I guess secondarily on the margin side can you talk about how you're thinking about taking with pricing as we see more commodity inflation flow through or is that something you're not really evaluating at this point? Relative to SG&amp;A there are two impacts that are affecting the percent and loss comparison that you reference Andrew.
The first are the overhead savings which we continue to be again very intentional and focused on.
The other is as I mentioned in my remarks is a transaction impact from a foreign exchange related primarily to Venezuela where we had a hurt in the base period as we translated bolivars to dollars and attempt to manage our balance sheet exposures down ahead of the devaluation.
So both of those that are going on within SG&amp;A.
And I want to avoid frankly talking about any specifics on future pricing or how we're thinking about covering commodities.
What I will say is what we've said for a long time and that is when it's important to take pricing we endeavor to couple that with innovation and would expect to continue to do that.
And you've been working really hard on developing a cost savings program that continues to produce over sustainable period of time.
We've talked before that we want to make this $80 billion company that's growing operate like a $10 billion company.
We've been intentional about reducing the hierarchy we've reduced the number of levels from the lowest in the company to the CEO from seven to five.
Our 2010 enrollment decreased by about 5 000 versus the prior year to about 127 000 through a combination of productivity improvements and divestitures.
And we've improved sales per employee by about 4% in 2010.
We've talked about the fact that we're digitizing the company from end to end.
In an example we cited is the Pampers Dry Max the new Pampers diaper a lot of the R&amp;D work that was done in that diaper was done virtually using modeling and simulation rather than bench scale prototyping.
We've moved to more global standard systems.
We've cost saved our logistics operation.
I could go on and on and I think we'll have time to do that in the December Analyst Meeting but this is a pervasive program that is having an impact and will continue to have an impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Just want to go back to the promotion issue for a second.
Is there a difference in your marketing promotion strategy between the developed and developing markets as we roll throughout the balance of 2011? Should we see an abatement in some of your developed markets and maybe an acceleration in the developing world or is that the wrong way to think about it? Our promotion strategies are particular to our brands so there won't be any difference developing versus developed.
In fact because of the nature of price promotions where it's retailer country competitive specific it really is discreet to brand category country combination.
And your next question comes from the line of Ed Kelly with Crédit Suisse.
Could you talk about the changes that you're seeing at Wal-Mart? Any impact that it may have on your business? And then kind of a second part of that are you seeing changes interim by channel in the U.S? A number of retailers have been looking at getting less promotional.
Does that change the way that you manage your own promotional strategy at retail? I was just at Wal-Mart a couple weeks ago with Bill Simon.
And Bill and I and Doug McMillon and others walked stores together.
And we're very supportive of the changes that Bill is trying to make in U.S.
stores.
Our growth in international has been strong and where we'd like to see greater growth is in U.S.
stores and we're working hard to help Bill put merchandise items back into action alley to put new items up at the front end to get better conspicuousness of those promotion items throughout the store red and having everything colored blue and yellow.
So we're working real closely with Bill with Doug with Mike Duke in order to help Wal-Mart get U.S.
sales growing.
Relative to channel shift we are seeing some channel shift.
Again it depends upon the category and it depends upon the item it depends upon the retailer.
But I would say that the dollar channel is obviously growing faster than other channels right now.
Although as Jon said in his remarks private label share is flat to down around the world.
So that's probably why you're seeing some abatement in promotion spending.
And of course from our company standpoint we prefer to see lower to no levels of promotion spending because we would like the consumer to see the very best price they can every single day and we believe that extreme high lows of promotion spending sometimes erode loyalty to a given brand.
But having said that we hope the retailer execute their strategy and they're in charge of pricing not us.
And your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Can you give us an update on your rollout in toothpaste with the Oral-B brands? A how the current markets are performing? And then b if you plan to expand to additional geographies in 2011? And what kind of pace we should expect in general for a geographic rollout of Oral-B to more markets over the next few years? I don't want to give away competitive information but I can tell you about how we're doing.
For example in Brazil and Mexico and some of the markets the expansion of Oral-B paste in Brazil is very encouraging.
Shipment share results are ahead of objective.
While national paste share is about three and a half points it's significantly higher in the outlets where we compete with multiple retailers in double digits.
If you look at the outlets where we compete our value shares are closer to 8%.
We're only in about 30% ECV right now and we're obviously still expanding that in Brazil.
Recent share is over 23% in drugstores which is our original test market.
So shares are growing sequentially period-to-period and trial and repeat rates are also trending above target.
Where we launched Crest and Oral-B Pro-Health in Mexico it continues to deliver ahead of expectations.
The national value share is 11.5% which is up about three and a half points versus year ago.
In modern retail the value shares at 13.4% up almost five points and P&amp;G continues to be the manual brush leader in Mexico with shares over 47%.
In Benelux after 19 months we launched in February of 2009 Oral-B Pro-Health is well ahead of target past three month value share averaging 11.3% up over three points from the previous three months; in Belgium it's at 13.1% up two points; Netherlands at 9.4% up one point.
Crest Pro-Health launch in China we launched in August of 2009 continues to deliver outstanding results.
Volume is indexing at 129 and sales is indexing at 132 versus a pretty challenging goal.
Even more promising trial and repeat continued outperform expectation as well as outperform key competition.
In addition we got solid plans in place to continue to leverage Pro-Health in China and to maintain the strong momentum.
In Germany Blend-a-Med paste momentum continues led by the launch of 3D White this summer.
Total Blend-a-Med value share continues to grow reaching 11% in September that's up 0.6 points versus year ago.
In Poland we launched Blend-a-Med Pro-Expert in April of 2010.
This launch enabled us to further extend our leadership in Poland leading to an all-time high value share of 27.8%.
Both Russia and Turkey launched Pro-Expert nationally in July.
Shipments were in line with expectation.
We don't have share data yet because share in those markets is very limited.
And you didn't ask this question specifically but Crest 3D White is off to a great start in the U.S.
with strong retailers support.
After six months in market 3D White paste has already achieved the 5.8% share in track channels which is more than 5x ahead of Colgate's launch of ProClinical over the same time frame.
3D White contributed to Crest market leading value share which is up 1.4 points to 38.6% in the United States over the past three months.
3D White Rinse and 3D White Pulsar brush are priced at a premium to Pro-Health Rinse and base Pulsar respectively.
So that's a little bit of a tour of the Oral Care world without disclosing future plans.
And then I just would add to that much like in the broader innovation program where we're leveraging prior launches and we're globalizing those launches which we're doing in Oral Care as Bob described were also bringing the whole lot of new innovation which hasn't yet affected those market shares.
Crest Clinical the sensitivity lineup and a number of other very important innovation still coming.
And your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
I was hoping to get a little bit more clarity also on SG&amp;A.
As I recall the last couple of years had some stranded overhead from the divestitures of soldiers in the Pharma business.
If the change in SG&amp;A right now reflective -- does that reflect the fact that perhaps saw that stranded overhead has been dispensed with? And also what's the outlook for internal restructuring in 2011 and what was it in the last two years? Let me answer the last question first.
We've talked about $400 million of restructuring roughly in 2011.
That compares to about $495 million the prior year $700 million the year before that.
The reason that those numbers were higher in prior years was largely because we were dealing with the stranded overhead issue that you described.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen with William Blair.
I have a more qualitative question.
A concern I hear from some investors is really the organization stability to manage your change program bulking up in value tiers expanding in emerging markets accelerating cost savings and restructuring.
What would you say that concerns related to execution risk or the organization's capacity to sustain these parallel efforts some of which represent a shift from your historical approach? We obviously keep track of that very closely.
One of the things that our purpose inspired growth strategy has done is allowed us to focus the organization and what really matters.
When you talk about touching and improving lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely it's very discreet it's very granular and it focuses everyone in the organization on expanding categories in the countries expanding vertical portfolios and expanding into adjacencies which we may have hereto for not addressed.
That focus results in a tremendous simplification.
And in fact we have an effort going on within the company to simplify.
We're cutting the number of SKUs we're changing our business planning process.
And so far as you can see from the results it looks pretty good.
Also every year the Procter &amp; Gamble company runs a employee opinion trend survey.
We've done it now for the last eight years or so.
And the survey this year was a record in all measures.
We had record response rates.
We surveyed more than 110 000 employees worldwide that's out of 127 000.
The overall aggregate scores increased for the second consecutive year and they are the highest we've experienced over the past five years.
The survey content is comprehensive and robust.
We measured 20 categories including employee pride in company and evaluation of meaningful work feedback on employees personal well-being.
And the biggest increase from 2009 was seen in confidence in building unit leadership.
And a large number of employees feel that there is a clear and inspiring vision for the future.
So I think the program is working.
And I think employees are telling us it's working and that's what gives us confidence in the future.
And your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
I was just wondering you obviously got a nice lift again on the spending.
I was just wondering if you can kind of segregate where you're getting better in ROI between the advertising spending and maybe some of the in-store marketing stuff that's in the gross to net? And how you look at I guess deploying some of your capital ahead? I know you are talking about some of your promotional stuff coming back and advertising obviously had a nice tick up here but I was just wondering if you could provide some context.
Our marketing spend is becoming more and more effective.
Marc Pritchard our Global Brand Building Officer and his organization our marketing organization largely is getting stronger and stronger at getting the higher ROI out of our effort.
A lot of it is inspired by our purpose.
If you think for example of our Old Spice brand Old Spice defines their purpose is to help guys navigate the season of manhood.
And we think about guys lies in a larger context than just consuming body wash and deodorants and this is the power of purpose.
And when you think about our advertising smell like a man with the former football player as in Mustafa you see how we've taken an idea an insight.
We turned it into superior product.
We turned it into a big idea.
We turned it in the consumer engagement and we turned it into a movement.
The insight is the guy want to smell like a man and deep down all guys are scared that they don't smell like man.
And so what this ad talks about is now you have a product where that insecurity goes away and you can smell like a man man.
And that's why he says look at your man and I look back at me and I look at your man and it's such an effective advertising campaign that we're getting impressions that we didn't pay for.
There are nearly 200 videos that have been shot over the last few days by people different people Ellen DeGeneres Alyssa Milano there's a Twitter campaign that's created because people are starting to ask the Old Spice guy questions.
There's YouTube 20 million times.
So what we've done is we've created a movement and that movement has really a high ROI because they're not paying for all these impressions.
I was in Washington D.C.
not so many weeks ago to meet with the President and I opened up the Washington Post I think it was there is a cartoon of President Obama riding a horse backwards asking if he smelled like a man-man.
It had something to do with Republicans and Democrats.
But anyway when people parity your add you know that you're getting the high ROI and that's what we're trying to do on all of our brands.
And your next question comes from the line of Doug Lane with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Looking at gross margins they were down 70 basis points as you mentioned and they were up 50 basis points in June so a pretty big sequential shift.
Jon can you go over maybe the top four or five pressure points as regards to input costs and raising margin trends over the next several quarters? Well we don't -- I'm not going to get to provide answer to specific margin guidance.
What I will tell you is that if you look at the base period dynamics on commodities this was a harder comp than the prior quarter.
Next quarter will be even a harder comp but then it should begin to reverse itself.
The other thing that's important to understand within you mentioned the gross margin progress last quarter versus small decrease this quarter.
As I mentioned in my remarks the big part of that has to do with mix as well with our Household Care business growing volume at 10% that's a much more lower gross margin business.
The rest of our business growing volume of 5%.
So that's also driving that mix.
Having said that looking at on all-in basis our Household Care business is a very profitable business.
So from an operating margin standpoint that's not something that gets us too concerned.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chapell with SunTrust.
Bob just kind of a big picture question as we look to calendar 2011 what's your outlook on the consumer spending both for developed and developing markets? And maybe how is that changed over the past two to three months? Has it gotten more optimistic less optimistic or kind of no change? The way I look at an economic recovery from a recession is that it's always uneven.
You have a couple of months where things look good you have a month where things drop backwards.
My expectation is the global economy will continue to improve that we will continue to see the kind of growth we've seen in developing markets.
We said this quarter market value growth where we compete was plus eight points and I think we'll also see improvement in developed markets.
But I think the improvement in developed markets will be slower and in a kind of one to two points that we forecast is the kind that we'll see.
Certainly over the last four to six weeks there's been negative news in the U.S.
economy but that's not unexpected because as I said recoveries are always uneven.
The risk moving forward are what happens with the state of government intervention around the world as it pertains to free trade as it pertains to taxing and changing of tax structure of multinational companies and we're obviously trying to influence where governments around the world come out on those issues.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with Calyon.
I wonder if you could help on the corporate line just to call out how much Venezuela was a year ago those currency things because that was such a huge improvement on corporate.
And also just an update on what's going on with Blades in the U.S.? Because it doesn't really look as if the Blade sales have picked up yet and I'm wondering if you're expecting that to happen? The rough impact of the Venezuela item is about $300 million hurt in the base period that isn't in the current quarter in terms of corporate.
Talking about Blades in the U.S.
Caroline the Fusion ProGlide is doing extremely well in the market.
Through September Fusion's past three months all out value share Blades and Razors was 35% up 5.5 points versus a year ago while the Schick sheer blades and razors was flat versus a year ago at 16.8%.
The sale of replacement cartridges is probably the best indicator of consumer preference in repeat.
And sale of P&amp;G's Fusion ProGlide cartridges have been at the rate of more than 3x the rate of the ProGlide Razors while Schick's replacement cartridges are only selling at about one time the Hydro razor sales.
The ProGlide launch is tracking significantly ahead of our awareness trial in repeat goals.
In August ProGlide achieved 76% brand awareness and this is a full 10 points ahead of our forecast and 11 points ahead of the original Fusion launch.
So it's going very well.
Your next question comes from the line of Linda Bolton Weiser with Caris &amp; Company.
I was wondering if you could comment on how competitors internationally are responding as you move your top innovations in brands into some of these markets? Can you just generally comment both how regional competitors and other multinationals are responding? I think what we see Linda is the response that generally we expect which is the initial reaction of most companies who are challenged by a competitive innovation is to initially price down.
And then as they face the reality of lower profitability they tend to price back up.
And what we're trying to do is innovate and grow market share profitably.
And I think the quarter's results suggest we're doing that.
But we haven't seen anything extraordinary that we didn't expect.
And your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I just have another question on SG&amp;A could you update us with guidance on what the ad ratio for the year should be for fiscal '11? Should it be flat versus fiscal '10 up or down? And I'm assuming it's up to maybe the first three quarters and then down in the fourth? Could you elaborate on that too? Your quarterly expectations are accurate.
We would expect for the full fiscal year would be up a little bit but significantly ahead in the first three quarters and then as you said down in the last quarter.
Number of consumer impressions both through our direct spend.
And as Bob described as our advertising campaign gets picked up more broadly we expect the number of consumer impressions to continue to be meaningfully ahead of year ago.
But even though the total spend will be up the percent of sales will be roughly the same as it's been historically.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
A quick housekeeping one and then just a broader question.
Housekeeping one relates to -- and your business segment margins being down about 170 basis points but it's being offset by about 185 basis points on the corporate expense line.
So just to get a better sense of how that should trend going forward you mentioned Jon Venezuela is that all in 185 basis points or is that across? So just a sense of the negative 170 going forward and a plus 185 perhaps we can join you in celebrating is that flips.
Then the broader question is if you look at your results not just this quarter but over the past several quarters there's been a pretty strong correlation if you will between average price down and share growth sales growth and the fact some margin degradation from a business segment perspective like the Fabric Care Home Care Baby Care Family Care.
If I understand how do you think that correlation breaks? You clearly have a better look in terms of pricing going forward but then why then you have so much confidence on the correlation breaking down? Do you expect that the competitive environment changes from here? Do you expect the consumer changes from here? That's kind of a broader question the housekeeping question will be helpful as well if you can.
The housekeeping question we'll continue to have that year-to-year help that you're seeing in the corporate line this quarter through next quarter.
But then obviously once we get to the annualization of the devaluation that stops.
But what accelerates then are the business segment margin and that impact will more than offset the impact that you're seeing in corporate that will go away.
And why do we continue to have confidence in that and what will break the correlation that you've seen thus far? I mean first of all the behavior is different.
So we've talked about how in the last three quarters we've initiated more price increases than decreases.
I talked about how percent volume moving on promotion and North America was decreasing versus a year ago.
And then you get into the math again on the base period with a more favorable year-to-year commodity comparison in the back half and a more favorable -- significantly more favorable SG&amp;A comparison behind the advertising comp.
But also realized that as this goes on we're continuing to go back to some -- and Bob said we're continuing to simplify we're continuing to reduce cost and that momentum builds as the year goes on as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> On the market share initiative just curious how you measure the success of the cited market share increases.
Are there specific amounts in each country in region? And then on an overall basis at what level do you achieve necessary scale to retain that share? Well we measure market share granularly Mark.
I mean we look at market share by SKUs so that we know if an innovation is working.
We look at it on a brand basis we look at it on the category basis and then of course we roll it up company-wide.
The same is true we look at it by retailer we look at it by country we roll up the geographies.
For us success is market share growth.
Now when I say that we hold our sales to a high standard in the sense that a 0.1 increase or 0.2 increase is basically flat for us.
And we force ourselves to make sure that there's statistical significance in the kinds of differences that we look at.
So before we do any kind of celebration it's got to be a statistically significant difference at a high confidence interval and we look at it obviously on a sequential basis which helps us understand this is a real trend or is it not.
And to the point of the question of sustainability on what share level do you have to get to be sustainable in general our approach for years has been and we'll continue to be trying to be the number one or two player in the market.
And generally when you achieve that position it's sustainable.
I think one of the things that's compelling about this quarter or even the last six months is no matter how you cut the share it's up.
So in other words past six months North America is up Western Europe's up Central Eastern Europe Middle East Africa is up Latin America is up Asia is up.
Past three months same thing North America is up Western Europe is up by higher amounts.
Meaning the market share growth is accelerating.
So when you see that kind of pervasiveness of share growth you know that your innovation program is working you know  your go-to-market program is working and that gives us confidence that we can hold those shares and grow them further in the future.
And your final question comes from the line of John San Marco with Janney Montgomery Scott.
I think I've heard at least two references to supply constraints today.
Can you talk about your CapEx needs both in near and long term and whether we should expect any change on that front? For the current year we expect capital spending to be in about the neighborhood of 4% of sales consistent with what's it been historically.
We do have an ambitious capacity program that we've embarked on.
We've been doing this for sometime.
We've become much more efficient in terms of that program the capital cost per unit if you will but the cost of capacity has come down almost by half over the last five years.
But we'll do what we need to do to make sure that we're able to serve consumers all around the world that may result in some increase in spending in certain years.
But generally we should be pretty close to where we've been historically.
As Jon said our cost per unit in capacity has gone down by about half over the last decade and we're continuing to make strong efforts to improve the productivity of our capital spending.
For example this is a great example of operating as one company.
When you build a new factory about 50% of the cost is the infrastructure of the factory and about 50% are the operating lines.
And because we're a multi-business unit company that 50% of the cost and infrastructure gets spread over many more business units as we locate more and more business units in our new factories.
So that reduces the capital requirement.
As we've said earlier we got about 19 new factories under construction right now.
About five are starting up and about five are on the drawing board.
And we expect to continue that kind of pace of capital spending and construction in order to touch and improve more lives in more parts of the world more completely.
Before we sign off we just like to remind everyone that we'll be hosting our 2010 Analyst Meeting here in Cincinnati on December 15 and 16.
If you haven't already received the electronic invitation and would like to attend please give John or the IR team a call.
Thanks for your time this morning.
Have a great day.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
And have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin the company has asked the following statement to be read.
Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's quarter end conference call.
Today’s discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G’s most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes that these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items.
The effective tax rate on core earnings represents the effective tax rate on continuing operations less noncore impacts.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G's Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning.
I'll begin today's call with a summary of our second quarter results Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment and I'll conclude the call with guidance for both the fiscal year and the March quarter.
Bob Teri and I will take questions as usual after our prepared remarks.
Following the call we'll be available to provide additional perspective as needed.
Our second quarter was another period of solid volume and market share progress.
We grew organic sales ahead of market growth rates.
We built share broadly and we delivered core earnings per share growth above the high end of our guidance range.
Volume increased 6%.
The growth was broad-based with all regions 16 of our top 17 countries five of six reporting segments and 19 of our 23 billion-dollar brands delivering volume growth versus the prior year.
Global market share on a constant dollar value basis grew again this quarter and is now up versus the prior year for the past 12- six- and three-month periods.
Share growth in the quarter was also broad-based.
We grew market share in all geographic regions and held our built share in 12 of our top 17 countries and 16 of our 23 billion-dollar brands.
Overall market share is in line or up in businesses representing about 60% of global sales.
The strong volume and share progress continues to be driven by innovation and expansion programs that flow from our overarching growth strategy to serve more consumers in more parts of the world more completely.
We're expanding our existing category portfolios to reach more consumers with innovations such as Naturella Feminine Care pads and Head &amp; Shoulders shampoo in Brazil Gain hand dishwashing liquid in North America Naturella and the Gillette Fusion shaving system in China and Gillette Guard in India.
We're serving consumers in more parts of the world by entering new category country combinations such as the launch of Olay Skin Care in Brazil Febreze Air Care in Colombia and Brazil and Downy Fabric Care in Indonesia.
We're serving consumers more completely by leveraging and expanding recent innovations such as Pampers Dry Max which we have now expanded to more than 50 countries; Tide Acti-Lift which is driving solid market share growth in the U.S.; Crest 3D White and Crest Clinical which have driven U.S.
toothpaste market shares to near-record levels of over 38%; and Gillette Fusion ProGlide which started shipping to Germany and France in December.
Organic sales grew more than 3% about a point ahead of global market growth rates albeit at the low end of our guidance range.
Markets for our products continue to grow at a healthy rate in developing markets in the range of 6% to 8% consistent with our projections.
However developed market growth rates were essentially flat for the quarter compared to our expectation for growth of about 1%.
Considering that developed markets account for 2/3 of our sales this difference in market growth was enough to round our organic sales down to 3% versus being a solid 4%.
Pricing and mix reduced sales by two points.
Mix reduced sales by approximately two points and pricing was down only slightly for the quarter.
Versus the July-September quarter price mix improved by more than half a point and price mix improved sequentially each month during the December quarter.
The price mix and related organic sales improvement was broad-based.
Five of the six reporting segments had a smaller price mix impact in the December quarter than in the September quarter.
And five of six segments delivered quarter-to-quarter improvements in organic sales growth.
The improvements in price mix came mainly from pricing as we continue to annualize adjustments taken early last fiscal year.
Pricing rounded to zero for the quarter and will turn positive in the second half of the fiscal year.
We've now lapped the adjustments we made to brands such as Duracell Cheer and the large sizes of Tide and our multiple brands in the Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region.
The mix impact was due primarily to geographic mix of about a point as the developed market volume grew 3% and developing market volume grew 10%.
Product mix and price tier mix each affected sales growth by about half a point.
All-in sales grew 2%.
This includes a 2% negative impact from foreign exchange and a modest benefit from the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures.
All-in GAAP earnings per share were $1.11 down versus the prior year GAAP earnings per share of $1.49 which included the large gain from the divestiture of the Pharmaceuticals business.
Core earnings per share were $1.13 $0.02 above the top end of our guidance range and up 3% versus prior-year core earnings per share of $1.10.
Our core earnings per share results benefited from organic sales growth cost savings a decline in the effective tax rate and a reduction in shares outstanding which more than offset negative impacts from higher input costs and higher marketing and portfolio expansion investments.
The $0.02 difference between current period GAAP and core earnings per share reflects charges taken to update legal reserve balances which were largely offset by a noncore tax benefit from the pending settlement of tax litigation primarily related to the deductibility of technology donations.
The legal item relates to the inquiries being conducted by competition authorities in Europe including the European Commission which we and a number of other manufacturers in our industry have previously disclosed.
Gross margin decreased 190 basis points due to higher commodity costs.
Higher year-on-year commodity costs reduced gross margin by 160 basis points.
For perspective on a weighted average basis spot prices for our key materials and energy inputs are up more than 20% versus last year's levels.
Geographic and product mix reduced gross margin by approximately 100 basis points.
The higher input cost the mix impacts were partially offset by strong savings programs and cost of goods which contributed roughly 140 basis points positive to gross margin.
Operating margin declined 210 basis points due mainly to lower gross margin.
SG&amp;A spending as a percentage of sales increased 20 basis points versus prior-year levels due to higher investments to support our innovation and expansion plans.
The effective tax rate on all-in earnings was approximately 18%.
This includes the benefit of the noncore tax item which reduced the all-in tax rate by about 4½ points.
The effective tax rate on core earnings was 22.4%.
This rate reflects the benefit of a favorable mix impact from the faster growth of our business in developing markets where tax rates are generally lower and the impact of the two-year extension of U.S.
tax laws which passed in late December.
Given our fiscal year reporting calendar the U.S.
tax extension causes a catch-up adjustment for the September quarter to get our year-to-date rate in line with average rates expected for the full year.
The rate also reflects the successful audit defense of our tax status in several markets.
We generated over $2 billion in free cash flow in the quarter.
We continue to expect free cash flow productivity of 90% or more of net earnings for the year as operating profit growth increases in the second half.
So far this fiscal year we've returned $6.4 billion of cash to shareholders comprised of over $2.8 billion in dividends and over $3.5 billion in share repurchases.
In summary we're pleased with the progress we've made in the first half of the fiscal year despite slower-than-expected market growth rates and significant increases in commodity costs.
We're growing market share broadly behind our innovation and expansion efforts.
Volume growth remains very strong and core earnings per share growth for the first half is slightly ahead of our going-in expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Teri to review highlights of the business segment results.
Thanks Jon.
Starting with Beauty organic sales increased by 3%.
Organic volume contributed six points of growth.
Developed markets were flat and developing markets increased double digits contributing to two points of geographic and product mix pricing was down one point.
Retail Hair Care shipments increased high-single digits with developed markets growing low-single digits and developing markets growing mid-teens.
Asia led the growth increasing shipments by about 20% and growing share by over a point.
Both Pantene and Head &amp; Shoulders shipments grew over 25% in China the Philippines and India.
Latin America also had strong volume growth.
Brazil shampoo value share increased over 1½ points with the launch of Head &amp; Shoulders and with Pantene shipments growing more than 50%.
Female Skin Care volume grew double digits and market share was up nearly half a point.
Olay Skin Care volume in India and the Philippines more than doubled versus a year ago.
And Russia shipments increased by about 80%.
In Brazil the Olay expansion continued ahead of expectations.
In developed markets Female Skin Care volume increased high-single digits.
U.S.
Olay Skin Care shipments increased high-single digits behind strong marketing and sales fundamentals and the launch of Olay Regenerist Night Elixir and the new Olay Pro-X cleansing device.
Female Blades and Razors continued to deliver strong results growing volume by high-single digits in both developed and developing markets and increasing global market share for the third consecutive quarter.
Prestige organic shipments increased low-single digits.
Prestige Skin Care volume was up double digits led by China where SK-II was up more than 60%.
Prestige Fragrance organic shipments were up low-single digits behind the success of recent initiatives including Gucci Guilty and Dolce&amp;Gabbana The One Gentleman.
Salon Professional shipments were down double digit due to the decline of nonstrategic businesses and continued streamlining of the portfolio.
The Grooming segment organic sales were up 6% on volume growth of 5% and 1% contribution from price increases on Blades and Razors.
Male Blades and Razors global shipments increased mid-single digits developing market volume grew high-single digits led by Asia and Latin America.
India Blades and Razors share increased almost four points to over 45% driven by continued strength of the MACH3 brand and the Gillette Guard launch.
MACH3 shipments grew over 70% in Mexico and over 20% in Brazil driven by the launch of Mach3 Sensitive as well as marketing and trade programs to increase consumer awareness.
Developed market volume was up low-single digits including the impact from constrained supply of Fusion and Fusion ProGlide.
North America shipments were down slightly with volume and share growth in Fusion offset by softness in MACH3 in line with our trade-up strategy which delivers positive sales mix.
Western Europe volume increased high-single digits driven by strong MACH3 growth in Germany ahead of a price increase in January and some Fusion ProGlide pipeline shipments in Germany and France prior to launch in January.
Male Personal Care unit volume increased mid-single digits.
North America volume increased high-single digits driven by continued strength of the Old Spice brand which shipped more than 15% ahead of year ago.
Health Care organic sales increased 5%.
Volume grew 5% as well and pricing and mix were neutral.
Oral Care grew shipments high-single digits and global value share over half a point.
North America Oral Care increased volume double digits and value share by 1½ points to over 38% behind the continued success of Crest 3D White the Crest Clinical line and the Crest for Me innovations.
Western Europe grew volume high-single digits and value share by nearly 1½ points driven by Oral-B Power Brush and Oral-B toothpaste success in Benelux.
Developing market unit volume increased mid-single digits.
Latin America shipments grew more than 25% versus year ago.
Brazil Oral-B volume was up nearly 50% behind the continued expansion and support of Oral-B toothpaste.
Mexico was also very strong with Crest volume up nearly 50% oral-B up nearly 30% and toothpaste value share increasing over 3½ points.
Feminine Care unit volume increased mid-single digits with developing markets up high-single digits.
Naturella volume grew above 30% driven by expansion into Brazil in October and China last March.
India and the Philippines both increased Always' volume shipments over 25% behind recent initiatives on both mid- and premium-tier products.
Developed market shipments grew low-single digits.
Western Europe shipments were up low-single digits and value share increased by 1½ points.
Always shipments in the U.K.
increased over 15% behind the Always Simply Fits mid-tier initiative that launched in January 2010.
Personal Health Care shipments were up low-single digits with developing markets growing more than 15% versus year ago.
Both Mexico and Brazil Vicks shipments grew over 30% behind strong commercial innovation and expectations of a strong cold and flu season.
Snacks and Pet Care organic sales declined 8%.
The solid growth in Snacks was more than offset by sharp declines on Pet.
Organic volume was down 6% with product and geographic mix down 1%.
Snacks shipments grew mid-single digits and with growth across all five geographic regions.
Latin America grew volume by about 20% behind the Xtreme Pringles initiatives and holiday-focused commercial innovation.
Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa regions as well as overall developing markets grew volume nearly 20%.
Developed market shipments increased low-single digits with North America returning to share growth behind improved customer support.
Pet Care volume was down due to the temporary supply disruption mentioned last quarter.
The restructuring and process improvements are nearing completion.
We expect to restore full supply and merchandising capability within the next two months.
Fabric and Home Care organic sales increased 2%.
Organic volume growth was 5% with developed markets up mid-single digits and developing markets up high-single digits.
The positive volume was partially offset by three points of geographic and product mix and one point of pricing.
Fabric Care grew unit volume mid-single digits with developing markets up high-single digits.
Value share grew across all geographic regions and was up half a point globally.
U.S.
laundry value share increased over 1½ points with growth in Tide Gain and Era.
U.S.
fabric enhancers value share increased over 2½ points with all brands growing.
Japan also had strong growth with volume increasing over 15% due to a combination of sustaining and commercial innovations on Bold Ariel and Lenor.
Developing market shipments were strong in many markets.
In India Tide shipments increased about 60% behind the continued growth of Tide Naturals and total laundry value share increased by two points.
In Russia Tide unit volume was up over 35% due to strong marketing support and Lenor fabric enhancer unit volume was up over 50% due to a consumption increase from a product compassion introduced in October.
In Brazil Ariel shipments almost doubled behind the growth of liquid detergents and total laundry value share increased more than 2½ points.
The Home Care segment increased organic unit volume high-single digits with all regions growing.
Global value share was up over one point to 18%.
North America grew shipments mid-single digits and value share over two points behind the success of the recent Gain hand dish brand and Febreze Set &amp; Refresh innovation.
Japan grew shipments about 40% and value share over five points to a 20% share driving overall market growth in the region.
With success behind several Febreze product innovations and the launch of Joy Hand Renewal P&amp;G is now the number one company in both dish care and air care categories in Japan.
Home Care developing markets grew organic shipments in the mid-teens.
The Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region increased organic volume by more than 15% and grew value share two points.
Hand dish care was the primary driver of the growth with Russia Fairy shipments increasing about 25% behind the winter hands commercial innovation and with volume continuing to grow in recently expanded markets such as Turkey and Egypt.
The Asia region also experienced very strong growth with Philippines hand dish and Korea air care both increasing volume about 30% and share over four points driven by increased levels of marketing support to drive trial and excellent in-store execution.
Batteries unit volume increased high-single digits.
Developed market shipments grew high-single digits behind a very strong holiday season.
In developing markets volume increased mid-single digits India shipments of Duracell were up about 70% due to increased distribution to more retail outlets.
Baby and Family Care delivered 6% organic sales growth behind volume growth of 8%.
Mix reduced sales by two points as developing markets grew about 3x faster than developed market as well as disproportionate growth of mid-tier and large-sized products.
Pricing was neutral.
Baby Care shipments were up high-single digits and global value share increased more than a point with all regions growing share.
Developed market shipments increased low-single digits.
U.S.
diaper value share was up nearly one point on a declining market and volume was flat.
Luvs volume was up mid-single digits driven by the heavy duty protection initiative.
Western Europe increased volume low-single digit and value share over 1½ points behind the Dry Max launch and an overnight dryness initiative on Pampers Baby Dry.
Baby Care increased developing market shipments in the mid-teens.
India Pampers shipments grew more than 50% and share grew 1½ points in a fast-growing market.
Pampers Brazil volume grew over 25% and China volume grew nearly 20% driven by distribution gains marketing investments and market growth.
Family Care grew volume high-single digits and increased value share by almost half a point.
Developed market shipments were up high-single digits.
U.S.
Charmin volume increased over 10% driven by success of recent product improvements strong marketing support and distribution gains in Charmin Basic.
Developing markets shipments increased more than 30% driven primarily by improved value impressions in Mexico.
That concludes the business segment review and I'll hand the call back to Jon to discuss guidance for the fiscal year and the March quarter.
Thanks Teri.
Our guidance for organic sales and earnings per share growth for the fiscal year is unchanged.
Our outlook for organic sales growth remains at 4% to 6%.
We're also maintaining our guidance for all-in sales growth of 3% to 5%.
As we said last quarter where we land within this range will be driven by two factors: underlying market growth rates and our ability to grow ahead of market rates.
As I mentioned earlier we're delivering growth ahead of the market and we're growing share.
However underlying market growth rates in North America and Western Europe have been lower than expected so far this fiscal year.
The core earnings per share guidance range stays at $391 million to $401 million which equals growth of 7% to 9% versus prior year core earnings per share of $3.67.
While we're not changing our core earnings per share guidance there are two items worth noting.
First we now expect commodity cost will be an earnings headwind of about $1 billion after tax.
This is roughly double the impact we expected at the start of the year.
Second we now expect the effective tax rate will likely be below 26% for the year due to the ongoing shift of our geographic mix the positive progress we've made in resolving outstanding audits and the extension of U.S.
tax laws.
The volatility we're experiencing in market growth rates input costs and foreign exchange drive an approach of providing reasonable and appropriately wide guidance ranges for sales and earnings per share growth.
As we’ve said on a number of occasions we will not chase foreign exchange or commodities or back off on investments simply to deliver a top-of-range number or an external estimate.
Our actions will continue to be guided by our desire to advance our strategy and by our overriding objective of creating long-term value for shareholders.
On the bottom line all-in GAAP earnings per share range is now $3.89 to $3.99 which includes the $0.02 per share impact from the noncore legal and tax items in the December quarter.
Regarding share repurchase we continue to outlook a range of $6 billion to $8 billion for the year.
Before going into the March quarter details I want to address a few points on front half versus back half trends.
Our fiscal year guidance implies acceleration in organic sales growth operating profit and core earnings per share in the second half.
We are comfortable with this guidance for several reasons.
On the top line there are three factors worth noting.
First and most important we have strong momentum in volume and market share growth.
And we're confident that our innovation and expansion plans will sustain solid volume growth rates.
We will continue to leverage innovations and expansions that first reached the market last year.
And we have plans to enter 12 new category country combinations 40 new category price tier combinations and 25 new category channel combinations in the second half.
Second as I mentioned earlier we will have a better pricing comparison than we've had over the last four quarters.
Pricing will swing from negative to positive by the end of the fiscal year moving from a one point drag in the first half to up to a one point help in the second half.
As we discussed on the call last quarter if we simply hold the average sales per unit flat at the level we just delivered in the December quarter the year-on-year price and mix impact should improve by as much as three points by the end of the year from down about 2½ points this quarter to neutral to positive in the June quarter.
Third the supply constraints that created the top line headwind in the first half of the year in Oral Care Blades and Razors Body Washes and Pet Care should largely be behind us.
We have announced to retailers that we should be back to full supply and merchandising capability on these businesses in the near future.
On the bottom line we're forecasting core earnings per share growth in the range of 10% to 16% in the second half.
This rapid EPS acceleration is heavily influenced by dynamics in the base period not by unusual trends in the current year.
In fact the front half versus back half balance of earnings this year is very similar to what we have delivered on average over the past five years.
Last fiscal year was the anomaly with lower-than-normal operating profit in the second half.
The challenges we face in the second half of last year from higher commodity cost foreign exchange and increased marketing investments all lead to easier comparisons in the second half of this year.
Now moving to the March quarter.
We're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
We expect all-in sales growth of 5% to 7%.
Within this we expect foreign exchange to add about 1% to sales growth and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures to be roughly neutral to sales growth.
On the bottom line earnings per share is estimated in the range of $0.95 to $1.
This translates to core earnings per share growth of 7% to 12% for the quarter versus base period core earnings per share of $0.89.
We expect strong operating profit growth in the quarter.
In closing as I said earlier we're pleased with the progress we have made in the first half of this year.
We're touching on improving the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely and we are seeing the results in broad-based volume and market share growth.
We are better integrating our plans across categories and geographies to operate more fully as one company and we are simplifying our operations reducing costs while increasing our productivity efficiency and agility.
To be clear there is still more work to do.
We need to deliver the price mix improvement we are forecasting while sustaining solid volume growth.
We need to grow our market share in more brands and in more markets.
We need to improve our demand forecasting and supply planning so we can more fully leverage our new innovations and portfolio expansions.
And given the rising input cost environment we need even more focus on identifying and delivering cost savings in all parts of the business.
We're confident that through our growth and operating strategies we'll deliver the acceleration in top line and bottom line results that we expect.
Now Bob Teri and I will be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
I just wanted to ask a bit about the commodity sort of surprised both for the rest of the year but also particularly in the quarter.
So at what point in the quarter were you guys realizing that commodities were a much bigger headwind than expected? I would assume that's the case based on the gross margin performance.
And I'd love any commentary you can offer very specifically around pricing initiatives related to the greater gross margin pressure than you had expected before.
Commodities really continued to -- the pricing on commodities continued to accelerate throughout the quarter.
But I would tell you that it's more of a year ago comparison than it is a sequential increase in commodities.
Commodity costs increased 6% versus the September quarter.
But as we said earlier they're up about 20% versus year ago.
You're absolutely right to ask the question on how we plan to manage those increased commodity costs going forward.
I mentioned continued focus on cost savings which will clearly be a part of this.
We'll also look at pricing in commodity-exposed businesses where that's appropriate.
The last thing I would say is as we've talked before just on a comparative basis we should have a much better commodity comparison in the second half than we had in the first half as this long run-up that we've been on really started in the second half of last fiscal year.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
I guess I wanted to get into market growth rates.
It seems like maybe U.S.
and Western Europe I guess slowed a little bit more than you had expected in the end of the quarter maybe in December maybe post Analyst Day.
Can you just talk about how the market growth rates progressed and how you see that playing out into the beginning of the calendar year 2011? And then I guess whether you think there are going to be tools to sort of get growth going -- to drive growth higher in those categories.
We began the fiscal year expecting global market growth rate of 3% to 4%.
This assumed the developed markets grew 1% to 2% and developing markets grew 6% to 8%.
Developing markets have grown as we expected but developed markets particularly the United States have underperformed.
For the first half of fiscal year developed markets grew only about half a percent and we continue to expect to grow 1% to 2% above market growth rate levels due to our strong multiyear innovation program expansion programs which Jon and Teri talked about.
For this specific quarter in terms of value growth North America Western Europe and Japan were all flat.
The developing markets were up about 8%.
Importantly we grew share in North America Western Europe and Japan partly because the markets were flat but also because of our high volume growth rates.
In North America we grew share in December higher than we've grown it in four years.
In Western Europe we've had 12 consecutive months of share growth and in Japan we're the only company in our industry growing share and we're growing share on about 90% of our business.
And in terms of the evolution of the market growth through the quarter Chris there was a pretty significant drop off towards the end of the quarter.
While it's qualitative judgment it looks like what may have happened is that consumers as you saw on the retail sales figures actually spent on Christmas.
And by the end of the month there wasn't a lot left.
And your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Jon you talked a little bit about the pricing comparisons and how those are going to play out over the course of I guess calendar 2011.
It sounds as though you're expecting a similar level of volume share performance in 2011 versus 2010.
So despite the fact that you won't have the pricing advantage can you talk a little bit about the volume comps and the way they play out in a similar way and how you expect your volume share performance to be in 2011 versus 2010? We do expect similar levels of volume growth in the second half as compared to the first half so that assumption is correct.
It'll really be driven by two things.
One the continued expansion of our investment and expansion program.
I talked in my comments about the number of category country category price tier and channel entries which is very significant in the second part of the year.
So that will be a big driver of continued volume progress.
And then I also mentioned – I mentioned it in the sales context but it's relevant in the volume context that we had because of more demand than we expected for a number of innovations we were supply constrained pretty significantly on a number of categories in the first half.
That situation is largely behind us.
So as we're able to fully leverage those innovations we should see more growth.
I'll just give you one example on Fusion ProGlide where demand was much higher than we expected in North America we effectively had to make significant reductions in merchandising as we went through the back of the year.
And we'll essentially be if you will relaunching Fusion ProGlide in North America as well as expanding it across the world.
Maybe I'll just comment on Fusion ProGlide if I can Jon because if you simply look at the market share you might get the wrong impression.
Fusion ProGlide is performing really well and we're pleased with the initial results after only seven months in market.
The Fusion shares in U.S.
have reached 34% which is up three points versus year ago.
But regarding comparison to competitive launches you could see where it looks like we've lost some share on Blades and Razors in the U.S.
That's because of the supply constraint and because we've had to cancel merchandising that exists.
But we're confident that once we put that merchandising back in place which we're now doing that the sales will take off.
What we know from our research is that sales of U.S.
Fusion ProGlide cartridges have been at the rate of more than 6x the rate of Fusion ProGlide razors while the competitive replacement cartridges are only selling about two times the razor sales and that's a key metric for us.
And your next question comes from the line of Andrew Sawyer with Goldman Sachs.
I was hoping you guys could just talk a little bit about the Fabric and Home Care numbers and I guess what's driving the sales slowdown there and if anything there surprised you.
And also if you could shape up how you’re performing from a market share perspective both on the volume and the dollar sales side? Andy we're growing market share in Fabric and Home Care.
We have a number of terrific innovations in market things like Ariel and Tide Acti-Lift things like the line of additive products which we've now launched in many countries around the world.
So we are happy with our share growth in those markets.
I think the thing that's probably affecting us more than anything else is the lack of market growth in this market because we are growing share.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with UBS.
Just wanted to get a little more context on the developed markets.
You talk about market growth rates being lower than you expected.
Can you kind of decompose that? Is this from the unit side or is it because there's still a lot of promo spending out there that's been inefficient? Can you just provide any context on the general market growth environment in Japan Western Europe and North America? The promotion volumes Nik just to answer that part of the question the promotion levels are actually reducing or narrowing sequentially.
So that is not what's driving this.
It's more fundamental consumer demand.
I think for example look at Western Europe and you look at the U.K.
for example which had a negative economic situation we're still growing share in the U.K.
On a large segment of our business in Japan it's basically a story since the burst of the economic bubble as you know Japan has had trouble creating macroeconomic growth particularly given the demographic problems they have.
But we are growing share.
As I said there 90% of our business we’re growing share and some of the strongest growth rates that we've had in Japan since we entered Japan in 1973.
And in North America as I said as Jon indicated we think there was a slowdown in consumer spending on our products after the holidays.
We're seeing that pick back up but the good news is again we had our highest share growth in December in four years in North America.
So again we think we're doing the right things and the innovations we're marketing are selling.
And on the macro level as Bob indicated we are seeing and it's early but in January the markets are improving a little bit particularly in North America.
And we really haven't seen the impact on market growth rates yet of the pretty significant stimulus if you will in the context of the income tax extension that happened at the very end of this quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Did you announce any list price increases? I know you said if you just held the price per unit flat you’d get three points of growth which I’m kind of confused about also because if the price per unit is the same this year as last year I'm not sure how you get that three points.
But the other question is do you have any big list price increases? And then just a side question housekeeping wise can you give us guidance for the tax rate for the March quarter? On pricing Bill we recently announced pricing effective mid-March on Duracell in North America.
We've taken foreign exchange-related price increases to protect the structural economics of our business in places such as Venezuela.
And we've increased pricing in India on Tide Plus in July and again we did that in October.
In September we increased prices on Feminine Care and diapers in India to recover changes in excise duties.
We're also taking some actions in Oral Care in Western Europe.
Some in Baby Care in Central Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa.
And I've talked about India laundry and I've talked about Venezuela.
So that's generally the pricing that we've taken.
The part of the Duracell pricing is of course returning to the pre-value plan pack sizes on affected AA and AAA packs and we're increasing the pricing across much of the balance of the Battery portfolio.
And this the battery announcement affects about 70% of our business.
On the tax rate Bill the two items that I mentioned of the three that affected our tax rate in O&amp;D those are the core items will carry forward.
So to the extent we continue developing disproportionately growing disproportionately in developing markets that will continue to have a tax benefit that is sustainable going forward.
Obviously the U.S.
tax legislation is sustainable going forward.
And we've given you a tax rate on the year you can get pretty close to the quarter with the actuals and that number.
Tax is an area of volatility but I think you can get pretty close.
I just want to dwell on that point for one more minute.
If you look at the drivers of the organic tax rate on the quarter I do want to reiterate the point that we really view two of those as completely sustainable going forward.
So really there is if you will a one-time item related to successful defense of tax audits that's $0.03 to $0.04 on the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
I just wanted to follow up on the answer you gave to Bill Schmitz regarding pricing.
Are those pricing changes incremental to your business model? And the reason I ask is because when you're talking about roughly an incremental $0.16 or $0.17 headwind from commodity I'm trying to figure out how you're making that up.
It doesn't sound like your pricing commentary is all that different on a full year basis.
So I'm just trying to figure out how those two statements equate to each other.
Well we haven't taken yet you're absolutely right Joe commodity-related pricing increases to any large extent.
And obviously it would be inappropriate for us to comment on future pricing activities.
But we'll continue to stay committed to a healthy economic structure both through cost savings as a way to offset commodities and where appropriate we will take price increases.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Could you talk in some detail about the profit dynamics in the Fabric and Home Care segments again? Because as I'm looking at the quarters are we headed for another period where the profit will have declined for an extended period of time? And what do you think would start to turn that in a more sustainably healthy direction? As we tried to explain at a company level but it's clearly true in Fabric and Home Care we get into a much better comparative cost situation in the back half across the board.
The commodity cost index in the second quarter is much higher than it will be in the back half of the year again because commodities in the base period started their ramp-up in the back half.
You'll recall last year that our marketing expense was significantly back half loaded.
This year it's more evenly distributed.
Foreign exchange was a hurt in the first half of this year is a help at current spot rates in the back half of next year.
What you're seeing on the income statement for Fabric and Home Care in the second quarter reflects all of those dynamics but also reflects the fact that Fabric and Home Care is one of our most commodity-exposed businesses.
So that commodity increase that occurred has a disproportionate impact on that segment.
Typically where we have commodity-exposed categories at the appropriate levels of commodity price increases we would look to price to recover.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Clearly you've sacrificed some profitability here in the short term over the last few quarters as you focused on volume growth and yet your organic sales growth is coming in at the low end of what you expected and is pretty muted on a year-over-year basis at the same time commodity costs are now reinflating.
So I'm just wondering if conceptually we should expect to see more of a focus on profitability and pricing going forward.
And if you'd expect any adjustment to that strategy.
Well Dara when we started on this strategy back in the April May June quarter of 2009 we talked about the fact that we needed to grow market share profitably.
And at that time we were growing market share in about a quarter of our business.
And we had suffered one of the worst quarters in a few decades in our company.
And what we've been doing is following that glide path toward our guidance for this fiscal year which is 7% to 9% core EPS growth for the fiscal year and 4% to 6% organic NOS [ph] growth.
We're on that glide path.
We're now growing market share or holding market share in about 60% of our business globally.
And we think the strategies are working.
Just to build on that we're actually on an earnings per share standpoint ahead of the glide path in terms of slightly overdelivering the first half of the year.
So just to reiterate Bob's point we're right on track in terms of what we expect to deliver which involves a significant amount of earnings per share growth this fiscal year.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Lane with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just looking at changes since the September quarter I noticed that on your market share progress there's one less of your top 17 countries and one less of your 23 billion-dollar brands growing market share and I'm just wondering if you could update us on the current market share trends accounting for that differential.
What I would say Doug is that our market share is stronger today than it even was in the last quarter.
Those metrics may look otherwise.
But the point that we made which I think is significant is for the first time in some time we are now growing market share over the past 12-month past nine-month past six-month past three-month period.
And that's a very difficult thing to do and past one-month period.
And if you go across our regions every region is growing market share over every one of those time periods.
So in other words let's take North America as an example past three months we're up 0.1%; past six months we’re up 0.1%; past 12 months -- Asia past three months up 0.6%; past six months up 0.6%; past 12 months up 0.4%.
So as we look across the regions the market share growth is strengthening.
And as we look across our businesses by business unit our Household Care market share is strengthening our Health &amp; Well-Being market share is strengthening and our Beauty market share is strengthening from what we would argue was a pretty unacceptable level over a year ago now.
So we feel like the market share is growing and that it's going to continue to grow.
And further evidence of that is the fact that private label shares are down versus a year ago for three straight reporting periods in the U.S.
and six consecutive periods in Western Europe.
And I understand the volume results of some of our competitors have not been very good.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Kelly with Crédit Suisse.
I'd like to get back on the commodity headwind issue.
Could you just discuss your confidence in the ability to pass through commodity-based price increases in an environment where the consumer is clearly a little bit weaker than what you thought? Will the consumer and even the retailer for that matter accept them? And then on the cost saving side how much of the incremental commodity hit will be absorbed by cost saves? And is that in the COGS SG&amp;A or both? In terms of ability to pass through we're really in a very good position in that regard.
You may recall us talking historically about our desire always to link pricing when it's necessary to innovation.
And with our focus on innovation and a very strong portfolio of innovation in the second half we're actually in a pretty good place.
These commodity cost increases where they’re occurring are broad-based.
In other words they're affecting not just ourselves but they're affecting private label brands.
So we don't expect there to be a surprise in the context of retailer receptivity.
They're going to have a need here as well to the extent these trends continue.
And we'll obviously be working to develop substitute materials for those that are rising quickly.
Some of them are very very specific like lauric acid.
And we know what those chemicals are and we'll work to obviate the cost increases while as Jon says if we can't offset it we'll price for it.
To the question of how much we can offset if you look at the second quarter we offset almost all of the commodity cost increase.
We had 140 basis points of savings that offset most of the 160 basis points of commodity cost increases.
And as we talked about in Analyst Day we will continue focusing on SG&amp;A savings as well.
So it will be a combination of all of the above.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Just a question I guess on total marketing spending really trade spend versus advertising.
So if we're hearing right it sounds like you're saying the promotional spending is starting to narrow a little bit.
I was wondering if you could kind of talk about some of the categories where you are starting to see that trend.
And then just when we think about the back half the advertising I know you have a really tough comparison versus last year and I don't think you were really planning on a major step up and hopefully that plays into some of the stronger operating profit in the third quarter.
But it seems like there's a little bit of struggling of demand in North America and your competition as you pointed out their volumes have not been good.
I'm just wondering about the need to even increase the advertising beyond what you've stated at your Analyst Day.
Jason the marketing spend that we are seeing around the world and I think North America is similar as well is we're seeing somewhat of a deceleration of temporary price reduction or discounting.
We're also seeing around the world as Jon mentioned earlier our comparisons in marketing spend are going to work to our favor in the second half and certainly that's part of the margin improvement in the second half as we come off of those higher marketing spend levels.
Yet we expect to end the year about where we've ended every other year which is about 10% or so of sales which of course will be a higher number than the previous year since the sales number will be higher.
The broad market share progress that Bob talked about that's I think symptomatic of really having our marketing program where it needs to be.
So I don't expect to see significant increases going forward.
And as a result as Bob rightly described on a comp basis that should pick us up some earnings tailwind in the back half.
I should say that our marketing effectiveness we measure marketing ROI on marketing spend.
And our marketing effectiveness is at all-time high levels.
Part of the reason for that is we're doing a better job operating as one company as we talked at the Analyst Day.
And when we operate as one company and take advantage of the full portfolio of brands that we have it results in greater growth and it results in much better efficiency of our marketing spend.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen with William Blair.
I was just wondering if you could compare and contrast perhaps the performance of some of your new or premium items versus mid-tier value offerings.
I'm just trying to get a sense of whether you're seeing any differences in the strength of your portfolio at a premium versus kind of value end.
Jon well we already talked Fusion ProGlide which I think is a wonderful example of when you innovate at the high end there's a lot of consumer demand.
Just to reiterate because it's a key metric the sales of the Fusion ProGlide cartridges have been at a rate that's more than 6x the rate of ProGlide razors.
That means that people are coming back and buying more cartridges because they like the shave so much.
In fact as Jon said we've not been able to supply them all while our competitor replacement cartridges of their new item are only selling at about 2x the razor sale.
Another great example is what we're doing on Crest Clinical Sensitivity and Crest Clinical Gum Protection both of which are premium priced.
They began shipping in August and they’re off to a great start.
While early the current end-market results have doubled our share in the sensitivity space.
And as opposed to a competitive product called Pro-Relief Pro-Health is already FDA approved and therefore it's in the U.S.
now.
And with this launch we have two Sensitivity SKUs in market both Crest Pro-Health Sensitivity Shield and Crest Clinical Sensitivity and both are doing extremely well despite the fact that they’re premium priced.
Pampers Dry Max is another premium-price item.
It's holding and are growing share in 13 of our top 17 markets around the world.
It's now in more than 50 countries worldwide.
The results in Europe had been very strong with cumulative shipments up double digits since launch since last May and value shares are up strongly versus a year ago.
Diaper value shares in Western Europe for example are 58% which is up two full points versus a year ago.
In the U.S.
Pampers shares are up one point to 31% and the vast majority of consumers who have tried Dry Max are very happy with it with the comfort with the dryness and with their baby using it and it's going well.
So the premium-priced innovations are doing extremely well and they're doing well because there's a lot of demand out there when you innovate.
And on the lower end as Teri had mentioned in some of her discussion we're seeing significant growth for instance in India Fabric Care plus 50%.
We're continuing to innovate very successfully at the low end as well.
We wouldn't be generating the kind of volume growth 10% volume growth in developing markets if we weren't being successful really across the portfolio in terms of our innovation efforts.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
I'm sorry if I missed this but you talked a lot about developed markets being below kind of expectation.
Did you say anything about developing markets and maybe how they came in versus expectations and maybe how that’s progressed throughout the quarter and into this year? Bill just to make sure I'm clear on my articulation.
What I said was that the market growth rate of developed markets was not as high as we expected.
In terms of developing markets they're right on.
They grew about 8% in value terms and pretty consistently like Greater China was 8%; Central Eastern Europe Middle East Africa 6%; Latin America 8%; the ASEAN markets and Korea about 8%.
So you see a real consistency there that average is about 8%.
And that is exactly what we projected at the beginning of the year.
We said at the beginning of the year 7% to 8% and it's right about there.
It's really in the developed markets where we had projected higher numbers and we had projected 3% to 4% and we're basically seeing well in the last quarter flat – I’m sorry 1% to 2% is what we had projected and what we're seeing is flat.
Our expectation is that chances are that that will pick up in the second half because we are seeing an economic recovery in these markets.
But there still are some concerns out there whether it's the fiscal and financial situation in places like Ireland Spain or Greece and the tax situation in the U.S.
which we kind of dodged a bullet in December.
But we have to work with the U.S.
government to get the U.S.
corporate tax rate down.
We now have the second highest corporate tax rate in the world.
In the spring when Japan lowers theirs we'll have the highest.
So we're working hard to help the U.S.
government understand that U.S.
companies multinationals need to be competitive lowering their corporate tax rate is one way to do it and moving to a territorial versus a worldwide system is another way to do it.
Just to the question of our own growth trends in developing market those are accelerating as we bring more of our portfolio to bear.
So we're very optimistic in our view for our business in developing markets.
When you look at the number of opportunities that Jon talked about in his message that we're closing in the next half it speaks to the kind of fundamentals systemic sustainable growth we're going to create as we enter these new category country combinations around the world.
And that's what we've done in the last six months.
We're going to continue doing that.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Could you give us a little more color on the developing and emerging markets where you're taking share? Is it coming from local competitors larger competitors and just by region maybe answer that question? With the kind of share that we're growing right now Tim where you're growing across all time periods across most geographies across most business units the answer would have to be all of the above.
Because it's taking bits of share from every competitor rather than necessarily targeting a single competitor.
While at the same time we have to say that our accelerated volume growth rate is also because we’re in many categories where there virtually is no competitor.
If you think about India diapers for example the competitor there largely is the bottom that's not diapered at all.
When you think about even hair care in China getting the consumer to wash their hair more than once a week there's huge opportunity out there that isn't about just share growth and that's why the 8% growth in developing markets is so critical.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
I'm looking at price mix and I'm wondering if you can articulate and I'm sorry if you have already but how much of the negative was country driven versus the faster growth in lower-priced items.
And I'm also wondering with Wal-Mart's announcement about its desire for more low-price product if you feel you're already where you need to be or if that's going to put more pressure in the U.S.
and other developed markets on you needing to innovate in the lower price points.
First on the specific question on the components of mix.
Mix had a two-point negative impact.
Half of that or a point was country mix the rest was split across other forms of mix.
But it's largely country mix given the disproportionate growth in developing markets that we've been talking about this morning.
Relative to Wal-Mart we're growing the business very well in Wal-Mart International and Sam's.
The place where we're focusing to help Wal-Mart grow more is in U.S.
stores.
The issue in U.S.
stores for our business is not largely SKU or price or even brand portfolio driven as much as it is sheer execution.
We have partnered with Wal-Mart to create Family Movie Nights which is a great thing where our feedback from consumers is outstanding on this.
They want to have a night they can get the family together and watch a movie and not have to have the remote in their hands to change channels.
But our execution of that has not been as good as we would like.
There haven't been as many items in the tab as there should be.
There haven't been as many displays in-store.
Another example of that is Wal-Mart took the decision some years ago to remove battery centers from their stores and they lost quite a bit of business in the battery business.
We're now working with Wal-Mart to reinstitute those battery centers and not surprisingly they're gaining back their closure rate and their market share on batteries.
So it's really about our execution with Wal-Mart Wal-Mart's execution with us than it is about introducing a bunch of new low-priced SKUs.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Would love some I guess some help maybe because on the one hand I'm hearing you saying that the consumer will actually be able to absorb price increases from commodities.
But on the other hand you painted the picture that the consumer found it difficult to buy shampoo or diapers even after Christmas.
So I guess in that context and in the context of all your peers accelerating their own cost cutting to the level that's in line if not more than yours proportionally I kind of want to ask about one potential way of plugging a hole which is acquisitions.
And it seems like you've gone more open about acquisitions over the past little while.
So 18 months ago it was "I'd be more of a seller than a buyer." 12 month ago it was bolt-on.
In December it was "We would not rule out a big acquisition." It sounds like this morning correct me if I'm wrong it sounds like there's more discussion about we're looking to add to our portfolio.
So in all of that how should we think about acquisition risk.
And that especially when we see that your buybacks dropped off last quarter versus this quarter pretty precipitously.
So there's a lot in there but that's what I'm thinking about.
First of all acquiring to fill a hole implies you have a hole.
And as we've been trying to describe we don't see that we have a hole.
We're well on track with our plan at the present point.
In terms of our general stance to acquisition we talked probably four years ago about being a net seller.
So that was a quite a while ago.
We have been focused on acquisitions which allow us to realize our purposes via growth strategy.
Ambi Pur is a very good example allowed us to get from 17 countries in air care to 84 countries serving more consumers around the world.
Those are opportunities that we are open to.
I continue to believe that a large acquisition while you'd never write it off completely is not a highly probable event.
And the buyback pattern really reflects simply our pattern of cash flow across the year.
And we expect as I said in my comments cash flow to accelerate as operating earnings growth accelerates in the back half of the year.
Having said that we've purchased $3.5 billion of shares against a target of 6% to 8% which would lead you right to the middle of the range on a prorated basis.
So we're largely again on track.
Ali the way I think of it and I know Jon shares this is that we should have growth plans to achieve our goals and our strategies without acquisitions.
And that's why one of the things we tried to communicate during the Analyst Day and I remember you were there sitting about the third or fourth row is we now have detailed plans to enter 250 new category country white space opportunities enter 750 new category country price tiers enter 950 new category country channels by fiscal year 2015.
This is not pie in the sky.
This is not something we dream about.
These are hard and fast plans and we put up copies of those plans during the meeting.
So any acquisition we would consider has to be measured as a use of cash against those opportunities that we already have.
And that's a relatively high bar because we've been so deliberate in following this strategy and staging those opportunities.
Your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I have some follow-up questions on mix and this is separate from the geographic mix.
Can you tell us within the quarter in which regions your mix was negative? Was it negative within all the major regions? Number two in which regions do you expect mix to improve in the second half? And then thirdly you said one of the offsets to commodity cost pressures is innovation and how can this be helpful if the mix is still negative? Well first of all as we just stated the country price mix being one point.
That leaves one point of mix across the geographies.
It isn't related to differential sales growths across those geographies.
That is fairly consistent across the world.
There are major differences in countries that we're seeing in terms of either brand mix or size mix that drives the rest of that.
As I mentioned earlier on our premium items we've actually been supply constrained which has held back our ability to fully leverage those initiatives both from a top line and a bottom line standpoint.
And we expect that to improve starting now.
So that should be a help to price mix going forward.
Your next question comes from Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris.
It just strikes me that your commentary about your earnings performance in general from a big picture perspective really relates a lot more to macro factors these days than it did ten years ago commodities and overall category growth.
On the idea of category growth in developed markets the only way to do that is through innovation to expand the categories and then you'll have category growth.
It seems the innovations you're coming out with are not truly innovations in the sense like when you first came up with Teeth Whitening that was expanding the Oral Care category.
3D White Express is not really a true innovation just as an example.
Can you kind of give us some comfort that in FY '12 or FY '13 there's going to be more category-expanding innovation that will help the growth in developed markets? The way we look at it Linda is that we need to innovate in everything we do.
So many of the innovations we do are category expanding.
In other words if you can get someone to wash their hair one more time a week for example Head &amp; Shoulders works better to prevent dandruff and to take care of your scalp the more frequently you use it.
So as we advertise Head &amp; Shoulders around the world the number one selling shampoo around the world we obviously work to get people to wash their hair more frequently because they get a better end result and the product works better.
So we do work in existing categories to expand them.
Separately we work to create new categories and we said in our analyst day that we're really ramping up our efforts to do more discontinuous innovation.
Bruce Brown talked about this.
We’ve set up new business development units under each one of the vice chairs.
And we're doing a lot of work.
In fact you may have seen the Fortune Magazine article about the $2-a-day consumer in China.
We're doing a lot of work to figure out how to create new categories where categories don't exist.
And I think frankly we would all argue with you a little bit as to whether something like Crest Pro-Health or 3D White is an innovation and I would simply point to the way the consumer votes which is look at our market share look at our volume results look at our profit results in Oral Care and that's how the consumer’s voting.
And I think they’re voting it’s an innovation.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Curious whether the supply constraints in the December quarter were more pronounced than they were in the September quarter.
And then just unrelatedly I'm curious how you can effectively balance these rising commodity costs and your need to offset those with cost savings with your focus on going after market share.
It would seem like to some extent it sort of constrains one versus the other so any sort of color there would be helpful.
On the supply constraints Mark it would be true that over the time that you are supply constrained you’re exacerbating the volume versus the potential because you're cutting featuring you're cutting merchandising you're cutting displays and that obviously has a cumulative impact.
So if we could have for example have the features on Fusion ProGlide in the United States certainly the business in December would have looked much better than it does today.
Relative to cost savings cost savings is endemic in our culture.
We talked at the Analyst Day about simplifying the organization.
We talked about simplifying the number of SKUs simplifying the number of colors of plastic operating in different ways in logistics.
So simplification is big for us.
The other thing that's big for us is digitization where we're doing more of our R&amp;D using simulation and modeling.
We're doing more of our demand planning using simulation and modeling.
We're doing a lot more in digitizing our business from end-to-end from molecule creation to running our plants off of the point-of-sale data of our retailers.
So that's critically important to us.
And then the third area of cost savings that we're working as well is to get more from the size of our company as operating as one company because there's tremendous synergy in a company this size and we've not mined at all.
And so we're working to do that.
So we've got quite a strong program within the company around simplification around savings and that's enabled by digitization and we're going to keep after that.
And basically the way we look at it is those things that Bob described provide the financial fuel to invest in commercializing and marketing our products.
So I would not expect us as part of squaring the circle to be reducing investments in that area.
We plan to continue to invest very strongly there fueled by cost savings in other areas.
One other point that I could give you Mark to your question on the supply constraint just trying to dimensionalize that we think that was about 30 to 40 basis point impact on the top line in the second quarter.
So that is significant.
That's the difference between in our case a three and a four and again it should turn into a tailwind in the second half.
Your final question comes from the line of Alec Patterson with RCM.
Just as you guys are trying to illustrate how you believe you're succeeding on your long-term goals of growing in excess of the categories and filling out white space and all that it would be helpful if you could provide some sort of measurement of that success in market share and category growth that aligns with the way you guys report your results.
So I was wondering do you have market share and category growth rates by your GBUs by the six basic segments that you can share with us.
Alex we have market share by GBU and I tried to refer to that earlier that it's an improving situation across each one of the GBUs.
Household Care for example has gone from plus 0.6% over the past 12 months to plus 0.8% over the last three months.
Health &amp; Well-Being has gone from flat to plus 0.1% flat over the past 12 months to plus 0.1% over the last three months.
Beauty and Grooming has gone from flat to positive over the past six months plus 0.1% to about flat now but they’re impacted probably more than the other GBUs by lack of supply.
We talked about Fusion ProGlide as an example.
So that's becoming more and more positive particularly as I look at the numbers by country around the world.
So those are the shares by business unit.
Alex this is Jon.
I think that you asked a good and fair question.
And I think that where we can help you and others more in the future is to build in some of the commentary you're suggesting in Teri's segment commentary.
There's no reason we can't talk about market sizes and market share in that context.
So thanks for raising that as an opportunity and we will follow up on it.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference over to Jon Moeller for closing remarks.
I would just reiterate what we've been talking about all morning.
In our view we had a very strong quarter strong volume and market share momentum sales growth within our guidance range albeit at the low end.
Earnings per share ahead of guidance albeit with some tax help and we continue to feel we're right on track towards delivering 4% to 6% organic sales growth on the year 7% to 9% core earnings per share growth and 90% or better free cash flow productivity.
Thanks for your time this morning.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
[Operator Instructions] Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's quarter-end conference call.
Today’s discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G’s most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items.
The effective tax rate on core earnings represents the effective tax rate on continuing operations less non-core impacts.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G's Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning.
I'll begin today's call with the summary of our third quarter results Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment and I'll conclude the call with guidance for the fiscal year ended June quarter.
Bob Teri and I will take questions after our prepared remarks and as always following the call we'll be available to provide additional perspective as needed.
I thought it might be helpful before getting into the details to step back for a minute and start our discussion this morning with a broad view of the state of our business and several of the key factors that have been impacting it positively and negatively this quarter and fiscal year.
There are many more positives than negatives.
Our innovation and expansion efforts have created strong broad-based organic volume growth momentum.
Fiscal year-to-date 5 of 6 business segments 15 of our top 17 countries and 21 of our $24 billion brands have grown in volume versus the prior year.
This has translated into sales growth ahead of market rates and in line are higher market share and businesses representing over 60% of sales.
Year-to-date market share is in line or higher in all geographic regions in 14 of our top 17 countries and for 18 of our $24 billion brands.
Our top line growth in developing markets has been particularly strong.
Volume is up double-digits through the first 3 quarters.
We're growing sales ahead of underlying market rates and building market share broadly.
Another positive is the early progress we're making to fill in white spaces in our business portfolio across geographies price tiers and channels.
So far this year we've introduced roughly 30 products into new category country white spaces 70 products into new category price tiers and have entered 80 new category channel combinations.
Pricing as we said it will at the beginning of the fiscal year has turned positive and is now adding to organic sales growth.
We know that there have been investor concerns about either our pricing math or our pricing attentions hopefully the positive pricing impact in this quarter's results and in our guidance for the fourth quarter will resolve any remaining concerns.
We've delivered solid cost savings of about 150 basis points on average per quarter cost savings have and will continue to be a key focus for us as they help us buffer higher input costs and provide the fuel for investment in innovation and expansion opportunities.
We've continued to enjoy favorable tax audit outcomes.
These are further validation of the sustainability of the organization structure we established several years ago.
It enables us to release tax reserves to profit and reduce our ongoing tax rate due to lower reserve requirements.
Likewise the continued mix shift of our business toward developing markets is a sustained change that is resulting in a lower ongoing average tax rate which I'll talk more about later.
We continue to be a very strong cash producer.
Over the past 3 years we've generated about $35 billion in free cash flow and we've returned essentially 100% of that value back to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchase.
We've taken meaningful steps to focus and improve our portfolio of businesses.
We're working to finalize our partnership arrangement with Teva Pharmaceuticals which will enable us to expand both the categories and the markets in which we participate in the consumer Health Care space.
We've also announced plans to exit the Snacks business our last remaining food and beverage category.
We expect both of these transactions to be completed toward the end of this calendar year and for both to be a value accretive for shareholders.
These positives all point to a strategy that is working and to a healthy business with positive momentum.
We are though managing several headwinds.
The first is slower-than-expected market growth in developed markets.
These markets account for about 2/3 of our sales and their underperformance has reduced our total company growth rate by nearly a full percentage point this fiscal year.
The best response to slow market growth is innovation.
We are very well-positioned here which is enabling us to grow faster than underlying market rates.
In Western Europe for example we've grown market share for 15 consecutive months.
This compares to retailer brands which offer less innovation and have lost share for 9 consecutive months.
In the U.S.
we've held our growing market share for 13 consecutive months and retailer brands while flat last month lost share to 5 previous months.
We're also facing rapid and significant increases in commodity costs.
Since the beginning of the fiscal year the year-on-year impact from higher costs has more than tripled.
We now estimate that materials and energy costs will be up roughly $1.8 billion before tax for the year.
In the March quarter alone input costs are up more than $400 million before tax versus prior year or about $0.10 per share.
We're taking a holistic approach to the commodity cost increases we're facing.
First we're turning up the dial on our productivity and cost savings initiatives.
As I mentioned earlier for the first 3 quarters this fiscal year we've generated an average of 150 basis points of cost savings per quarter.
Second we're using feedstock and raw material alternatives at lower prices.
Third we're reducing our dependency on commodity and energy costs through our sustainability efforts.
We just launched compacted powder detergents in the U.S.
for example.
These use less packaging material and require less energy to transport.
Fourth where necessary we'll look to price.
We'll couple pricing with innovation wherever possible to positively impact consumer value.
In the U.S.
we increased prices on Gillette shaving cartridges and disposable razors in February.
In March we increased prices on Duracell batteries.
We've announced several additional price increases.
In early June price increases will go into effect on laundry detergents hand and auto dish washing products Iams pet nutrition Head &amp; Shoulders and Metamucil.
Effective in late June our price increases on Bounty and Charmin.
And effective in early July our increases on Pampers diapers and wipes.
Outside the U.S.
we have raised prices on select products in Western Europe Eastern Europe Latin America and parts of Asia.
Most of these pricing actions will go into effect in June or July so we'll see the vast majority of the benefit in fiscal year 2012.
A third headwind has been negative market events in Egypt in the Middle East and Japan.
These are large markets for Procter &amp; Gamble.
We're overdeveloped in these markets compared to nearly all of our multinational competitors.
While our businesses are fully operational these disruptions reduced organic sales by about 0.5 point on the quarter versus our going in expectations.
The last challenge we're managing is supply where we faced shortfalls in the Blades and Razors Pet Care Personal Cleansing Skin Care Hair Color and Oral Care categories.
We underestimated the strength of new initiatives such as Fusion ProGlide Crest 3D White and Old Spice body wash and have proactively made interventions to improve reliability and ensure quality in several categories which temporarily reduce supply.
We're back in full supply across most of these businesses but are still working to catch up in several.
In summary we're executing our strategy and it's working.
Top line growth fundamentals are strong despite the challenges presented by slow developed market growth and crises in the Middle East and Japan.
We're growing core earnings per share but the rate of operating earnings growth has been held back by commodity cost increases.
We're offsetting these cost impacts with positive tax developments in the near term and with pricing going forward.
Hopefully this provides helpful overall context as we discuss our results which I'll move to now.
Our third quarter was another period of solid volume in the market share growth.
Volume increased 5%.
The growth was broad-based with all 6 business segments 16 of our top 17 countries and 20 of our $24 billion brands increased in volume versus the prior year.
We build market share broadly holding our growing share in businesses representing approximately 2/3 of global sales.
Share was in line or higher in all geographic regions and 14 of our top 17 countries 5 of the 6 reporting segments and for 18 of our 24 billion-dollar brands.
The strong volume and share progress continues to be driven by innovation and expansion programs.
We're serving more consumers by expanding our portfolios to higher and lower price points with new product launches such as: the mid-priced Olay Age Protect line; and the restage of Pantene shampoo sachets to the INR 1 price point in India; Downy Single Rinse in Thailand; Fusion ProGlide in Germany France and Japan; Tampax Pearl in France; Naturella pads in Holland; Era Ultra powder laundry detergent in the United States; and the launch of the Wella Pro Series Hair Care line in Western Europe.
We're expanding our portfolio to more parts of the world and entering new country category combinations with initiatives such as: the launch of Downy Fabric Enhancers in Indonesia; the introduction of Olay Skin Care in Venezuela Finland and Slovakia; and the expansion of Olay Men Solutions to Australia and New Zealand.
Many of these new price tier and country expansions also give P&amp;G new presence in retail channels.
For example the Olay expansions give us our first Skin Care presence in the perfumery channel in Venezuela and Slovakia.
In addition to these portfolio expansions we're serving consumers more completely with improvements to existing products such as powder detergent compassion in North America nice and easy foam hair color in North America Pampers diapers and wipes upgrades in the SEMEA Region and the launch of Pantene Nature Fusion in new markets in Latin America and Asia.
Our innovation on expansion program is supported by a strong multiyear pipeline.
Two examples: early next fiscal year we will launch Oral-B Pro-Expert toothpaste in the U.K.
entering a very large and important market and taking a significant step forward in the globalization of our Oral Care portfolio.
We'll also launch revolutionary Tide PODS in North America a highly concentrated new unit dose 3-in-1 laundry detergent that offers consumers great Tide cleaning brightening and stain fighting in an ultra convenient form.
Getting back to the March quarter organic sales grew more than 4% about a point ahead of global market growth rates.
This result included 0.5 point headwind from the market disruptions in Egypt the Middle East and Japan and roughly another 0.5 point headwind from supply shortfalls.
All 6 reporting segments delivered organic sales for the quarter that were in line or higher than prior year levels.
Global market growth remained at about 3% on a constant dollars basis.
We continue to see healthy growth rates in developing markets in the range of 6% to 8%.
Developed markets grew about 1% for the quarter which was a modest improvement versus the December quarter.
However growth remains very choppy from month-to-month.
For example the U.S.
market grew nearly 2% in the month of January but was essentially flat in March.
Pricing and mix combined to reduce sales by less than a full point for the quarter.
Pricing added 1% to organic sales growth mix reduced sales by approximately 2 points.
The mix impact was due to a combination of geographic and product mix.
All in sales grew 5% including the 1 percentage point benefit from foreign exchange.
Earnings per share were $0.96 an increase of 16% versus prior-year GAAP earnings per share of $0.83 and up 8% compared to prior-year core earnings per share of $0.89.
Recall that are all-in results last year included $0.06 of non-core charges primarily related to the passage of the Healthcare Reform Act in the United States.
Our core earnings per share growth was driven by a combination of organic sales growth cost savings a decline in the effective tax rate and a reduction in shares outstanding.
These benefits were partially offset by negative impacts from higher input costs higher marketing and portfolio expansion investments and the impact of the market disruptions I mentioned earlier.
Gross margin decreased 140 basis points due to higher commodity costs.
Higher year-on-year commodity costs reduced gross margin by more than 200 basis points.
This equates to over $400 million of higher cost year-on-year or about $0.10 per share.
Compared to our going in guidance for the quarter commodity costs were a hit of about $100 million before tax or about $0.03 per share.
We highlighted the worsening commodity cost impact at the CAGNY conference in late February.
We indicated we were comfortable with our earnings per share guidance range but that we were not going to abandon our strategy and chase commodity costs simply to deliver a top-of-range or consensus number.
Geographic and product mix reduced gross margin by approximately 150 basis points.
The higher input costs and mix impacts were partially offset by pricing and strong savings programs was contributed roughly 230 basis points positive to gross margin.
Operating margin declined 210 basis points due mainly to lower gross margin.
SG&amp;A spending as a percentage of sales increased 70 basis points versus prior-year levels due to higher investments to support our innovation and expansion plans and foreign exchange impacts.
The increase in investments more than offset roughly 50 basis points of overhead cost savings benefit.
Our effective tax rate was 21.1%.
This rate is below historic levels due to a combination of favorable audit resolutions and the benefit of the mix impact from faster growth of our business in developing markets where tax rates are generally lower.
The validation of our structure on audit and the continued mix shift of our business towards developing markets are sustained changes that affect our ongoing tax rate.
As a result of these 2 factors we now expect our long-term underlying tax rate will be in the neighborhood of 26% which is down from our historic rate of 27% to 28%.
We generated over $3.2 billion in free cash flow in the quarter with free cash flow productivity of 113%.
We continued to return value to shareholders at an aggressive pace.
Fiscal year-to-date we have paid $4.2 billion in dividends to shareholders and repurchased over $4.5 billion in stock.
Earlier this month we increased the quarterly dividend by 9% making this the 121st consecutive year in which we've paid the dividend and the 55th consecutive year in which the dividend has been increased.
In summary despite several headwinds the growth fundamentals of our business are strong.
We're delivering broad-based volume sales and market share growth across businesses and geographies.
Core earnings per share increased 8% and we increased the dividend by 9%.
We're continuing to advance our purpose-inspired growth strategy behind our innovation and our portfolio expansion programs.
Now I'll turn the call over to Teri to review highlights of the business segments.
Thanks Jon.
Beginning with the Beauty segment organic sales increased 4% versus year ago behind 6% organic volume growth.
One point of positive pricing from the increases in Latin America and Prestige were offset by 3 points of geographic and product mix.
Value share for the segment was consistent with prior year.
Retail Hair Care volume grew high-single digits with developed markets up mid-single digits and developing markets up double-digits.
Asia led the growth with both Head &amp; Shoulders and Rejoice shipments increasing in the mid-teens and Pantene shipments increasing over 20%.
In Latin America Brazil was particularly strong with Pantene volume up over 40% behind the successful Gisele Bundchen celebrity endorsement and Head % Shoulders which was introduced in November delivering ahead of target.
In developed markets Western Europe shipments were up double-digits and value share grew nearly 0.5 point.
The growth was widespread across multiple countries and brands.
Pantene volume increased double-digits in the U.K.
Germany and Spain and Head &amp; Shoulders volume increased mid- to high-teen in the U.K.
Italy Spain and France.
The new Wella Pro Series that was introduced into several countries across Europe is shipping ahead of expectation.
North America Hair Care volume was flat with strong growth in Head &amp; Shoulders offset by soft Pantene shipments.
Upgrade to the Pantene product lineup and communication have recently been implemented.
Female Skin Care shipments were flat on a global basis.
Developing markets increased high-single digits as the geographic and portfolio expansions of Olay continue to deliver strong growth.
Latin America grew nearly 30% behind the expansion into Brazil and commercial innovation in Mexico.
In Asia both the Philippines and India more than doubled shipments versus year ago as we expand the Olay portfolio horizontally in the markets.
Developed market Skin Care shipments declined high-single digits.
North America volume declined double-digits due to a temporary stop shipment of the Olay UV line in advance of a reformulation and restage which we expect to launch in the next few months.
Partially offsetting this Western Europe grew low-single digits with a combination of strong growth in the U.K.
and Germany and declines in Italy and Spain.
Prestige organic volume grew mid-teens.
Prestige Fragrances was up mid-teens with strong growth across all regions.
Initiatives such as Gucci Guilty BOSS Bottled Night and Lacoste were strong contributors to the growth.
Prestige Skin Care volume grew high-single digits behind continued SK-II strength and overall market growth.
Salon Professional shipments were down high-single digits due to market softness in Western Europe and continued streamlining in the portfolio.
In Grooming organic sales increased 7% an organic volume growth of 2%.
The benefits from list price increases and lower year-on-year promotional spending contributed an additional 5%.
Global value share was up slightly in a growing market.
Male Blades and Razors shipments increased low-single digits.
Asia and Latin America led the growth both up mid-teens.
In Asia India Blades and Razors volume increased over 25%.
India MACH3 volume grew nearly 40% behind the MACH3 sensitive razor and Gillette Guard continued to perform well.
In Latin America Mexico MACH3 volume grew nearly 50% behind our Sensitive Skin initiative and Brazil MACH3 volume grew more than 50% behind the multi-category Gillette mega brand commercial innovation.
In developed markets Western Europe and North America volume was down mid-single digits.
Western Europe volume decreased as volume gains from the launch of Fusion ProGlide were offset by blade market contraction and a volume shift between quarters as expected due to a January price increase.
North America volume was down and strong volume growth in Fusion was offset by softness in MACH3 and Gillette Legacy Blades and Razors for our business model trading up consumers to premium systems.
Full supply capacity for Fusion was online March 1 and full commercialization begins in April.
Male Personal Care shipments increased high-single digits.
North America volume grew double-digits behind strong deodorants growth and full supply capacity for Old Spice Body Wash.
Latin America volume grew over 20% with Brazil up more than 40% behind the Gillette mega brand and Guy Aisle [ph] executions and expansion in deodorants.
Appliances volume was down high-single digits largely due to softness in Europe.
Health Care organic sales increased 5% behind 4% volume growth.
Price increases in developing markets added 1% to sales and mix was neutral.
Global value share was up nearly 0.5 point.
Global Oral Care unit volume increased mid-single digits and global value share increased more than a point to 23%.
North America shipments were up mid-single digits and share increased to over 2 points.
The main driver of the growth was the 3D White initiative including the 2-hour Express Whitestrips which launched in December.
Western Europe volume was also up mid-single digits and share increased nearly 2.5 points.
Toothbrush share grew more than 3 points across the region driven by the Power Brush business.
In Belgium and the Netherlands Oral-B Toothpaste continues to perform ahead of target with share above 12% in both markets up more than 4 points versus year ago.
Developing markets increased mid-single digits.
Latin America shipments were up mid-teens and value share was up nearly a point.
Brazil Oral-B Paste and Brush volume increased more than 30% and value share was also up nearly a point.
Mexico Crest volume increased more than 10% and value share was up nearly 4 points.
In Asia both the Philippines and India volume increased nearly 25% behind successful toothbrush initiatives.
Feminine Care volume grew low-single digits.
Naturella brand shipments increased nearly 20% up high-teens or more in all regions.
All recent expansions including Greater China Brazil and most recently Holland continue to perform well.
The Always and Whisper volume grew low-single digits.
India Whisper volume increased over 40% behind the Whisper Choice restage and Germany volume was up mid-teens behind the Steven [ph] endorsement and the product restage.
Personal Health Care shipments increased high-single digits with developed markets up double-digits and developing markets up low-single digits.
North America volume grew double-digits and value share was up nearly 1 point mainly behind Vicks growth from a strong cough-and-cold season and product initiatives.
Snacks and Pet Care organic sales were flat versus year ago.
Organic volume growth was offset by geographic and product mix global value share was down slightly.
Mix volume increased double-digits and with all regions growing and share was up.
Developed market shipments grew high-single digits with both Western Europe and North America gaining strong retailer support.
Developing market shipments were up nearly 25%.
In the SEMEA Region Turkey and Russia increased shipments more than 80% versus year ago behind increased distribution within the markets.
Pet Care shipments excluding the Natura acquisition were down mid-single digits.
Full supply capacity was restored within the quarter and merchandising support began in March.
We expect it'll take several months for customer and consumer support to return to normal levels.
Fabric &amp; Home Care organic sales were up 3% behind 5% organic volume growth.
Pricing was neutral and mix was negative 2% impact.
Global value share increased 0.5 point.
Fabric Care volume increased mid-single digits and global share was up nearly 0.5 point.
Western Europe volume was up mid-single digits and share grew nearly 1 point.
In France Ariel liquid tabs shipments grew mid-teens and in Italy Dash liquid tabs shipments grew nearly 25% behind commercial innovation and customer support.
In the U.K.
Ariel volume increased over 30% due to the laundry additives launch and Lenor increased over 25% with the introduction of a new large-size and increased customer support.
North America volume was up slightly and share increased nearly 1 point.
Strong growth in Downy was offset by a declining laundry market.
In developing markets the BRIC countries had strong performance growing volume more than 15% on average.
In Brazil Ariel volume more than doubled behind strong support of liquids.
In Russia Tide volume increased more than 15% and Downy volume increased more than 35% due to fabric enhancer compaction and increased media support across Fabric Care.
In India Tide volume grew more than 60% with the continued success of Tide Naturals.
And in China Ariel shipments increased nearly 25% driven by the strong growth of both liquids and powders.
Home Care organic shipments grew high-single digits with volume-up across all regions and global value share was up nearly 1 point.
North America volume increased mid-single digits and value share was up nearly a point.
Febreze shipments grew mid-single digits behind the Febreze Set &amp; Refresh and noticeable initiatives.
And gain handish volume shipped more than double expected levels.
Japan volume increased double-digits as the expansion of the Febreze portfolio into aerosols continues to drive growth.
Developing market organic shipments grew high-teens.
The Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa volume increased more than 30% with a large portion of the growth coming from Dish Care expansion into markets including Turkey and Morocco and the balance from the Ambi Pur acquisition.
Asia volume was up over 40%.
The growth was a combination of volume from the Ambi Pur acquisition and organic increases.
Batteries volume was flat on a global basis and value share grew nearly 1.5 point.
Developing market shipments increased high-single digits.
India volume more than doubled to increase distribution and marketing support and Russia volume increased nearly 20% behind recently introduced product upgrades and strong focus on in-store sales fundamentals.
Developed markets declined low-single digits driven by North America lapping a high-base period driven by the introduction of value pricing in March of last year.
Baby and Family Care organic sales grew 5% organic volume increased 7%.
Pricing increases in Latin America added 1% and product mix was a negative 2% impact.
Global value share was up over 0.5 point on top of global market growth of approximately 3 points.
Baby Care shipments were up high-single digits and global value share increased nearly a point.
Developed market volume was up low-single digits.
North America shipment trends reflect the lapping of the pipeline volume from the Dry Max launch in fiscal year 2010.
This was more than offset by mid-single-digit growth in Western Europe and more than 30% growth in Japan.
Western Europe growth was broad-based across Germany the U.K.
and France behind the Dry Max initiative and the new Golden Sleep commercial innovation.
Japan growth was a combination of increased customer support a new consumer loyalty program and some pants reloading driven by the natural disaster.
Developing market volume increased high-teens.
Latin America shipments were up more than 20% and value share grew over 2.5 points.
Venezuela volume increased more than 40% benefiting from local market production and Brazil volume increased over 25% through distribution gains and commercial innovation.
Greater China shipments were up over 25% and India shipments were up nearly 50% behind strong market growth and the Golden Sleep commercial innovation.
Family Care volume grew mid-single digits and value in share increased 0.5 point.
U.S.
Charmin shipments were up mid-single digits and share grew nearly 1 point in a growing market.
The base Charmin business volume was up due to product upgrades and commercial innovation and Charmin Basic shipments were up more than 20% mainly from distribution and shelf-space gains.
That concludes the business segment review and I'll hand the call back over to Jon to discuss guidance for the June quarter and for the fiscal year.
Thanks Teri.
The perspective I provided at the beginning of the call is relevant to both our results and our outlook for the balance of the year.
Starting with guidance for the June quarter.
We're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
We continue to expect to grow volume and sales ahead of underlying market growth rates building market share.
Market growth itself remains a key source of volatility in our top and bottom line results.
Our fourth quarter outlook is based on 2% to 3% constant currency global market value growth.
We expect all-in sales growth of 8% to 10%.
This includes a benefit from foreign exchange of approximately 4 points.
Earnings per share are forecast in the range of $0.80 to $0.85 up 13% to 20% versus prior-year earnings per share of $0.71.
The very strong bottom line growth is expected to be driven by a combination of solid top line growth and modest operating profit margin expansion.
The bottom line comparison also benefits from high advertising investment levels in the base period.
We're keeping a wide earnings per share guidance range to reflect ongoing volatility in market growth rates from crisis affecting large markets and in commodity and energy costs.
Moving to the fiscal year.
We're tightening our organic sales growth guidance to a range of 4% to 5%.
This compares to underlying global market growth for the year of about 3% and reflects our expectation to grow 1 to 2 points ahead of market levels and grow market share.
We expect all-in sales growth of 4% to 5%.
This includes a roughly neutral impact from foreign exchange and the net effect of acquisitions and divestitures.
We're also tightening the core earnings per share guidance range to $3.91 to $3.96 which equates the growth of 7% to 8% versus prior-year core earnings per share of $3.67.
This compares to our previous outlook for a 7% to 9% growth and reflects the impacts of higher commodity and energy costs market disruptions and our intention to maintain strong investment levels behind our innovation and expansion growth opportunities.
For a perspective the disaster in Japan will affect fiscal year earnings by about $0.02 per share with a large majority hitting the fourth quarter.
Our revised energy and commodity cost outlook results in roughly a negative $1.8 billion before tax impact on fiscal year 2011.
This is about $500 million worse than we predicted at this time last quarter which equates to roughly $0.13 per share.
About $0.03 of this hit in the March quarter and the balance will affect the June quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we've announced a large number of price increases in markets around the world to help offset these cost increases.
The majority of these recently announced increases will go into effect in June or July and will primarily affect fiscal year 2012.
All-in GAAP earnings per share is now expected in the range of $3.89 to $3.94.
This range includes the impacts of the non-core tax benefits and legal charges from earlier in the fiscal year.
As I mentioned earlier we're now projecting a long-term underlying effective tax rate of around 26%.
We expect to end this fiscal year with a core tax rate of around 24%.
This is lower than the long-term rate due to the large number of favorable audit results we received during the year.
Free cash flow productivity should be around 90% for the fiscal year and we continue to expect share repurchases to be within our $6 billion to $8 billion target range.
We've already received some questions on when we might provide guidance for fiscal 2012.
Our plan is to provide our 2012 outlook on our next earnings call which is scheduled for Friday August 5.
We're currently in the midst of our detailed financial planning process for next year.
While we're not in a position to provide an outlook today our eventual target for sales and earnings per share growth will be driven by a combination of base business growth and investment choices to support our innovation and portfolio expansion plans.
It will also reflect our emphasis on cost savings and productivity.
We want to assure investors that our overriding objective remains to simultaneously grow market share and operating profit to deliver the leadership levels of value creation to the owners of this company.
We're confident that our growth and operating strategies are the right ones to deliver top and bottom line results that we and our shareholders expect.
Now Bob Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Nik Modi with UBS.
So it strikes me as one of the key issues that P&amp;G has been facing in the last few years has been some of the higher margin businesses have been struggling whether it be the U.S.
Beauty/Grooming and China which is obviously one of your highest margins in emerging markets.
Could you just provide any perspective on those 3 businesses and kind of where we are right now and where you expect it to be and the challenges that you face -- if you're correcting those challenges? Relative to the higher margin businesses as you described them in North America in particular the issue in North America is the lack of market growth rate.
Jon talked about the fact that the market growth rates we've seen in North America had been below our going in expectation and that actually in the last -- in the quarter that we're reporting the market growth rate is actually decelerated throughout the quarter.
We are growing market share in North America and many of those market share increases are on the businesses that you described as higher-margined.
So we're happy with the fact that we are growing market share even though we wish that there were more market growth.
For perspective we've grown -- held or grown market share for 13 consecutive months in North America.
Now having said that within that one business that we're working hard to improve is our Pantene business.
We've talked on previous calls about Pantene North America and that our restage earlier in the fiscal year did not go as well as we wanted.
We've had a few design in assortment issues that we're working to correct.
And in mid-February we launched 7 new 2-in-1 SKUs and 5 new large-sized SKUs with a new marketing campaign which have all gotten good strong consumer support and customer support.
The brand is going to continue to strengthen plans in the U.S.
over the coming months and we have a breakthrough commercial innovation that will hit the market in the September quarter reinforcing Pantene's Health equity.
So in terms of the U.S.
I'm expecting North American Pantene which has been the hole in the bottom of the bucket so to speak to improve.
Relative to China we continue to have accelerating top line growth rates in China.
In fact through the last quarter we actually have grown our Asia business substantially.
We've grown our Asia market share a 0.6 points and our top line growth in Asia has been double-digits.
So we're happy with what's happening in Asia.
What we need to do there is we need to get our Olay business and our Olay market share growing more strongly and we're working very hard on that as we speak.
So I expect you're going to see over the next few months improvement in the North America Pantene business improvement in the China Olay business and that will lead to better results for the company.
And your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
So you broke out the volume kindly developed versus developing market.
Can you just take a stab at what the total sales growth was by both regions? And then I'd -- like the real sense to that question is why is the promotional environment still so intense when you have all of this pricing coming through but it seems like most of it is being mitigated by extremely high promotional levels which I think are check-in categories? Relative to the volume in sales by region Bill let's start with North America.
We grew our organic volume in North America 1%.
We grew organic sales -- our organic sales were basically flat.
In Western Europe we grew organic volume 4%.
Organic sales were up 4%.
In Japan we grew organic volume 8%.
Organic sales were up 7%.
So in the developed markets as we consider them we grew organic volume 3%.
Organic sales were up 1%.
In the developing markets in Central Europe Middle East and Africa we grew organic volume 3%.
Organic sales were up 3%.
Latin America organic volume up 9%.
Organic sales up 19%.
Asia excluding Japan organic volume up 15%.
Organic sales up 12% as I alluded to in the answer to Nick's question.
China is a big part of that.
So in developing markets organic volume was up 9%.
Organic sales were up 10%.
Total company -- total quarter organic volume up 5%.
Organic sales up 4% price mix minus one point.
Relative to promotion spending I'm not seeing the acceleration in promotion spending that you're describing.
In fact what I'm seeing is a deceleration and in terms of the pricing that we're seeing we're seeing that some of the deceleration in promotion is resulting in higher pricing higher effective pricing and market.
So I'm not seeing the effect you described.
Just to build on that Bill.
Our volume sold on promotion and the last quarter was 3% lower than a year ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.
My first one is just a little follow-up to Nick's question because Bob you talked about Pantene and one of the things you said that caught my ear was the large size was going to be reformulated.
And I don't think you called out Pantene as one of the brands that was going to have a price increase.
So I'm wondering if just what you're trying to narrow the price gap and make that less of a sort of Premium Super Premium brand on in an effort to gain share.
But my bigger question is on the SG&amp;A spending because that was up.
It seems like a lot more certainly a lot more than I expected and I'm trying to figure out how much of that was plain old advertising.
Was there something else in there that was sort of unusual this quarter? And I guess specifically did you know that the tax rate was going to be a lot lower than we had all modeled and so you threw stuff in there to sort of depress the operating income growth so your EPS came in line with the target? Thanks.
On Pantene Wendy there is no intention to reduce pricing on Pantene or anything like that.
Really the reaction was that when we did the relaunch last year we went to a new architecture for Pantene that was around hair type.
And when we did that we took out in North America.
We took out SKUs that were 2-in-1 SKUs or that were large-size SKUs.
So we're in essence replacing those.
And we're doing that with a new marketing campaign as we described because the previous marketing campaign wasn't effective enough.
So we think that these are going to strengthen our plans in the coming months and will lead to growth in the future.
Jon? The SG&amp;A question it's largely advertising which is in support of our innovation and portfolio expansion plans.
There's a small amount of that x impact in that as well.
But simplistically it's advertising.
I talked at CAGNY about the fact that our operating margin our operating earnings progress is going to be skewed towards the fourth quarter and we talked very explicitly I think in the Q&amp;A session at CAGNY about a lower tax rate.
So yes we were aware of a lower tax rate.
We planned on that basis and as we said we would adhered to our strategy despite the increasing commodity cost and spend to support our innovation programs.
And that's the reason we're holding or growing share in 2/3 of our business globally.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
Thanks.
First as a follow-up on the advertising question because I think one thing that's been interesting so far in the few earnings reports we have from both your direct kind of competitors and others within Staples is that companies are tapping into advertising budgets as a source of offsetting cost inflation.
So can you explicitly say at this point that as we look I know you're not giving guidance for fiscal '12 but is it safe to assume your advertising budget will be sacrosanct as we look ahead over the next 12 months? Lauren if you look historically our advertising spend our media spend has been generally around 10% of our sales and I don't expect that to change.
I mean we're going to continue to invest in our brands.
Now as we do that you'll have to understand while the gross percentage will stay to be about 10% which is what it has been 9% to 10% the internals change quite dramatically as we move more and more to our advertising spend to digital and other forms of media which may be more effective and more efficient.
So we're actually getting a lot more for advertising spend than we ever have before and we have a marketing mix modeling technique that tells us the ROI of each medium.
And as a result we can move money to the more effective medium.
So we're getting a lot more for the money that we're spending but the amount we're spending as a percent of sales is about the same.
Obviously given the size of our company we have a scale advantage versus our competitors who may be smaller and spend less money.
And I think the notion of sacrosanct is probably right on Lauren.
I think you see a strong evidence of that in this quarter.
We're going to execute our strategy.
It's working.
And I'm not going to worry about $0.01 below consensus on earnings per share cut back advertising and effect the long-term health of this business.
That's not what we're about.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
So as I look at this Jon you and Bob have talked about profitable share growth as the metrics and I think as we look at it the share growth has been there and the profit hasn't.
So as much as we would have liked at least.
So as you look out over the last sort of 12 15 months in this change in strategy can you talk about maybe what iterations you need to make? What changes you need to make in terms of how it's implemented? And then also talk about that in the context of well we don't need to make changes.
It's simply the category.
The category growth hasn't been there which has basically kept us for having this virtual cycle of being able to fund the reinvestment more from upside as opposed to through the lower tax rate like you've mentioned in the last couple of comments? Thanks.
Yes I think John there's one variable which has kept us in the last couple of quarters from having a very strong top line and very strong bottom line progress.
And that's the commodity cost increases which have just been significant.
Obviously as we articulated our plan we knew there'd be volatility in commodity costs.
We didn't expect this kind of run-up.
I mentioned in my remarks that the amount of increase we've seen this year is triple what we expected going into the year.
And it simply takes some time to get the pricing in place to offset that and bring through the cost savings that we're very focused on doing.
You do see at least from our guidance standpoint very strong top and bottom line growth in the fourth quarter and we try to acknowledge at the end of our remarks that we are very committed to delivering both of those.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Thanks guys.
So I know you just talked about balance Jon in particular I guess around when you started talking about 2012 a little bit and that you expect to grow both top and bottom line.
And I guess I just wanted to understand without delving too far into fiscal '12.
It does seem like there's got to be somewhat of a prioritization right? I mean because with commodity costs to your point doing what they're doing and the fact that the pricing has lagged that pretty significantly.
I guess can you talk about conceptually how you think about the commitment to the reinvestment you guys have been making and the strategy that's been working and the commitment you made to investors to deliver that high singles to low double number because it just seems like both will pretty difficult next year especially with the 3-point drag from the tax rate normalizing? Thanks.
Well I'd say couple of things.
One the tax rate will continue to be lower as I talked about.
So it won't be a full annualization of the benefit from this year.
The question behind the question in terms of are we willing to make priority calls to be able to deliver both the top and bottom line.
The definitive answer is yes.
We have many more things that we'd love to spend on that we're not simply to try to deliver both top and bottom line growth.
And I expect that will continue to be our approach going forward.
And you also have to be careful about looking as I know you know at just one variable which is commodity cost.
We also have on the other side of the equation a relatively favorable foreign exchange development as well which should enable us to deliver both top and bottom line growth and support a number of investments though not all we'd like.
Chris I would say that one of the reasons that Procter &amp; Gamble is one of the most admired companies in the world for the development of leaders and that many Procter &amp; Gamble leaders lead Fortune 500 companies around the world is because of their ability to lead during times of uncertainty and deliver balanced results both on the top and bottom line.
And any leader at Procter &amp; Gamble knows that they have to deliver top line growth and bottom line growth.
And the way to square that circle is to make sure that we're constantly and consistently working to make the company more productive.
That and over my 30 year career every year we have increased the productivity of the company 4% to 6%.
So we've got to have the cost savings programs in place.
We've got to do -- we've got to go after headcount.
We've got to reorganize the company.
We've got to do the things necessary to make sure we can deliver that bottom and top line growth.
Remember our overarching objective is to be in the top third of our peer group in terms of total shareholder return.
It's really that simple.
So a simple focus on a single metric is obviously not sufficient for the leaders of our company.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
Just first one question on the new Tide PODS.
How patent protected is this? What's been the response from retailers competitors? And what sort of the margin pickup versus baseline Tide? And then maybe another question on the relaunch of Fusion ProGlide.
How that's going? Relative to the patent protection on Tide PODS Joe you can imagine it's quite strong.
If you look at our dishwashing business and you see what we've been able to do with the single-unit dose in dishwashing you look at what we've been able to do introducing automatic dishwashing on top of the strong hand dishwashing businesses we already have.
It's one of the reasons our Home Care business has been one of our fastest-growing businesses around the world and Teri reviewed those results.
All of that patent protection is -- exists in the laundry form as well not just on the chemistry and the film and how that's done but also on the manufacturing process because many of our manufacturing processes are also patented and protected since there's intellectual property there.
So I don't imagine that this is going to be able to be copied in anyway that it will become a threat.
We're expecting this form to be a big success.
We think it will be up to 30% or more of the volume in the United States.
And importantly even though we didn't mention it in our remarks this is really a good thing for the environment and it's a good thing for retailers the liquid form within the pouch within the packet is twice as concentrated as liquid laundry detergent.
So you're going to do a lot better for the environment a lot better for retailers a lot better for homemakers in terms of using this product.
And your question on Fusion ProGlide and the relaunch there we really just began that.
So we expect very good things but it's too early to quote a result.
Yes.
I was at Boston yesterday and I reviewed the relaunch plan and I'm very excited about we've gotten great customer support.
The inventory is back in the store as we've restarted advertising back at the launch weights and we have some new campaign executions which you'll be seeing very soon that I think you will really like.
So please continue watching.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Could you give us your perspective on these declining category growth rates? When the last time was that you saw them? How long you expect it to continue? And with a flat to down birth rate in the U.S.
what is the likelihood that the categories can pick up without that? Well Connie I think that what we're seeing is at least in part the effect of the increasing gas prices.
I think what the volatility that Jon talked about month to month from January to March is in part at least affected by gas prices.
I also have to say I think it's affected by consumer confidence.
And as you see for example the S&amp;P rating of the United States being lowered as you hear politicians fighting with each other rather than getting after what the problems are that affects consumer confidence.
And as Larry Summers once told me consumer confidence is the cheapest stimulus that can be bought.
So we're all hopeful that we'll get back to a situation where the markets will be growing at passed rates and we're ready for that.
Relative to birthrates and other things I continue to believe the U.S.
is a growthful market and it's up to us to make it that way.
We have to do that through our innovation.
I think you're going to see that Tide PODS as an example we just talked about will return market growth to the Laundry category.
I think you'll see that Fusion ProGlide will return market growth to the Blades and Razors category.
And so we take responsibility for delivering market growth.
Relative to birthrate the birthrate in the United States is shifting.
The minority will become the majority by 2040 2050.
And we're still counting on a growing Baby Care business.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Just one quick follow-up and then one question.
On the tax rate Jon did you say that you don't expect the tax rate to get back to 26% next year? And then the actual question was just trying to understand pricing as we look into next year and with so much of the pricing being weighted towards kind of the June July time frame in terms of passing it through would you expect an accelerated purchases from some of your retailers in front of that or should that pretty much even out over the next 3 or 4 months anyways? Relative to the tax question you're right.
The rate will increase from 24% this year to 26% roughly on a going basis.
I don't know exactly what it'll be next year.
We haven't gotten that far in our planning process.
My previous answer referred to it not going back to historic rate.
So I'm sorry if I caused any confusion there.
Bob do you want to talk about pricing? We're pricing broadly across all region across all brands.
Basically the pricing that we're taking is not as much as it was in the 2008 period.
But nevertheless it is still across many brands and across many categories.
Our intention obviously is to take price increases to offset increasing commodity costs where we can't cost save.
We've already implemented new price increases across U.S.
Batteries and Blades and Razors and JFM.
As Jon and Teri talked in their remarks in earlier this month we announced to our customers that we're taking price increases across many businesses in North America powder detergents Bounty Charmin Pampers just to name a few.
Taken together we have implemented announced price increases across brands representing about 50% of our U.S.
sales this calendar year.
And we're also taking foreign exchange price increases which is what we normally do to protect the fundamental financial structure of our business and such as in places like Venezuela.
And we've increased prices where necessary in emerging markets.
We talked for example about Tide Naturals and Tide Naturals in India where we increased the price 8% in the quarter that we're reporting on.
I wouldn't expect the pricing moves to have a dramatic impact on the year-to-year volume trends.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Thanks.
I just wanted to touch quickly on some of the supply constraint that you've been experiencing.
It sounded like that was a drag of about 0.5 percentage point of the top line in the current quarter.
Where are you still working to get the fly back on line? How quickly can you do that and that drag diminished going forward? Thank you.
The drag clearly diminishes going forward.
As I mentioned we are back in full supply on most of the items.
There are a few we're still working on and you can imagine from a competitive sensitivity standpoint why I'd not want to get into the specifics there.
But that should be a tailwind going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Thanks.
Guys just going back to the pricing front and I know your comment now is that you don't really see the price increases that you're taking to have much of an impact on the volumes.
But I'm just wondering in terms of the conversations you're having with retailers.
Some of them we're hearing are a little hesitant about taking price increases with the consumer still pretty strapped.
So I'm just wondering about the merchandising side if you think all of that pricing is going to stick if you think there's going to be a little bit more incremental merchandising.
I'm just wondering if you could give a little perspective on that? Jason as we referred to earlier the pricing gets executed in many different ways.
Some of it is a deceleration of promotion spending and I said that we've seen some of that from our competition already.
Some of it gets executed in new items.
For example if you buy a Fusion ProGlide there's a pricing impact of that versus regular Fusion.
Some of it gets executed in different sizing and pricing.
We've reduced we've condensed our powder laundry detergents.
We have Tide PODS going out.
So this isn't just like you walk up to the shelf and you see the same old package and suddenly the price is a little bit higher.
And as a result of that we're able to get these price increases through.
We're able to get them to the shelf and I actually don't expect them to affect merchandising very dramatically at all.
The key is we've got to continue to innovate.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Lane with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Getting back on the margin question.
We've seen the core operating margins down a couple of hundred basis points for 2 quarters now.
So I guess should we look at this as potentially a reset of some sort on the margins off of recent peaks in the 20% to 21% range? Or are you fairly confident you can get back to holding operating margins in the next couple of years? We would expect to hold or build operating margins over the next couple of years.
It's basic leadership of our company Doug.
There's a difference between our guidance on the top line and our guidance on the bottom line and then in order to square that circle you've got to improve the productivity and the profit margin quarter-to-quarter.
And if you're an effective leader of Procter &amp; Gamble you'd do that.
And if you're not an effective leader of Procter &amp; Gamble you don't do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Just a couple here.
Just maybe a little bit of clarity.
Can you talk a little bit more about the Female Beauty part of volumes here? Was that impacted by the decreased shipments ahead of the North America Olay reformulation and restage launch and especially in light of your international expansion with that product? And then secondly pricing in Asia you gave some color there.
To what degree you can or you want to comment about China specifically on how those pricing actions are holding? Well specifically on the Female Beauty and the Skin Teri talked in her remarks I have to find it but that we had to withdraw a number of products that were in the North American market because of the UV protection technology that we were using.
We withdrew those products and that had a big impact on the volume for Olay for the quarter as well as for North America for the quarter as well as obviously for the Olay North America combination for the quarter.
We worked very quickly to reformulate those products at a record pace and we're in the process of getting them back into the market and to mitigate the impact of this.
But that was a very big impact on the quarter.
But overall I think it's important just to repeat that we grew organic volume in Beauty on a global basis 6% on the quarter.
So that total business is really accelerating.
In terms of the question on China pricing we obviously can't talk about pricing plans that we haven't announced.
And we haven't at this point announced anything in China.
Your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I have a follow-up question to the comment that you made a few minutes ago that you would expect operating margins to hold or increase for the next 2 years.
In this third quarter did you expect the SG&amp;A ratio to be up as much as it was or did you have to increase your marketing more than you originally planned in order to generate that 4% organic sales growth? Because this was the first of the easy comparisons for intensified marketing before and it raises questions about whether you can generate that 4% to 6% top line growth rate without continuing to increase the marketing ratios.
Yes I mean the SG&amp;A number isn't significantly different than what we would have assumed.
And again I tried to be very clear about this during our dialogue at CAGNY saying that we didn't expect to see operating margin growth or operating earnings growth in the quarter that that would be skewed to the back half.
And as I mentioned earlier this entire dynamic is driven really by commodity costs and we've talked about the multipronged approach both increasing productivity increasing pricing where we need to to offset that commodity cost increase.
And I don't want to get into should have would have could have but if you step back -- if we didn't have $1.8 billion in commodity cost this year we would have a fantastic bottom line.
And it's our job to deal with that.
We're doing that.
And doing that successfully should lead to operating earnings growth in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> So just I guess 2 very quick follow-ups and then I have kind of a core question.
I want to follow-up to just on commodity.
Jon you said commodities for this quarter were a little bit higher and were unexpected.
I guess I'm still confused about why this keeps happening not just to you but to everybody given that there's such a cost 3-month lag on commodities and so you kind of know 3 months ago.
That's one.
Number two is from an advertising perspective is this you're going to be higher than your typical run rate and so there is room there as you go forward? And then my core question is look from the sound of the call and from your last answer it sounds like if you weren't for commodities if it weren't for some of these really horrible things happening around the world in some places things are great.
The strategy is working.
But even if you back those out the growing share and profitably growing share that last part doesn't necessarily seem to be coming through.
And look it may be temporary and maybe in response to the first 2 questions you can kind of clarify this part.
But I guess as you look forward are there elements of the strategy you have been implementing that you're changing that you're modifying? Because one could say the ROI hasn't been there.
I mean I'm sure it's been there for a volume perspective.
But you're kind of keeping on a stack base as top line growth is falling a little bit.
And I think most importantly for the audience on this call investors are saying this is not enough for us.
So thanks for the 2 quick ones up front but then the core question is again are you changing anything going forward given some of the feedback you've gotten both from your results and also from the marketplace? Thanks very much.
Well in terms of the first the commodities question not everything runs through 3 months of inventory.
So for example one of the biggest increases and one of the biggest surprises was the escalation in diesel cost quarter-to-quarter and as we went through the quarter.
And that flows pretty much straight to the bottom line.
And some of the increases as well are in businesses where we historically carry less inventory for instance our Fabric and Home Care business.
And those have come through to the bottom line in the quarter as well.
But it's really things like diesel.
And if anybody on the line can help me with how to forecast commodity costs just give me a call I'd be glad to talk.
Advertising this year will be in line in terms of the percentage of sales figures that Bob quoted earlier.
And then in terms of what we're changing to ensure that we deliver both top and bottom line I'll provide some commentary and I'm sure Bob will want to provide some perspective as well.
But we're trying to get even more productive as Bob mentioned in everything we do.
And that's a very intentional discussion that we have at all levels of the company and I would argue as I mentioned in my remarks that we're turning up the dial on that.
And that will give us the ability to do what we need to do here.
I think the -- what we call our purpose-inspired growth strategy of more consumers more parts of the world more completely is working.
I think we have evidence of that in the market share growth and in the improving profitability of the business as we've guided for the next quarter.
And I think that as Jon says every year we make changes to our strategies.
Every year we get together.
We review what we've done in the past and then we make changes going forward.
Certainly the intentionality around cost savings and productivity is high and will be heightened because we've got to be able to deal with the volatility that we face in commodity costs and in lack of market growth.
But I think we're on track.
I think we're on track with where we want to be.
Given the headwinds that we've seen we may be delayed from the kind of profitability that we want to deliver quarter-to-quarter.
We may be delayed by either the lack of market growth in developed markets the commodity cost increases or some of the natural disasters that have occurred.
But I think we're on track and we're going to continue to pursue the track that we're following and be able to have greater agility in dealing with these one-time disasters that occurred.
Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante with Weeden &amp; Co.
LP</strong> With organic growth volume growth of 5% lapping 7% which is very respectable given the environment I would like to dive a bit more in the offsetting the negative mix.
Would it be possible to revisit this negative mix and to the extent possible quantify a breakout of the mix between growth in emerging markets and consumer trade down in developed markets mainly the U.S.
and Europe? I think that you mentioned in the call that you entered 70 new price tiers are these tiers more in the value tiers I would suspect? If consumers are trading down I guess you'd rather have them trading down within your portfolio.
But if you could please comment on mix basically emerging markets versus developed markets how much is trade down in developed markets? How much is volume and expansion in developing markets? That would be very helpful.
Sure.
About half of the mix impact is the faster growth of the business in developing markets.
The other half is really product category form of mix.
It's really not driven by consumer trade downs.
The 70 price tiers that we're entering category price tiers are split between higher-priced entries and lower-priced entries.
So it's not all lower-priced entries.
And the best data I can give you to show you that we're not seeing a lot of trade down right now is the market share contrasts us growing market share and private label largely losing market share.
That's not symptomatic of an environment on which a lot of trade down is occurring.
So it's really just driven by a different combination of products and categories growing at different rates.
Your next question comes from the line of Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris &amp; Company.
Just one little simple question.
I mean do you have any forecast about what the other nonoperating income might be in the fourth fiscal quarter? Do you think it would be over $50 million? I apologize.
I'm not operating at that level of detail but why don't you give Jon a call following this and he can help you with that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Are there specific categories like Oral Care where you guys are a bit more constrained in your ability to take pricing? Or to put differently will you take pricing based on how much input costs you're seeing on a specific product and if that's not the case can you give a bit of color on what factors you take into account before taking pricing? Well it's -- I apologize for kind of repeating what I said before because the answer is not going to be very different.
Certainly the input costs are an impact in deciding whether or not to take pricing whether or not you have innovation what the consumer value impression of your current offering is what the sizing and pricing differences might be there are a whole number of things Mark that we take to look at what the competitive situation is a whole number of things though we take into account.
But they really don't differ category by category or even country by country.
I would say that it's a relatively common algorithm that gets used everywhere and in every category.
And if you look at Oral Care as one category as you mentioned we've actually taken a lot of pricing in Oral Care behind a strong innovation.
So the Crest 3D White line is an example is a premium-priced line.
Bob talked earlier about pricing taking many different forms.
It's not all list price increases on existing products.
Yes Crest Pro-Health or Oral-B Pro-Health is a price premium to the other items in the line.
When we introduced Oral Care paste in Brazil we introduced 4 different price points with Pro-Health or Pro-Santé on the top.
So we take pricing in a lot of different ways.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
[Operator Instructions].
Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's Quarter End Conference Call.
Today’s discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G’s most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items.
The effective tax rate on core earnings represents the effective tax rate on continuing operations less non-core impacts.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G's Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning.
I'll begin today's call with the summary of our fiscal year and fourth quarter results Teri will cover business highlights by operating segments then Bob will provide his thoughts on our strategy and focus areas going forward.
And I'll conclude the call with guidance for fiscal year 2012 and the September quarter.
We'll take questions after our prepared remarks and we'll be available following the call as always to provide additional perspective as needed.
We entered fiscal year 2011 with 3 clear objectives.
First to continue executing our purpose-inspired growth strategy to touch and improve more consumers lives in more parts of the world more completely.
Second to grow market share by growing organic sales 1 to 2 percentage points ahead of underlying global market growth rates.
Our third objective was to grow core earnings per share in the range of 7% to 9%.
We delivered on each of these objectives despite significant external challenges including the rapid increase in commodity and energy costs little to no market growth in developed regions and market disruptions ranging from political instability in the Middle East and North Africa to the natural disaster in Japan.
And we did this while strengthening investments in our innovation and advertising programs.
First relative to our strategy we've accelerated the expansion of our product portfolio vertically horizontally and to new geographies.
We entered 32 new category country combinations last year.
We entered 78 new category price tier combinations and we entered 75 new category channel combinations.
In additional we launched a large number of important product upgrades across the world.
Each of these moves enables us to serve more consumers in more parts of the world more completely.
We generated strong organic volume growth growing 5% for the fiscal year.
The growth was broad-based with increases in 5 of 6 reporting segments 21 of 24 billion-dollar brands and 15 of our top 17 countries.
On a 2-year cumulative basis volume growth is up 10% ranking P&amp;G towards the top of our global competitive peer group.
We grew organic sales over 4% for the fiscal year roughly 1 point ahead of underlying market growth of about 3%.
This top line growth rate was ahead of last fiscal year's growth rate and generally ahead of the growth rate of our competitive set.
Global market share was up for the year with 4 of our 5 regions holding or growing share.
We held or built market share in businesses representing about 60% of sales on $17 billion of our $24 billion brands and in 11 of our top 17 countries.
All in earnings per share was $3.93 for the year core earnings per share was $3.95 up 8% at the midpoint of our initial guidance range for the fiscal year and consistent with our long-term target range for earnings per share growth.
So we delivered on each of our key objectives: strategy share growth and earnings per share growth in a very difficult operating environment.
Commodity costs were a year-on-year headwind of more than $1.8 billion before tax.
This was about $1 billion higher than we expected at the beginning of the year and created an earnings per share headwind of about $0.25 per share or nearly a 7 percentage point drag on earnings per share growth versus our going-in expectations.
But differently absent these commodity cost increases core earnings per share would have been up strong double digits.
Global market growth came in at the low end of our initial expectations due to slow growth in developed regions.
For the year developing markets grew about 8% but developed markets grew only about 1% on a value basis.
Despite the cost and market growth challenges we remain committed to the execution of our strategy.
We continue to invest in new innovations and market expansions that will deliver long-term growth for the business and returns for our shareholders.
We invested $2 billion this past year in research and development a figure that's increased for the past 2 years even as we've improved productivity.
We invested $9.3 billion in advertising or 11.3% of sales to communicate the benefits of our brands to consumers.
Advertising spending has also increased each of the last 2 years and is now $1.8 billion or 24% above what we are investing just 2 years ago.
The combination of substantial cost savings and both cost of goods and SG&amp;A and the lower-than-expected tax rate enabled us to maintain investments in our growth strategy and to offset the rapid increase in commodity costs without sacrificing earnings per share growth.
The all-in effective tax rate for the year was 22.3% and the core rate was 23.5%.
These rates were below historic levels due to a number of successful audit resolutions and the mix benefit from faster growth in developing markets where tax rates are generally lower.
Free cash flow for the year was $9.9 billion yielding a free cash flow productivity of 84%.
This was a few points below our target level of 90% of net earnings.
Inventory values were up for the year due to the impact of higher commodity costs.
Also we saw an increase in trade receivables due to strong shipments ahead of our price increases toward the end of June.
In April we declared a 9% increase in the quarterly dividends marking the 55th consecutive year of dividend increase and 121st consecutive year in which we paid a dividend.
We paid $5.8 billion in dividends to shareholders last fiscal year we also repurchased $7 billion in P&amp;G stock at the midpoint of our going-in guidance range of $6 billion to $8 billion.
Over the past 3 years P&amp;G has returned over $35 billion or about 105% of net earnings from continuing operations to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase generating an effective annual tax return of nearly 7%.
In addition to delivering on our growth objectives we took meaningful steps to focus and improve our portfolio of businesses.
The ones which more fully leverage P&amp;G core streights or demographically advantaged and on higher growth more asset-efficient categories.
Early last fiscal year we completed the acquisition of the Ambi Pur business.
This acquisition accelerated our expansion of Air Care products into about 70 new markets and creates a platform for growth to build on the $1 billion of annual sales generated by the Febreze brand.
In March we announced plans to create a partnership with Teva Pharmaceuticals which will enable us to expand both the categories and the markets in which we participate in the consumer Health Care space.
We're excited about the prospects for our partnership.
Teva brings industry-leading capabilities and product development drug registration manufacturing and pharmacy channel sales to the partnership.
We bring our core strengths in consumer and shopper understanding brand building and go-to-market capabilities in mass grocery and high-frequency stores.
We think this combination of capabilities is unmatched in the consumer health care industry and maybe unmatchable.
We continue to pass important milestones toward closing transaction including the signing of several key contracts in the last few weeks.
We divested several smaller regional businesses including the Zest and Infasil brands which didn't fully leverage P&amp;G's global scale.
And in April we announced plans to exit the Snacks business our last remaining food and beverage category.
Pringles will be an excellent fit with Diamond Foods and P&amp;G shareholders will benefit from the value derived from this tax efficient transaction.
We expect to complete both Teva and Pringles transactions by the end of this calendar year and for both to be value-accretive for shareholders.
Moving now to fourth quarter results.
Organic volume growth was 3% compared against a base period where organic volume was up 8%.
On a 2-year stack basis organic volume was up 5.5% in line with the strong pace over the last 2 quarters.
Volume progress continue to be broad based with growth in 5 of 6 reporting segments $16 billion to $24 billion brands and 13 of our top 17 countries.
All-in sales grew 10% including a 5% benefit from foreign exchange and a roughly neutral impact from acquisitions and divestitures.
Organic sales grew 5% our strongest quarter this year.
We implemented a number of price increases in the June quarter as expected we saw a spike in sales during the month of June due to retailer inventory increases ahead of our price increases.
We estimate that this dynamic increased organic sales for the quarter by about 1 point which will obviously have the opposite effect on the September quarter.
Pricing added 3 points to sales growth due to a combination of price increases and reductions in promotional spending mainly to offset rising input costs.
The mix reduced sales by 1 point as developing markets continue to grow substantially faster than developed markets.
Earnings per share were $0.84 for the quarter up 18% versus last year.
Earnings growth benefited from strong sales growth operating profit margin improvement and the profit from a minor brand divesture.
Operating profit margin was up 10 basis points versus the prior year gross margin was down 120 basis points due to higher input costs.
Commodity and energy costs hurt gross margin by approximately 350 basis points but were largely offset by pricing cost savings productivity improvements and volume leverage.
SG&amp;A spending as a percentage of sales was down 130 basis points while advertising spending was up more than $700 million for the fiscal year fourth quarter spending compared to a very strong base period that included investments behind a series of product launches including Gillette ProGlide and Crest 3D White.
Productivity improvements cost savings and sales leverage also reduced SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales in the quarter.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 21.7% about 2 points below than our going-in expectations for the quarter but still more than 5 percentage points higher than last year's rate of 16.5%.
Stepping back we're very pleased with our fiscal year results and the trend of the business.
We've made significant steps in advancing our strategy and further strengthening our portfolio of businesses.
We delivered strong volumes sales and market share growth.
We grew core earnings per share within our guidance range within our long-term target range and had a higher rate than the prior year while investing in both our innovation and advertising programs and despite significant cost and market growth headwinds.
We have a solid cash year and returns through dividends and share repurchase more than 100% in net earnings to shareholders.
Now I'll turn the call over to Teri to review highlights of the business segment results.
Thanks Jon.
Given the amount of information we'd like to cover during the call I'll keep business comment relatively brief focusing primarily on the results in the biggest businesses.
As Jon indicated we delivered strong top line growth across our businesses this quarter and very importantly we returned the positive price mix.
We had request for a bit more perspective on market growth rates below the company level.
In the last quarter Beauty and Grooming market was up about a little more than 4% while Household Care grew a little bit below 3%.
This average is out to the underlying market growth of about 3% that Jon mentioned earlier.
Now touching on each of the segments briefly.
Organic sales in Beauty grew 3% and 2% organic volume growth.
2% positive pricing was offset by geographic and product mix.
Within the segment Retail Hair Care volume increased low-single digits with value share up nearly 0.5 point.
Volume declined in North America were more than offset by mid single-digit volume increases in developing markets with Asia and Latin America both up double digits.
In Latin America Brazil had another strong quarter with shampoo and conditioner value share increasing more than 3 points and Pantene shipments growing more than 30%.
Female Skin Care shipments grew mid-single digits with strength in developing markets offsetting modest declines in developed markets.
North America volume declined low-single digits primarily due to the Olay UV reformulation and restage that began in the March quarter.
We now have all Olay UV skewed back to full spot.
In developing markets Olay volume nearly doubled in India and Saudi Arabia and more than doubled in the Philippines behind Olay Regenerist and Natural White.
Our Prestige business was mixed.
SK-II grew high-teens with strong growth in China behind distribution expansion into 5 additional cities.
Prestige Fragrances volume was flat following the strong sell in from product launches in the March quarter the launches are all doing well contributing to our leadership position in global Prestige Fragrances.
Grooming organic sales and volume grew 1%.
2% of pricing health was offset by geographic and product mix.
Male blades and razors volume was flat as developed markets declined high-single digits.
So was offset by volume increases in developing markets.
Asia volume grew high-teens led by 25% growth in India.
Growth was across the price tiers with Gillette Guard now reaching nearly 4% share and adding 11 million new users.
North America volume was down double digits due to the high base period that included the Fusion ProGlide launch.
Western Europe volume was down mid-single digits.
Continued growth in Fusion from the recent ProGlide launch was more than offset by declines in Mach3 due to increased competitive activity.
Moving to Health Care.
Organic sales were up 7% behind organic volume growth of 4%.
Pricing contributed 4 points with 1% unfavorable product mix.
Global Oral Care volume increased low-single digits with North America up mid-single.
The Crest 3D White regimen continues to be a key contributor to the growth increasing to nearly 9% of the U.S.
Oral Care market.
Western Europe volume was flat with softness in manual toothbrushes offsetting growth from our Oral-B toothpaste expansion market.
These markets continue to perform well with value share up more than 2 points.
While it's still early our U.K.
Oral-B toothpaste launch is off to a strong start with week 3 shares above 16% and more positive news even this morning.
Developing market shipments increased low single-digit.
In Brazil Oral-B volume was up over 65% and value share grew for the ninth consecutive month to about 5% on a national basis.
Asia volume was up low-single digits led by India where Oral-B toothbrush shipments increased nearly 30%.
Feminine Care volume was up mid-single digits with double-digit growth in developing markets offset by a modest decline in developed markets.
Latin America volume was up double digits behind strong growth in Venezuela and in Brazil behind the Naturella launch.
Greater China was particularly strong where we recently relaunched Always and introduced the Whisper line extension.
Naturella volume in Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa grew nearly 20%.
North America and Western Europe volume was flat while Japan shipments were down behind the accelerated market decline from the recent natural disasters.
In Snacks and Pet Care organic sales in volume were down 1%.
Pricing behind increased promotions in the Snacks business was negative 1.
Mix added 3% largely from the Natura business.
Next shipments increased high-single digits with developing markets growing over 30% and developed markets growing low-single digits.
Latin America volume increased more than 50% primarily behind distribution expansion into new channels and customers.
Health Care organic volume decreased double digits as we continue to rebuild the consumer and customer support after several months of supply constraints.
The Fabric and Home Care organic sales grew 4% on a 3% organic volume increase.
Pricing contributed 3% while product mix was negative 1.
Fabric Care shipments were up low-single digits with balanced growth across developed and developing regions.
In developed markets Japan volume increased double digits primarily behind pipeline volume from the launch of our super compacted Ariel in June.
North America volume increased mid-single digit the main drivers were powder detergent forward buying related to the June price increases and Downy fabric enhancer volume increases behind the clean sheet week campaign.
Western Europe volume decreased mid-singe digit due to increased competitive activity and market decline.
In developing markets Latin America grew double digits primarily behind liquid detergent growth in Brazil Argentina and Chile.
Asia volume also increased double digits with India laundry volume growing nearly 20% and value share up nearly 3 points.
Shipments in the CEEMEA region declined mid-single digits primarily due to larger price gaps versus competition from rising price increases.
Home Care organic volume increased mid-single digits with all regions growing.
North America volume grew low-single digits driven by Gain dish care which is approaching a 5% value share in the U.S.
as well as some forward buying by customers due to the June price increase.
Developing market organic shipments grew double-digits.
Central and Eastern Europe Middle East Africa all-in volume increased 20% with growth divided between Dish Care expansion and the Ambi Pur acquisition.
Latin America growth continues to be a strong behind the Febreze introduction into Mexico Brazil and Colombia.
Battery volumes was flat on a global basis but value share increased 0.5 point.
Strong volume growth from distribution gains in Greater China and CEEMEA was offset by volume declines in Western Europe and Latin America due to competitive activity.
And in Baby and Family Care organic sales increased 10%.
Volume grew 8% price increases added 3% and geographic mix was a negative 1.
Baby Care shipments increased high-single digits and global value share was up 1.5 points with all regions growing.
Developed market volume was down slightly behind continued diaper market softness.
Developing market volume grew about 20%.
In Greater China India and the Philippines volume was up over 25% driven by marketing investments in the Golden Sleep initiative deeper distribution and market growth.
In Venezuela volume grew over 50% with increased local products capacity supporting strong consumer demand.
And in Brazil volume grew over 30% behind distribution gains and increased marketing support.
Family Care shipments were up high-single digits.
North America Charmin was up double digits and Bounty grew high single.
The volume increases were due to a combination of product innovation and customer forward buying related to the price increases effective in June.
That concludes the business segment review and I'll hand the call over to Bob.
Thanks Teri.
P&amp;G is focused on touching and improving lives now and for generations to come.
This purpose is tightly linked with our financial goal of sustainably delivering total shareholder return in the top third of our peer group and it also informs our strategic choices.
Our overarching growth strategy is to touch and improve the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely.
This is a demanding aspiration.
There are nearly $7 billion people on the planet today and we want to reach all of them with products and services that make their everyday lives just a little bit better.
This strategy is fundamentally right for P&amp;G because it inspires our people and our partners it focuses us on the greatest growth opportunities and it leverages our core strengths of consumer understanding innovation brand building go-to-market capability and global scale.
We know that if we execute this strategy well we'll be rewarded with sales and profit growth market share leadership a strong company reputation that attracts partners employees and consumers.
Ultimately we will create value that allows our people our shareholders and the communities in which we live and work to prosper.
The 3 important enablers of this strategy enablers we call how to win choices.
And they are innovation integration and simplification.
Innovation continues to be at the heart of our success.
It's how we serve consumers and it's the engine that drives our growth.
As Jon mentioned we spend about $2 billion a year on research and development.
This is about 60% more than our next closest competitor and more than most of our competitors combined.
We are constantly working to increase the benefits of our brands and the benefits that they provide to consumers serving them more completely.
In 2011 we launched many important product upgrades which drove growth.
These included: Crest 3D White which is rated the most successful new product launch in the United States last year by Symphony IRI in terms of 1-year sales; 3D White is one of the key reasons we've been able to expand our market share leadership in the United States toothpaste category.
We quickly globalize the Pampers Dry Max absorbency and thinness upgrade from last year.
This year we added new 3-way fit upgrade that includes new softness comfort and esthetic benefits.
These combination of upgrades help Western Europe Pampers add 2 share points to its market-leading position last fiscal year.
We launched new Pantene upgrades in Asia that's driven the brand past $1 billion in sales in the Asia region alone.
Innovation also enables portfolio expansion to new price tiers.
In April we introduced Pampers economist in Indonesia to add a mid-price offering to our diaper portfolio.
Last August we launched Gain hand dish washing liquid to expand our offerings in the United States.
In November we launched Head &amp; Shoulders in Brazil a 25% price premium above Pantene and an even higher premium than the market average.
We also introduced Head &amp; Shoulders in Indonesia just a few weeks ago again in a significant premium to the market average.
In blades and razors we continued the expansion of Fusion ProGlide our premium-priced shaving system.
ProGlide is now available in 20 markets and we have plans to add many more countries this year.
In India we introduced Gillette Guard to lower the entry price point for Gillette shaving systems.
We estimate that more than 11 million new consumers try Gillette Guard within the past 8 months after launch.
We're serving more consumers in more parts of the world by expanding our innovations to new markets.
In 2011 we expanded Olay to 16 new countries including 2 of the largest facial skin care markets in the world Brazil and South Korea.
In December we launched Downy fabric enhancers into Indonesia our first entry in the Fabric Care category in this market.
We also launched Downy in Brazil in early June.
Last July we closed the acquisition of Ambi Pur which accelerated our Air Care expansion by several years.
We have quickly moved from playing in just 17 market to nearly 19 markets through a combination of organic expansions of the Febreze brands and the addition of Ambi Pur.
We took another significant step in the globalization of our Oral Care portfolio with the June launch of Oral-B toothpaste in the U.K.
Whereas Teri said we reached above the 16% share in just 3 weeks.
And we launched in July in Nigeria.
Our innovation is winning.
In calendar year 2010 P&amp;G launched 4 of the top 10 and 8 of the top 25 most successful new products in the consumer products industry in North America as measured by Symphony IRI.
In the past 16 years P&amp;G has had 132 products on the top 25 Pacesetter list.
That's more than our 6 largest competitors combined.
We're improving the creativity and effectiveness of our advertising which supports our innovation.
At the Cannes Festival of Creativity P&amp;G earned 32 awards or alliance nearly doubling our previous record of 17 and more than double the combined number of alliance awarded to our 6 closest competitors.
P&amp;G was also recognized as the most effective advertiser in the world by FE worldwide.
As Jon mentioned we invested 11.3% of sales or about $9.3 billion last year to build awareness drive trial and create long-lasting loyalty between consumers and our brands.
Most importantly we continue our robust multi-year pipeline of innovation.
The new products coming soon are Downy Unstoppables Tide PODS Ariel with micro boosters and the launch of an Oral laundry detergent in Western Europe.
These are just a few examples of new products that we'll launch this fiscal year in the fabric category alone.
We have strong innovation plans across all of our businesses.
Now to maximize the impact of our innovation and to create competitive advantage we are integrating to operate more fully as one company.
This is a way to turn our size and scale and our skill and the faster growth at a lower cost.
One way we're driving integration is the development of strategic coordinated innovation plans across categories and countries.
We now have integrated strategic plans for our top 11 emerging markets several of which are just now entering the first stages of execution.
This integrated strategic planning is enabling us to do integrated manufacturing capacity planning.
At any point in time we have roughly 20 new manufacturing plants in sub stage of design or construction.
Today all of these plants are being designed based on the expectation of multi-category production.
This wasn't true before we started our integration work.
So far the business units impacted by our integrated one company growth plans are growing organic sales at nearly twice the rate they were over the prior 3 years.
We continue investing behind our growth strategy while also delivering solid operating profit growth we know we must improve productivity in everything we do.
Simplification is a critical driver of productivity improvement and we are pursuing opportunities in a wide range of areas.
We're working to simplify the business and the processes that support the business.
We know we can grow faster and more profitably with fewer manufacturing platforms fewer materials specifications fewer brands and with lower overhead spending as a percentage of sales than we have today.
To enable simplification we are making P&amp;G the most technology-enabled company in the world.
This will enable us to collaborate more effectively and efficiently inside the company and outside the company with customers suppliers innovation partners and most importantly with our consumers.
We are entering fiscal 2012 on a strong position.
As Jon summarized we delivered organic sales growth and core EPS growth consistent with our initial guidance ranges for the year and we grew market share globally.
We are now reaching roughly 4.4 billion consumers an increase of about 200 million from this time last year and 400 million since we began following the strategy 2 years ago.
We increased global household penetration of P&amp;G products to approximately 63% up about 5 percentage points over the last 2 years and on track toward our goal of 70% by the year 2015.
While we are pleased with the progress we've made last year there's still work to do.
As Jon will discuss we want to accelerate operating earnings growth next fiscal year while maintaining investments and growth to drive total shareholder return.
We are focused on 3 simple priorities to do that.
First we need to deliver our top line growth objectives.
These includes restoring growth in the parts of the portfolio that lag last year and maintaining momentum in the parts of portfolio that are already delivering strong growth.
Second we need to get our price increases executed in the market.
In most categories P&amp;G is the first company to increase prices or reduce promotion levels which creates volume and market share risk and volatility.
We need to manage through this intelligently.
Third we need to continue to improve productivity in all that we do and to accelerate our cost-saving efforts across all areas of costs.
If we execute our purpose-inspired growth strategy with excellence if we built on our successes if we take the steps necessary to deal with increasing costs and if we address our execution shortfalls we should deliver top and bottom line growth that levels necessary to generate leadership returns for our shareholders.
Thank you for listening.
And now I'll take the call back over to Jon to wrap up with our guidance.
Thanks Bob.
Before getting into the guidance details there are just a few points of context to discuss.
This is the first guidance we've provided for fiscal year 2012 and July September quarter.
We're providing guidance on the basis of our current operations.
As we discussed earlier we have 2 pending transactions exiting the Snacks business and creating the new OTC partnership with Teva Pharmaceuticals which will impact fiscal 2012 results.
We'll update guidance for these transactions when the deals close.
Our guidance ranges will be a little bit wider than normal this year reflecting a broad policy uncertainty ongoing high levels of volatility and market growth rates input costs and foreign exchange as well as uncertainty both upside and downside related to pricing across the portfolio.
For fiscal year 2012 we expect organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 6%.
This is based on the assumption of global market value growth of 3% to 4% comprised of 1 to 2 points of value growth in developed markets and 6 to 8 points of growth in developing markets.
We again expect to grow ahead of underlying market levels and build global market share.
We estimate the net impact from pricing and mix will contribute between 1 and 3 points of sales growth for the year.
Within this we expect pricing and lower promotion levels will add to 3 to 4 points to sales growth and that mix will continue to be a sales growth headwind of 1 to 2 points.
We estimate foreign exchange will add 2 to 3 points to sales for the year which bring all-in sales growth guidance to a range of 5% to 9%.
On the bottom line we expect earnings per share in the range of $4.17 to $4.33 for the fiscal year.
This equates to earnings per share growth of 6% to 10% versus base period core earnings per share of $3.95.
We feel this wide range appropriately and responsibly reflects the range of possible outcomes but we would not assign the same probability to all points in the range.
Based on current spot prices we're anticipating the commodity cost increase of about the same level we faced in fiscal 2011.
The combination of pricing cost savings and use of alternative materials will offset a large portion of the input cost impacts but we'll still expect to see gross margin contraction for the year.
Our approach is as we described in the past is the price for the dollar value impact of cost increases.
We do not price to cover the margin impact of cost increases.
I can provide a simple example if you start with our $82.6 billion in sales from last year and our $40.8 billion in cost of goods we have a gross margin of 50.6%.
If you add $2 billion to both costs and sales gross margin declines to 49.4% or 120 basis points margin headwind despite fully recovering the cost increases on a dollar basis.
As Bob said we're continuing to increase our focus on productivity and we expect to make solid progress on SG&amp;A costs as a percentage of sales.
We will maintain strong investment levels in innovation and advertising while continually looking for ways to make these investments yield higher returns.
Taking all these parts together we expect to see solid operating profit growth in fiscal 2012.
We expect an effective tax rate of approximately 25% in fiscal year 2012 compared to the fiscal 2011 rate of 23.5%.
The higher tax rate creates a 2 percentage points earnings per share growth headwind and the flat year-on-year tax rate our core earnings per share growth guidance will be approximately 8% to 12%.
Before casting a modest increase in capital spending to between 4 and 5 percentage points of sales.
The increase is due mainly to new capacity being installed in developing countries and to support the current growth trends being driven by our innovation and expansion plans.
We still expect free cash flow productivity of around 90% of net earnings but this will be a more challenging year due to the increase in capital spending.
We expect to continue our track record of providing a strong effective cash yields to our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchase.
Based on the trends in the past few years we'll likely play out around $6 billion in dividends and we're estimating that we will repurchase around $6 billion in stock during fiscal 2012.
This figure excludes the expected reduction in shares implicit in the Pringles Reverse Morris Trust split merge.
And our current market capital about $170 billion the combination of base dividends and share repurchase should generate an effective cash return of about 7% for our shareholders before including any upside potential from stock price appreciation.
Before moving to the September quarter I want to remind you again that the guidance I've just provided excludes the impact of Teva and Pringles.
As we did with Folgers we are evaluating a range of options for our base restructuring plan and potential incremental restructuring which could offset ongoing earnings dilution from the exit of the Pringles business.
We'll update guidance for all the impacts of these deals including our restructuring plans after these transactions close.
Moving to July-September quarter guidance there are several factors impacting our view of likely top line outcomes.
We're building our plans in the assumption of declining unit volume in developed markets being roughly offset by higher pricing leading to essentially flat category value growth.
In developing regions we expect market value growth in the range of 6% to 8% consistent with recent trends.
Combined we expect global value growth of about 2 to 3 points for the September quarter.
As I mentioned in the discussion of the June quarter results the volume shipped related to recent pricing actions helped the June quarter by about a point September quarter guidance includes the offset in decline.
Also you should note we're up against our most difficult volume comparison for the year.
Volume was up 8% in the September quarter last year driven in part by strong shipments of big innovations in Baby Care Hair Care and blades and razors.
Taken all these factors into account we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 2% to 4%.
We expect pricing and mix to provide combined net benefits of 1% to 2 points and we're estimating that foreign exchange will help sales by 4 to 5 points which leads to all-in sales growth to guidance in the range of 6% to 9%.
We expect a hold or build market share in the majority of our businesses.
But as I mentioned we're planning on an increased level of share volatility due to pricing changes.
In most cases P&amp;G will be the first company in our product category to increase pricing which may temporarily put our brands at a consumer value disadvantage.
We believe the pricing changes we've announced or we'll soon announced are necessary to recover higher input costs.
However we won't put our brands at long-term competitive value disadvantage.
If we see this happening we'll take corrective action.
This could include temporary spending back a portion of the price increase to close a consumer value gap or in the most extreme scenario it could include fully rescinding a previously implemented price increase.
On the bottom line September quarter will be the most challenging period of the year.
We'll face the most difficult commodity cost comparisons without having fully realized the offset and benefits from pricing and we will likely have our smallest quarterly benefit from volume leverage.
We expect September quarter earnings per share to be roughly in line with last year while we're providing in the range of $1 to $1.04 or down 2% to up 2% versus the base period of $1.02 per share.
As we look beyond the September quarter we expect profit growth to accelerate throughout the year.
We will have increase in benefit from pricing an accelerating contribution from savings and the year-on-year gap in commodity cost will narrow assuming prices stay in their current market rates.
For example we expect pricing to be up 20% to 30% in the first half of the fiscal year but we expect these to be up only low single-digit towards the end of the fiscal year.
Also key surfactants used in detergents will be up as much as 40% early in the year but should be up only modestly by the end of the year.
As you know we faced a similar dynamic going into last fiscal year with low earnings per share growth forecast in the first half and higher growth in the back half.
We delivered at the midpoint of our initial guidance range despite several unforeseen significant headwinds.
We're confident we can deliver again this year.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
And now Bob Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.
Can you just talk about the difference between the U.S.
growth and the emerging markets growth because it seems like most of the margin challenges relate to the U.S.
just being really soft because market share wise it seems like things are pretty good but then you look at some of the report sales growth in the U.S.
and it's pretty disappointing.
So I mean is there a way to kind of triangulate that because we all know that U.S.
is a very very high margin business? Well I can comment on the market size and maybe Jon can talk about the margins.
In the fourth quarter we said that global market value growth was about 3% based upon our geographic mix of business.
Developed markets were flat to slightly positive for the quarter and developing markets continue to have solid growth of about 8% on average.
Our expectations for 2012 are to have global market value growth of 3% to 4% Bill.
This assumes developed markets grow 1% to 2% and developing markets grow 6% to 8%.
So we're expecting essentially no growth in developed markets on a volume basis with any value growth driven by higher pricing as Jon discussed in his remarks.
And if you just look at sales for the last quarter Bill your observation will be correct.
In developed markets we grew about 1 point developing markets we grew about 14 points and so that is part of the dynamic going forward.
Your next question is from the line of Nik Modi from UBS.
Bob just at a very high level P&amp;G's stock is up about 5% in total over the past 5 years and granted the environment has been tough but the stocks underperformed almost every one of its peers and the broader staple universe do you think more drastic action need to be taken to deliver the type of returns that you aspire to? Can you just provide any general context around that? Well Nick I think we have the right strategies now and I think you're seeing them have an impact in the marketplace.
Our purpose has always been to touch and improve lives but I think now we are much more deliberate about executing our strategy in order to reach more consumers more parts of the world more completely.
And in areas where you see that we're doing that we're being very successful.
As Jon talked about over the last year we've been through -- entered 32 new category country combinations.
We've entered 78 new category price tier combinations and we've entered 75 new category channel combinations.
In addition to that we've launched a number of upgrades and these things are having a dramatic impact on the competitive situation in the marketplace.
We talked about the recent launch of our Oral Care in the United Kingdom and we talked about the fact that the week 3 share was about 16%.
Well we just got the week 4 share this morning and it's 19.5% per case which takes us to leadership of the Oral Care category for the first 4 weeks with our share of 30%.
So these things take time to have action but we're being much more deliberate about it.
I'm quite encouraged actually.
We're also as I mentioned Nick looking at opportunities relative to the Pringles divestiture to increase the savings component that's delivered by restructuring so we're very cognizant of that opportunity as well.
And I apologize this will sound a little bit defensive but I can't leave out our significant dividend as you think about returns from our stocks so it's more than just price appreciation.
We're throwing off a pretty large chunk of cash here.
Your next question is from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
So Jon in terms of looking at your guidance there's no question that you highlighted the fact that the raw materials should be ending up being on the negative gross margin line and you've got all these below the line items which have been favorable in terms of tax in corporation which will be probably less favorable looking forward.
So I guess what it really boils down to is FX a little bit but mostly the SG&amp;A ratio.
And so can you talk to us a little bit about how we should map out the SG&amp;A ratio over the next year in terms of how much leverage do you think you can get there? And what's the brand investment growth like relative to some of the cost saves that you think you can pull out? Well I would expect John that in terms of -- in the last couple of years you've seen increases in investment levels in the advertising component of SG&amp;A that are disproportionate to sales growth.
Those should be proportionate going forward so we'll continue to maintain very strong levels of support but it shouldn't be a drag on SG&amp;A leverage.
And then we're going to continue as we've talked about to focus on productivity and we expect to be reducing the non-advertising non-R&amp;D portions of SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales fairly significantly as we move forward here.
And then there's obviously sales leverage that drives all of that.
So we would expect the SG&amp;A as a percent of sales number to continue to come down pretty meaningfully.
Your next question is from the line of Lauren Lieberman from Barclays Capital.
Just to follow up on that.
I guess when we think about developed markets when you think beyond 2012 it's like do you know you guys think about the business in more than 1-year increments for sure are you starting to kind of build into your assumptions that we are in a sort of sustained very low single-digit kind of volume growth or flat to 2% volume growth environment going forward in developed markets and if that would inform how you want your cost structure to look going forward? We're actually working against 2 possible scenarios.
The obvious thing we're doing is we're continuing to invest in innovation.
We talked about that the $2 billion we spent on R&amp;D which is much more than our competition.
And we're working to develop new categories that we don't even -- we aren't even in today.
And we know when we do that our North America and Western European and Japanese businesses grow very strongly.
So we are working to innovate in order to get top line growth.
At the same time we're looking at no market growth kinds of scenarios and making sure we put together a cost structure that will allow us to deliver our profit guidance if there is no market growth in these markets.
As you know our goal is to grow 1 and 2 points above the market but if the market doesn't grow we've got to have a cost structure that allows us to deliver the kind of returns we were promising.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Ferrara from Merrill Lynch.
So Jon I guess some of the languages you used around the pricing I guess struck me a little and I just want to see if it should right? I mean the fact that you're kind of reiterating that or noting that you would deal some of the stuff back or you even rescind the price increases if necessary so can you characterize what you've encountered so far right I mean has pricing been a tougher go than what you thought it would be or has it not? There's been no change in terms of our expectation so I apologize if I unintentionally communicated that.
I'm just stating the 2 points of intentionality.
One is to get price increases reflected which we're working to do and making good progress on.
And second that with -- over reasonable periods of time we have to continue to make sure that we remain competitive in the marketplace.
Those 2 things are not opposed to each other they're part of one activity system and I just thought it was important that both parts be understood but there is no -- we haven't encountered -- things are going pretty much as we expected so far but it's early.
Chris as you reiterated the alternatives for effectively moving pricing up one that you left out is reducing promotion spending.
And we are doing that in parts of our business as well.
Your next question is from the line of Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I just have a quick modeling question and then kind of a real one.
On the modeling question given the kind of repeated at least for us unexpected occurrence of nonoperating drivers like taxes and non operating income to EPS delivery could you maybe give us more guidance about those going forward? And that's kind of the modeling part.
Then the real question is is -- I mean that going to say you're big.
You're supposed to get scale but relative to your competitors who are leaner you are not really on the cost base.
So have you thought about going the other direction in terms of becoming more focused I understand it's tougher I guess in other words you can choose to get scaled leverage in something like a cost-cutting restructuring above what your competitors are doing.
That sounds like you're finally contemplating or you can choose to be more focused by breaking up I guess how do you think about the trade-off to better touch and improve investors life as well? Let me start with the second part and maybe Jon will want to talk about the modeling Ali.
One of the things that we've done over the last few years is we've become much more deliberate about turning that scale or our size and to scale and turning that scale into growth.
We've talked about -- I talked about in my remarks integration and the fact that we're going to market as one company in the categories in country combinations where we've done that we basically have doubled the growth versus historic levels.
I also talked about the fact that now when we build a new factory and we have 20 under construction roughly that they're multi-category factories rather than single category.
We're at the early stages of this and I think what you're going to see over time is this is going to become more and more important to our business.
For example in 2012 we have our sponsorship of the London Olympics.
We'll be sponsoring every Olympic team in the world we'll be thanking mothers all over the world and when we did that in Vancouver it was our highest rate of return marketing activity virtually ever.
So I think you're going to see accelerated growth.
At the same time we're working very hard to get this company restructured and ready for the future.
Last year's restructuring spending I think was about $250 million or so.
That was relatively low.
But we're always looking to flatten the hierarchy of the company.
If you look at what we've done relative to the hierarchy of the company we flattened the hierarchy of the company we're trying to simplify our operations.
And as I said we're trying to deliver profitability in the top third -- TSR in the top third of our peer group even in a no market growth scenario in developed markets.
So I don't -- I think in the end we will convince you by the numbers we deliver rather than the statements that we make.
But we are very serious about becoming the most productive company and taking advantage of that size to turn in a higher growth rates.
In terms of the first part of your question Ali I talked in my remarks about the impact of tax year-to-year and the rate that we're forecasting for next year which is 25%.
John Chevalier can walk you through more of that as we both have time.
And from other and a nonoperating income standpoint we will continue to have some level of minor brand divestiture activity as we have for each of the last 10 years so there will be nonoperating income there.
I don't expect it to be a big driver of our growth in anyway going forward if anything it should be down a little bit.
Again John Chevalier  can take you through that.
Ali maybe I'll give you more facts on what I was describing over the last 3 years we've reduced our general management by about 16%.
The next level down we reduced by about 10%.
Certainly we've got more work to do to become more productive but we've reduced our enrollment by about 5% over the past 5 years and I think you're going to see us work very very hard on productivity as we go forward in the future.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Altobello from Oppenheimer.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First for Jon I'm just trying to put together a few things you said this morning about the higher tax rate next year et cetera and Bob mentioned earlier one of his goals this year is to accelerate operating income growth it was down a bit last year.
Is that what you're saying is you're actually expecting operating income growth for fiscal '12 to actually exceed EPS growth.
Is that the case? And then secondly you mentioned promotion spending is going to be down this year can you sort of quantify for us how much roughly promotion spending will be down? On the first one we'd expect the operating earnings growth to be about in line with earnings per share growth.
Tax will be a headwind and then share repurchase tailwind to get you back to the EPS numbers.
And then we're not going to comment on line items within line items so we're not going to give guidance on promotion.
What I would tell you is that generally we would expect promotion levels to come down as part of the pricing mechanism that Bob described.
The reason I'm hesitant to give you an exact number though this is something we look at on a daily basis and it's going to depend in part on how competitors respond to our price increases.
There may be situations as I detailed in my remarks where we might have to temporarily increase promotion to stay price competitive.
So it's something we look at on a daily basis.
The general directional trend certainly the desired trend is down as we're fond of saying promotion wins quarters and innovation wins decades.
We much rather spend the dollar on innovation or equity building than we would have on promotion.
Your next question is from the line of Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital.
One simple question first and then I guess the real question.
What was battery sales growth in the U.S.
I didn't see it in the press release or hear in the comments? Then on the simplification effort you're going through what level of restructuring is already embedded in the fiscal '12 outlook? And is it likely that as you close Teva and Pringles you get to a level of restructuring that envisions a separate restructuring charge? First batteries in North America I honestly don't know that number.
Jon will so feel free to follow up with him.
In terms of restructuring as I indicated in my remarks we're still formulating our restructuring thoughts for the year ahead.
I mentioned Folgers for a reason.
You remember that at that point when we divested the Folgers business we increased restructuring fairly significantly and we did have a separate non-core charge as a result of an effort to eliminate the stranded overhead and minimized dilution and we're contemplating something similar on Pringles.
We don't have it fully baked yet but we'll update you on that when we announced the closure of that deal.
I don't think there's any question given the number of questions we've gotten about this but I don't think there's any question and if someone looks back at our company 10 years from now they'll wonder if the leadership of the company at this time took the right steps to move the center of gravity of the company more towards Asia more toward Africa where the babies are being born where the new households are being formed.
And certainly we've been in the midst of that and you're going to continue to see us make announcements and do things to get ready for the future because that's where the future is as we try to get to all the people on the planet and have products for them to improve their lives.
Your next question is from the line of Jason Gere from RBC.
LLC</strong> I guess I want to talk about the reduction in the trade spending and obviously as part of the driver to getting net pricing.
Can you talk maybe a little bit about the laundry category I know that's one area where you're trying to reduce the levels one of your competitors kind of showed some doubt whether that's coming through.
I just -- if it's possible that might be just at the low end of the spectrum but I just wanted to get your thoughts on your goal to kind of reduce some of the trade spending in laundry and how that's playing out? I think you're referring to conversation with Church &amp; Dwight yesterday.
They did say the increase in promotion in the liquid section of the laundry market and I believe they attributed that to Henkel.
Our desire continues to be again from a strategic standpoint to prioritize investments in equity building and innovation and really saying anything more than that on a very specific granular question would be inappropriate.
Your next question is from the line of Javier Escalante from Consumer Edge Research.
LP</strong> If you could please revisit the SG&amp;A line for us for 2011 and what's your plan for 2012? You just gave already advertising I think about 8% to 9% in '11 didn't trigger the volume lift that you expected given the lack of market growth in the U.S.
and Europe so that is over.
But I would like you to discuss more about the strategic more long-lasting investment that you are making in go-to-market capabilities as you entering new channels categories all these matrix that you talked about it and the push in Brazil and India that I believe you may now be for free in the SG&amp;A line.
So if you could ballpark for us the growth in selling and distribution expenses as opposed to G&amp;A itself in 2011? And how we should think about that in 2012? I think in terms of total go-to-market expenses the selling portion of SG&amp;A you're absolutely right that we're increasing our investments in markets where we're expanding distribution expanding our portfolio you mentioned India you mentioned Brazil those are clearly 2 cases where that's true.
We're also working on productivity initiatives though in markets that are slower growth.
And so net we would expect to see selling costs increased in line with sales or maybe fall a little bit below the sales line while building the infrastructure that we need in developing markets.
Your next question is from the line of Per Ostlund from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Jon I wondered if you could just provide a little bit of an order of magnitude on the commodity cost headwind.
I think on the March quarter report I think you kind of characterized that there's about $1.8 billion after-tax hit.
I'm just curious as to maybe where that came in for the year and then sort of how you look ahead at where that shapes up currently for fiscal '12? And then sort of where your confidence lies in terms of how to improve in the second half vis-à-vis the first? So first of all as has been pointed out many times internally here I misspoke on last quarter's call and referred to a BT number as an AT number.
So the $1.8 billion is the correct number that's a BT number my fault for confusing you.
We're looking at the same type of impact 2012 versus 2011 so another $1.8 billion roughly $2 billion before tax.
In terms of how that falls out by quarter I took you through some of the specific input costs dynamics and how those play through we basically base our forecast on spot markets I'm not talking about spot that happened yesterday but maybe the spot of last week.
And if you just do the math and take spot in a quarter this year first through 4 and compare it to first through four last year you still have a very negative comparison in the first quarter and a very benign comparison in the fourth quarter.
For a perspective one additional piece of perspective as we mentioned the commodity cost impact in the quarter we just completed was 350 basis points negative on gross margin that's the same kind of dynamic you're dealing with in our first quarter but it should be again very minor or even positive by the time we get to the fourth quarter.
Your next question is from the line of Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Just broadly a clarification Jon.
In the guidance that you gave you're saying again that you should see operating profit growth in line with EPS and therefore implying operating margin expansion and that is prior to anything that you're doing with Pringles or Teva.
So just more of a clarification from that perspective if you could sir? Given the gross margin dynamics we're not -- why we're expecting operating earnings increases along the lines that you say that we're not expecting operating margin expansion again held back by that gross margin line.
Your next question is from the line of Alice Longley from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> My question is about the nature of innovations that you're planning in developed regions where the markets aren't doing so well and the consumers' weak.
You've done well over the last couple of years in some categories like tissue towel by putting up value versions along with your premium-priced versions.
What are you thinking about doing something similar to that in some of your other categories blades comes to mind because you're doing so badly in blades now? Also detergents and shampoos.
Might you push mid-priced or value versions they had more than you have? Well I think Alice what we said is we have a stated strategy of our company to have a value tier of portfolio.
So no matter the price point the consumer wants to spend we have something there.
In the case of blades we do have a full portfolio from Fusion ProGlide on the top 2 disposables on the bottom all priced very differently.
I think what we've done in the past is we've supported the high end probably more than the low end and what we need to do is make sure that we get appropriate support across that portfolio so that every consumer we want to reach gets the appropriate blade and razors.
So in that when I think we have the portfolio but we may not have executed the marketing yet to get to grow share consistently.
Secondly in laundry again as I said in my remarks we got Tide Total Care on the top.
We've got SHEER and Era on the bottom again we have the portfolio there.
Again what we need to do is develop the big ideas to get that portfolio into the hands of consumers and grow that business.
So on those cases I think we have the portfolio.
In the Hair Care we probably have a portfolio brands but I think we need to separate the pricing a little bit more so I think the pricing is probably too bunched up.
So it's rather a 3-step process.
One is get the portfolio in number of brands number of selection; number 2 spread the pricing enough that consumers see the difference; and number 3 market those discrete items to the consumer group that it's attractive to.
And as you say that's what we've done in tissue towel and many of other categories quite successfully.
Your next question is from the line of Jon Andersen from William Blair.
I just had a quick question on the multiyear innovation pipeline.
Bob you talked about the new category country combinations price tier combinations and channel combinations achieved in 2011.
I was wondering if you could kind of characterize the portfolio expansion plan for fiscal 2012 both in terms of kind of the quantity and the quality relative to what we saw in the last year? It's very similar to what we had this year.
And as we laid out in our analyst meeting by the time we get to 2015 the average number of categories in each country in Procter &amp; Gamble territory will go from 19 to 24.
And we'll be reaching 5 billion people versus the 4.4 billion we're reaching today.
And as we increase the number of categories in each country you should assume that that is a full vertical portfolio of priced products not just a single product.
At the same time we're also working on innovation program to develop a whole new categories similar to when we launched the Swiffer some years ago.
Your next question is from the line of Linda Bolton-Weiser from Caris &amp; Company.
Just one quick question on guidance clarification.
You had said for FY '12 that operating income growth would be roughly in line with the EPS growth.
How does that work out for the first quarter is that kind of the same for the first quarter of FY '12? And also a bigger picture question more on M&amp;A Bob your thoughts on -- I was interested in your thoughts on how your Home Care business ranked these days in terms of strategic priority clearly Beauty and Personal Care continues to be the top strategic priorities but given the Cloraxin[ph] should a little bit more in play here do you think you have adequate scale in Home Care with the Ambi Pur acquisition? Or do you think that there could be other things that would add scale to that business which is less big than the other strategic areas? And also on M&amp;A maybe you could comment on your organic growth efforts in Prestige Color Cosmetics and whether you're happy with those efforts or whether you could use some more M&amp;A activity there? There are a lot of brands in that universe and maybe you need to pick up the acquisition activity to start building more presence in Prestige Cosmetics? So I'll handle the first quarter question and I'll turn it back to Bob.
We would expect operating margin to be down in the first quarter and operating earnings to be growing not as well as on a fiscal year basis again given that significant gross margin impact and Jon can help you more with that as we go through the day.
Linda relative to M&amp;A we don't comment on specific opportunities of either acquisitions or divestitures.
What I can tell you is this is that we work hard to develop growth plans that meet our goals long-term goals organically and when I look at the growth potential of the plans that we got I'm very happy with it.
When I look at the innovation program we've got I'm very happy with it as well.
While we do do acquisitions and certainly Ambi Pur was a wonderful acquisition for us because it expanded our footprint in Air Care from roughly 17 countries to over 80 the acquisitions are difficult for us to do.
Typically we don't do hostile takeovers number 2 the value has got to be right because we're trying to be good stewards of the cash that our shareholders give us.
And number 3 it's got to make strategic sense for our business.
So acquisitions tend to be a relatively high bar for us we do do them but it's relatively a high bar.
And certainly it's not an excuse for any of our businesses not to have growth plans that deliver the growth goals organically.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Astrachan from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> One clarification and one question.
So Jon is it fair to assume that input cost pressure peak is in the September period? And then on the Beauty business can you talk a bit about in the context of sort of mix results and turnover on personnel how you think about whether P&amp;G is the net share gainer or loser longer term? So on the first question yes the comparison on commodities should be the worst in the first quarter and then it should improve from there forward.
Relative to the Beauty business Mark I would never say we're doing well enough in any of our businesses whether it's beauty or household.
Beauty has delivered 8 consecutive quarters of organic sales growth.
Our big brands grew globally in 2011 including Pantene Head &amp; Shoulders Olay Venus and SK-II.
Importantly the global Pantene business continues to perform well.
Global shipments grew with mid-single digits over the year with double-digit growth in developing regions.
And market share is growing on a global basis including good share progress in Japan Brazil and India.
And in Japan Pantene just became the leading Hair Care brand.
Olay is also driving strong results outside North America where of course we have the UV recall.
Skin Care shipments in developing markets increased double digits in the June quarter as the geographic and portfolio expansions of Olay continues to deliver strong growth.
In the U.S.
where we had a few design and assortment issues on Pantene we responded by launching 7 new 2-in-1 SKUs and 5 new large sized SKUs with a new marketing campaign which have all gotten strong retailers support so far and we're also working to rebuild the Pantene equity.
But that will take time and it will take time to return the share and consumption to historic levels.
Olay is driving strong results outside the North America.
Skin Care developments in developing markets increased double digits in the June quarter as the geographic and portfolio expansion of Olay as I said delivered strong growth.
And as I said the reason U.S.
Olay declined in P&amp;G was due to the Olay UV reformulation restage that began in the March quarter but we resumed those Olay UV product shipments by the end of June.
So I think overall we would be in that share gainer in Beauty and Grooming no question in my mind.
And your next question is from the line of Caroline Levy from CLSA.
I just was wondering if I could have a little color on China overall.
You did give some category growth but really if you would compare and contrast China Russia Brazil the total portfolio if you could talk about how you're doing in those 3 major growth markets? Well in China Caroline we are the leading consumer goods company with about in Greater China about $5 billion in sales.
That's about 3.5 to 4x the next largest competitor.
Having said that we're only in about 15 categories in China.
I think we entered 3 over the last year and we have plans to continue to enter new categories there.
And the average Chinese spends less than $3 a year on Procter &amp; Gamble products but in the United States the average American spends nearly $100.
So while we're leading while we're growing we're growing strong double digits we still have work to do to get the rest of our categories in there and to accelerate the growth.
And we go market-by-market --  in Brazil and India also continue to be extremely quickly growing.
They're growing actually faster than China.
Think of that as 20%-plus growth rates where China is somewhere in the low double-digit to mid-teens level.
And we'll continue to see all 3 of those markets offering significant opportunities for profitable growth going forward.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
[Operator Instructions].
Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's quarter-end conference call.
Today’s discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G’s most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items.
The effective tax rate on core earnings represents the effective tax rate on continuing operations less non-core impacts.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G's Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller Thanks and good morning everyone.
Bob McDonald and Teri List are joining me this morning.
I'll begin today's call with a summary of our first quarter results and Teri will provide highlights of the results in some of our largest product categories.
I'll provide a brief update on our strategies and focus areas and I'll conclude the call with guidance for fiscal year 2012 and the December quarter.
Based on your feedback we're taking a slightly different approach towards the business segment portion of the call.
We'll provide all of the information you have historically received through the press release we issued this morning and slides we'll post to our website pg.com following the call.
This will allow us to streamline the business presentation during the call to focus on our largest categories those which have the biggest impacts on company results.
Our objectives is to provide more context on these key businesses as well as to allow more time to discuss matters of strategic importance and to answer your questions.
We're trying to be responsive with this approach to your request.
Please let us know what you think about these changes.
We'll of course take questions after our prepared remarks and we'll be available following the call to provide additional perspective as needed.
The first quarter was a good quarter putting us on track to deliver our full plan for the year.
Top line results came in strong with organic sales growth of 4% at the high end of our guidance range.
Progress was broad-based with every segment growing organic sales in the quarter.
Global market share on a constant-currency-value basis was essentially in line with prior-year levels and was in line or higher in business representing about 60% of global sales.
We held or grew share in 3 of 5 regions 11 of our top 15 countries 4 of our 6 reporting segments and on $15 billion of our $24 billion brands.
Organic volume growth was 2% an impressive outcome given the amount of pricing we took in the quarter.
As we noted last quarter we saw about one percentage point of volume and sales growth pulled from this quarter into the prior quarter due to price increases taken in the June-July timeframe.
Adjusting for this volume and sales shift between quarters our underlying growth momentum is somewhat stronger than the 2% volume and 4% organic sales result.
Volume and sales growth accelerated as the quarter progressed with an all-time record shipment month in September.
Pricing contributed 4% to organic sales growth and was up in all 6 reporting segments.
Mix reduced sales by one point due to a combination of geographic and product mix changes.
All-in sales growth was 9% including a 5% benefit from foreign exchange.
Our bottom line results were also consistent with our expectations.
Earnings per share were $1.03 up 1% versus the prior year and toward the high end of our guidance range.
Earnings per share growth was driven mainly by solid sales growth cost savings and the benefit of share repurchase.
These items were offset by higher commodity costs and marketing investments.
Gross margin declined 240 basis points.
The combination of pricing cost savings and fixed cost leverage improved gross margin by roughly 260 basis points.
These benefits were more than offset by a 340 basis point negative impact from higher commodity and energy costs and 160 basis point negative impact from the combination of mix and foreign exchange.
SG&amp;A costs were up slightly as the benefit from sales growth leverage were offset by higher marketing investments.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.2% consistent with our going-in expectations.
We generated $1.3 billion dollars in free cash flow.
The first quarter is typically our lightest cash-generation quarter of the year.
Beyond this cyclical dynamic capital spending increased due to our investments in new manufacturing capacity to support our innovation and geographic expansion program.
Also inventory levels increased due to higher commodity costs and ahead of new innovation launches such as Tide PODS which will come to market in February.
We returned nearly $2.8 billion of cash to shareholders this quarter more than 90% of net earnings via dividends and share repurchase.
We repurchased about $1.3 billion of stock in the quarter and we paid $1.5 billion in dividends.
At the current annualized dividend of $2.10 per share our dividend yield is approximately 3.2%.
Now I'll turn the call over to Teri to review some of the highlights of our business results.
Thanks Jon.
As Jon said we're taking a somewhat different approach to the business segment portion of today's call.
Rather than covering the details of all 6 of our business segments I'll instead review highlights from some of our larger businesses.
For more information on business segment results please refer to the press release we issued this morning and slides that we'll be posting on our website pg.com at the conclusion of this call.
I'll start with the Beauty business which delivered solid organic sales in volume growth led by the Retail Hair Care and Prestige categories.
Retail Hair Care's global volume was up high-single digits and value share grew nearly half a point.
All brands grew volumes with both Head &amp; Shoulders and Herbal Essences up double digits.
Pantene global volume increased mid-single digits.
China growth was particularly strong up over 30% versus year ago behind horizontal expansion into Pantene treatments.
In our Prestige business organic volume was up nearly 20% with broad-based growth in both fragrances and Skin Care.
Fragrances growth was across all regions and was driven by recent launches in Gucci Hugo Boss and Lacoste.
SK-II growth was driven by double-digit growth across the core product lines as well as new launches in the makeup and men's personal care segment.
Retail Skin Care shipments were down in the quarter due mainly to a strong base period that included expansion to new markets in the Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region.
The business momentum in China and North America which has been our softest market strengthened throughout the quarter.
We are back to full availability in North America following the interruption in Olay UV shipments last fiscal year and we have strong commercial plans for the balance of the year.
In China we launched 3 new initiatives that delivered very strong consumer response and share improvement toward the end of the quarter.
In the Grooming segment the global Fusion franchise continued to deliver strong broad-based volume and value share growth.
The majority of this growth has been driven by the launch of Fusion ProGlide which is now available in over 20 markets around the globe.
While Fusion growth has been very strong Mach3 and lower-priced legacy franchises in developed markets have declined.
These brands have been negatively impacted by market contraction in Western Europe and high levels of commercial competitive activity in North America.
To adjust these impacts we're evolving our strategy to fully support all tiers with innovation advertising and commercial support the same approach we used across most of our categories.
Moving on to the Health Care segment I'll highlight our Oral Care results.
Global Oral Care volume grew mid-single digits and value share increased nearly half a point.
U.S.
value share was up one point to over 38% behind the loss of the Crest Complete mid-tier line and double-digit volume growth of the 3D White regimen.
The markets where we have recently launched Oral-B toothpaste also continued to deliver strong results.
Brazil Oral-B toothpaste value share grew to over 5% on a national basis and over 10% in the channels where it is distributed and shares now increased for 10 consecutive quarters since it launched.
In Western Europe Oral-B toothpaste value share growth had accelerated behind the launch of 3D White.
Toothpaste share in Belgium is up more than 5 points versus last year to nearly 20%.
In the Netherlands toothpaste share is up more than 3 points to more than 13%.
In the U.K.
where Oral-B toothpaste launched towards the end of June our past few months toothpaste value share was over 9% and the growth across all product forms has driven us to the #2 market share position in the overall Oral Care category.
We're continuing the globalization of our Oral Care business.
We recently launched in Nigeria and Ghana and both markets are shifting well ahead of our initial expectation.
We're continuing our market expansions and we'll be launching in Colombia early next calendar year.
We'll also continue to rollout a very strong innovation program including the expansion of our 3D White line to additional geographies.
Our Fabric and Home Care business delivered good growth in developing markets.
India led the growth in developing markets with laundry volume up more than 30%.
In developed markets North America fabric enhancer volume increased behind the launch of Downy Unstoppables and laundry detergent value share in Germany was up 2 points versus year ago behind the Lenor laundry detergent launch.
We experienced the anticipated shifting in share volatility in certain geographies as we priced across much of the business.
The relative consumer value of our brands were stretched in a few category/country combinations namely the laundry powders auto dishwashing and Hair Care businesses in the U.S.
and the laundry category in the U.K.
as we took price increases across most of our portfolio and competitive pricing did not increase or in some cases they actually went down.
More specifically we saw "buy one get one free"offers across multiple brands from Unilever in the U.K.
laundry and U.S.
Hair Care category and deep promotions from Reckitt in the U.S.
auto dish category.
We have a strong innovation program coming over the next 6 to 12 months in the laundry category highlighted by the upcoming launch of Tide PODS in the U.S.
in February and we're confident we'll resume solid volume and share progress soon.
Finally in the Baby and Family Care segment global Baby Care volume increased high-single digits led by developing markets up mid-teens.
Global value share was up over one point with all regions growing.
BRIC markets led the growth with average volume increasing over 25% as we continue to focus on commercial and product innovation across the price tiers.
As you can see from this overview our largest businesses are generally strong.
There are a few categories or brands in a few category/country or brand/country combinations where we need to accelerate growth.
We know what needs to be done in these areas and we've begun to see progress in some of them.
I'll turn the call back to Jon now.
Thanks Teri.
We continue to be encouraged by our overall results and the strength of the business with broad-based top line growth across each of the business segments and continued volume momentum despite the pricing moves we've made.
The biggest challenge we face is the significant increase in commodity costs which has held back operating profit growth.
These cost increases created an unanticipated earnings per share headwind of about $0.25 per share last fiscal year or nearly a 7 percentage point drag on earnings per share growth versus our going-in expectations.
This quarter we faced an additional $700 million in higher commodity costs.
Instead of making the easy wrong choice to scale back our investments we've made the difficult right choice to continue supporting our innovation and expansion programs as we get pricing and cost savings in place to offset higher commodity costs.
We do view this as a short-term choice.
We have and are taking pricing actions necessary to restore profitability in the categories affected by higher commodity costs.
As I mentioned pricing had a 4 point positive impact on growth in the June quarter and it had a 3-point positive impact on growth -- excuse me 4 points in the September quarter and 3 points in the June quarter.
We expect an inflection and operating profit growth in the second half of fiscal year when we'll benefit from the full impact of the pricing we have planned when we'll have easier commodity cost comparisons and as cost savings accelerate.
Going forward our strategy and our long-term growth model continue to be predicated on balanced top and bottom line growth.
This focus is evident in the 4 priorities we've set for our organization this fiscal year: Maintaining our top line growth momentum executing price increases with excellence delivering solid operating profit growth and improving productivity in all that we do.
We've made good progress against these priorities in the first quarter we delivered solid top line growth executed significant pricing and further increased our focus on productivity and cost savings.
As we've discussed our long-term growth strategy and our near-term priorities with our shareholders we received a few questions we thought might be helpful to address.
One question concerns our ability to maintain top line growth momentum in the current economic environment.
We're very well positioned to continue growing in this or any environment.
We have a strong multi-year innovation program which includes recent innovations that we are in the process of rolling out around the world and new innovations that will be coming to market for the first time this year.
And we have significantly increased marketing support each of the last 2 years which puts us in a strong position to support this innovation.
We have strong vertical portfolios that enable us to attract an increasing number of consumers to our brands.
They also give us more flexibility to take pricing on premium items without putting market share at risk.
Our portfolios are much better balanced today than they were 10 5 or even 3 years ago.
We're targeting numerous portfolio opportunities along each factor of our growth strategy.
We'll reach more consumers by expanding our category portfolios vertically to more price tiers.
As I said we've made good progress in this area but we have many additional opportunities to the extend our portfolios to higher and lower price points to make P&amp;G brands more attractive to more consumers.
We'll grow by serving consumers more completely.
We will improve customer loyalty by delivering new benefits on existing products and we will expand consumption by creating product regimens that offer better performance and users' experiences when used together.
Revolutionary innovations such as Tide PODS which we launched in February have the power to transform seemingly mature categories by improving the entire consumer experience with our brands.
We'll compete in more categories in more parts of the world.
This applies to both developed and developing markets.
We compete in 36 product categories in the U.S.
but only 28 in the U.K.
and Spain 22 in France 21 in China and only 16 in Brazil and India.
Developing markets have been a significant source of growth which has helped us manage through the sluggish growth environment in developed markets.
The BRIC markets alone have added more than $5 billion to company sales over just the past 5 years.
18 months ago we embarked on an integrated and focused portfolio expansion plan in the BRIC markets and they're growing currently at roughly a 15% pace.
We've just begun executing integrated plans in 7 additional developing markets.
The big opportunity for growth in developing markets has led to the question of whether that growth will be margin dilutive.
In just the last 6 years developing markets have grown from about 23% of sales or about $13 billion to 35% or about $29 billion at the end of last fiscal year.
Despite this dramatic increase in developing market sales and despite more than $6 billion or 750 basis points in commodity cost headwinds over the same period operating profit margins have remained essentially flat.
We have a very profitable developing market business.
The level of profitability in any individual market is largely a function of scale.
For example China and Russia are 2 of our most developed developing markets where we compete in 21 and 25 product categories respectively.
Combined these markets account for roughly 10% of total company sales and have an operating profit margin in line with the company average.
Over an acceptable period of time as we build out our portfolio we expect our category expansions to be margin accretive not dilutive.
Any point in time we'll likely have a handful of developing markets that are in a significant expansion phase.
These markets may have lower margins for a few years but in each of these cases we have detailed plans to get margins to attractive levels.
We've also frequently been asked about our commitment to improving productivity and cutting costs and through this growing operating profit.
The pricing we're taking is one important step to delivering solid operating profit growth.
We faced $1.8 billion in higher input costs last year.
Pricing was up 1% or about $800 million which left us with a net negative profit impact of about $1 billion before tax.
This year we currently expect an additional $1.8 billion in higher input costs.
Pricing those should be up 3% or more or about $2.8 billion which should yield a net positive impact of about $1 billion before tax.
Of course the pricing we're taking is not only driven by input costs we're also adjusting pricing in some markets in response to foreign exchange rate movements such as in Venezuela Mexico Brazil and Turkey.
We're firmly committed to improving our cost structure while continuing to advance our innovation and expansion plans.
An important aspect of our productivity and cost savings work year-end and year-out is our investment in restructuring.
Over the past 6 years we've invested more than $3 billion after-tax or nearly $5 billion before tax to restructure our operations streamline work processes and redesign our organization for long-term success.
Over those 6 years we've invested between $250 million and $500 million after-tax each year in our base restructuring program that's reported as part of core earnings.
In addition we've made incremental investments following the Gillette acquisition and the Folgers divestiture to drive cost savings.
In the case of Folgers we invested about $300 million after-tax in incremental restructuring to generate savings to offset the ongoing dilution from exiting the coffee business.
As we discussed in our last earnings call we plan to take a similar approach to offset of the dilution from the exit of the Snacks business.
We have not finalized all of our restructuring plans but given the wide range and speculation on what we may or may not invest this year we wanted to provide some additional preliminary perspectives.
Based on our current plans we expect to invest up to $1 billion before tax or in the range of $700 million to $800 million after-tax on productivity improvement opportunities to fund both our base and incremental restructuring plans.
This represents incremental non-core restructuring investments of $0.15 to $0.18 per share above last year's base level.
Our productivity and savings improvement driven by these investments will affect both cost of goods and SG&amp;A.
Within this overhead productivity improvement is an area of particular focus.
We know our overhead costs as a percentage of sale are high.
Given the scale advantages of P&amp;G our objective for overhead cost is to be best-in-class.
We have clear opportunities to reduce costs and the plans we are developing will accelerate our progress.
We're taking a design-based approach which we feel will enable us to make lasting improvements in our cost structure without creating unnecessary distraction for our employees or unnecessary risk for the business.
We're well into the design process and are already beginning the implementation phase in some areas.
We'll include the incremental restructuring investments along with gain from the exit of the Snacks business in our all-in earnings per share guidance when we close the Pringles transaction.
Given the size of the onetime gain we still expect a significant increase in all-in earnings per share when we include all these items in our guidance.
With all that as context I'll move to guidance for the fiscal year and the second quarter.
For fiscal year 2012 we continue to expect organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 6%.
This is based on the assumption of global market value growth of 3% to 4% comprised of 1% to 2% value growth in developed markets and 6% to 8% growth in developing markets.
We estimate the net impact from pricing and mix will contribute between 1% and 3% of sales growth for the year.
Within this we expect pricing and lower promotional levels will add 3 to 4 points to sales growth and that mix will continue to be a sales headwind of 1 to 2 percentage points.
This is all unchanged from our prior guidance.
We now expect foreign exchange will be essentially neutral to sales growth for the year bringing our all-in sales growth guidance also to a range of 3% to 6%.
On the bottom line despite significant currency deterioration we are maintaining our earnings per share range of $4.17 to $4.33 for the fiscal year.
This equates to earnings per share growth of 6% to 10% versus base period core earnings per share of $3.95.
As we said last quarter we feel this wide range appropriately and responsibly reflects the range of possible outcomes.
Significant strengthening of the dollar over the past few months is a prime example of the volatility we face which justifies the wide guidance strange.
We face similar volatility in material costs.
As I mentioned earlier based on current spot prices we currently expect commodity costs to be up $1.8 billion before tax unchanged from our previous estimates.
This was down about -- sorry this also comes at a time that we're dealing with the strengthening of the dollar.
While a few materials have come down modestly from their highs many ingredients accounting for our largest exposures are up compared to going in forecast for the year.
Surfactants and alcohols are up more than 10% and resin-based materials are up as much as 30%.
This may seem out of sync for those of you watching West Texas Intermediate oil prices.
Resin prices though are tracking with Brent crude trends not WTI and Brent has remained high above $100 a barrel.
Combination of pricing cost savings and use of alternative materials and formulations will offset a large portion of the input cost impact but we still expect to see gross margin contraction for the year.
We expect solid operating profit growth in fiscal 2012 roughly in line with earnings per share growth.
As we said on our last call we're forecasting capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of net sales which may result in free cash flow productivity marginally below our typical 90% target level.
Our plans to utilize free cash flow including paying around $6 billion in dividends and we're estimating that we'll repurchase between $4 billion and $6 billion in stock during fiscal 2012.
This was a slightly more conservative outlook than our last guidance that anticipates higher restructuring spending and reflects our cash progress to date.
Importantly this range excludes the share exchange dynamic implicit in the Pringles transaction which will lead to higher effective share repurchase for the year.
Moving to the October-December quarter we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5%.
We expect pricing and mix to provide a combined net benefit of 1 to 2 points.
We estimate foreign exchange will be neutral to sales growth for the quarter which leads to all-in sales growth also in the range of 3% to 5%.
On the bottom line the December quarter will be another challenging one.
We will face very difficult commodity cost comparisons without having fully realized the offsetting benefits of pricing.
Currency has also worsened and it will take some time to get appropriate pricing in place.
Volume growth will continue to be pressured by slow developed market growth and by our price increases.
And we're comparing against a base period with a very low tax rate.
We expect December quarter earnings per share in the range of $1.05 to $1.11 or down 5% to flat versus all-in earnings per share of $1.11 in the base period.
Compared to base period core earnings per share of $1.13 we expect earnings per share to be down $7 to down 2%.
Recall that the effective core tax rate in the base period was just 22.4%.
We're expecting a rate between 26% and 27% this quarter which results in an earnings per share headwind of about $0.05 to $0.06 per share or about 5 percentage points of core earnings per share growth.
Adjusting for the tax headwind our normalized core earnings per share growth rate is more like a range of down 2 to up 3.
As I mentioned we'll be updating our second quarter and fiscal year guidance when we close the Teva joint venture potentially in the next week or so and again with the Pringles divestiture transaction in early to mid-December.
We'll use these opportunities to update guidance for the transactions as well as any new visibility on base business progress.
As we look beyond the December quarter we expect an inflection in operating profit growth in the back half of the year.
This will be driven by an increase in benefit from pricing accelerating cost savings and a declining year-on-year impact from commodity costs assuming material and energy costs stay in their current market rates.
In terms of pricing our back-half plans include some additional commodity-related increases and we're pricing to help offset the impact of currency devaluations in some developing markets.
While we expect material costs to be up mid-teens in the first half of the year they should be up only slightly in the back half of the year and down by the end of the year.
That concludes our prepared remarks and now Bob Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Jon or Bob you guys have spent the past few years reinflating some of the spending lines which had taken a hit over the past couple of years.
And so as we look to this hockey-stick acceleration you have budgeted for the second half how do we get comfort that sort of the first half of calendar year '12 we're not going to end up seeing -- either seeing sort of the state of negative revisions we've had over the past couple of years or conversely a situation where you guys end up giving up the marketing spending that you've built up over the last couple of years.
So any thoughts in terms of giving us some comfort on that huge acceleration in the back half particularly from a spending standpoint? First I'd say marketing spending as you rightly point up -- out John is up 24% over the last 2 fiscal years.
So there's significance strength in that program.
We're planning on increases again this year albeit more in line with sales growth as opposed to ahead of sales growth.
And we're committed to that spend.
And we have a very exciting initiative program in the back half which we will support.
What gives us confidence in what you referred to as the hockey stick or the improved results in the back half are the things I mentioned earlier on the call namely the full year impact of pricing and pricing is going very well right now.
Second commodity cost comparisons would be much easier in the second half and there'll be a tailwind by the end of the year.
And then third our ongoing cost and productivity efforts should accelerate as we go through the year.
John I also think that our top line growth this quarter -- this past quarter of 9% and 4% is evidence that we're working against our purpose and our purpose-inspired growth strategy.
Our purpose is to improve lives and we know we need to do that by shipping product.
We've turned that into a growth strategy and Jon talked about it in his remarks more consumers more parts of the world more completely.
And as you know from our analyst conference here in Cincinnati we laid out for you detailed plans through 2015 '16 that would get us into the top third of our peer group in total shareholder return.
We are on track with those plans and we're not going to deviate from those plans.
And we're trying to deal with the volatility we have externally and still deliver those plans.
And I think what you see this quarter is that we're on track.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to just follow up.
I know Jon you said the pricing is going very well and that's kind of evident in the numbers but you did also highlight some spots where it's -- the competitive environment is a little bit more challenging.
So I guess that combined with intention to take more pricing in the back half where FX kind of necessitates it where do you stand on your sort of patience threshold for waiting for competitors to kind of fall in line if you will? And where do you stand on market shares and price gaps in those particular hotspot categories? Lauren this is Bob.
Obviously we are taking price increases.
We are about -- through about 2/3 of the price increases we're taking this fiscal year.
As Jon said the customer retailer response has been positive.
Generally the competitive response has been positive following our leadership in taking those price increases.
As Jon also said we're growing share or holding market share in 60% of our business globally.
But as you indicated Jon did identify a couple of category country combinations where competition has chosen at least in the short term not to follow.
We talked about in the U.K.
Hair Care category Unilever did a buy 2 get 1 free across 65% of its Hair Care business.
In U.K.
laundry where we've been growing share we've seen Unilever's volume sold on deal go up above 80%.
In U.S.
auto dish Reckitt's not increased prices we've been growing share there.
And in U.S.
laundry Church &amp; Dwight average powder pricing is flat and liquid pricing have actually declined where as we've increased prices.
We're going to continue follow through on the pricing that we've taken and we're confident that we will continue to get the right value equation with our consumers and continue to hold or grow share.
I would just add 2 things.
One is we're early in this game still and so there's no reason to change course.
The other thing that I think is important is the geographies -- country/category combinations that Bob mentioned are -- he mentioned 4 country/category combinations across the entire portfolio of hundreds of country/category combinations.
And in general as is evidenced by the strength of the market shares we're in pretty good shape.
Yes and these -- all these 4 areas where we've grown a substantial amount of share.
We're up about 55% share in U.K.
laundry the home market of a competitor.
So I mean the situation is understandable.
Your next question is comes from the line of William Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Trying to do this in one question.
So if you look at the incentive compensation structure -- now the long-term incentive compensation the proxy it looks like you lowered some of your EBIT growth assumptions.
So is that to be construed as kind of the long-term algorithm? And then if that's the case do you think the $1 billion of restructuring does that get you there on the U.S.
cost structure given call it low-single digits category growth? I think Bill -- and I'd be happy to talk this offline but the EBIT numbers that you're looking at in the proxy relate to this fiscal year only and are entirely consistent with our guidance.
Does that not change our long-term expectation or algorithm? Remember Bill our long-term goal continues to be to be in the top third of our peer group in total shareholder return that has not changed.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick question if you can provide any perspective the whole white space initiative whether it be geography or category how has those businesses -- how have those businesses grown 1 year after 2 years after the initial launch point? If you can provide any context and also how the profitability has migrated? I know it's probably different by market but any general thoughts you can provide there would be helpful.
Sure Nik this is Jon.
And I'm going to apologize but I neglected to answer I'll call it part 2 instead of question 2 of Bill's question.
Let me do that first and then we'll answer your question Nick.
Bill I apologize.
Relative to restructuring it -- this will significantly accelerate our progress.
It doesn't get us fully to where our end point is.
But we'll continue restructuring the business as we have.
And we're very confident that we'll get there over the right period of time and that we'll make dependable progress each year.
I'll turn it over to Bob to answer your question Nik.
Nik generally as a headline I would say that in all of the places we have entered category white spaces country/category combinations of which as you recall we laid out that there are 250 new category/country combinations we're entering from 2009 to 2015 '16.
All of them continue to be on track or above our expectation.
And examples would be if you look at our Oral Care business for example the expansion of Oral-B paste in Brazil as Jon talked about we're now over a 10% share in the channels where we compete 5.5% share nationally trial and repeat rates continue to trend well above target.
In June the leading business publication in their annual ranking and most valuable brands in Brazil ranked Oral-B in the top 10 for the first time ever.
And our primary competitor wasn't even ranked.
We've grown share there now for 10 consecutive quarters since we launched.
So I mean I could go on and on but we purposely set up these plans in a relative -- relatively conservative way estimating what we think the competitive response will be so we can make sure we deliver results consistent with our -- with the progress that we want to make.
And I would just add one point Nik which is not all but a significant number of these expansions over the last 18 months occurred in the BRIC markets.
And I mentioned in my remarks that we're growing the business 15% in those markets cumulatively which is certainly emblematic of continued success that's about 6 points ahead of market growth rate that we saw in the last quarter of 9% in those markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you guys can give some color around what you think the market opportunity is for something like Tide PODS.
I guess what proportion of the total laundry market you think you can take in a market like the U.S.? And if you can just give a little color around the economic environment we're in and how that affects what your launch plans are and what your expectations would be? We know that the consumer is very sensitive in these economic times to innovation.
We've seen that as we launch things like Crest 3D White Downy Unstoppables Fusion ProGlide.
When we get it right when we get the consumer segmentation right when we get the innovation right consumers are looking for these kinds of innovations to improve their lives.
I think when you look at Tide PODS it's helpful to look at the dish category and to look at what we've done with unit dose in the dish category.
Now all unit dose is not created equal.
Our unit dose has a proprietary technology proprietary film technology proprietary liquid technology proprietary making technology that can't be copied.
That results in a holistic innovation that we know consumers love.
For example over 90% of consumers who have tried Tide PODS described a significantly better experience.
When you look at the other dish category we estimate that Tide PODS can grow to about 30% of the market.
It's the most concentrated form of laundry detergent you can get so it's better for the environment it's better for space and consumers' homes.
It has great great cleaning performance.
Everybody wins with Tide PODS.
So our expectation is over time you'll see it grow to about 30% of the category.
We're launching initially as Jon said in February in United States but obviously we're going to take it global as quickly as possible and it will be a major platform on which we will build in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> It strikes me that the biggest risk to the back half really is on currency because if you're forecasting a neutral impact on the top line which I think pretty much translates to the bottom line versus the 2% to 3% lift that you had expected before I'm not sure why you’re sticking with your prior earnings guidance.
And I know you're planning on taking some pricing in emerging markets to offset that but that strikes me as risky given how focused you are in growing your market shares in those emerging markets.
And it doesn't really sound like commodities are going to provide that much of a tailwind.
So why hold on to the back half guidance as opposed to double down and reinvest more and just say "Hey currencies are what currencies are and we're not going to get the lift we thought we were." First of all you rightly mentioned we should be able to price in many cases to be able to help mitigate these currency impacts.
Having said that you're also right this is a negative development in our forecast since we last talked.
But we've worked hard on the cost savings and productivity pieces of this and we still feel comfortable with our guidance range.
Wendy I'm very encouraged way that work that we've been around improving the productivity of our company.
This has been a leadership effort that our leaders have driven throughout the organization to find ways to flatten the organization to allow people to operate with greater agility.
And I think as we continue digging we're finding more and more potential to improve the operations of the company to shift our center of gravity more to where the growth is where the babies are being born in Asia in Africa Latin America and to clean up some of the complexity which we inherited when we made a number of acquisitions in prior years.
So I think there's a lot of potential there and I think it's something that we simply have to do and this demonstrates our confidence in being able to do that.
I also think Wendy that -- I mean you know our philosophy of this in the past and that hasn't changed which is we're not going to follow short-term fluctuations in either commodities or currency out the window to the detriment of the execution of our strategy.
We are going to execute our strategy consistent consistent with the answer to John's question earlier.
But we just feel comfortable at this point that we can do that and deliver somewhere within that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I'm kind of torn I guess because this quarter looks a lot like previous quarters where the top line was good but the margin suffered.
Plus it seems like yes your losses were concentrated and a few kind of were country/category combinations but those led to I think share loss within -- for North America for Western Europe your 2 biggest markets.
Now you continue to expect kind of more reflection on margins going forward.
But I guess I struggle with delineating and actually getting a little bit excited about maybe even -- about how much of that comes from just for commodities to roll over and competitors to catch up on pricing versus the foray you've made into more practically much more aggressively pushing on cost cutting.
And I say that in the context of $1 billion is a good start because $1 billion is call it 120 let's say to be nice basis points on sales.
But your competitors like a Kimberly or a Colgate or Unilever do that within 2 quarters right for their scale at least.
The $3 billion in the past few years sounds impressive sounds good but call 350 to 400 basis points is what that relates to and that's what Colgate does in 2 years.
So going back a little bit to the question before how much are you are proactively going after this why not more aggressively why not more why not more quickly in the competitive context and frankly the market conditions that you're facing right now? Okay I think there were about 30 questions there.
But let me start with some of the quarter dynamics and then we'll get to your question on restructuring.
You mentioned a margin compression in the quarter that's absolutely correct.
Operating margins were down 260 basis points more than 100% of that 340 basis points is our year-on-year commodity impacts which should neutralize assuming current spot prices as we get to the back part of the year.
So a part of the evolution in operating profit growth is as you say timing as we wait for those commodity costs to roll over.
At the same time we are being as Bob mentioned more focused on cost and productivity.
I think that the question of how much we should spend on restructuring is not really so much -- is not the best question.
And I apologize if that came out the wrong way.
But the right question is what's the endpoint? And we are committed to be best-in-class in overhead cost structure within our industry.
We feel we have plans to get there.
We want to do that in a way that doesn't disrupt the business that enables us to execute the strategy that we've been discussing but still makes measured year-on-year progress.
And while we're -- as Jon said while our goal and plan leads to best-in-class in the industry it's a scale-adjusted best-in-class.
So we're not giving ourselves the advantage of scale.
I think the only thing you have to remember too Ali -- and I know you know this is as we are restructuring the business all over the world and in different ways we're also in the process of one of the largest expansions of the business in the history of the company.
We have roughly 20 plants under construction right now.
As I said earlier we're putting a new baby diaper line somewhere in the world every 4 weeks.
We have to hire the people to run those factories too.
And while we hire fewer people to run those factories -- because today for the average factory we have we're producing 25 over 25 million cases a year versus when I joined the company we were producing about 7 million cases per factory per year.
We do have to staff those operations in the parts that we're growing.
So it's not an either/or it's an and and we're trying to get the balance right to be best-in-class on scale-adjusted on the cost side in order to be top third of our peer group in total shareholder return.
We think we've got the balance right and time will prove that.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones if I could.
First just to follow up on the discussion of overheads could you give us directionally what was the change in your overhead spend this quarter versus a year ago? It would be very helpful to track that and your progress going forward.
And then secondly and I apologize if I missed is this what was the market growth in developed versus developing markets? And how does that compare to what you expected coming into the quarter? Joe overhead in the quarter was down 20 to 30 basis points.
And then that was offset by increases in marketing spending.
In prior quarters we've been down significantly more than that so it's a bit lumpy by quarter but I would expect quarter-on-quarter progress on overhead as a percentage of sales.
Relative to market growth this is a market growth in value terms since July-September quarter.
Global market growth was around 4% based upon our geographic mix of business.
Developed markets grew about 1% and developing markets continued solid growth of about 9%.
For the year -- for the fiscal year we expect global market value growth of 3% to 4%.
This assumes developed markets grow 1% to 2% and developing markets grow 6% to 8%.
We're expecting essentially no growth in developed markets on a volume basis with any value growth being driven by higher pricing in our categories.
So if you look at the last quarter from a  P&amp;G growth standpoint we grew in both developed and developing but the growth was very modest in developed most of the growth from developing.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bob it'd be helpful to get an update from you on what you're seeing from a consumer-spending standpoint in your key reasons given macro concerns particularly the U.S.
Russia China and Brazil? And if you believe consumer spending is slowing at this point and impacting category growth rates in those regions? In terms of consumer spending we really don't see much difference today versus what we've been seeing since about 2008 which is in the developed markets you have a bifurcation you have on the high end people with their incomes continue to expend growing very strongly and continuing to spend on premium products.
I think the success of our Crest 3D White which is a premium-priced product is evidence of that.
I think the demand which caused us to delay the launch of Tide PODS is evidence of that.
Innovation is very attractive to these people.
On the other end you've got the people who are unemployed or seeking employment and they continue to find ways -- try to find ways to cope.
Interestingly that is either by shifting the channel or by shifting the brand and that's one of the reasons it's so important for us to have a vertical portfolio of brands from -- let's take U.S.
laundry as an example.
From Tide Total Care on the high end which is an index of 160 versus regular Tide in price and as the amalgamation of the world's very best technology we have to clean clothes and also care for fabrics to on the lowest end Era which is an index of 60 versus regular Tide in price which is sufficient cleaning for like an empty-nested family without a lot of soil on their clothes.
And that's one of the reasons our strategy necessitate to us getting our portfolio -- vertical portfolio right as Jon talked about in his remarks in every single country.
In developing markets we're continuing to see strong growth.
As I said earlier in answer to Joe's question developing market growth of 9% on average is really strong and it's above the 8% historically we had seen in prior consecutive quarters.
So developing markets are continuing to grow very strongly.
And as we continue to roll out our 250 new category combinations in country white spaces we're taking advantage of that growth.
That's why of the 20 new plants or so that we have under construction right now 19 are in developing markets.
So it's a key potential for our growth because we have a much lower footprint -- lesser footprint today than virtually any of our international competitors in developing markets.
So our growth potential in those markets is quite higher and we want to realize that.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chapell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow back up on the commodity question just as even this morning we've seen markets spike including oil.
Just trying to understand how much cushion there is since you're not hedging anything to the back half.
I mean what do we see if we do see the volatility towards the upside over the next 2 3 months? And how does that affect your numbers? Well first I would mention that part of the reason that commodities are spiking this morning is because of the currency dynamics and a lot of the global commodities are denominated in dollars.
And so typically when we see a commodity health we typically have a currency hurt.
Typically when we see a commodity hurt we typically have a currency health.
So those things don't completely offset each other but they are very interrelated.
The other thing I would say is just given the inventories both in raw materials and finished products if things move right now it will be 6 months in large part -- things like diesel would be sooner than that but generally about 6 months before those items would start rolling through the income statement.
So there's not a ton of risk though clearly there is some as the year progresses.
I think it's also important Bill to realize that we're working very hard to find substitutes for raw materials that have volatility in price.
Not that we would move to the substitute wholesale but what we want to do is have the ability to replace materials that spike in price.
And tonight for example we got our major suppliers in the Cincinnati from around the world.
And one of the things I'm talking to them about is the application of our R&amp;D spend which is $2 billion -- over $2 billion a year 50% more than our next largest competitor.
And a lot of those PhDs that we have are working to find substitutes for oil-based chemicals and other chemicals which are not renewable.
We want to get to 100% use of renewable ingredients for our products and we're working very hard on that.
So over time you're going to see a dislocation between the price of oil and our cost of goods sold.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Jon you mentioned wanting to get to a best-in-class cost structure.
Can you help us understand where you see the biggest opportunities over what period of time you're talking about and how we as investors should measure this? If you go back to the our Analyst Day materials which are -- which continue to be on our website you can see a dementalization of the type of opportunity we think is possible here in terms of dollars.
Having said that we are truly committed to best-in-class and that best-in-class bogey doesn't stand still.
So there are -- it's a significant effort that's underway.
The timeframe that we talked about is through '15 '16.
Again as Bob mentioned we don't want to do this in a way that's disruptive.
We have significant growth opportunities in front of us and we want to realize those while at the same time working very dependably and reliably on increasing productivity.
Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
I know that a lot of questions have been on the savings and restructuring but I guess if you can revisit this in a slightly different way in terms of what is the target for 2012 relative to what it was in 2011 both in savings and restructuring.
And then if you can help us understand how much savings you generated in this quarter and so we understand better the more controlled aspect of your guidance that is not related to commodities is not related to the sustainability of the price increases.
Are these savings coming from the service centers or it's coming from consolidated MDOs? Anymore physical understanding of what you are doing on the savings side will be helpful.
And if you can comment what you're going to do with razors and the growth on disposable market will be great too.
Okay.
So I mentioned in my remarks that I was providing some preliminary perspective on restructuring.
We'll provide more detailed perspectives at -- when we finalize our plans which aren't finalized yet and when we close the Pringles transactions which should be sometime in the month of December.
So I understand the question.
I respect the question.
I'd like to answer it with the benefit of our full plan in place as opposed to right now.
Bob you want to talk about blades and razors? Well in Teri's remarks when she talked about blades and razors I think she talked about the fact that we're going to be supporting our entire vertical portfolio of razors and blades.
We've been doing this.
We've been doing it in Asia.
We've been doing it in Latin America.
We've been successful against new entrants both new systems as well as new disposables.
And basically that is the way we operate our businesses.
We have a full portfolio of products and we support each one of those products against its starter consumer group with marketing support.
And so we're going to be doing that.
We have a great portfolio in razors and blades everything from Fusion ProGlide on the top to terrific disposables which are superior to competition on the bottom all of which will be supported with their relevant consumer market segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Jon I think you mentioned really in the call that volume and sales growth progressed positively as the quarter went on with the September record sales month.
Can you just talk a little bit about what contributed to that? Was it specific product launches improvement in specific regions and is that expected to persist? There was a general strengthening as we went through the quarter.
And it's not surprising given the pricing dynamics typically takes us kind of 3 to 6 months both for competitors to follow and for our consumers to digest the new pricing.
And so we saw positive developments on both of those fronts as we went through the quarter.
I wouldn't attribute it to any specific initiative or geography.
It's broad-based.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I apologize if you did talk about this earlier.
Can you just talk about I guess that POS trends retail destocking.
We've heard a little bit about this just in the back half of the year.
But I was just wondering in the U.S.
Europe which categories you might be seeing pressures.
Or are there anywhere the retailers are really trying to manage their inventories a bit better and you're seeing a little bit of a push back contributing to the category weakness? Jason we actually work with retailers around the world to help them reduce their inventory while at the same time reducing ours.
We work with them as partners to reduce the total inventory in the supply chain in order to free up cash for them to make their stores more shoppable increase their sales.
And for us to get the cash out of our supply chain in order that we can pay our dividends and buy back our stock I've not seen anything extraordinary relative to the work on supply chain inventory other than what does occur.
And it's obvious which is in the last month of any quarter depending upon the quarter our retailers used to close the month they used to close their quarter.
They work to get their inventory down particularly low during that month.
But fortunately all of our retailers have different fiscal years and different quarter structures so you really don't see that as a onetime event.
Yes was a little bit.
And of course we operate in different categories so that can explain the difference.
But I've been a little bit surprised by some of the competitive comments on this front.
I would just echo what Bob said we really haven't seen a dramatic change.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sort of a two-part one question.
First of all when you go into a new market in the first year or so where do normally the market share gains come from? And then as you progress into that market over the next in say years 3 to 5 where do those market share gains again generally come from? And then in that context can you comment how are those trends holding in what you're seeing in the markets that you made a push in the last couple of years? So that's part one.
And just to circle back on the commodity cost in your guidance? In context of your present planned restructurings and given the commodity costs do you see operating margins turning positive as far as year-over-year by the back half of this year or at the latest by the beginning of fiscal '13? Tim on your first question it's really not a variable of time or even competitive company.
It's more a variable of consumer market segmentation.
So for example when you launch something like Crest 3D White let's take North America as an example you're targeting that toward beauty-conscious oral care consumers.
Now they're obviously health-conscious oral care consumers and they like Crest Pro-Health.
And Crest Pro-Health then grows amongst that consumer group taking business from those consumers who want a health offering but find that the competitive help offering isn't quite up to the standard they want.
In the case of 3D White it comes from the beauty care consumer and there've been brands in the marketplace -- competitors in the marketplace offering a beauty care solution that frankly hasn't worked.
And so we look at it on a consumer-group basis rather than on a period-of-time basis or a competitive-company basis.
Well whether or not we hold those the answer is yes.
And again it comes back to how tightly is your -- how knowledgeable are you in your consumer segmentation how tightly is your brand offering targeted against that consumer segmentation and how innovative is your product and marketing to deliver the benefit that consumer groups look for? When you look at 3D White regimen for example the 3D White regimen alone has contributed 3 share points to P&amp;G's market-leading value share of 38% in the U.S.
So it demonstrates that yes this is something the consumer wanted and yes it's doing extremely well and we continue to grow share over time.
Another example would be Fusion razor and blades which has grown shares since it was launched and we'll continue to grow share.
Another example is Pantene in Brazil -- or Oral Care in Brazil.
These things grow share over long periods of time.
And importantly to the extent that we're bringing innovation to these markets generally to the markets are growing.
So it's not just a share gain it's a market growth dynamic and that's a significant source of growth if we do it right.
So it's not as Bob said and in some of his earlier remarks it's not 0 sum.
Relative to operating margin not only in the second half but on the fiscal year we expect positive operating margin growth.
I mean there's no way you can get to our guidance numbers given the first quarter results and our second quarter guidance without assuming significant margin accretion in the second half.
Your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I have a housekeeping question a follow up and then my real question.
You said volume was down low-single digits in developed regions.
Was it down in Europe more than the U.S.
less or in line? And also could you give me -- give us price and mix trends in the developed regions alone? That's my housekeeping.
The follow-up is you said that you are going to broaden your innovation in blades including Mach 3 and other value brands.
Can we expect some innovation and more marketing sometime this year in the U.S.? And then the final and related question that's more long term is your pretax margins in the U.S.
are very high.
They were I think 29% last year and had gone up.
Can you keep -- those are really high with your strategies to broaden out your price points can you keep your margins that high or even expand them? Let me just handle the housekeeping question first and I'll turn it over to Bob.
And what I'd suggest Alice is that you call John Chevalier after the call and he can help you with any housekeeping that's needed.
Well relative to razors and blades yes we do have innovation in the U.S.
Fusion share in the U.S.
now is about 36% which is up one versus a year ago and we remain the market leader with blades and razors at about 73% share.
I think we can grow that a lot more.
And I think we can grow that a lot more with better marketing and more trial of ProGlide as an example.
We are innovating all across the spectrum of razors and blades.
In fact one of our fastest-growing razors and blade items is Gillette Guard which we launched in India which is the lowest-priced system that's available with replacement blades at about INR 5.
It's off to a great start and we will be expanding that around the world.
So again the way we think about innovation is we innovate through each discrete consumer segment all along that price or value-tiered portfolio.
And as Jon said earlier our after-tax margin in developing markets are roughly equal to our after-tax margins in developed markets.
So we're doing that in such a way that our -- it is accretive to profit and it is at about the same profit margin.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Building on some earlier questions about developing markets.
Curious how do you weigh which categories and brands are introduced into these markets particularly what's the thought process behind introduction to a category right like Oral Care which has some large share players and Beauty which is more fragmented.
And sort of related to that how do you think about growth in these markets over a longer period of time? I know it's been trending at high-single for low-double digits in recent years? The way we think about it Mark is that do we have a right to win? And what's the return on investment? So for example in Oral Care we have a unique moment in time where we've acquired the Oral-B business the leading brush business in the world.
We have a formula called Pro-Health or Pro-Santé or Pro-Expert depending upon the market you're in which is the very best toothpaste formula you can make for a health-conscious consumer.
It's the only one that deals with all 7 signs that an oral care professional looks for.
And we were able to figure out how to cost save that formula substantially which lowers the breakeven point and increases the return on investment when we launch it.
At the same time we've developed new flavor technology which gives us a competitive advantage versus the leading brand in every market.
And we figured out how to segment the consumer in such a way to be able to take advantage of the fact that there are health-conscious consumers there are beauty-conscious consumers.
We address the beauty conscious consumers with 3D White.
We address the health-conscious consumers with the Pro-Health.
We address the basic consumers consumers looking for a basic offering in Complete.
And that consumer segmentation is a competitive advantage because for example we are a beauty company we know beauty and we're able to offer 3D White product that our competition probably didn't think about until we had already launched it.
So it's an intersection of a number of the things that prove our right to win and a high ROI and that's why we go for it.
And I think on the question of sustainable developing market growth we're really on the cusp of something here that's pretty exciting.
When you talk about the formation of 250 million middle-income households in China in the next 10 years you combine that economic reality that's true across the developing markets with the aspiration levels of these societies and you’re at the beginning potentially of a significant growth in trade-up cycle that I don't see the near-term into.
Your next question comes from the line of John San Marco with Janney Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> I'd just like to follow up on that last question please about how you make decisions on market category combinations.
On both primary considerations first how do you define having the right to win? And then secondly what's the time horizon on which you evaluate those returns on investments before introducing a new category combination? John generally what we -- when we talk about the right to win we look at the Procter &amp; Gamble company's 5 strengths.
Those 5 strengths are innovation.
Do we have a winning innovation? Their branding.
Do we have a winning brand marketing approach? Go-to-market.
Are we able to reach the consumers we want to reach? And as you know we're trying to add 200 million new consumers to the Procter &amp; Gamble franchise every year.
We're up to 4.4 billion consumers in the world using a Procter &amp; Gamble product at least one each year.
We want to get to 5 billion consumers by the year 2015.
We've been successful in adding 200 million a year since 2009 when we were at 3.8 billion consumers.
Global scale.
Do we have global scale? I talked about the importance of the Oral-B brush business to give us a oral care platform around the world.
I think I've covered -- and customer knowledge.
Do we have the right consumer knowledge which leads to competitive advantage in consumer segmentation that I described earlier? The interesting about consumer segmentation is the company that figures out consumer segmentation and innovates to that segmentation generally wins and the company that does that generally is the one with scale.
So for example let's take Family Care in the United States.
In Family Care in the United States we've got the Charmin brand we have a soft version of Charmin we have a strong version of Charmin.
We have a lotion version of Charmin.
We have a basic version of Charmin.
No one competitor is large enough to have that consumer knowledge.
We spend $400 million a year on consumer knowledge.
We spend $2 billion a year on research and development.
No competitive -- competitor can match that segmentation.
No competitor can design the technology to meet the consumer need in that segmentation.
That is a competitive advantage that leads to share growth and profit growth over time.
So we're going to close out the call at this point.
I want to thank everybody for joining.
We're very happy again with our first quarter.
We think particularly given the pricing that we took that both the top line and the market share indicative of success in that regard.
And we continue to be confident in our fiscal year guidance range.
I would encourage you to go to our website to access the slides that I mentioned earlier which will give you more detail on the segment results.
And if you have any feedback for us on that presentation or the structure of our interaction please let us know.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
[Operator Instructions] Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's Quarter-End Conference Call.
Today’s discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G’s most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items.
Core operating margin and core operating profit growth refer to operating profit and margin excluding certain items.
Core effective tax rate refers to the effective tax rate adjusted for certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G's Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Joining me this morning are Bob McDonald and Teri List.
I'll begin today's call with a summary of our second quarter results and Teri will provide highlights for some of our largest product categories.
I'll provide some perspective on our revised outlook for the second half of the year and I'll conclude the call with guidance for fiscal year 2012 and the March quarter.
We'll take questions after our prepared remarks and we'll be available following the call to provide additional perspective.
We will also be posting slides containing business segment information on our website www.pg.com following the call.
Our second quarter underlying results were in line with our going-in expectations.
Organic sales came in at the midpoint of our estimates with core earnings per share towards the high end of our guidance range.
All-in sales growth was 4%.
Organic sales growth was also 4% as foreign exchange had essentially neutral impact on the quarter.
Top line growth was broad-based with all 6 reporting segments growing organic sales for the second consecutive quarter.
Organic volume was up 1%.
This was on the low side of our expectations due mainly to a mid-single-digit volume decline in developed markets.
Developed market volume was negatively affected by weak economic conditions and pricing taken to offset higher input costs.
We continue to see strong growth in developing markets which are delivering high-single-digit volume growth for the quarter.
Pricing contributed 4 points to organic sales growth making this the third consecutive quarter where pricing has added at least 3 points to sales growth.
Pricing was up in all 6 reporting segments.
Mix reduced sales growth by 1% due mainly to the disproportionate growth from developing markets.
We're pleased with these top line results particularly given the developed market dynamics.
There's been little to no growth in our categories in developed markets.
In fact market sizes are actually down in several big category/country combinations such as laundry detergents in the U.K.
diapers in the U.S.
and Japan and shampoos in many Western European countries.
We've been able to offset this with the progress we're making in developing markets.
We've consistently delivered high-single to low-double-digit organic sales growth in these markets and their importance to P&amp;G's global business is increasing rapidly.
Just 5 years ago developing markets represented only 27% of our global sales.
They grew to 35% last year and they should reach about 37% of sales and about 45% of volume by the end of this fiscal year.
Importantly they've accounted for more than 80% of our organic sales growth so far this year.
We're growing share and building scale in these fast-growing countries.
Our BRIC markets have averaged double-digit top line growth for the past 2 years.
Our top 11 emerging markets have added about 0.5 share points for the past 12- 6- and 3-month periods.
We've expanded our portfolio to roughly 40 new category/country combinations in developing markets over the last 18 months with 10 more scheduled for the balance of this fiscal year.
Recent expansions have included Safeguard in Africa Downy in Indonesia and Oral-B in Nigeria.
And we'll be continuing our Oral Care expansion with Oral-B toothpaste in Colombia Chile Argentina and Peru in the next few months.
Despite the macro challenges we have numerous opportunities for growth in developed markets.
As I mentioned some big categories are declining but others such as toothpaste and shampoos in the U.S.
and U.K.
are still growing at a mid-single-digit pace.
The antidote for slow market growth is innovation.
We'll continue to leverage successful innovations such as Crest 3D White Downy Unstopables and Fusion ProGlide.
We'll also drive growth with commercial innovation such as our global multi-brand Olympics campaign.
We'll continue to field strong marketing programs.
In addition we will continue to fill in white spaces in our developed market portfolios to compete in both more super premium and value-priced tiers.
Our objective is to continue growing share and through this growing sales in developed markets but we're realistic about the challenges that exist.
Global market share for the quarter was essentially in line with prior year levels.
We held or grew share in 9 of our top 15 countries 3 of our 6 reporting segments and on 11 of our 24 billion-dollar brands.
Market share was in line or higher in businesses representing about 45% of global sales.
This is a reduction from the roughly 60% level we've seen over the last several quarters.
As we've noted on many occasions we expected a fair amount of market share volatility given the amount of pricing we've been implementing and considering that P&amp;G has often been the first manufacturer to raise prices in many categories.
In most cases we expect the share impacts to be temporary as our competitive price gaps are now slowly narrowing.
In a few cases such as auto dishwashing and laundry powder categories in the U.S.
we have announced corrective actions to ensure our brands continue to be an excellent value for consumers relative to competitive offerings.
Shifting to the bottom line.
Core earnings per share were $1.10 towards the top end of our guidance range.
This represents a decline of 3% versus the prior year as the impact of higher commodity costs and a significant tax rate headwind more than offset the benefits from solid sales growth and cost savings.
Results also included the impact of a divestiture of the PUR business.
All-in earnings were $0.57 per share.
This includes $0.53 per share of noncore charges primarily to write-down goodwill and certain intangibles in the Appliances and Salon Professional business.
The impairment charges are onetime and noncash in nature.
They are the outcome of the annual discipline process we undertake to assess the goodwill and intangibles carrying value of all of our businesses and brands.
In each of the last 2 fiscal years we've highlighted in our Annual Report -- in last year's report it's on Page 49 -- and in our 10-K that the Appliances and Salon Professional businesses had a heightened risk of future goodwill and intangibles impairment.
Both of these businesses have been negatively impacted by the weak economic environment.
Both businesses are in high-priced discretionary categories where market sizes have been declining.
And both have a portfolio mix skewed very heavily toward the Western European market.
In fact around 50% of sales from each business are from Western Europe about 2.5x more than the average business in our portfolio.
While still positive we've reduced our forecast for out period growth which leads to reduced intangibles and goodwill value.
These charges do not diminish the strategic attractiveness of these businesses or our commitment to them.
Moving back to the drivers of our core results.
Gross margin declined 210 basis points.
The combination of pricing cost savings and fixed cost leverage improved gross margin by roughly 310 basis points.
These benefits were more than offset by a 300 basis point negative impact from higher commodity and energy costs and a 220 basis point negative impact from geographic and product mix.
SG&amp;A costs were down about 50 basis points on a core basis due mainly to sales growth leverage and a reduction in overhead spending.
Core operating profit margin declined 160 basis points due to the reduction in gross margin.
The effective all-in tax rate for the quarter was 36.7% an unusually high rate due to the nature of the noncore charges affecting the quarter the majority of which are not tax deductible.
Excluding the impact of noncore items the effective tax rate on core earnings was 24.9% which can pays -- excuse me compares to a base period core tax rate of 22.3%.
This difference equates to a $0.04 per share headwind on core EPS growth for the quarter.
We generated $2.4 billion in free cash flow and we returned $2 billion of cash to shareholders this quarter through dividends and share repurchases.
At the current annualized dividend of $2.10 per share our dividend yield is approximately 3.2%.
Now I'll turn the call over to Teri to review some of the highlights of our business results.
Thanks Jon.
Similar to last quarter I won't be covering all of the details of our 6 reporting segments.
But instead we'll review highlights from some of our larger businesses.
For more information on business segment results please refer to the press release we issued this morning and slides that will be posted on our website pg.com at the conclusion of this call.
Starting with the Beauty segment.
We delivered organic volume and sales growth of 2%.
Retail Hair Care led the growth with organic volume up mid-single digits and global value share up slightly.
Asia growth was strong and broad-based with volume up mid-teens and value share increasing behind -- nearly 1 point.
India Pantene shipments increased over 80% behind sachet distribution expansion into 2 million stores in the first 5 months of launch.
China Head &amp; Shoulders shipments were up over 25%.
In developed markets North America Hair Care faced high levels of competitive promotional spending leading to a mid-single-digit shipment decline.
We launched both product and commercial innovation on Pantene and Head &amp; Shoulders this month which have generated a positive response from customers and consumers.
Global retail Skin Care shipments were about flat.
Asia volume increased mid-single digits fueled by growth in our recent expansion markets including India South Korea Vietnam and Malaysia.
The North America business continued to face challenges with high levels of competition predominantly in the mid-priced tier where Olay has less shelf presence.
The brand is introducing new products to better compete in this fast-growing segment of the brand -- of the market.
In the Grooming segment blades and razors volume increased low single digits.
Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa shipments increased double digits largely behind expansion of Fusion ProGlide which is now available in over 30 markets around the world.
In Western Europe value share was flat but volume declined high single digits in a contracting market.
In North America Fusion delivered strong results growing share by over 1 point.
This gain was offset by losses in Mach3 in the legacy Gillette business as we continue to face high levels of competitive promotional activity.
We recently began conversations with customers regarding how we will support all tiers of our blades and razors portfolio.
In the Health Care segment Oral Care volume was down low single digits.
North America volume was about flat as the business indexed against a very strong base period and faced significant competitive pressure.
We're very encouraged that despite the highly promotional environment Crest 3D White continued to grow with value share up over 0.5 points versus year ago.
Globally our Oral-B toothpaste expansion markets delivered results ahead of expectation.
Brazil toothpaste value share grew for the 11th consecutive quarter.
U.K.
toothpaste share is over 7% and Belgian toothpaste value share is over 18% up 6 points versus year ago.
All of our wave one markets have achieved double-digit shares and as Jon mentioned we're continuing the Oral-B toothpaste expansion.
We started shipping in Colombia earlier this month and we will launch in Chile Argentina and Peru in the near future.
In the Fabric and Home Care segment we delivered organic sales growth of 5% behind flat volumes mix rate of 1% and a pricing benefit of 6%.
Global Fabric Care shipments were flat with developing markets growing mid-single digits and developed markets declining mid-single.
Asia led the growth as India delivered a second straight quarter of laundry shipments increasing over 25% with growth across the portfolio.
China also delivered a strong quarter growing share behind the Ariel upgrade and relaunch in November.
Fabric Care developed markets were a story of mixed results.
On the positive side French volume grew high single digits and Ariel delivered record value share of nearly 25%.
U.S.
Downy grew value share nearly 1 point behind Downy Unstopables.
However both the U.K.
and U.S.
laundry market lost share as we faced consumer value disadvantages from price increases we took last calendar year.
Pricing intervention plans in powder detergents have been announced to the trade and we expect to regain volume and share growth with a strong innovation program planned for laundry over the next 6 to 12 months.
As many of you know we'll begin selling Tide PODS in less than 1 month.
Due to a combination of increased customer demand and manufacturing challenges we're beginning with a shelf-only launch and we'll add merchandising during the back half of the calendar year.
We expect Tide PODS will be one of our top initiatives this year and potentially the biggest launch in the U.S.
consumer product industry.
Global Home Care delivered solid results.
Shipments increased low single digits and we held global value share with 4 of 5 regions flat or growing.
The main challenge for the business is the U.S.
auto dish category where we increased prices last June by 8% on average.
Since this time the consumer value versus competitive products has been outside of our tolerance range and we've seen share losses of more than 7 points.
This is not something that we are willing to accept and we have taken corrective actions.
In December we announced to the trade that effective in February we will be reversing our price increase on the Cascade business.
This is disappointing but necessary to protect our competitive position.
We will aggressively pursue cost savings to help maintain structural profitability and future innovation plans.
Finally the Baby and Family Care segment increased organic sales by 6%.
Volume and mix were flat and pricing contributed 6%.
Global Baby Care delivered strong results with value share up nearly 1 point as we leveraged the strong portfolio we have established.
Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa grew value share by nearly 1.5 points by focusing on a strong 3-tiered portfolio supported by equity building and commercial and product innovation.
Asia also had strong growth with share increasing nearly 2 points.
India Pampers shipments grew 50% behind a combination of market growth and the most significant product upgrade since we introduced the brand in 2007.
In developed markets North America volume declined modestly due to a contracting market.
However U.S.
value share grew over 1.5 points led by the premium tier.
Overall our large businesses delivered solid results in a tough environment.
We're taking the necessary steps in developed markets to restore growth in categories where consumer value issues or portfolio gaps have led to market share decline.
Our progress in developing markets is offsetting these issues.
While this creates a near-term mix headwind on the top and bottom line the scale we're building in developing markets through innovation driven growth and category expansions will help improve the profitability over time.
I will now turn the call back to Jon.
Thanks Teri.
Before I get into guidance I want to talk a little bit about what we're seeing and the environment that we're operating in.
As you saw in our press release we've tightened our fiscal year sales guidance and reduced our earnings per share guidance.
Foreign exchange has been a strong headwind.
When we set our initial guidance for the year we expected foreign exchange to add 2% to 3% to top line growth.
This range has declined by 3 to 4 percentage points which equates to roughly $3 billion in sales or a negative earnings impact of $0.15 to $0.18 per share.
Since the beginning of the year the ruble the zloty the real the peso and the Turkish lira have all moved significantly depreciating between 10% and 20% against the dollar.
These currencies along with the pound account for the vast majority of the earnings impact since our initial guidance for the year.
Historically when foreign exchange rates have moved significantly in a negative direction we have received a meaningful offset from declining commodity costs.
This has not been the case this year.
Across our total basket of material and energy exposures we've seen little change to our going-in expectations of $1.8 billion before tax of higher input costs.
We have seen prices soften for some commodities like pulp and natural gas but these benefits have been largely offset by increases in other materials such as surfactants alcohols and other chemicals and direct costs such as diesel fuel.
The overall economic environment in developed markets is weak.
On a unit basis market growth has decelerated over the past 12- 6- and 3-month periods in both Western Europe and the U.S.
With Europe now -- Europe is now likely in recession growth in Japan is negative and GDP in the U.S.
is growing but slowly.
A related dynamic that's having an impact is the disproportionate growth coming from developing markets.
While after-tax margin levels for our developing markets are only modestly lower than the developed average the absolute profit per unit is lower.
The resulting mix impact on profit per unit is contributing to our revised outlook.
We're also facing some market-specific impacts including government pricing interventions being made in Venezuela.
Because of the uncertainty leading up to an eventual announcement some retailers have stopped ordering for fear that they will end up with inventory that costs more than the price the new laws may allow them to sell those inventories at.
We've also had to pull out of Syria following the tightening of U.S.
sanctions and we continue to monitor developments in other Middle Eastern and North African countries.
As we've seen these dynamics unfolding we considered a number of actions that could have helped us maintain our prior guidance range.
For example we could have delayed Oral-B toothpaste expansions in Latin America we could have cut advertising aimed at building consumer awareness of Tide PODS this quarter we could have significantly reduced our marketing and in-store investments behind the Olympics or we could have delayed important R&amp;D investments.
However as we've said many times we're going to balance our objective of making meaningful near-term improvement and operating profit growth with our objective of maintaining the investments necessary to sustain growth beyond just the next few quarters.
That doesn't mean we're standing still.
To help manage the dynamics I've just discussed and to ensure we can meaningfully grow operating profit we're strengthening our commitment to the 4 priorities we set for the organization at the beginning of this year: Our first priority is maintaining our top line growth momentum.
Overall we're pleased with our results here.
Against the backdrop of a weak macroeconomic environment in developed markets we have averaged 4% organic sales growth over the last 9 quarters.
As we look forward we expect continued growth with developing markets like Latin America and Asia leading the way offsetting lackluster growth in developed markets.
Our second priority is to execute our pricing changes with excellence.
We're also pleased with our progress in this area.
Overall we've implemented about 80% of the pricing we expect to take this fiscal year.
There are still several new businesses and markets in which we'll be taking price increases to offset higher input costs or foreign exchange impacts.
Also as I mentioned earlier there are a few categories where we will be making some corrective adjustments but these adjustments will have a minor impact compared to the $3.5 billion of increases we will take this year.
Pricing will continue to be a significant driver of organic sales growth for the next several quarters.
Our third priority is improving productivity in all that we do.
Our productivity and restructuring work are focused on 3 main objectives: ensuring we have the right resources in place -- excuse me the right resources in the right places; increasing our agility and speed to market; and driving cost savings.
We're taking an aggressive design-based approach to drive productivity improvement.
This approach is necessary to get resources in the right places and increase our agility.
Several recent decisions we made flow directly from this design work.
We are reducing the number of technical centers we operate globally and are opening new technical centers in developing markets such as the new facility we're building in Singapore and the expansion of our R&amp;D center in Beijing.
These steps expand the number of technical resources operating closer to the sources of growth in our industry.
We're consolidating our supply-planning activities into central hubs including one we opened earlier this year in Cincinnati.
We just announced an outsourcing arrangement for U.S.
in-store detailing work to several partners who are experts in this area.
These efforts will improve speed and agility improve supply chain efficiency and ensure our brands continue to have excellent presentation during promotions and on shelf while reducing costs.
We're examining all areas of costs in every business including product design manufacturing logistics and marketing spending.
We're also reducing travel costs by leveraging technology and conducting more virtual meetings as we coordinate work across regions of the world.
One of the largest opportunities to better leverage our scale and drive simplification is in the overhead organizations that account for slightly more than 40% of company-wide enrollment.
Our organization design work has identified the opportunity to reduce enrollment in these areas by about 3% or 1 600 roles by the end of this fiscal year.
We'll achieve this objective through the combination of selective hiring normal attrition and our restructuring efforts.
The reductions this year should yield annual savings of around $240 million before tax.
Our efforts to reduce costs in nonmanufacturing portions of the organization will go beyond this fiscal year.
We'll share more specifics on the overall scope of the productivity improvements and resulting savings at the CAGNY conference in 3 weeks.
We're committed to work to get the right resources in the right places improve our agility and speed and deliver meaningful cost savings.
This savings work will be -- will deliver the fuel for reinvestment and innovation and portfolio expansion and it will be an important driver of high-quality earnings growth.
The first 3 priorities focus on top line growth and productivity improvement leading directly to our fourth priority which has been to restore solid operating profit growth.
As a result of the pricing we've taken as a result of easing commodity cost comparisons and as a result of our productivity and cost-savings effort we expect second half core operating profit growth of 10% to 15%.
Let me now turn to guidance.
On the fiscal year we're tightening our organic sales guidance range to growth of 4% to 5% versus our prior range of 3% to 6%.
This tighter range reflects the fact that we're halfway through the fiscal year.
We estimate the net impact from pricing and mix will contribute between 2 to 3 points to sales growth for the year.
Within this we expect pricing and lower promotion levels will add roughly 4% to sales growth and that mix will continue to be a headwind of 1 to 2 percentage points.
We expect foreign exchange will be a negative 1% to sales growth for the year based on current rates.
This brings our all-in sales growth guidance to a range of 3% to 4% for the year.
On the bottom line we're adjusting our guidance range for core earnings per share to $4 to $4.10 versus our prior range of $4.15 to $4.33.
Our new range equates to core EPS growth of 1% to 4% versus prior year core earnings per share of $3.95.
We're maintaining a relatively wide core earnings per share guidance range due to several uncertainties including underlying market growth rates input costs and foreign exchange impacts.
This range does not include a potential impact from the Venezuelan review of industry pricing levels as it's still very unclear what degree of effect this may have on our results.
We now expect all-in earnings per share in the range of $3.85 to $4.08.
This range includes the expected gain from the Pringles divestiture of $0.55 to $0.65 per share as we're maintaining estimates on the assumption we will close the transaction within this fiscal year.
All-in earnings per share also includes noncore restructuring cost in the range of $0.15 to $0.80 per share and the $0.52 per share of noncore charges for the impairments and the legal item in France.
We continue to expect capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of net sales which may result in free cash flow productivity somewhat below our typical 90% target level.
Our plans to utilize our free cash flow remain unchanged.
We expect to pay around $6 billion in dividends and we estimate share repurchases will be in the range of $4 billion to $5 billion for the fiscal year a modest reduction in the range consistent with our new earnings outlook.
For the second half of the fiscal year we expect significant improvement in operating profit and operating margin though we're now planning for a more gradual improvement than we predicted earlier this year because of the macro factors I talked about earlier.
On the top line we expect organic sales growth in the range of 4% and 5% for the second half.
We're forecasting strong growth in developing markets driven by our innovation and expansion plans.
We're continue -- we're continuing as we've talked to globalize our Oral Care business with new launches in Latin America.
We're investing to expand distribution to more stores in developing markets and improving the quality of that distribution.
We have a major Bounty initiative launching in February and we remain very excited about Tide PODS which will be available nationally in 3 weeks.
We also recently kicked off the first elements of our global marketing and in-store plans for the Olympics and you'll see more and more multi-brand advertising and promotional activities as we get closer to the summer games in London.
Our objective for the Olympics is to generate $500 million in incremental sales.
Finally as I mentioned pricing will continue to be a significant contributor to sales growth in both developed and developing markets.
On the bottom line our new guidance translates to back half core EPS growth of 4% to 9%.
This includes roughly a 600 basis point earnings per share growth rate headwind from the difficult tax comparison.
At an equalized tax rate core earnings per share growth would be in the range of 10% to 15% in the back half.
As I mentioned operating profit growth is also expected to be in the 10% to 15% range which translates to core operating margin growth of 150 to 250 basis points for the second half.
The primary driver of the improvement is the combined benefit of higher year-on-year pricing and much more favorable commodity cost comparisons.
For perspective we expect year-on-year gross margin to swing from a significant negative in the first half to a significant year-on-year positive in the fourth quarter.
Also the benefits from our productivity and cost savings work will accelerate in the second half.
Moving to the January-March quarter we're expecting organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5%.
We expect a continued strong benefit from pricing in the March quarter similar to what we delivered in the December quarter.
Foreign exchange is expected to reduce sales growth by approximately 3 points which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of flat to up 2%.
On the bottom line we expect to deliver a meaningful improvement in operating profit and operating margin despite lower gross margin and a negative impact from foreign exchange.
The year-on-year commodity costs challenge will begin to dissipate in the March quarter.
To be clear input cost will still be up in the third quarter but we're beginning to catch up to the high base period levels.
This dynamic along with the recent pricing we've taken and our ongoing cost savings efforts will help reduce the pressure on gross margin.
Solid operating profit essentially will be fully offset by a difficult tax rate comparison.
The effective tax rate in the March quarter of last year was 21.1% and we expect the comparable rate to be between 500 and 600 basis points higher this year.
This equates to roughly a 7% headwind on earnings per share growth for the quarter or about $0.07 per share.
We expect March quarter core earnings per share in the range of $0.91 to $0.97 or down 5% to up 1% versus base period core earnings per share of $0.96.
At an equalized tax rate this equates to core earnings per share growth in the range of 2% to 8%.
On an all-in basis we estimate earnings per share in the range of $0.81 to $0.87.
This includes expected noncore restructuring charges of approximately $0.10 per share for the quarter as we expand the implementation of our organization design work.
In summary we're making progress in a difficult economic and competitive environment.
We expect sequential improvement in operating profit growth from the second to third quarters.
We'll see an even larger improvement as we move from the third to fourth quarters behind the easing of input cost comparisons and the full benefit of pricing.
We are continuing to make the investments necessary to deliver our long-term growth objectives while also increasing the urgency to deliver near-term improvements in our cost structure.
That concludes our prepared remarks and now Bob Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Jon in terms of looking at this this is the second year in a row where you guys have sort of back end loaded the year and then had to sort of take a step back and sort of reduce some of the profit growth estimates.
And I understand it's a volatile market out there.
But can you talk a little bit about how you're viewing the role of productivity going forward in terms of maybe sort of minimizing some of these shocks? And I guess are there any lessons learned from this as we look out in terms of sort of your ability to sustain let's say a certain growth rate? Or do you think it's just more of the macro environment? The link between heightened efforts on productivity and the desire to be able to deal with the kind of volatility that we're managing through is the right link to draw.
We are -- we're going to stay focused on this.
We think there's significant savings to come from this.
Again we'll talk more in detail about that at CAGNY.
And that should give us the ability to deal more effectively with the volatility that we're experiencing.
In terms of predicable growth rates I think we've grown very productively on the top line.
The bottom line really as you indicate has been a function of macro effects whether it was commodities last year the combination of commodities and foreign exchange this year.
We'll work hard to offset them through increased productivity but what we can't do is reduce spending to offset these costs in a way that harms the long-term trajectory of the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get some thoughts.
The guidance reduction seems heavily obviously FX related but I'm kind of haunted by the last time you guys took a lot of pricing and the competitors either didn't follow or you took too much and it kind of had to come in reverse several quarters later.
So can you just talk about that dynamic and how much flexibility you have to deal with that just in case you need to close price gaps more broadly? Nik we talked about the fact we've taken about $3.5 billion of pricing and that there were 3 category/country combinations where competition didn't follow and we felt the need to react to that to regain the value equation.
And in Jon remark -- Jon's remarks we talked about those reversals or reactions not being material to the $3.5-billion increment.
And so that's what we've seen so far.
So I think you'd have to say that overall we were successful in executing the pricing that we wanted and we feel good about what we were able to achieve.
Having said that there are these 3 instances where we've had to take some action to return the value equation.
I'll just add 2 things.
One is that the -- while it's a significant amount of pricing the percentage increase that we're talking about this time around is much less than occurred last time.
So the pricing gaps as they open are nowhere near as significant.
The second important difference between this cycle and last cycle if you recall as soon as we got prices up commodities started to roll over.
That's not what we're seeing now.
So in terms of both kind of the macro dynamics and in terms of what we're seeing in the marketplace we feel like we're in reasonably good shape.
Yes I think -- the only other thing I would add is as Jon said we're growing share now.
Our in-line share was about 45% of our business.
Back in AMJ of 2009 that number was more like 25% of our business.
So we've been able to continue to hold the market share.
Certainly we'd like to be up to 60% which is what we hold ourselves to.
But 45% is not bad given that we've always said that the October-December quarter would be the most volatile and would be the most difficult during this fiscal year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I guess developed category volume continues to be weak right? You guys are clear about that and not really getting better.
And obviously emerging markets have helped.
But in the context of developed markets' weakness can I -- just can you talk a little bit about what the top line growth composition might look like in the long term? Just specifically absent volume growth.
And can you use pricing as a tool in a more proactive way than you have? Or does a weak economic environment and competition really make that unrealistic? I guess can you break out what you think pricing versus volume will look like avoiding even giving an absolute range? Just what do you think the composition of that top line could look like as we go 3 to 5 years out? Well we're going to continue to grow the top line and we're going to continue to grow the market share Chris.
I mean as you know our top line goal is to grow 1 to 2 points above the market.
And the antidote the way to do that is to have a full portfolio of offerings from premium priced to low priced.
I think our laundry category in the U.S.
is somewhat instructive of this where we've got Tide TOTAL CARE the best aggregation of technology you can get in the laundry category at a price index of about 160 versus average Tide all the way down to Era which can be anywhere from an index of 65 to 85.
And we're innovating on that business by introducing PODS and doing a number of other things on other brands.
So for us we want to grow 1 to 2 points above the market.
We want to do that with a full portfolio and there's indication that -- there's certainly indication for example on Crest 3D White is a good example that even though you're premium priced if you're offering a superior value to consumers they will continue to buy it.
So innovation becomes very critical to the future.
I think if you think about a more normalized environment remember the volumes are being impacted by a significant amount of pricing.
I'd see volume as a bigger contributor going forward than it has been certainly in the last quarter call it 2 to 4 points.
And I think there is some inherent pricing power in many of our businesses and we're going to be working on more routine discipline in terms of pricing so hopefully that'll continue to contribute positively going forward.
And then we're going to continue to have some mixed drag just from the disproportionate growth in developing markets.
So I think if you go back to our historic range of 4 to 6 or call it 4 to 5 top line a good 3 to 4 points of that will be volume on a going basis and then we'd have some mix and pricing help.
And that's of course a global number.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the I guess commentary that you said some of the -- you saw some of the price gaps starting to narrow and the expectation that this is somewhat temporary because -- I couldn't help it.
I went in the press release and I counted and 7 times you guys mentioned competitive activity or value differences.
And that combined with the mid-single-digit volume decline in the U.S.
it just feels like a pretty significant expectation of things getting better pretty quickly and then again with the 45% of businesses holding or maintaining share.
So can you just give me a few more examples on like what really changes sequentially? Or are you -- where are you already seeing things getting better from a competitive standpoint that can make you comfortable with that outlook? Well I think Lauren as I said earlier the fact that we've taken so much pricing $3.5 billion and that we've got these very isolated discrete instances where competitors haven't followed price increases -- maybe if I get granular on those it will show you how the balance seems to be going well.
In some -- in most of the markets competitors are raising prices.
Certainly pricing is at the discretion of retailers but in others they haven't.
So in the U.K.
for example we've continued to see deep discounting from Unilever on both the hair care and laundry categories.
In U.K.
laundry -- and remember we came from behind in the U.K.
in laundry.
U.K.
is Unilever's home market.
We were up to 55 plus share.
Unilever's average retail price is now down about 5% over the past 6 months where our average price is up about 4%.
In U.S.
auto dish category Reckitt's not increased prices and again we're the market leader.
In fact they've increased their trade spending in track channels by more than 40% versus the prior year since we increased prices in June of 2011.
In U.S.
laundry our average Tide powder pricing is up double digits versus year ago while Church &amp; Dwight's average powder pricing is down low single digits.
On liquids we continue to see heavy promotional activity from competitors while the average Tide Liquid pricing is flat versus year ago.
While we can't discuss unannounced plans on particular brands we're closely monitoring these situations and we're going to react.
In fact we've already announced as Jon said in his remarks a price increase rollback on Cascade in North America to deal with the situation on Reckitt.
And we have plans moving forward on the other disparities I discussed.
And if you think about the timing of when we've taken pricing Lauren a lot of this occurred September-October window and we've talked before about needing really 6 months to understand how it's going to sort out.
We've seen a number of competitors and I won't name country/categories recently take pricing so that gives us encouragement going forward.
I think if you listen to the remarks of both Colgate and Kimberly which you obviously have they continue to -- those remarks are indicative of an environment that requires pricing.
And we've actually had some competitors Energizer as an example take another round of price increases which we're now following.
So it's -- I mean it would take me a long time to take you through obviously category by country across the world but we are seeing positive development in the last month or 2 which does give us confidence.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You're kind of blaming the categories in the U.S.
but it's a little bit frustrating because your market shares are so high and the old P&amp;G would have sort of committed itself to expanding the categories and I know it's a different environment partially but what do you think the issues are the challenges in actually driving category growth through real discontinuous innovation because it doesn't seem like we've seen a lot of that recently? Well Bill I agree with you that discontinuous innovation is important to grow categories in developed markets.
I would argue with you in a bit that we -- that you're not seeing it.
In fact we just announced the launch of Febreze auto product which gets us into a category in fragrances in automobiles that we've never been in before.
And this product takes advantage of our proprietary superior technology in fragrance that I think will be a big hit and will remake the category so we're really excited about that.
But certainly we have dedicated more resources to discontinuous innovation because we recognize the importance of that.
Of course Tide PODS is another example where we're in the midst of the introduction of Tide PODS which will be expansive to the laundry category in the sense that it's priced higher in a per-use basis as well as it's the most condensed laundry product you can buy.
So it's going to be much better for the environment.
And as we said earlier we expect it to be about 30% of the category.
But we're working on more innovation as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty of BMO Capital Markets.
I'm having a really hard time reconciling the $0.15 to $0.18 hit from FX.
The -- when the fiscal year started you were looking for 2% to 3% positive and in the last quarter you went to neutral without changing the outlook.
Now it's down 1% for the year and it's $0.15 to $0.18.
Somehow it doesn't make sense.
I'm wondering if you can give us the breakdown between the transaction and translation impact because a lot of us have been adjusting for FX as rates have changed and a change of this magnitude is just not gelling so some help there would be appreciated.
Sure.
The dynamic that you described which is having reflected if you will a significant amount of the FX decline in our top line estimates in our last call is correct.
At that point we felt that there were things that were going to able us -- enable us to offset the bottom line impact of FX so we didn't adjust our bottom line guidance at that point.
But for instance in the last quarter as has been alluded to by others we had much more growth in developing markets as a percentage of our total than we were expecting which is positive on one hand but has a negative P&amp;L impact.
We also had assumed as I alluded to in my remarks that with those -- with that stronger dollar we would see some rollover in commodity costs and that turned out not to materialize.
And that's the reason we're now reducing guidelines so obviously -- or guidance.
So obviously there's a lot of moving parts but at the heart of issue is FX.
And to help you get to the $0.15 to $0.18 which I realize can be hard I'd suggest we follow up offline and we can take you through that in broad strokes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> One just quick clarifying and then the real question but can you give us a sense of advertising spend on the quarter given your SG&amp;A change? And then real question is we understand the macro backdrop and we've heard it from many people but I guess it's a little -- I don't know what the right word is frustrating bothersome maybe but it seems that there's things that P&amp;G itself could do better as well.
So like Tide PODS is one of maybe 9 supply chain issues.
The volume and market share elasticity maybe were underestimated a little bit.
Cost cutting is improving.
But you know we'd like you guys to do it faster and it's great news that we're going to hear more it sounds like at CAGNY.
Is that a fair assessment that there are many things P&amp;G could do more could do better in terms of kind of self-help? And if that's the case we scratch our heads sometimes and say okay so why? And one response that comes up a lot when we talk to clients is "Gosh it's just too complex for the business." And there's some support for that belief as Beauty and non-Beauty are diverging in terms of growth as Colgate and Church &amp; Dwight and Kimberly-Clark are more focused or arguably even better.
What do you think about that argument that it's just too complex to manage P&amp;G as is and it'll be better managed broken up? Well obviously we think there's tremendous advantage to having the scale that we have and we've said repeatedly that we've got to demonstrate to you that we can take that scale and turn it into accelerated growth.
Our goal is to be in the top third of our peer group in terms of total shareholder return and anything that detracts from us being there is unacceptable to us.
We're the company who was just rated by Chief Executive Magazine through some research they did as being the best company for the development of leaders and it's now time for all of us as leaders of this company to step up get the company back into the top third of our peer group and stay there in terms of total shareholder return.
And we're in the process of building the capability to do that.
Improving the productivity is going to be part of it to give us possibility when these kinds of short-term impacts occur continuing to innovate continuing to build brands.
But I think you're going to continue -- I think you're going to see some good evidence.
We're going to obviously talk about it at CAGNY.
But in the balance of the year I think you'll see good evidence that we're on track to achieve those goals I just talked about and we will point them out to you along the way so that you don't miss them.
And we're all for appropriate portfolio discipline and ensuring that each part of the portfolio's value gets maximized.
I've gotten asked similar to your question many times recently would we consider doing something like Kraft? I would argue that's exactly what we've been doing as major portions of our business whether it's pharmaceuticals or coffee and now snacks lead the portfolio.
The question is can a company with a scale like ours win versus the more focused company that you talked about and we will help you see evidence of that along the way.
But I think the fact that we're making good progress in Oral Care and we as Jon said in his remarks I think and Teri said in hers we're expanding our Oral Care offerings to the balance of Latin America you're going to see further evidence of this.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First a detail question.
Jon what's your tax rate expectation for the full year? I'm not sure if I missed that.
And what's your expectation on an ongoing basis beyond this year? And then Bob I just wanted to get an update on your viewpoint of attention between gaining market share and driving profitability going forward.
We saw a pretty pronounced focus on market share if you go back a year 1.5 years ago and that shifted here the last couple of quarters to more of a profit focus with the higher pricing but now it looks like you're losing some of the market share momentum you had.
So I just want to get an update over the next few quarters here if you're willing to cede little bit of market share and you're not too concerned by the share loss given you led pricing or if you anticipate taking more aggressive actions beyond the selective adjustments you outlined today.
So first Dara on the tax rate.
The range for this year is call it 25% to 26%.
And of course the going rate is one of the biggest questions we have right now.
It's a policy-based question but assuming status quo we'd expect a rate of around 26% on a going basis.
Our leaders are rewarded for building both market share and profit.
The overarching goal is as I said is to be in the top third of our peer group in total shareholder return.
We talk about and in our leadership not or.
At the time where you -- I think you and others interpreted what I was saying as being a focus on share.
That was after the AMJ quarter of 2009 and A.G.
and I reported that our market share was growing or in line in about 25% of our business so it was critical at that time to regain our market share.
We had gone through a period of as Jon said earlier tremendous pricing and we had lost quite a bit of market share.
We had to regain that.
Today's situation is very different.
As Jon indicated earlier we're in line or growing market share of about 45% of our business.
We know where the issues are.
We're working on those issues.
But our job going forward is to improve the profitability of the company and to grow market share at the same time and to be in the top third of our peer group in total shareholder return and we're not going to stop until we're there and we're even not going to stop once we are there.
Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante of Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I wanted just to focus more on the savings side.
My understanding is that the pretax savings is going to be $250 million and this is all related to Pringles if I understand correctly.
But given that there is this margin dilution from an emerging market that is now going to go away and you commented also that the growth profile in the U.S.
and Western Europe is surprising on the low side and I understand that there is a significant cyclical aspect to it.
But shouldn't you be more proactive thinking about resizing the SG&amp;A side and basically try to be more aggressive on the savings side because $250 million in a company that is well over $80 billion in sales seems to be rather modest? So first just a clarification.
The $250 million savings is not related to Pringles.
It's related to enrollment -- a non-Pringles enrollment reduction that we're targeting this year of 3%.
Second we agree with you that we need to be even more intentional in this area and as we said we're going to talk about that a little bit more when we're together in 3 weeks at CAGNY.
But what one thing I want to also talk about is the developing market dynamic.
If you look at the last 10 years we've grown -- we've tripled the size of our developing market business.
And over the last 6 years we have had to deal with about 650 basis points of commodity cost increases over $6 billion.
And over that same period of time while we're growing our business disproportionately in developing markets and while we're dealing with these commodity costs we increased our operating margin 200 basis points.
I realize the last couple of quarters haven't looked like that.
But I think that's more indicative over longer periods of time as you smooth out the volatility of the kind of performance that we're capable of delivering and we'll target to deliver.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just following up with the cost cutting and understanding that you'll talk more about I guess that 350 to 450 basis point at CAGNY.
I guess the question is the use of the cost savings and the role of advertising.
I think you've said before that where you ended 2011 I think it was a little over 11%.
It was probably a good level.
But just given some of the softer trends we're seeing in developed markets and obviously trying to find the balance between share gain and driving profitability do you think that you're going to need to see a bigger step-up maybe over the next couple of years as that plays out in order to kind of reengage consumers back in some of the premium categories that maybe you haven't seen over the last year? Thank you Jason.
As we've said historically the 9% to 11% range has been what we have spent.
Actually I believe that over time we will see the increase in the cost of advertising moderate.
There are just so many different media available today and we're quickly moving more and more of our businesses into digital.
And in that space there are lots of different avenues available.
In the digital space with things like Facebook and Google and others we find that the return on investment of the advertising when properly designed when the big idea is there can be much more efficient.
One example is our Old Spice campaign where we had 1.8 billion free impressions and there are many other examples I can cite from all over the world.
So while there may be pressure on advertising particularly in the United States for example during the year of a presidential election there are mitigating factors like the plethora of media available.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the Pringles business.
Obviously you kept in the divestiture -- or the gain from the divestiture by fiscal year end.
Just any color you can give us in terms of with an SEC investigation how you're confident this can happen in the next 3 4 months.
Well it all depends on what's determined first in the internal investigation and then others that may be occurring.
And we're just at this point following Diamond's public representations that they're going to have concluded the internal investigation in the middle of February and we'll obviously be able to talk with them in more detail about that at that time.
And then we'll go from there.
Your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I have a housekeeping question and my real question.
You broke out volume for developers -- the developing parts of the world.
Could you break out pricing? And also could you tell us if volume is down more or less in the U.S.
than in Europe? And then my real question is back to this -- to innovation which you seem to agree is critical to doing well over time.
When are we going to start seeing more large-scale innovation in developed regions so that you can start gaining share? And as an example you cite Fusion as gaining share which is great but overall you're losing a share in blades.
And I think we heard 9 months ago that you're going to start supporting some of your legacy brands but now I'm hearing that you're just now beginning to talk to retailers about how to support value.
I'm just -- you seem slow to innovate and I'm wondering if you're going to step it up.
So first Alice let me just handle the housekeeping and then I'll turn it over to Bob.
We can help you with that information.
We will help you with that information.
I don't have it here with me at that level of granularity.
But if you call Jon after the meeting we'll help you out there.
Alice if you look over -- since the year 2000 and you look at the number of IRI Pacesetters those have been the biggest sellers in the categories in which we compete.
Half of them since the year 2000 have been Procter &amp; Gamble's.
We expect to keep that kind of pace of innovation up and that's the way we look at it.
This year we've introduced Downy Unstopables which created a new category.
We've introduced Olay Facial Hair which created a new category.
We're just now introducing ProGlide Styler which created a new category.
I talked about the fact we're going into automobiles with Febreze for the first time.
We've got a couple of other new category creators later this fiscal year.
And then as I look at our program going forward we have other discontinuous innovation as well.
But discontinuous innovation is something we're working very hard on and we recognize that there's obviously a correlation between our North American business and discontinuous innovation.
You talked about blades and razors.
If you look at the way we've grown our business in Latin America and in Asia on blades and razors it will be instructive to the growth that we will have in Western Europe and North America because we have historically supported all forms of our blades and razor offering in Latin America for example and that business is one of our strongest if not our strongest globally.
It's growing share and all forms are growing.
And that's what you'll have happen here.
I don't think that we started this 9 months ago but certainly we're moving very quickly to do it.
And you're right.
A lot of the business the share that we've grown on Fusion we've lost on Mach3 and that's why we need to support Mach3 and we've got some significant innovations coming on Mach3.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to go back to the sort of the broader issue and again it sounds like you are going to address this at CAGNY but as it relates to the balance I think in what has long been somewhat focused on of your SG&amp;A spending relative to your peers is the balance between ongoing restructuring and developing market investments.
And thank you again for the clarity of the pointing out that that's grown from 27% now to 45% of your sales.
Can you talk about how much is on the developing market investments how much you're spending there? And then a timetable or path to where you see those hitting the inflection points to start to positively more contribute to operating profit growth? First just a clarification.
The 45% is a volume metric.
From a sales standpoint we expect by the end of the year to have 37% of our business in developing markets.
And I think we don't have the detail you're looking for here with us right now but this is something I think we can also talk a bit more about at CAGNY in a couple of weeks in terms of what the investment and inflection paths would look like in general in developing markets.
Your -- the spirit of your question Tim is true that while we -- Jon did talk about the fact that we're reducing enrollment by 3% overhead enrollment by 3% or 3 percentage points this fiscal year that at the same time we are shifting the footprint of the company to take advantage of the growth where the growth occurs.
Examples of that Jon mentioned the fact that we've closed technical centers in Western Europe North America.
We've expanded -- doubled the size of our technical center in Beijing.
We broke ground on a new technical center in Singapore.
Of the roughly 19 plants we have under construction over the last 6 months one was in the United States.
It's our Box Elder Utah paper facility.
But the others have all been in developing markets.
So while it may look somewhat more static from an overall standpoint underneath those numbers is quite a dramatic shift in the resourcing of the company to the areas of growth.
And that's one of the reasons for example our Baby Care business is so strong today.
Roughly 40% of the babies are being born in Asia.
I think if you add the Middle East and Africa and maybe parts of Latin America that you'd be up to 70%.
And that's why our Baby Care business is strong despite the fact that the number of births in the United States is declining.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Curious the thought process on what makes you reconsider current pricing and promotional actions particularly given slowing share gains.
And then sort of related to that curious about the last 20% of pricing you have not taken.
Are you planning to take it? What categories is it in? Have you already taken pricing in some of those categories? Or is it in categories that you've held off on? So just a bit more color there too would be helpful.
In terms of the future pricing obviously we can't comment category specificity.
What I would tell you is that some of it is related to the currency devaluations that we've talked about in developing markets so it's catching up with that.
But there is also pricing in the developed world both in categories where we've already priced and in some where we're still -- that's still ahead of us.
So I really can't get into anything more specific than that.
Mark I'm not sure I totally understood your first question.
But one of the things we do is that after we announce pricing and we take pricing we obviously watch to see if competitor prices.
And if they run a buy 1 get 1 free instead of pricing that suggests to us that they're not going to price and we wait to watch their reaction over time and when they don't react then we react to resume the value equation we had when we were growing share.
Your next question comes from the line of Linda Bolton-Weiser of Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just another question on innovation and how you think about it.
Are kind of all categories kind of equally deserving of innovation? Or how much do you think about the inherent growth rate of categories in terms of demographics or birth rates or whatever in terms of looking at where you want to put your investment? Or is it that inherently declining categories like diapers in developed markets might actually need more investment because you need to work at some kind of innovation that could enhance category size or something? Can you just talk about how you think about it in terms of the return on investment? Sure.
Renovation is our lifeblood Linda.
I mean our purpose is to improve people's lives and the primary way we do that is through innovation.
We spend over $2 billion a year on research and development.
That's about double our next largest competitor.
And we spend about $0.5 billion a year on consumer research which obviously tells us where to innovate.
We then look at our innovation spending and resource allocation by category.
We look at it by category relative to the sales of that category and we look at it relative to what -- where competitors are spending.
And we look to get a rate of return higher than our competitors because of our scale because we're able to identify technologies that become platform technologies across categories and this is a little bit back to Ali's question of why you should expect more from us.
For example our knowledge of bleach and laundry led to Crest Whitestrips which leads to our competitive advantage in hair color in Perfect 10 which leads to other uses of bleach across our portfolio.
So those platforms become very critical to us to being able to get more for the $2 billion in R&amp;D spending than our competition which may be more singularly focused on an individual category.
Secondly back in 2000 when A.G.
was our CEO we announced a program called Connect + Develop where we want to get 50% of our ideas from outside the company.
We've been successful in doing that.
In fact today about -- over 80% of our innovations have some kind of external partner.
We even have joint development laboratories with our suppliers and we spend a lot of time working with outside universities suppliers partners in order to improve our rate of innovation as well as the impact of our innovation.
We're one of the few companies in the world that has an Innovation &amp; Technology Committee of our Board of Directors.
We meet with that committee frequently.
And we lay out our innovation program because it's so -- is so critical to our company.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's Quarter End Conference Call.
Today’s discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G’s most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G's Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Thanks.
And good morning everyone.
Joining me this morning are Bob McDonald and Teri List.
I'll begin today's call with a summary of our third quarter results and Teri will provide highlights for some of our largest product categories.
I'll provide an update on our growth strategies in both developed and developing markets as well as our productivity efforts and then conclude the call with guidance for the June quarter and fiscal year 2012.
We'll take questions after our prepared remarks and will be available after the call to provide additional perspective as needed.
Also we'll be posting slides containing the business segment information on our website www.pg.com following the call.
As a housekeeping matter please note that our results and guidance are now presented with the Pringles business reported as discontinued operations ending the divestiture of the business to Kellogg.
Pringles sales and earnings are no longer included in organic sales or core earnings per share numbers.
Related to this change we're moving to 5 reporting segments with Pet Care now included in the Fabric Care and Home Care segment.
Moving to results our third quarter underlying results were within our guidance ranges.
Organic sales growth was at the low end of our estimates and core earnings per share were towards the high end of the expected range.
All-in sales growth was 2%.
This includes a negative 1% impact from foreign exchange.
Organic sales were up 3%.
Top-line growth was broad-based with all 5 reporting segments growing organic sales for the third consecutive quarter.
January to March results include the impact of business disruption and substantial price reductions in Venezuela leading up to and following the publication of the new price control regulations.
In the period leading up to the pricing announcement in Venezuela it was unclear for manufacturers and retailers what pricing would have actually been mandated.
Because of this many retailers reduced or stopped ordering product to prevent holding inventory at a higher cost than what they would eventually be able to sell the product to consumers for.
This significantly impacted our volume in the country during the quarter.
Additionally when the pricing restructuring were announced we began reducing prices on our products by as much as 25%.
While shipments and lower pricing in Venezuela negatively affected third quarter organic sales growth for the total company by more than 0.5% excluding these impacts organic sales for the quarter would have been 4%.
This marks our 10th consecutive quarter with organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5% averaging 4% over those 2.5 years.
Organic volume was in line with prior year levels.
Pricing contributed 5 points to organic sales growth positively benefiting all 5 reporting segments.
This marks the third consecutive quarter where pricing has added 4 or more points to sales growth and the third consecutive quarter where pricing has been a positive contributor to sales growth in each reported segment.
Mix reduced sales by 2 points is due mainly to disproportionate growth in developing markets.
Shifting now to markets.
Market growth has been decelerating on a volume basis.
Developed markets were down slightly in our categories in the third quarter reflecting weak economic conditions.
North America volume growth in our categories slowed from 1% over the past 12 months to about 0.5% over the past 6 months to essentially flat for the past 3 months.
Western Europe remained down about 0.5 point versus prior year on a volume basis.
Developed region market value was up about 2 points on a constant currency value basis due to pricing.
Markets in developing regions are faring much better.
Developing regions underlying market volume was up 4% for the quarter and constant currency sales were up about 10%.
We've seen a modest sequential deceleration in market volume in Asia and Latin America over the past 12 months as more price increases have reached the market.
However the value contribution from pricing has more than offset slower volume growth.
P&amp;G global market share for the quarter was down very modestly versus prior year as share growth in developing markets was more than offset by soft market share trends in developed regions.
Market share was in line our higher end businesses representing about 45% of global sales consistent with December quarter results.
We held or grew share in 7 of our top 15 countries and on 13 of our 26 billion-dollar brands.
Those who are paying close attention may note that we've increased the number of billion-dollar brands from 24 to 26 as Vicks and SK-II each crossed this billion-dollar annual sales threshold during the March quarter.
There are a few category/country combinations where we lost significant share when we increased list prices and competitors did not.
We're taking proactive steps to restore the value of our brands relative to competitive offerings in these markets.
In early February in the U.S.
auto dish category we effectively reversed the 80% lease price increase we took last summer.
In U.S.
powder laundry detergent we introduced bonus packs on select brands and sizes and notified the trade of our decision to adjust list prices in the summer.
We've also taken steps to correct price gaps in the U.K.
laundry detergent business.
There are few additional category/country combinations where we've lost market share due to increased competitive promotional activity.
In U.S.
Oral Care we are facing an unprecedented level of promotional spending.
Fact channel reports for our primary competitor shows 67% of their volume moving on promotion an increase of 16% versus prior year levels.
The depth of promotional discount was 34% off everyday shelf price a 43% increase in depth of the discount versus prior year.
Our primary competitor in the U.S.
blades and razors category has been promoting at extremely high levels on a nearly continuous basis for the past 2 years since their last new product launch.
Increase in the percentage of their volume moved down promotion by more than 50%.
While we have grown market share on our top-tier Fusion ProGlide product which was the #2 innovation as measured by retail sales in North America in 2011 competitive promotion levels have resulted in their top products being priced down to a Mach3 level.
As a result Mach3 volume and market share have been under pressure.
Last in the Mexico laundry detergent category one of our international competitors has been promoting at extremely high levels following an unsuccessful new brand launch.
We have recently began announcing our plans to our retail customers to restore relative consumer value in these 3 categories and protect our market share position.
We expect corrective list price reductions and promotional increases to be limited to just a few category/country combinations.
I've just talked about 6 category/country combinations.
We do business in over 1 000.
We do not currently expect the broad scale reversal of the price increases we implemented over the past 5 quarters or those we're implementing right now.
We expect to see progressive improvement in market share as the pricing gaps I have mentioned are addressed.
For perspective if share in the 6 businesses I've just discussed have been flat or growing during the March quarter we would have built overall company market share and held our growing share in businesses representing about 55% of our global sales.
From a regional standpoint we have been outpaced in North America as you've seen in recent market share reports.
We're prioritizing innovation in this market with items like Tide PODS Always and Tampax Radiant Crest Pro-Health Clinical Pantene Ice Shine Downy Unstopables Bounty Trap &amp; Lock Febreze car air fresheners and Gillette ProGlide Styler.
Also the targeted price adjustments I just described 4 of the 6 are in North America.
We're committed to a healthy business in North America and we'll take the necessary steps to deliver this.
Shifting to the bottom line core earnings per share were $0.94 towards the top end of our guidance range and in line with prior year levels.
Higher commodity cost the impact of Venezuela pricing regulations and a higher core tax rate were offset by the benefits from higher pricing and strong cost savings results.
Our guidance for third quarter earnings per share after adjusting for Pringles was $0.89 to $0.95.
As we said on our last earnings call and at CAGNY this guidance did not include the impact of price controls in Venezuela which were eventually announced in late February.
We estimate this negatively impacted the third quarter by approximately $0.03 per share.
The quarter also included though a $0.03 per share gain in the core tax rate versus our guidance.
All-in earnings were $0.82 per share.
This includes $0.13 per share of noncore charges primarily related to restructuring activities.
The noncore charges also includes final small adjustment to goodwill values for the Appliances and Salon Professional businesses.
Core gross margin declined 100 basis points.
Pricing improved gross margin by roughly 230 basis points and savings projects helped gross margin by approximately 130 basis points.
These benefits were more than offset by a 230 basis point negative impact from higher commodity costs and a 210 basis point negative impact from a combination of product and geographic mix.
Core SG&amp;A costs were down 110 basis points due mainly to top-line leverage and 50 basis points of lower overhead costs driven by productivity improvements.
Core operating profit turned positive growing 2% for the quarter despite a 3-point negative impact from Venezuela.
We've made sequential improvement through this fiscal year with core operating profit progressing from down 4% in the first 2 quarters to up 2% in the third quarter and up 5% excluding Venezuela.
We expect this metric to improve further in our fourth quarter and again next fiscal year.
Core operating profit margin grew 10 basis points including about 180 basis points of productivity improvements and cost savings.
On an all-in basis gross margin was down 150 basis points and SG&amp;A costs increased 70 basis points with all-in operating profit margin down 230 basis points.
All of the decline was due to 230 basis points of noncore restructuring investments.
The effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations was 23.7%.
Excluding the impact of noncore items the effective tax rate on core earnings was 23.4% which compares to a base period core tax rate of 20.8%.
This difference reduced earnings by share by about $0.03 per share and lowered the core earnings per share growth rate by 3 percentage points.
We generated $2.9 billion in free cash flow in the quarter with free cash flow productivity of 119%.
We returned $3.8 billion of cash to shareholders this quarter through $1.5 billion of dividends and $2.3 billion of share repurchases.
Earlier this month we increased our quarterly dividend by 7% making this the 122nd consecutive year in which we paid the dividend and the 56th consecutive year in which the dividend has increased.
At the new annualized dividend of about $2.25 per share our dividend yield is approximately 3.4%.
Now I'll turn the call over to Teri to review some of the highlights of our business results.
Thanks Jon.
As a reminder I'll not be covering all 5 of our reporting segments but rather we'll cover some of the highlights of our larger categories.
For more information on business segment results please refer to the press release we issued this morning and slides that will be posted on our website pg.com at the conclusion of this call.
Segment results reflected dynamics of the macro and competitive environment.
Developing markets continue to perform well with sales growing double digits for the quarter and value share increasing for the ninth consecutive quarter.
A few highlights include India delivering its 39th consecutive quarter of double-digit sales growth Brazil growing sales over 30% and building share for the 25th consecutive period and Russia growing value share for the 10th month in a row.
As Jon mentioned we've had some more specific challenges in developed markets which you'll hear about in the segment discussion.
Starting with the Beauty segment.
Organic sales growth was 2% behind volume growth of 1% and positive pricing of 5% mix reduced sales by 4%.
At the category level Hair Care volume grew low single digits driven by developing markets.
Brazil Hair Care shipments increased nearly 20% and value share was up more than 2 points with double-digit volume growth on both Pantene and Head &amp; Shoulders.
Greater China Hair Care volume was up low teens and shampoo value share grew nearly 1 point with Head &amp; Shoulders volume increasing nearly 25% behind a product restage and commercial innovation.
India Hair Care shipments grew more than 50% with Pantene more than doubling driven by Pantene sachets.
In developed markets North America Hair Care volume was down low single digits.
Volume growth on both Pantene and Head &amp; Shoulders was offset by volume declines in the hair color business driven by a high base period with initiative launches.
Pantene shipments were up double digits behind the launch of the Pantene Ice Shine and Aqua Light initiatives and a refocused marketing campaign.
Global Skin Care shipments were down mid single digits.
Developing markets were about flat.
An example of developing markets progress is the Philippines where Olay volume grew nearly 50% and share increased over 3.5 points behind supportive Natural White sachets and increased trial and distribution but we have some challenges in markets like China.
In North America volume declined due to the significant competitive activity in the mid-priced tier.
We're taking steps to address these trends by introducing 6 new items into the mid-tier anti-aging and cleansing segment and starter kits across the Pro-X lineup.
Also our new Olay Facial Hair Removal innovation is off to a strong start.
Sales are 50% higher than our launch target and has been the #1 selling facial skin care item with Hispanics and African-Americans.
In the Grooming segment global blades and razors shipments increased low single digits and value share increased slightly.
Asia volume was up high single digits and value share was up nearly 2 points behind Gillette Guard growth in India expansion of Fusion ProGlide into several new markets and overall market growth.
North America volume declined mid-single digits.
Fusion ProGlide delivered strong volume growth behind the launch of the ProGlide Styler which earned over 20 share of the razor category after only 5 weeks after launching.
This increase however was more than offset by customer inventory adjustments and declines in the Gillette legacy and Mach3 businesses as competition continued to invest heavily in promotional spending on their Hydro product.
As Jon said we have increased promotional levels in this market to help address this dynamic.
In Health Care Oral Care volume was down slightly versus a year ago.
In the U.S.
volume was flat and share was down.
Over the past 2 years our U.S.
Oral Care business has delivered very strong volume share and sales growth and as Jon mentioned has recently been faced with heightened levels of promotional spending.
Throughout this our core business continued to perform well with Crest 3D White toothpaste delivering its 24th consecutive period of share growth increasing every month since launch.
Additionally early results show that the March launches of the Crest Pro-Health Clinical Regimen and the Crest 3D White Glamorous White Toothpaste are off to a strong start.
We've also made modest increases to our promotional levels to be more competitive.
Greater China Oral Care faced a challenging third quarter with volume down double digits primarily due to an uncompetitive value profile especially in the premium segment.
We expect to see the business begin to recover in the fourth quarter as the price gaps have recently begun to narrow and as we launched new innovations and implement strengthened marketing plans.
Latin America Oral Care volume grew mid-teens and share was up behind the successful Oral-B toothpaste expansion market.
Brazil toothpaste was over a 6% value share on a national basis and nearly 11% where it is distributed.
In Colombia and Peru where Oral-B toothpaste just launched this quarter results have exceeded expectations.
In the fourth quarter we'll continue our Latin America expansion moving into Argentina Chile and the high-frequency store channel in Brazil.
Our European toothpaste expansion markets also continued to deliver ahead of expectation.
In the U.K.
where we launched last July value share is over 8% with a positive halo benefit on the balance of our Oral Care business driving P&amp;G to the #2 position in the overall category.
In the Fabric and Home Care segment organic sales grew 2%.
Positive pricing of 7% more than offset a 3% volume decline.
Mix was negative too.
Global Fabric Care volume declined low single digits.
Developing market shipments were up low single digits led by Asia's double-digit growth.
India Fabric Care volume increased nearly 20% and share increased more than 1.5 points to 13% with all price tiers growing.
Another driver was Downy fabric enhancers with shipments in Asia up nearly 25% due to recent expansion into Indonesia and Korea.
Developed market Fabric Care volume was down despite several positive developments this quarter.
We're seeing value share growth in U.S.
Tide and Downy.
Early results on Tide PODS are very positive.
After only 1 month in market Tide PODS have reached a 67% dollar share of the unit dose category.
Shipments are about 30% ahead of our going-in expectation.
Downy Unstopables are shipping twice as high as expected.
This growth however has been more than offset by the impact of our uncompetitive prices in U.S.
powder laundry and the U.K.
laundry category.
As Jon mentioned earlier we've taken steps to address this situation.
Global Home Care shipments and value share were down slightly versus a year ago with developed market volume declining mid single digits and developing markets growing mid-teens.
The Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region led the growth with volume up over 20% and value share up 1.5 points.
The growth was broad-based due mainly to recent category expansions including dish care into Turkey and Air Care into Eastern Europe.
U.S.
Air Care volume was up mid single digits and value share grew over 1.5 points behind the new Febreze Car Vent Clip that is exceeding expectations and has reached over 15 shares of the car care category.
This growth was more than offset by softness in the auto dishwashing category.
Jon shared earlier that in February we reversed our previous price increases in this category.
We started to see lower pricing on shelf and sequential improvement in market share trends.
Finally the Baby and Family Care segment increased organic sales at 6%.
Volume growth of 3% and pricing of 5% was partially offset by negative mix of 2%.
Global Baby Care volume was up low single digits and value share grew over 0.5 point.
Developing market shipments increased mid-teens with strong growth across multiple markets.
The BRIC markets increased volume by over 20% on average.
In developed markets shipments declined mid-single digits.
North America share increased over 0.5 point while volume was down due to the contracting market.
Family Care volume was up low single digits driven by the recent North America launch of the Bounty Trap &amp; Lock technology upgrade.
Customer response has been very positive with increased distribution and record levels of merchandising and display.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Jon.
Thanks Teri.
Before we discuss guidance I want to provide some additional perspective on our results.
Two of our primary objectives for this fiscal year were to maintain top-line growth momentum and to make meaningful improvement in core operating profit growth.
On the top line as I said earlier this is our 10th consecutive quarter with organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5% averaging 4% over those 2.5 years.
Over the past 4 quarters we've executed nearly $3 billion in price increases and delivered 4% organic sales growth.
On the bottom line core operating profit growth has improved moving from down 4% in each of the first 2 quarters of this year to growth of 2% this quarter which is 5% excluding the Venezuela impacts.
We expect further acceleration of operating profit growth in the fourth quarter.
So we've made progress on both of these fronts.
The pace of operating profit improvement has been slower than we expected when we began this fiscal year due primarily to several headwinds including developed market growth rates competitive pricing and promotion dynamics foreign exchange which has been about $0.5 billion hit since we first provided guidance for the year and several market level setbacks.
We're working to offset these headwinds through innovation the expansion of our portfolio in developing markets where growth is stronger and with our significant productivity interventions.
I want to cover each of those briefly.
Innovation as we've said many times is the best antidote to sluggish growth in developed markets.
We're upgrading existing products with innovations like the Crest &amp; Oral-B Pro-Health Clinical lineup and a significant performance improvement across the Bounty franchise.
Earlier this month we launched Always and Tampax Radiant our first ever Feminine Care initiative that spans across our total franchise of pads tampons liners and wipes.
We're launching new forms in current categories with products like Tide PODS.
We're entering new categories with items such as Downy Unstopables and the fabric scent enhancer segment Febreze car air freshener in the car air care segment and Olay's Smooth Finish in the facial hair removal segment.
In June we will launch ZzzQuil Vicks' first entry into the U.S.
sleep aid segment of Personal Health Care.
We're expanding recent innovations to new markets.
In February we launched Lenor Aroma Jewel Beads in Japan a local version of Downy Unstopables.
It quickly grew to nearly a 4% share of the fabric enhancer market.
We've now expanded Fusion ProGlide to more than 30 countries across North America Western Europe and major markets in that CEEMEA region.
And through our joint venture with Teva Pharmaceuticals we have announced plans to expand the Vicks brand to sell at Eastern European markets in June including Russia and Poland.
These are just the few examples of recent and upcoming product innovation.
P&amp;G innovations continue to lead the industry.
As reflected in the most recent IRI Pacesetters report which ranks new U.S.
innovation launches based on dollar sales P&amp;G had the first and second most successful new initiatives 3 of the top 10 and 8 of the top 25 nonfood innovations in the United States in 2011.
For perspective our 6 largest competitors had a total of 7 innovations in the top 25.
Over the 17-year history of this report P&amp;G has launched 140 top 25 ranked innovations 1/3 of the cumulative total for the industry more than our 6 leading competitors combined and 5x more than the second ranked competitor.
In addition to product innovation we've just kicked off the strongest global commercial innovation program in company history.
Last week we started a worldwide retail activation of our Olympics sponsorship.
Retailers around the globe are partnering with us to make this our largest Multi-Brand Commercial Innovation.
Our online marketing program launched 2 weeks ago.
And last week we kicked off the global Thanks Mom campaign that will build with significant online on-air and in-store events through Mother's Day.
Our Olympics program includes more than 30 P&amp;G brands and 150 athletes around the world.
In the U.S.
alone we expect to generate over $5 billion consumer impressions and generate returns in our marketing investments at least twice as high as our normal merchandising programs.
Over the course of the campaign we expect our global Olympics commercial innovation to generate up to $500 million in incremental sales across both developed and developing markets.
The combination of strong product and commercial innovation coupled with the limited pricing interventions I described should enable us to grow in developed markets despite the underlying market growth challenges.
The second way we'll cut the slowdown in developed market growth is to continue delivering strong growth in developing markets.
Our volume sales and market share growth trends in these regions have been very strong averaging 12% organic sales growth over the past 4 quarters and growing market share on a value basis for 9 consecutive quarters.
We're rapidly expanding our presence in these regions adding about 15 new country/category businesses over this fiscal year and last.
Developing markets will represent about 37% of annual sales and 45% of volume by the end of this fiscal year.
We're doing this in part to access faster near-term growth and in part because we see it as a longer-term growth opportunity.
In 2010 to 2020 the global population is expected to increase by nearly 700 million people with 95% of this growth in developing markets.
Growth will be even faster in terms of wealth between 2010 and 2020.
1 billion individuals in developing markets will move out of poverty earning more than USD $10 a day a key take-off point for our product categories.
Based on a study published by the OECD Development Centre the world's middle class will increase by over 1.4 billion consumers by 2020 with over 98% of these people living in developing markets.
The number of millionaire households is expected to increase by more than 200% in developing markets.
In the BRIC markets alone this is an incremental 2 million households at the millionaire level.
We're tiering up our portfolios to delight consumers as their wealth increases and they begin purchasing in the premium and super premium tiers while continuing to attract new consumers into our categories at lower tiers with affordable innovations.
There's an understandable question about whether we can be successful in coming from behind in some developing markets.
We have good long-term success growing in markets where we are coming from behind.
In 1991 P&amp;G sales in Asia were $1.5 billion less than 40% of Unilever sales.
In 2001 P&amp;G sales were $4 billion up to 56% of Unilever size.
Today P&amp;G sales in Asia are over $12 billion now over 95% of Unilever's.
There's also been a question of whether we can achieve this growth profitably.
One misconception that feeds the profit question is that developing markets consumers are all core and then all growth will come at low price point.
The BRIC markets actually have fairly well-developed premium and super premium tiers.
These higher tiers are growing ahead of the overall market in many of the developing countries.
For example in China the super premium tier which is already 17% of sales in the market is growing at a 30% pace.
Developing market consumers are willing to pay for products they value.
The price for product sold in many of our categories in the more developed or the developing markets is as high as similar products in the U.S.
As we expand our category and price tier portfolios we develop more scale.
Scale allows us to purchase medium more efficiently use our distributors more effectively and leverage the P&amp;G portfolio with customers and consumers.
We know from history that developing market growth becomes increasingly profitable over time.
In markets such as China Poland Russia Saudi Arabia and the Philippines where we have built scale to a broad portfolio of products have local production in place and compete at multiple price tiers within categories our margins are roughly in line with the company average.
As a result we'd expect our developing market expansions to be profit-accretive not dilutive over a reasonable period of time.
To make the investment in innovation we want to make to support our portfolio expansions in developing markets to overcome macroeconomic headwinds and at the same time deliver the earnings progress you and we expect we have to become much more productive.
At CAGNY we outlined a 5-year plan to save up to $10 billion from a projected cost pool of around $85 billion in fiscal year 2016.
We discussed opportunities in nearly every element of cost from materials and manufacturing to marketing to overheads and we are moving forward on each of these.
When I discussed cost of goods for the March quarter I mentioned savings around 130 basis points.
This was consistent with the level of savings we expect to deliver on average over the life of the $10 billion program.
We've already begun the planning and optimization -- optimizing that will enable to us generate 10 to 20 basis points of productivity per year for the marketing spend pool.
Some have questioned why we would cut our marketing investments.
We're not.
We'll grow it significantly just slightly below the rate of sales growth.
And many of the savings will be in nonadvertising marketing cost.
Turning to overhead.
We've announced plans to reduce nonmanufacturing enrollment by 10% over 2 years and have already taken the steps that are necessary to reduce enrollment by 3% by the end of this fiscal year.
We began to see a portion of these savings in the March quarter which helped us reduce core SG&amp;A spending by 50 basis points.
We've made significant progress on the design work for the additional role reductions that we're targeting by the end of next fiscal year.
We're on track to deliver the cost savings objectives we discussed 2 months ago for this fiscal year and over the 5-year period we outlined at CAGNY.
All-in we believe we have a plan to maintain solid top-line momentum while continuing to improve operating profit.
The headwinds we've had to deal with this year do reduce though the amplitude of this improvement which is reflected in our guidance.
For the April to June quarter we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 4% to 5%.
Within this we expect pricing will contribute 4 to 5 points to sales growth again this quarter.
Foreign exchange is expected to reduce sales by about 3% which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of 1% to 2% versus the prior year.
On the bottom line we expect June quarter earnings per share in the range of $0.79 to $0.85 or down 4% to up 4% versus base period core earnings per share of $0.82.
The core earnings per share growth rate includes notable headwinds from the tax rate and nonoperating income versus prior year.
The effective tax rate in the June quarter of last year was 21.1% and we expect the comparable rate to be about 400 basis points higher this year.
This equates to roughly a 6-point headwind on earnings per share growth for the quarter or about $0.05 per share.
Also nonoperating income in the prior year included the sale of a minor brand that added $0.03 to earnings per share and we're not planning for a similar benefit in the current year.
This is an additional 4-point earnings per share growth headwind.
Adjusting for tax and nonoperating income headwind this quarter's guidance equates to core earnings per share growth in the range of 6% to 14%.
As I've mentioned earlier we expect continued improvement in core operating profit and core operating profit margin.
Commodity cost will be a much smaller year-on-year headwind as we have finally annualized the majority of the cost increases we experienced over the last year.
In addition we'll have a full benefit of pricing.
The net of these impacts combined with our cost savings and top-line levered benefits are expected to drive core operating profit growth in the mid single digits to double-digit range for the quarter.
On an all-in basis we estimate earnings per share in the range of $1.21 to $1.32.
This includes the expected one-time gain of $0.47 to $0.50 per share from the divestiture of the Pringles business to Kellogg and $0.02 per share for the operating earnings from the businesses which are reported as discontinued operations.
We are now projecting that we'll be able to close the Pringles divestiture by the end of our fiscal year subject to receiving the necessary regulatory approvals.
The all-in earnings per share range for the quarter also includes noncore restructuring charges in the range of $0.05 to $0.07 per share.
For the fiscal year organic sales growth will be approximately 4% for the full year.
This is comprised of volume growth of about 1% negative mix of about 1% and pricing contribution of 4 points.
We expect foreign exchange based on the current rates will be roughly neutral to sales growth for the year leaving our all-in sales growth guidance also at 4% for the year.
On the bottom line we now expect core earnings per share in the range of $3.82 to $3.88.
This compares to a prior range of $3.93 to $4.03 which did not include the impact of pricing controls in Venezuela.
The new guidance range includes a negative impact of $0.04 to $0.05 per share due to those pricing regulations.
The remainder of the guidance change reflects the pricing adjustments in several categories the difficult economic environment in Western Europe and the deceleration of the U.S.
market growth.
The decision to lower guidance is always difficult.
However we have and will continue to make the hard right choices for the long-term health of the business versus the easy wrong choices which benefit near-term results but which hurt the long term.
We could have waited to address the consumer value issues and the categories I mentioned earlier.
We could have scaled back marketing support or trade spending behind new initiatives or delayed new launches to next year.
These choices would have helped fourth quarter earnings but would have been harmful to longer term growth.
We now expect all-in earnings per share in the range of $3.63 to $3.74.
This range includes the expected gain from the Pringles divestiture of $0.47 to $0.50 per share and $0.07 per share of net earnings from Pringles now classified as discontinued operations Noncore restructuring cost in the range of $0.18 to $0.20 per share and $0.53 per share of noncore charges for impairments and legal items.
We continue to expect capital spending in the range of 4% and 5% of net sales and we're estimating free cash flow productivity that approaches 90% for the year.
We'll pay around $6 billion in dividends and we'll repurchase about $4 billion in stock for the fiscal year.
In summary we're making progress in a difficult economic and competitive environment.
We expect to maintain top-line growth momentum while further improving operating profit growth in the fourth quarter.
We're taking the necessary steps to ensure brands remain competitive in certain category/country combinations and we are continuing to make the investments necessary to deliver our long-term growth objectives while increasing the urgency to deliver near-term improvements in our cost structure.
As we look forward to fiscal 2013 we're building our budgets and investment plans with a balanced view of sustaining our critical investments for long-term growth and delivering high-quality operating profit and earnings per share growth at levels consistent with our long-term objectives.
We'll continue to see a strong benefit from the pricing we implemented this fiscal year.
The cost savings generated by our restructuring investments and productivity improvements will build as we move through next fiscal year.
We'll have a full year of innovations like Tide PODS in the market and we have a strong slate of new innovations and market expansions coming next year.
In addition to these tailwinds a few of the macro headwinds we faced this year should be less severe next year.
For example while commodity cost will be higher next fiscal year the increase should be much smaller than we faced this year.
Also while we don't anticipate an acceleration of growth in developed markets we do not expect them to slow down further.
We will keep updating our assumptions on this macroeconomic factors as we finalize our forecast for next year.
We plan to provide detailed guidance for fiscal 2013 at our next quarterly earnings conference call which is scheduled for Friday August 3.
That concludes our prepared remarks and now Bob Teri and I will be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So in the press release you guys mentioned particularly about the change to guidance to the fourth quarter commodity cost being higher year-over-year.
And as I remember the commodity cost getting easier was supposed to be a big part of the operating margin improvement that we would see in this fiscal year.
So when I combined that with just how much more pricing you guys are taking than the competition seeing your volumes flat globally and that's the implied guidance for Q4 I can't help but come back to the decision to really not participate in much -- in the way of hedging.
It feels to me like you're introducing more volatility and less predictability in your business than may be necessary and then maybe the case for your competitors.
So can you guys just comment on that and your position around how to manage costs over time? Yes I mean first we will prioritize the management of cost in ways that are sustainable and enduring.
And we do that by reducing -- by improving productivity and reducing overall cost so that we can absorb these cost increases.
If we can do that successfully that stays with us forever.
A hedge only benefits us for the duration of the instrument.
And as soon as the instrument expires we're back to the same problem.
So we need to be operating the business in a way that overcomes those costs.
We're doing that 2 ways.
One is through pricing as you've mentioned.
Our levels of pricing aren't that different at least on a global basis from the reports that I've seen over the last week.
I think Unilever talked about 4.7 points of benefit from pricing.
I think Colgate talked about 3 unchanged benefits from pricing.
KC talked about 3 points of pricing.
So we're in the same ballpark as far as that.
I know I'm not opposed to any hedging.
And when it's appropriate and cost-effective it's something that we'll do.
But I'm very focused more so on long-term sustainable solutions.
Lauren this is Bob.
I think also it's important to note that the -- we're trying to change the culture of the Procter &amp; Gamble Company to be much more focused on productivity improvement on a going basis.
Even though we've talked about a productivity program which is on track by the way this is something that we're going to all be focused on going forward.
So as we continue to grow we create a company which is fit to win over the long term despite growing size.
And that's a change for our company relative to our historic past where we have tended to take big one-time restructurings.
We want to continue to improve the productivity of the company going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Guys so obviously your share is lower in 55% of categories but probably much worse in your higher margin developed markets.
And I just wanted to get your color on whether you think these 6 country/category interventions address the root cause I guess of the broader share weakness in developed markets.
And I guess is your premium price positioning in what are still sluggish categories still the root cause? If not what is? And what do you do from a bigger picture perspective? Chris we see the root cause in really 2 ways and I think Jon mentioned it in his remarks.
Number one is the pricing disparities and we talked about the 6 category/country combinations.
Of the 6 4 are in the United States and that's where the majority of the share loss was.
We think we've corrected those.
We're not going to allow competition to buy our share with incremental promotion or by not following price increases.
The second cause which also Jon alluded to was in some spots our innovation has been inadequate.
This is particularly true in the Beauty category and particularly in North America.
We've had some great innovations.
Jon talked about the facial hair removal innovation on Olay.
But the base brand needs innovation.
And that's what we're focused on now.
Jon talked about other innovations on Pantene Ice Shine as being an example.
Again Ice Shine is doing very well but the base brand needs better innovation.
So we're working on bringing those innovations to market particularly in the Beauty Care area.
And I think that will alleviate the second cause.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the restructuring program.
And I guess Jon Bob if you think there's disruption being caused within the organization -- I know that was obviously a concern of the management team when you're thinking about doing this.
Do you think that this is an issue? And what are you doing to try to limit the impact? Nik as we -- as I alluded to in my comments we really see productivity improvement as part of our work not as a one-time event an episodic event.
If we're going to continue to grow as a company we think that we've got to deliberately work to improve the productivity of the company so that we can operate with the agility and the flexibility of a much smaller company called a $10 billion company.
And as a result of that we have gone through the organization.
We've looked at the way we work.
We're changing the way we work.
And with the changes in the way we work we're also changing the organization structure.
You've seen some of that already.
We have half the number of vice chairmen for example that we had before.
We have fewer vice presidents than we had before.
But the change in the work is really necessary in order to have that agility and speed of a much smaller company.
At the same time we're very deliberate and clear on what the strategy is.
You've seen some of that work about how we're going to get more categories into more countries about how we're going to get a vertical price tier of brands and products in each category which in many ways is an antidote to a recession type of economy.
And we're working hard on that as well as working hard on an innovation program to support all of that.
In terms of disruption I mean so far I don’t see it as being terribly disruptive.
I mean we delivered within our guidance range in both the top and bottom line maybe not at levels that people would like but at levels that we were planning.
And so in terms of being able to execute our plans I don't see a conflict.
The feedback we get from employees in our organization survey that we run every year is they actually welcome this that they feel like they have too many touch points.
And so the feedback we're getting from employees is very positive.
And remember we're talking about an impact on 10% of our employees not a higher percentage.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So here's a question for you.
So if -- has there been a time in the company's recent history where the advertising ratio has increased and market shares have fallen? And then sort of the follow-up to that is -- I don't know how closely you follow those Kantar Retailer PoweRanking.
P&amp;G is still obviously the leader but some of those metrics are down about 20 points over the last 5 years and actually kind of corresponds to the share losses.
So how much was the retail execution issue with the share losses? And how much of it is that advertising ratio? Because I don’t think I can remember a time when the advertising ratio was increasing and market shares came down.
First just let me provide a little bit of perspective and then Bob can talk about the Kantar metrics.
Globally share is down but it is down 0.2 points.
So this isn't a big cliff-type event.
Having said that as we have said North America is down about 0.6 point and we're working to address that with the interventions that I mentioned.
But I want to put the share loss in context.
And as I said if we -- if our pricing actions are effective in those 6 product category combinations we will be back to share growth for the company.
Bob do you want to talk about Kantar? Yes sure.
Bill as you mentioned we also received obviously the Kantar PoweRanking.
And as you also mentioned we did maintain our overall leadership position as well as our leadership positions in most of the categories.
We really value our work and our strong partnerships and they often act as a catalyst to drive improvement across our competitive set.
And while we're being recognized for our leadership in the rankings we're certainly not complacent.
We've taken all of the country/category combinations from the Kantar PoweRanking we've put together action plans to improve them and we're looking to improve them with our joint value creation plans with customers.
I also would draw your attention to the Advantage Rankings which have come out recently and again showed us well in the lead showed us in the lead across all categories.
But again we're going through it in a very granular way looking at countries where we're not doing as well and trying to improve those metrics.
We had some customer service opportunities that came out and we're working hard to improve those.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> My question sort of I think follows up on Nik's question.
And Bob you used some words I think executing the restructuring and promoting productivity is kind of what you get paid to do or it's what your job is.
But I guess the way I look at it there are couple of things that have gone wrong at P&amp;G over the last year particularly the price gaps or managing those gaps.
Jon you mentioned I think market level setbacks.
I don’t even know what that is maybe it's the Tide PODS delay.
But it strikes me that from an execution perspective P&amp;G is not delivering.
And Bob I'd like your perspective on that.
There are so many excuses not our fault competition didn't follow the pricing not our fault Venezuela changed not our fault the developed market consumer isn't robust.
But I still say "God we're going into this massive restructuring program how do we know this isn't going to be a replay of 2000 when the core business stinks and you're making huge changes to the organization?" And I'd just say to myself "God where is the mea culpa taking responsibility for the weak numbers as opposed to saying not our fault it's just really tough out there?" Wendy let me be clear.
It is my fault.
I am the CEO of the company.
I do take responsibility.
I do take accountability.
And every manager in the Procter &amp; Gamble Company that was on the call would say the same thing.
We do hold people accountable for results and I take accountability for the results.
We are working to improve this company over the long term.
We've talked about the headwinds we're facing.
We've talked about the steps we're taking.
We will deliver.
This is a company that has delivered over 175 years and we will continue to deliver.
And we will get the right leaders in place to deliver.
And we'll put the right programs in place to deliver.
We will do it.
And I personally don't think that this restructuring program will get in the way of doing that.
In fact if anything I think it will enable it.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So if we look at the market share performance since you guys presented at CAGNY -- and again Jon as you said it's within your guidance range in terms of organic top line but at the lower end of expectation.
Is there any thought in terms of how much of the savings that you need to invest back in the business? Has that changed? And I guess that leads to a general thought with all this promotional talk and everything else like that is the cost of competing in these categories higher than it has been over the past couple of years? And is that simply because the growth rates have come down and so everyone's scrapping for sort of each piece of unit volume? So first in terms of cost.
We've put -- we will have put $3.5 billion of pricing into the market this year.
The rollbacks and promotion increases that I referred to earlier are about -- or between $100 million and $200 million of that $3.5 billion.
So it is additional investment back in the business that otherwise could have come to the bottom line.
But it's not significant in the grand scheme of things.
The more significant thing is the $3.5 billion in pricing.
And I think relative to the cost of doing business there are 2 dynamics that are occurring maybe 3.
The first is again generally prices are going up which is a positive thing.
And that's true across our competitive set.
That's true across markets.
Having said that the dynamic that you point to which is slow developed market growth rates leading to a need if the companies want to grow to build share how does that manifest itself in the marketplace.
It's manifested itself primarily in a good way which is innovation-based competition.
We see a growing number of new product launches for example on the part of many of our competitors.
We do need to respond to those launches.
And so that does temporarily increase the cost of doing business.
But long term innovation is good for markets.
It's healthy for markets and particularly some of the innovation at the premium end that we're seeing.
So in terms of going forward how much cost savings will we have to reinvest that's something we're going to have to look at every day and every week.
But I still expect us to be able to deliver our long-term earnings per share growth rates net of that investment.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Bob it seems like you're clearly struggling with high consumer demand elasticity the increased pricing in developed markets.
And I think at least to some extent that's driven by the fact that you operate at big price premiums in the product categories you're in and that naturally creates some market share issues versus peers and a competitive disadvantage in this weak spending environment and given you're taking higher pricing.
So in that context might it make sense to start to manage developed markets more for profitability than market share particularly if you need to fund this emerging markets' expansion and hit your long-term EPS growth goals? Or I guess to put it more simply gaining market share in this consumer environment doesn't seem to allow you to hit your EPS goals.
So it seems like something has to give in terms of your focus.
My experience has been that if you're not growing market share you're declining.
And if you're declining you're not too distant in the future going to go out of business.
So I think in any business we always try to grow market share.
In fact our goal is to grow our top line 1 to 2 points above the market.
And we should be able to do that.
We should develop the ideas and the innovations that enable thus to do that.
And a 1 percentage point growth in North America or Western Europe is as you would guess a multiple percentage point growth required in developing markets.
So these are still incredibly important markets to us.
And that's why we're reacting to the price differentials that we see in the 6 category/country combinations that Jon mentioned.
And in terms of being able to do that both in developed and developing markets and having the financial flexibility to make those investments while delivering earnings per share expectations is exactly the motivation behind the $10 billion productivity improvement program.
We realize that the equation doesn't square currently and that's the game changer that should allow us to get there.
That's in its infancy.
As you know we talked about it for the first time a couple of months ago but we feel very good about the progress on that and are committed to it for exactly the reason that you described.
Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante of Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> My question is in line with Wendy's a little bit.
Do you think that this is purely a spending issue because the categories you are -- you flagged basically Oral Care razors et cetera accounts for only 10% of sales.
So what is happening to the other 90% of the portfolio with the exception of Baby and Family all the other GBUs are underperforming peers that are growing organic sales 5% or better.
So to what extent you are really in a position of start balancing top and bottom line growth as soon as the fourth quarter which is where your guidance has still imply? To what extent this execution is holding back growth? And to what extent you are going to be thinking whether you have the right GBUs' leadership and whether you should be looking outside Procter in GBUs that have underperformed for several years like Beauty? I mean when I answered the question earlier I said that there were 2 issues.
One was pricing and one was innovation.
And we're working on both of them.
And when I talked about Beauty I talked about the innovation program which we've been -- which we're working on and we're bringing further innovations to market.
Again I believe that we can grow market share particularly behind innovation which is our lifeblood.
And I believe we can grow the top and the bottom line at the same time.
As Jon mentioned the productivity program is an enabler to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty of BMO Capital.
Given the earnings shortfalls over the last couple of years I'm wondering if the growth that you generated isn't a better indication of what the company growth really is as opposed to what the forecast and the guidance almost hope they would be.
And then as the follow-up to that when would you see the inflection point? When are you seeing the opportunity for the restructuring to start to kick in to produce better results than the shortfalls in sales and profits in some of your core businesses to ebb? When do you see that coming? So first of all on this question of should we just use the recent past as a more indicative indicator of the future doing that would ignore I think some very important things.
One is that will require an assumption of ongoing commodity cost increases of $1.8 billion a year.
And that's not what we're assuming.
We're assuming much more modest increases based on current market spot rates.
It would ignore the $3.5 billion of pricing that we've put into the market that we'll get the full year benefit for next year.
Those are 2.
And that would ignore also the intervention we're making on productivity and cost savings.
So those 3 things definitively change going forward much more -- not completely but much more benign commodity environment the benefit of the pricing and the benefit of the productivity savings.
And that's what gives as confidence that we will grow operating profit and earnings per share.
You're starting to see some evidence of that in operating profit even in the last quarter albeit minor.
We're talking about mid single to double digit operating profit growth in the fourth quarter.
Those same 3 drivers are what will deliver that.
And we're still in the planning process for next year but our targets obviously are to get back where we need to be.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the commentary regarding the deceleration in growth in North America.
I mean you guys mentioned macro and the macro has been an issue for some time now.
I would argue that at least some of the data we've seen had been better moving in the right direction.
So I'm curious is there something else besides price elasticity? Are consumers not impressed with the level of innovation they're seeing in the categories? Are they shifting spending out of your categories to other categories? Is it something else that you haven't talked about? And then secondly obviously it's early for fiscal '13 but could you just give us a thumbnail sketch of where our hedge should be for the next year? Joe we have seen a deceleration in category growth in the United States since January and that has shown up in the share reports and the other reports that we get.
I think what's happening is obviously you've got a higher fuel price you've got other macroeconomic headwinds like housing and other things.
I mean you read about these as well as I do.
But again a reduction in growth in the markets is not an excuse for us not to be able to grow above the markets.
Our goal is to grow 1 to 2 points above market growth.
And that's what we're planning to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Sanford C.
Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick housekeeping question and then the real question.
The housekeeping one is just if you could help us a little bit on Venezuela.
It was an issue for you not for anybody else.
And it sounds like it's disproportionate to your exposure.
That's housekeeping.
But the real question is and actually building on Wendy's I think very appropriate question is that -- look on this call if you think about it you have a bunch of investors who are choosing or not to choose to own companies choosing to own or not to own companies.
And I wondered how you explain to them and frankly the board that Unilever or Personal Care grew 10% J&amp;J skin in the U.S.
grew 6.3% Colgate grew 6.5% Kimberly grew 6% all organic all with better profitability supposedly not through price gaps because it sounds like that's a minor issue.
And I'm not so sure you can use geographic mix as an excuse anymore.
So I'm just trying to understand how long do you expect investors to wait? How long does your current plan have to work? How much patience does the board have? And look you may say it's already working and I respect that.
There are some signs of that but your stock hasn't shown it and your results versus peers haven't shown it.
In fact your peers are probably going to step it up as well as you guys step it up.
So I'm just trying to get comfort about that whole issue.
Ali your -- the examples you mentioned were primarily in Beauty Care.
And as I said we're unhappy with our innovation program in Beauty Care and we have work to do.
Obviously we've underperformed in Beauty Care for some time now.
We've worked to improve the innovation program.
It does take some time but I think you'll see sequential improvement quarter-to-quarter as we go forward in Beauty Care.
We have reviewed this within the company and within the leadership of the company and we're working hard on doing that.
If you look outside the United States because primarily a lot of the result -- a lot of the problems we have are in the United States there are points of light and Jon covered those in his prepared remarks.
Nevertheless we've got to improve the innovation program in Beauty Care and primarily in the United States.
And on the housekeeping question Ali we went out of our way at CAGNY to point out -- to point to the fact that this could potentially be an issue.
We had no way to dimensionalize it because we didn't have the legislation in our hands.
It's different for different companies because the price reductions that are mandated by the legislation are different by category.
It's also different for different companies based on how they are choosing to respond to the new regulation.
We took the course of action right or wrong as soon as the regulation was published to comply.
Others may make different choices.
And it's not hugely significant for us but we thought it was important to point out just on the basis of ensuring everybody had the same information and on the basis of transparency.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the blade and razor business.
I'm just trying to understand the price change now.
With Hydro being out for kind of the past 2 years I don't think Energizer has really held up on being promotional and aggressive.
What's changed over the past few months why you need to make this -- why are we finally being more aggressive in that market? And then just a clarification did you say that only -- there were only 6 out of 1 000 price country changes or just 6 that you've highlighted? There were 6 where we felt we needed to go back and take corrective action and those were the 6 that Jon talked about.
The promotion levels of competition in the blades and razors category have been high and have -- but have accelerated as well.
And that was the reason we felt the need to have that be one of the places that we try to repair the value equation for our consumers.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to talk a little bit about innovation.
And considering that you guys lead your broader categories with innovation how do you think about setting innovation at the right price points i.e.
is it too expensive in this economic backdrop considering that consumer spending may not get back to where we were years ago? Consumers have made difficult choices to trade down.
So I'm just wondering -- and not just in Beauty but just broadly as you look at the U.S.
and Western Europe how you're setting the prices out there and whether or not you feel that that's the appropriate measure at this point.
Right.
Well we -- as I said earlier we believe in innovation.
Innovation is the primary way we accomplish our purpose of improving lives.
We spend about $2 billion a year in research and development.
We spend $0.5 billion a year in consumer knowledge.
The half -- the $2 billion a year in research and development is about 50% more than our largest competitor.
We believe in innovation and we believe that that's the way we improve lives and we sell product and we make profit.
The way we think about innovation is not that we just innovate for the premium tiers or even not that we innovate for the premium tiers and dilute the product for lower priced tiers.
We believe that we innovate for each discrete level of the price tiers.
So while we're innovating on the high end in U.S.
laundry with Tide TOTALCARE let's say which have price index of $1.60 versus base Tide or Tide PODS we're also innovating on Gain on Era which are brands that are priced significantly lower than Tide.
So we try to innovate for each consumer need at each discrete level of the economic pyramid.
And I think for the question of are there meaningful set of consumers that are responsive to the premium Tier innovation there continues to be a strong response.
Some of our best innovation as measured by sales have been in the premium tier whether that's Tide PODS albeit it's still early there but Fusion ProGlide Crest 3D White.
And so we're not seeing an absence of consumer interest in premium innovation.
Your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley of Buckingham Research.
I have questions about the fourth quarter and then separately on innovation.
I'll give you the innovation one first.
You've highlighted weakness in Beauty Care and the need to do more innovation for the base lines for Olay and Pantene.
We've been hearing this for I think more than a year.
Do you agree that you're too slow for innovation? And can you explain why you've been so slow? And can you tell us when we start getting significant innovation there? And then on the fourth quarter we understand commodity costs are worse than you originally thought.
But do gross margins still go up in the fourth quarter the comp is easier.
That's the first question on the fourth quarter.
Also on the fourth quarter will promotions take more off of sales than a year ago than they have been? And the third question on the fourth quarter is will your add ratio be still flat for the year or will it be up and will it be up in the fourth quarter? Alice on the rate of innovation or the speed of innovation certainly we would always say that we would like to be faster than we are.
If you look at the innovation process we've shortened the time recently for example by using more modeling and simulation which helps us speed the process of innovation.
And we're applying those tools to help us speed the process of innovation in the Beauty and Grooming categories as well as other categories.
80% for example now of our innovations have some form of modeling or simulation which eliminates the need for the creation of bench scale prototypes which speeds the innovation process.
You will be seeing incremental innovations over the coming months.
I don't want to disclose them because obviously our competitors will have access to this information.
But as Jon laid out in the last year on average we've had about the same number of IRI Pacesetters the largest sellers in the United States as we have in previous years.
We're not happy with that.
We want to go further and we want to go faster and you will see that.
You're next question comes from the line of Tim Conder of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'd just like to echo a couple of the earlier comments Wendy and Ali here.
The competitors seem to deal with the sluggish developed markets very well and very profitably.
Yet as they use promotions effectively to maintain and improve margins you've made your issues to maintain your share without rolling back the pricing or aggressively using promotion to push out material margin improvement.
And it seems one of execution you've got some innovation that -- in general that you are getting paid for but broadly you're not.
And then maybe is it too broad of a marketing focus on the feel-good versus the key core brands? Those seem to be potentially 2 of the underlying issues here.
And then separately more from a housekeeping ongoing prospective with the restructuring it would be very very beneficial I think as we go forward each quarter to lay out "Here's how much we did in restructuring here are the savings for that " so that we can track the progress versus the benchmark of the whole program.
We're obviously working to grow share in developed markets and to do it in a profitable way.
And I've talked about how we're going to do that.
And again the best way to solve this or to answer your questions or Wendy's or Ali's is to deliver the results and that's what we're focused on.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious about the commentary that marketing investment was reduced in the March quarter.
Why was that? And then relatedly the spread between price and volume has widened to the largest gap in recent memory.
I guess the question is how long is that sustainable? And what prevents you from frankly completely repositioning pricing going forward to try to stimulate volumes and sort of go to the opposite end of the spectrum? I know it's drastic but what prevents it? Well first on the marketing point I'm not recognizing that point.
We didn't decrease marketing spending in the quarter we just completed.
So I'm not quite sure where that reference comes from but I'd be happy to follow up.
If there was a reduction it was very minor but there was no step change for sure.
And on the pricing point I mean quite frankly I've talked about $3.5 billion of pricing offsetting $3.5 billion of commodity cost increases.
I think if we can make it work staying with that is a much better option than reversing all of that because it's much more pricing flexibility.
As I mentioned earlier we really don't except in a few cases see ourselves out of step with the balance of competition as it relates to the amount of pricing that's going into the market.
And -- but again where we lose significant share as a result of that we will take action as we have done.
Your next question comes from the line of Linda Bolton-Weiser of Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just another question on the topic of innovation.
I guess I think of true innovation as something that adds unit volume growth to the category.
You give the consumer an additional item to buy within the category the way fabric softener was added to laundry many years ago and teeth whiteners added to Oral Care et cetera.
Can you give examples of -- I mean it doesn't seem that really anything that's come out of Procter in the last few years is that kind of true innovation.
And is that the way you think of true innovation in terms of being able to grow categories? And then secondly on the mix the negative mix that we've seen as a trend it seems that that's more related to innovation than maybe -- it seems that there's been more a discussion of the geographic mix influence on the mix.
And maybe more of it is from the lack of innovation.
As we're seeing such negative mix in Beauty Care of negative 4% can you maybe comment on is there some way to quantify is there really more of it from lack of innovation versus geographic mix? Or am I thinking of it the right way?.
Linda in Jon's remarks we talked about innovation.
We think of innovation holistically.
In other words we think of every -- innovation as everyone's job innovation in marketing innovation in product.
Jon talked about the fact that we've upgraded existing products like Crest with Crest Pro-B Health Clinical (sic) [Crest &amp; Oral-B Pro-Health Clinical] lineup the new Bounty technology Always and Tampax Radiant.
But also we believe in entering new categories.
And Jon talked about the fact that we introduced Downy Unstopables which has increased the size of the fabric enhancer category.
We talked about Febreze car air freshener which is increasing the size of the Air Care category.
We talked about Olay's Smooth Finish in the facial hair removal area which is a new and better product for facial hair removal.
So we talked about ZzzQuil which is a first entry for us into the sleep aid segment.
So we do believe in expanding categories and we do believe in this continuous innovation that even creates new categories where categories don't exist.
And that's the kind of innovation that we need in order to grow our business over the long term and globally.
You're next question comes from the line of Leigh Ferst of Wellington Shields.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to take another stab at the question about pricing.
I'm wondering if in a world of instant communications and mobile apps et cetera it might become more difficult in the future to take pricing.
How do you look at that? Well repricing -- pricing is one aspect of consumer value.
There are lots of different aspects of consumer value.
For example I talked about a retailer where I was in the store and the retailer was telling me their average transaction size was $12 for every shopper who shops in their store.
And then we went and we checked the average transaction size for Tide PODS and that retailer was selling the $19 size which means consumers are seeing tremendous value in Tide PODS that's much more than just price.
And we have proprietary ways that we measure that so that we have a relatively good estimate when we go to market as to what would happen.
We're also working in consumer applications and working in digital technology to make sure that we create a relationship with the consumer and let them know the value of our products before and when they're in the store.
I think that's our last question.
I want to apologize because there were a couple or parts of questions that we didn't get to either as a new caller got brought online or as we just didn't make it there.
I want to be able to answer all of your questions and so please don't hesitate to follow up with us and we'll do that.
My apologies on a couple of those.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
would you guys be able to give us the productivity savings in that 10 billion either every quarter or every year.
So I think that’s kind of important thing to track.
And then my main question is so I guess about 32% of the portfolio had market share flat or up in the quarter which obviously was nice little uptick in June.
Can you give us that metrics for the U.S.
and then tell us what the U.S.
growth was and sort of leaving the quarter first Bill on tracking the 10 billion of course we will definitely do that.
It will probably be more of annual or every six month report back as appose to every quarter but we will definitely do that.
And you can imagine we are doing that internally it's part of our performance metrics.
So we should have that ability.
Bob we said that market share was about 33% one-third for the quarter but ticked up to about 45% over the last month tax rate for next year think of kind of 25 to 26%.
And as I mentioned in my remarks we currently see commodities up modestly so flat to up probably less than $100 million next year.
Relative to top line sales growth versus the quarter we just completed we will have less pricing -benefit as we start to annualize some of the price increases that we have taken.
So that's the primary reason you are seeing that deceleration and then as we go through the year and the 40-20-10 plans are fully implemented we will start to see stronger momentum in out period.
It's not we go from zero to 2 to 3 to 4 I think it's important to understand how our GBUs are organized.
We are really organized as regional business units that report up to a global head and so we try to maintain that presence at a regional level.
And in terms of making sure that everybody run to the same side of the boat we have very specific portfolio roles for geographies both top and bottom-line John it’s important to know that the whole focus on the 40-20-10 plan is about making sure we invest and resource our business where it matters most.
And that is what a GBU President does and then of course there's oversight by the Vice Chairman of GBUs Dimitri Panayotopoulos and Jon and I as we meet with the GBU presidents.
So in terms of a pendulum from one side to the other or exploiting one geography or another Lauren.
It still is strategic for us to have a full vertical portfolio of offerings in every category.
So that is part of our strategic plan and it is part of our innovation program.
So for example in laundry in the United States you would go from Tide TOTALCARE or Tide PODS on the high end.
Tide TOTALCARE being priced about 160 versus average Tide down to Gain at maybe 85 index or Era at 65 index in pricing versus average Tide.
So the same would be true for example in Skin Care with Olay you can buy a product for as much as $6 or you can buy a professional product for as much as $45.
So Lauren in the mid-tier Nik to grow the categories for exactly the reason you said.
Our retail partners if you look at the Advantage Survey or the Cannondale Study they recognize us having a comparative advantage versus our competition for growing category sales.
So something like Tide PODS for example which is the most concentrated form of laundry detergent you can buy.
Because of that concentration it grows the category.
And since we've launched Tide PODS we've not only grown the share of Tide and grown the share of our laundry category but we've also significantly increased category growth.
Another example would be the Febreze car strip which is a new kind of air freshener in the auto category which has grown the category substantially.
When we innovate when we introduce new items when we improve the items that are in the market back to CAGNY Nik we showed a couple of slides about our philosophy on developing markets and how it's all about category growth as a much more important component of overall growth.
And that continues to be what we're seeing as well as we bring innovation into developing markets Wendy.
The top 40 top 20 top 10 process while encompassing or comprising 50% of our sales and 70% of our profit there is no intention to just simply disregard the rest of the business.
And when you include the top 40 then you include the top 10 developing markets you've got a pretty good swath of our business.
In comparison to the program you talked about with AG which is really big customers big brands big countries.
It’s the same approach which is to make sure we focus on where our business matters most and that’s what we’re doing.<br><br>In terms of profitability of customers there's really not a difference by customer.
What you really see if anything is a difference by channel.
But we treat the customers the same and support consistent with Robinson-Patman Act and support them consistent with our innovations.
In fact right now if you went into virtually any store in the United States Joe we've taken a number of steps.
One is we've created a new business creation organization call it NBC reporting to Dimitri the Vice Chairman of GBUs and also with the lot of oversight from my myself.
And the whole idea there is to have people working on innovating in the seams in places that would fall between the organization boundaries.
So for example a product like Swiffer would involve chemistry would involve paper technology would involve apparatus technology.
No single GBU would develop that.
It falls between the seams so we need people working on that.
Secondly we put an experienced Group President in charge of that organization.
It's Jorge Mesquita.
Jorge has a track record of having developed a number of discontinuous innovations.
When he worked with me I ran fabric and Home Care and he led our Home Care business and grew Febreze grew Swiffer to significant pieces of business for us.
Third is we have funded all of this activity and we focused the organization on it.
Fourth is we have done training the organization on discontinuous innovation.
We worked with Clayton Christensen from Harvard Business School who has helped us.
And I think that's about it.
There are more things Joe obviously that's something that's somewhat fluid depending on how plans work or don’t work we didn't knew it just for discontinuous innovation but as an evidence of our scale of the Procter &amp; Gamble company we have taken a new approach in research and development called transformative platform technologies where we have identified nine technologies that span our business units.
Think of these as technologies that are so breakthrough that no individual business unit could afford to invest in them on their own; but on the other hand the corporation can invest in them.
These are like 10 year 20 year technologies that change the face of our business.
One example of this that you would be familiar with is something called solid state technology.
This of this as two metal roles that take a substrate between them and change the physical properties of that substrate as that substrate passes between them and provide either stretch properties so you would see that in Baby Care you would see that in Feminine Care and always on Pampers.
But you would also see that in Glad trash bags the new stretchable Glad trash bags and the new stretchable Glad household bags.
This [surfing] technology is a technology that no single business unit could create but by creating it corporately and then putting it out to the business units based on superior consumer insight.
It involves the five strengths of the company branding go-to market scale innovation consumer knowledge.
We think those are enduring just like we think the purpose of the company is enduring.
What we're doing now is we’re becoming more focused and more fit to win in this current environment.
That’s what our 40-20-10 plans are about that’s what our $10 billion cost savings and productivity improvement plan is about.
That will be the fuel to growth and the fuel to profit Ali on prudence of first quarter guidance I don't generally consider whether something is prudent or not or consider whether it's accurate or not and that's where we find ourselves and we try to explain why.
In terms of the $10 billion program I'd say a couple of things.
First of all we've tried to very transparently lay out exactly how that number was calculated and you've rightly described how that's calculated.
So if you have a different view in terms of what happens with the top line or any component of it we've given you all the pieces and you can model that any way that suits yourself.<br><br>I mentioned in my remarks that we have found as we've gone through this additional opportunities to reduce cost.
I mentioned that I expected us to be or that we would be more than 10% below June 2011 levels on enrollment when we're all done.
So it's not like we're looking at the $10 billion figure and saying that's it.
This is about a culture and a mindset that as Bob said if you will and how it squares with both the end of the year we just completed as well as the subsequent year.
We have as I mentioned funded increases in marketing support and we have as I mentioned funded investments in pricing.
So the investments that are required to deliver that growth acceleration are baked in.
And that's one of the reasons that the first quarter is what it is and it's one of the reasons that the overall guidance is what it is.<br><br>If you exclude foreign exchange from the guidance as we mentioned in the comments we would be at about 2% to 7% earnings per share growth in 2013.
That's not significantly off the bottom-end of the range that I described for 2014 of kind of 8%.
And as we get a full year of cost savings in place for instance from enrollment as we gain the acceleration in the restarted plans in the developed markets etcetera and as we don't have the significant one time hurts that we have in the current year due to pension revaluation and due to the Venezuela pricing thing our core SG&amp;A is around 14.5% of sales which based on our benchmarking puts us in the bottom half of 15 company global competitive peer group.
Now within that there is some diversity.
In general the global beauty companies skew very high on this metric.
Some is high as 24% of sales and the mainly domestic household care companies skewed at the low end of 9 to 10% of sales.
The beauty companies because they have counters they have beauty counselors that’s why they are high.
The household companies some of them go through brokers and don't have sales forces that's why they are low but based on our mix of business which is about 53% household care 33% Beauty and Grooming 14% health care we compare well with the weighted average of our peers.
However considering our company scale we expect to be better than the competitive weighted average.
So getting the core SG&amp;A of around 12% of sales we think puts us in a top third of our competitors on an absolute basis and about 350 basis points below the weighted average based on business mix.<br><br>As we go about this work as you properly pointed out this is not just about reducing the number of heads it's about finding ways to do the work differently in order to be more agile.
That's one of the reasons we've reduced the number of levels within the organization the hierarchy we’ve talked before about reducing the number of Vice Chairman by 50% reducing the number of Vice President by 15% reducing the number of Directors.
And while we’ve done that we’ve digitized the organization to allow them to operate effectively with less overhead.<br><br>We have also been working to make the process from the creation of the product to selling it in the market more linear.
During the time of many acquisitions in the past we became less linear we had too many (inaudible) too many people you had to check with and we are going through a process now in our brand building organization of making that much more linear.
Those are two examples.
The third example is obviously the creation of global business services first on the housekeeping question as you would imagine compaction is always on our radar screen in our innovation program.
It's good for consumers because it helps them reduce the amount of space product takes it reduces fillers and it's good for retailers because it reduces the amount of shelf space they have to use.
It's good for the environment.
It reduces carbon emissions from trucks carrying it around.
It reduces ethylene in the environment.
So we are always looking at compaction and every one of our innovation programs has some kind of compaction within it.
I’d encourage you when you think about compaction to think about Tide PODS.
It's the most compact laundry detergent available.
It's got the highest percentage of actives of any laundry detergent in the market and it cleans as well if not better than six competitive products at the same time.
So what we’re seeing before was developed market growth of about 1.5 points developing market growth of about 8 points which got us to 4 on a global basis.
What we've seen more recently is a slight uptick in developed primarily in June and that's growing now at 2 points developing -- we've actually seen some acceleration as Jon talked about in his remarks.
Some of the activity is correcting price disequilibrium.
But it's important that much of it also is innovation.
And the innovation is also what's driving the improved shares.
An example of that would be continued growth on ProGlide for example in blades and razors.
And we have future innovation coming fully fully agree with developing markets being a priority and a strategic imperative as we look forward.
We have significant opportunity in those ten large markets.
And by markets you shouldn't confuse the word market with country.
These are often times regions or country clusters where we go to market very similarly.
So we refer to them as one market.
If you look at what's ahead of us in developing markets I think it's an incredibly exciting thing for both consumer products companies in general and particularly Procter &amp; Gamble.<br><br>We're looking at population growth to 2020 of 700 million people globally 95% of which are going to be in developing markets.
We're looking at the addition of 1.5 billion middle income consumers 98% of which are going to be in developing markets.
We are I think at the precipice of one of the biggest trade-up cycles that we’ve ever seen.
You have got growing populations growing income levels and very aspirational consumers.
So I think we are making progress in strengthening the culture and what I mean by that is I’ve talked about in my remarks accountability.
We hold people accountable to Procter &amp; Gamble Company.
If you remember in my remarks I talked about bonus programs paying roughly on average 35% payout.
That's a lone number that's painful.
I also mentioned accountability in terms of leadership.
If you compare the leadership that we have today versus the leadership we had three years ago you would see substantive changes particularly in the Beauty business.<br><br>I also talked about the need to establish our cultural productivity something that Procter &amp; Gamble hasn’t had during my 32 year career.
We’ve had periods of productivity improvement but they tend to be one-off or episodic and what we are trying to create now is the productivity constancy where we constantly work to improve the organization the organization effectiveness the leadership of the organization the way we do our work so that we can constantly be turning up the money that we need to invest even in slow macroeconomic environments.
So we’re working very hard on the culture we’re working very hard on the leadership of the company and frankly we just all got together a couple weeks ago and I’m very encouraged by leadership team we have now.
In many ways I think that I just wish I'd done it three years ago Beauty is one of the primary focuses of our 40-20-10 focus program.
There are parts of our Beauty business globally that we’re very happy with.
But there are also parts that we’re unhappy with.
We’ve talked for some time about Pantene North America.
We’ve talked for some time about Olay North America.
And we’re working through innovation through better consumer insights through better advertising to improve the results of those brands.<br><br>Secondly on the Olympics thank you very much for your comments.
The Olympics sponsorship is really a terrific example of Procter &amp; Gamble scale brought to life.
It's the largest multi-brand commercial program that we’ve ever done.
We've got 34 brands and we’ve got displays right now in more than 4 million stores around the world and that last for six-month period.
It started last March April as you know probably with Mum's Day in London and it's going to continue after the Olympics this week.
In fact after the Olympics and in the next couple of weeks we start the Paralympics which is part of our sponsorship as well.
The program has got a 50% higher return on investment versus our typical single brand program.
We've generated a lot of awareness through social media with 6 million views of advertising online so far.
And the benefits of the program extend well beyond the London Olympics as I said.
We still expect to fully deliver about $0.5 billion in incremental sales over a 12-month period and we've consistently demonstrated a 5% to a 20% increase in sales when retailers run Olympic displays.<br><br>We also have seen a tremendous advantage when our brands are linked back to our company the Procter &amp; Gamble Company.
While this looks like something new it really isn't all that new.
When I worked on the new brand in Procter &amp; Gamble in 1980 we were allowed to put this is from Procter &amp; Gamble on the brand for six months during the first six months of launch.
When I was living in Asia from 1991 and 2001 we ended every ad that we had in Asia with a placard that talked about Procter &amp; Gamble and improving lives.
And we have experienced throughout the world that Procter &amp; Gamble is the glue that pulls all the brands together enabling these massive multi-brand merchandising and displays but also leading to the credibility of the brands and the credibility of the company.<br><br>As you can imagine we've researched this in many countries around the world and this is a positive connection.
So we will continue it Leigh.
What we do is we get the leaders of the company together the GBU leaders and the geography leaders.
And we work to put together a total company plan.
So for example if we were to introduce a new category in the country we would look at what other categories space up against the consumer against the retailer against the competitor Tim.
Basically we haven't built-in any significant benefit from share repurchase because we haven't finalized the timing of share repurchase.
And that timing will have an impact on how much earnings per share actually earnings per share benefit is there for the year.
But obviously that provides some degree of flexibility from a lot to a little depending on when we do it.
There is nothing that's changed in the expense environment.
If anything things have probably improved a little bit.
We've talked about commodities being essentially flat whereas when we were talking in Paris for example we were talking about more of a headwind in commodities.
So very happy.
And as I said I think if you compare the leadership team we have today versus the one we had three years ago you’d see significant differences.
Number two the compensation systems of the company very much favors the shareholder.
Most of us have over 95% of our net worth in Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
This company has been a company that in the early days of the company created a profit sharing trust program.
Basically all of my retirement is based in Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
I have no pension other than Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
Our Medical Care is supported by Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
Our bonus programs are based on Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
So our leadership is very very much focused on total shareholder return and Procter &amp; Gamble stock and that's why the comment I made about the payout being only averagely 35% that's still going to be paid in Procter &amp; Gamble stock and restricted shares.
So that's significant.<br><br>Secondly while it is true that part of the compensation program is a mixture of business unit performance as well as company performance even when we do that metric we have a company factor in there.
And when the leadership team got together last week we suggested and we all agreed that we focus on seven metrics for the entire organization and we are doing that.
So we are united more than ever before as I have said in my remarks when you were talking about the challenges of managing a big company as opposed to smaller focused company.
I think it's important to understand how we actually manage the business which is actually very focused.
The daily business of the company is managed by leaders of individual business units.
They are focused on only one thing they have one job; growing sales and profit of their business and they get to do that with all of the assets of the Procter &amp; Gamble Company behind them.
And unlike many of their competitors they don’t have to concern themselves with back office activities treasury tax investor calls.
They have got one job.
So we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's Quarter-End Conference Call.
Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G's most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.<br><br>As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.<br><br>Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.<br><br>Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G’s Chief Financial Officer everyone.
I am here this morning with Bob McDonald and Teri List-Stoll.
The second quarter results we released this morning were good at the high end of our initial forecast on the top line and well ahead of the forecast on operating profit earnings per share and cash flow.
These better than expected results will enable us to raise our sales earnings per share and share repurchase outlook for the fiscal year while and this is important simultaneously strengthening our innovation and marketing plans in the back half.<br><br>Organic sales grew a strong 3% which was at the high end of our 1% to 3% guidance range.
Organic volume grew 2 points and pricing added 2 points to organic sales growth.
Product and geographic mix reduced sales by 1 point.
Organic sales growth was broad-based with all segments up 2% or more for the quarter.
Foreign exchange impacts lowered sales growth by 1 point leaving all-in sales up 2% a point above the high end of the guidance range.
Global market share trends have continued to improve.
We held or grew market share in businesses representing nearly 50% of sales in the December quarter up from 45% of sales in the September quarter and 30% in the June quarter.
We have more work to do but the underlying trends are improving.<br><br>Moving to the bottom line all-in earnings per share were $1.39 ahead of our guidance range of $1.18 to $1.25 per share.
All-in earnings include $0.21 of non-core holding gains from the purchase of the balance of our Baby Care and Feminine Care joint venture in Iberia which we completed in October and $0.05 of non-core restructuring investments to drive productivity improvement.
Core earnings per share were $1.22 up 12% versus the prior year much stronger than we had initially forecast.
The better than expected earnings were driven by top of range sales growth strong productivity savings and a small pick up from a higher than expected gain on the divestiture of our Western European bleach business.<br><br>Core operating profit margin grew 110 basis points including 160 basis points of productivity improvements and cost savings.
Core gross margin also improved 110 basis points.
Cost savings and productivity helped gross margin by 100 basis points and pricing improved gross margin by roughly 90 basis points.
These benefits were partially offset by a 100 basis point negative impact from a combination of product and geographic mix.
Commodity costs were essentially neutral to gross margin for the quarter.<br><br>Core SG&amp;A costs were in line with the prior year as a percentage of sales.
Overhead cost savings of approximately 60 basis points were offset by increased plans and benefits costs and modestly higher marketing spending.
The core tax rate was 24.4% slightly below the prior year level.
That impact on the year-to-year change in the tax rate was about $0.01 on the quarter.
On an all-in basis including restructuring costs gross margin improved 80 basis points and SG&amp;A costs were in line with the prior year as a percentage of sales.
All-in operating profit margin improved by 800 basis points driven by non-core charges taken in the base period.<br><br>We generated $3.1 billion in free cash flow in the quarter which was also ahead of our initial forecast.
We expect to deliver around 90% cash flow productivity for the year.
During the quarter we returned $3 billion of cash to shareholders $1.6 billion in dividends and $1.4 billion in share repurchase.<br><br>During the first half of the fiscal year we have returned $7.2 billion to shareholders $3.2 billion in dividends and $4 billion in share repurchase.
These second quarter results combined with those of the first quarter enabled us to raise our outlook on the top line bottom line and on share repurchase while simultaneously strengthening plans.
We are continuing to make progress on the productivity plan we outlined at the CAGNY Conference last February and on the growth priorities we discussed at the Citi Conference last May.
Our priorities continue to be maintaining strong developing market momentum strengthening our core developed market business building a strong innovation pipeline and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvements.<br><br>We maintain growth momentum in the developing markets in the December quarter with organic sales up 7%.
BRIC markets were up 11% led by Brazil and India with organic sales growth of over 20%.
And an important component of our developing market plans is continued expansion of our portfolio.
The globalization of our Oral Care portfolio has been one part of this.
We have entered the Oral Care category in 34 countries over the last 4 years.
Every market is delivering at or above our going-in expectations for both sales and market share.<br><br>Progress on some of the early expansion markets continues to be very strong.
In Brazil Oral Care shipments were up more than 50% in the December quarter driven by the launch of 3D White toothpastes Whitestrips and the benefit of full national distribution.
We are growing in all channels and across all forms in the oral care category in Brazil.
Oral-B toothpaste share is now fast approaching 9% on a national basis up nearly 3 points versus a year ago.<br><br>Additional oral care geographic expansions are planned this calendar year including a lunch in Australia in a few weeks.
Another example is Gillette Guard a breakthrough value tier system razor which has been a big success in India.
We expanded Guard to Egypt last quarter and we are testing it in other developing markets where double-edge blades are still the predominant shaving tool.<br><br>We are continuing to build scale in developing markets which is enabling solid profit growth.
We are localizing production with lower supply chain costs and we are improving the productivity of our SG&amp;A spending as these businesses grow.
These are two important drivers of the profit improvement we expect to deliver in our top ten developing markets this year.
In aggregate we expect after-tax profit in these ten markets to increase by about 35% versus last year including negative foreign exchange impacts.
And around 50% on a local currency basis.<br><br>We are doing all of this while increasing marketing spending and accelerating the pace of innovation.
While we are being appropriately choice full we are in no way pulling back in developing markets to the contrary we are moving strongly forward.
At the same time we are strengthening our core developed markets business.
We are ensuring that we have sufficient plans to achieve our objectives in the 40 largest category country combinations most of which are in developed markets.
These businesses account for about 50% of the company's sales and 70% of operating profit.<br><br>The interventions we made during the last calendar year in four core U.S.
categories are continuing to drive strong results.
In the U.S.
laundry detergents value share has been progressively improving following the consumer value corrections on the Gain brand and the growth of Tide Pods.
Value share for U.S.
detergents are up sequentially on a past 12 6 3 and 1 month basis.
Tide’s share is in the high 30s up 1.5 point versus prior year.
And Gain value share is back to 15% for the first time in over a year.<br><br>Market share results in the U.S.
auto dishwashing detergents have also improved sequentially.
Past three month Cascade value share is now at 60% up 1.5 point versus prior year.
Gillette’s share is up nearly 2 points at 74% in the U.S.
mail blades and razors category.
The Fusion franchise is up more than a point at 37.5% and MACH3 is in line with prior year at about 21%.
In U.S.
oral care Crest toothpaste’s market leading value share is about 36% in line with prior year levels.
Across the U.S.
business we held or built share in businesses representing nearly 60% of sales.<br><br>We have seen strong sequential improvement in the share trends across our top 20 brands in the U.S.
On a past 12 month basis only 25% of the top 20 brands were holding a growing share.
That figure is up to 60% on a past three month basis and 65% for the most recent period in the United States.
January marks the first months of full planned deployment.
And innovation strengthens as the year progresses.
So we expect further improvement in market share results in the back half of the fiscal year.<br><br>Innovation underpins both developed and developing market efforts as is our work to drive greater productivity in everything we do.
On the point of innovation Tide PODS have reached a 6% value share in less than a year.
We expect PODS will generate about $0.5 billion of sales this fiscal year on one brand in one country.
Tide PODS deliver as much cleaning power as [6x] leading competitive unit dose products combined.
A big reason we currently hold a 75% share of the unit dose form.<br><br>We have now established PODS capacity in Europe and will began the roll out of Ariel PODS in April.
Additional markets and brands will follow.
We have driven the growth in a new category with Downy UNSTOPABLES in-wash scent boosters.
UNSTOPABLES keep cloths fresh for up to 12-weeks until you were them.
UNSTOPABLES consumption is nearly twice as high as we had initially expected.
We launched a new spring scent earlier this month to further expand the UNSTOPABLES line up.
We are marketing this innovation in only three countries so far.
The U.S.
Canada and Japan.<br><br>Our air care business just introduce Febreze Stick and Refresh which Febreze’s unique slow release scent technology with a no-residue adhesive from our connect and develop innovation partner 3M.
Febreze Stick and Refresh sticks to any surface and works anywhere in your home to keep it fresh and odor free without plugs or batteries.
The surface care category launched a Swiffer with gain scent line extension to provide consumers with the fresh scent of gain as they clean with Swiffer Dusters Wet Jet and Sweepers.
Swiffer is a good example of the benefits of scale and innovation coupling our substrate and perfume expertise with the strong brand equity from our laundry category to obsolete mops feather dusters and rags.
Cascade Platinum launched earlier this month this follows the successful launch of Fairy Platinum in Western Europe earlier this year.
Cascade and Fairy Platinum are designed to deliver powerful cleaning for dishes while also providing film protection to help maintain the sparkling look of dishwasher interiors.<br><br>Next month we have three new things to communicate on Bounty.
On the main Bounty lineup we will be announcing towels that are two times more absorbent than the next leading national brand.
We are upgrading Bounty Basic with towels that are 50% stronger than the leading bargain Brand.
And we are launching a new line called BOUNTY DURATOWEL letting consumers ditch their dish cloth and switch to BOUNTY DURATOWEL which is three times cleaner than their dirty dish cloth.<br><br>Our entry into the sleep aids category continues to go very well.
ZzzQuil is a non-habit forming sleep-aid that was not for colds not for pain just for sleep.
ZzzQuil has grown to nearly 20% value share in the U.S.
sleep aids category making it the number one brand in sleep aid in terms of both units and value in the U.S.
We began expanding ZzzQuil into Canada earlier this month.
The expansion of Vicks Cough &amp; Cold products in Russia Poland Hungary and the Czech Republic is also progressing well.
The launch features for the Vicks Nature Fusion line that combines effective medicine with the soothing experience of natural remedies.
Sales in the expansion markets are ahead of initial expectations.<br><br>Oral Care launched its Oral-B Deep Sweep power brush two weeks ago.
Deep Sweep cleans like a power brush and moves like a manual brush to remove more than two times the plaque of a regular manual toothbrush.
3D White toothpaste has now delivered market share growth in the U.S.
every month since its introduction over two and a half years ago.
We are expanding the 3D White line which includes toothpaste brush rinse floss and Whitestrips around the world to continue building out our full Oral Care portfolio.
Over the last nine months we launched 3D White products in the UK Germany Italy Belgium the Netherlands Luxembourg Switzerland Austria China Brazil and Mexico.
3D White is driving strong share growth in Mexico and the UK.
Mexico reached an all-time high toothpaste value share of over 14% for the quarter up nearly four points versus the prior year.
In the UK the combination of 3D White Oral-B Complete and Oral-B Pro-Expert drove value share to over 10% up nearly three points versus the prior year.<br><br>Salon hair-care’s Illumina Color from Wella Professional launched in Western Europe in July and in North America in December.
Illumina leverages a new patented micro-light technology and as well as biggest innovation in the last 20 years.
With Wella consumers experience hair that appears lit from within.
This breakthrough innovation we will be launching in Latin America in Australia New Zealand in March.<br><br>U.S.
Skin Care began shipping Olay Total Effect CC or Color Correction Cream in December.
Total Effect CC Cream fights the seven signs of aging to correct fine lines wrinkles and age spots and covers to provide a flawlessly beautiful complexion.
This month they also introduced some new mid-tier Skin Care boutiques called Olay Fresh Effects aimed at younger consumers with a collection of cleansers and moisturizers that deep clean and hydrate to keep you looking beautifully fresh and vibrant.<br><br>We have also begun revitalization of Olay Regenerist with the launch of new Olay Micro-Sculpting Cream.
The reformulation includes two new anti-aging ingredients to penetrate quickly and regenerate surface cells to reveal younger looking skin fast.
Visible wrinkle reduction starts in just one day and the look of 10 years of wrinkles can be reduced in just four weeks.<br><br>The COVERGIRL brand introduced two exciting innovations during the last quarter.
The new Clump Crusher Mascara by LashBlast provides 200% more volume with zero clumps.
COVERGIRL mascara sales growth has accelerated by 9 points since the Clump Crusher launch.
Also COVERGIRL has entered the nails segment with the new Outlast Stay Brilliant Nail Gloss.
This line has 45 shades that provide high gloss color that can last as long as a week without the need for a top coat.
Initial results for COVERGIRL nails are very strong one leading drug customer sales have exceeded market leader Maybelline’s after just six weeks in market.<br><br>We are currently launching a Hair Care innovation bundle that spans the vertical portfolio.
We recently launched Pantene Expert Collection which includes two super-premium lines Age Defy and Advanced+ Keratin Repair priced 200%-250% above the base Pantene line.
Age Defy leverages a new formula based on our hair biology program yielding hair that acts ten years younger by thickening hair as if it had 6500 new strands.<br><br>The Pantene Advanced+ Keratin Repair formula leverages a breakthrough in new conditioner technology to repair two years of hair damage in two minutes.
We are expanding Pantene Expert Collection to Latin America later this quarter.
We are also launching Vidal Sassoon Pro series in the U.S.
a complete hair care line offering shampoo conditioner styling and permanent color to give salon genius brilliantly prices.
Vidal Sassoon Pro series is priced at a 50 to 75 index to the base Pantene shampoos and conditioners providing us with a very strong brand in the salon affordable segment with a real salon heritage.<br><br>We are bringing a bundle of Gillette innovations to market across Fusion and MACH3 blades and razors  as well as shave preps which is focused on sensitive skin.
70% of men believe they have sensitive skin and these innovations leverage the fact that our ProGlide products have been recommended by dermatologists in the U.S.
as the best shave for sensitive skin.<br><br>Like  innovation productivity also underpins all of our developed and developing market efforts.
We are making strong progress against our commitments but won't stop there.
The overhead reduction plan we announced last February called for  a reduction in non-manufacturing staffing of 10% or roughly 5 700 roles by the end of this fiscal year.
As of the end of December we have reduced 5 500 roles more than 95% of our target reduction.
It’s likely that we will reach our initial staffing objective four to  five months ahead of schedule.
And as we announced at our analyst day meeting in November we are committed to do more.<br><br>Our new objective is to further reduce and this is what we introduced in analyst day in November the further reduction of non-manufacturing enrollment by additional 2% to 4% per year from fiscal year 2014 through 2016.
This will roughly double the amount of direct savings we deliver in core SG&amp;A reducing our reliance on top line growth for leverage driven savings.
Any additional enrollment progress we make in fiscal 2013 beyond our initial target will give us a head start on the fiscal 2014 to 2016 enrollment objectives.<br><br>We have solid plans in place to deliver $1.2 billion in savings this fiscal year in cost to goods sold.
So I have established a stretched target beyond this of $1.4 billion.
Our efforts in this area include a 5% net productivity increase across our manufacturing operations even as we add new manufacturing capacity and enrollments in developing markets.
For the first half of the year we are tracking well ahead of target at about 6.5% manufacturing productivity improvement.<br><br>We are achieving efficiencies in marketing spend particularly on non-media expenditures and are reinvesting these savings and strengthen plans.
As we embrace our cost savings work we must and will keep our eye on the overriding objective of shareholder value creation with growth being an important part of this.
At the end of last fiscal year our core operating profit margin was nearly 19% which compares to a simple average of 15 competitors of about 15.9%.
Our operating margins is higher than 12 of the 15.
This means we are effectively more leveraged to growth than most of our competitors.
And there is significant value creation to be delivered through growth.<br><br>In our endeavor to cut costs we will not compromise our growth prospects or capabilities.
We are building and executing our strategy with the objective of getting this savings and growth balance right.<br><br>Now I will turn to our update on outlook for fiscal 2013 and the January-March quarter.
Starting with the fiscal year we are increasing organic sales growth guidance to a range of 3% to 4% compared to our prior range of 2% to 4%.
The new range is comprised of volume growth of 2% to 3% price contribution of about 2% and negative mix of around 1%.
We now expect all-in sales growth of 1% to 2%.
This includes a foreign exchange headwind of about 2 points based on mid-January spot rates.<br><br>We are raising our outlook for core earnings per share growth to a range of 3% to 6% from a previous range of down 1% to up 4%.
This guidance includes earnings per share headwinds from items such as higher cost for pensions and employee benefit plans and the impact of mandate in price reductions Venezuela.
Combined these headwinds are reducing our core earnings per share growth rate by about 3 percentage points.
Adjust for these our core earnings per share growth would be 6% to 9% for the year.<br><br>The new earnings outlook equates to a core earnings per share range of $3.97 to $4.07 which compares to our previous guidance range of $3.80 to $4 per share.
There are two items that we called out as potential risks last quarter which have largely been resolved with no material impact to earnings.
We have managed through the absorbent gelling material supply issue for our diaper business with only minor disruption in added costs.
And the U.S.
corporate tax extenders that we have assumed in our forecast have now been enacted into law.<br><br>There continue to be two notable earnings risks that are not included in our guidance.
Our forecast is based on mid-January foreign exchange spot rates.
A large devaluation of an important currency such as the Venezuelan Bolivar would likely reduce our earnings outlook.
Our guidance also assumes current market growth rates continue for the balance of this fiscal year and are not impacted by the payroll tax increase in the U.S.
dynamics associated with the U.S.
debt ceiling debate or by worsening conditions in Europe.<br><br>We are increasing the all-in earnings per share range to $4.04 to $4.14 which compares to our prior range of $3.78 to $4.02 per share.
The increase is largely due to the improvement in our core earnings per share expectations.
In addition the $0.21 non-core holding gain resulting from our purchase of the balance of our Baby Care and Feminine Care joint venture in Iberia is roughly $0.04 per share higher than anticipated in our last guidance.<br><br>We have updated our estimates for non-core restructuring investments which we now expect to be approximately $0.15 per share for the fiscal year.
This compares to our previous estimate of $0.15 to $0.19 per share.
The difference is driven by a timing shift for asset disposals and somewhat lower cost for organizational productivity improvements.
We continue to expect free cash flow productivity of about 90% of net earnings for the year.
We now expect capital spending to be around 5% of sales for the year down from our prior estimate of 5.5%.
This reduction is mainly due to capital efficiency and manufacturing productivity improvements not a reduction in project scope.
We expect to continue our 122-year track record of dividend payments and our 56-year track record of dividend increases.
The exact amount of the increase is subject to Board approval and will be determined by the Board during the April Board meeting.<br><br>In addition we will repurchase $5 billion to $6 billion of stock this fiscal year.
Based on current cash projections we expect to be towards the high end of this range.
This has improved from the $4 billion to $6 billion outlook we discussed at the Analyst Meeting in November.
Combined we expect to return $11 billion to $12 billion of cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases in fiscal 2013.
This represents a cash return in the range of 5.8% to 6.3% on our market cap of about $190 billion.<br><br>For the January to March quarter we are estimating organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 4%.
At the low end of 3% this range represents growth in line with what we delivered for the December quarter.
At the high end of 4% this range represents another quarter of sequential improvement.
Foreign exchange is expected to be roughly neutral to sales growth which leads to all-in sales growth guidance equal to the organic range of 3% to 4%.
On the bottom line we expect March quarter core earnings per share in the range of $0.91 to $0.97 or down 3% to up 3% compared to prior year core earning per share of $0.94.
We expect the effective tax rate for the March quarter to be about a point lower than last year due to the true up needed to reflect the U.S.
corporate tax law changes made in early January.<br><br>For the fiscal year we now expect the tax rate on core earnings to be around the prior year level of 24.2%.
On an all-in basis we estimate earnings per share in the range of $0.90 to $0.96.
This includes non-core restructuring charges of approximately $0.01 a share.
Our back half earnings per share guidance reflects the strong level of innovation activity going into the market as well as focused reinvestments to maintain positive market share momentum.
We expect the majority of these investments to be in marketing spending with the balance focused on trial building merchandizing programs behind our new innovations.<br><br>Comparing our first half core earnings per share growth to the back half we expect marketing investments to be an 8 to 9 point headwind and tax to be a 2 to 3 point headwind.
We are offsetting a portion of this with stronger top-line results and higher cost savings but back half core earnings per share growth will be several points below the first half level.<br><br>In summary our second quarter results were on track with our plan on the top line and ahead of plan on operating profit earnings per share and cash.
These results were enabling us to raise our sales earnings and share repurchase outlook for the fiscal year while creating flexibility to further strengthen our plans in the second half.<br><br>We remain confident that our focus areas maintaining momentum in developing markets strengthening our core developed market business building a strong innovation pipeline and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvements are the right ones and should generate overtime the kind of earnings progress that will put us among the best in our industry.
This combined with strong cash flow and a track record of capital returns to shareholders should enable us to generate superior level of shareholder return.<br><br>That concludes our prepared remarks.
As a reminder business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides which we have posted on our website<a href="http://www.pg.com/" rel="nofollow"> www.pg.com</a> following the call.
Bob Teri and I will be happy to take your questions and the IR team will be available after the call to provide additional perspective as needed.
With that why don’t we turn to questions? I guess the question is about the sales acceleration.
And so obviously the sheer number of new products you guys are launching is much higher than what we have seen more recently.
And that alone is going to drive better sales and market share but I guess can you give us a sense for why specifically you think that we are truly seeing the impact of higher quality innovation that might lead to more sustainable sales growth.
And why it’s not just a result of Tide PODS is a great example of that.
You know we introduced Tide PODS which is a very discontinuous innovation.
It’s take about three quarters of the unit dose category in the United States.
When we look at the consumers that it’s gaining it’s gaining consumers from up and down the income spectrum.
So even though it might be priced as a premium on a per wash basis you have got consumers who would buy lower priced brands trading up to that innovation.<br><br>And as Jon said in his remarks we expect by the end of the year this will be $0.5 billion business.
So you take a $0.5 billion of new business on one innovation one discontinuous innovation one country one brand.
And as Jon said I think in our analyst day discussion in Bruce Brown’s presentation on innovation we talked about an acceleration we are expecting on what we referred to as change innovation can you discuss where we have come in better than expected on a geographic basis and what’s driving that confidence in general.
And then it looks like in emerging markets we are really seeing growth both in developed markets and developing markets.
Recall two of our four focus areas are maintaining our momentum in developing markets and developing markets were up 7% this quarter.
They were up 11% in the BRIC countries.
And if you look at two major countries like China like India and Brazil they were up 20%.
So we are continuing to grow in developing markets.
We are continuing to enter new category country combinations.
We will enter 20 this year.
We are continuing to build new factories in developing markets roughly 20 that are on the drawing board now.
So we are growing in developing markets and a lot of that is the expansion of categories like Jon talked Oral Care.
A lot of that also is our growing market share.
We are also growing in developed markets.
We are strengthening our developing market business.
As Jon said we have held or build share in businesses representing nearly 60% of the sales in the quarter in the U.S.
and the interventions that we have put in place like in U.S.
laundry U.S.
auto dish U.S.
male blades and razors.
So Oral Care as Jon covered are helping us to get our shares back to the point that we think they should be.
So encouragingly that’s North America.
And the reason that’s encouraging is one that’s one of our strategic priorities.
And second it’s our most profitable business.
So we are very encouraged by that.
To the question of developing market growth rates for P&amp;G and what we should expect going forward we are still expecting 8% or higher growth so an acceleration of growth in the back half for the full fiscal year.
Part of the 40/20/10 plans as Bob mentioned January is the first month when those are all fully in market.
And those have a big developing market component as well.
So so just following up on that actually I was hoping you guys could comment a little bit on China because I know last quarter sort of was a little bit of a surprise to me as that business had slowed and there has been no mention of China at all in the call so far.
So can you just give us an update I know there was a lot was sort of not supposed to accelerate to the second half Lauren it’s nice to hear your thank you.
Good morning.
As we look at the market share performance we have obviously seen a ramp-up in U.S.
performance maybe not gaining share per se but definitely losing a lot less share.
Europe seems to be the big outlier there where it doesn’t look like your share performance has improved all that much.
Can you talk about what’s different about that market from a share perspective I know it’s growing more slowly? Are there pricing adjustments you need? Is that an innovation question? So the market in Europe economically is challenged and we believe that we will strengthen our share position in Europe over the next few months.
Remember Jon talked about introducing PODS on Ariel which is the largest and leading laundry detergent in most of Europe in the April through June quarter.
And we think the innovations like that will help.
We also have introduced Oral Care in Europe in this semester.
And so far all markets are trending above expectation.
So but it’s not significant.
If you step back let me take the second question first if I may Nik.
(Inaudible) and his team are hard at work.
We have identified over 30 new discontinuous innovations that we can bring to market.
We have vetted those throughout the company.
We are in the midst of consumer research.
And we are excited about them.
We took all of our leadership through them recently.
And we fully expect to be in market with the beginning of that connected obviously.
So you said the operating margin leverage on 5% top line growth was 50 to 75 basis points.
I was wondering if that still kind of holds.
And then secondly if you look at the growth algorithm it seems like your weighted category growth is 3% to 4%.
And if my math is right it seems like to add one incremental point of top line growth it’s only about 10 basis points of global market share boy is kind of Marc and Kirk I think came up with which is something around look there are too many cooks in the kitchen.
Between the GBU the MDO the functions now and maybe even at the GLC level.
So given that premise what really you have will he have to actually execute some of the potential recommendations.
So layer reductions I am thinking of in some of those structures can it happen quickly.
Both for your cost but I think importantly and this is my point of view for its worth importantly also for quickening decision making in the company.
And when can we hear more about this organization structure you again Jorge reports to me.
So this is why we will make big decisions we will do things quickly if you look at your organic sales growth it’s been pretty remarkably consistent across the segments but the profit growth has been somewhat more uneven you recall that we have made as part of some of the big interventions we made last spring.
We had a pretty significant pricing and promotion adjustment on that business and that’s one of the reasons that on a year-to-year basis that index is a little bit lower.
But we would not expect that to be an ongoing dynamic and obviously the overall structural attractiveness from a margin standpoint of that business is very high.
And the healthcare dynamic is really a function of a couple of supply-related issues that we have been working through successfully it suggest that you have came up with the solution to the capacity constraints in the U.S.
So we have been merchandising PODS Connie in the U.S.
but we have merchandising the bags that hold the PODS not the tubs.
And we have got additional capacity in the U.S.
that will ramp up this semester and the new capacity that we have put in Europe is the ideal line.
In other words the first line we used was not ideal.
We have improved that line and that’s the capacity we are putting in.
So you will quickly see unlimited capacity in the semester good morning everyone.
And thank you for taking the question.
The question comes back again to the U.S.
I think that you mentioned that it was ahead of company average so ahead of 2%.
And if we look at retail sales at least in tracked channels we get declines of 2%.
So if you can explain whether this is a channel issue the fact that we don’t get club data that can explain the gap of over 4 points of growth in volumes or whether the increased merchandise activity ahead of the product launches in the third quarter in Beauty contributed to the strong growth in North America.
If you can quantify that I am not sure I can square the full equation because I haven’t spend a lot of time on that but the sell-in behind our Beauty initiatives and some of our other initiatives did have a positive volume impact in the second quarter in North America but even with that impact stripped out I would stay with the statement that North American results on a normalized basis from a volume standpoint were better than the company average.
So pretty strong underlying and I really can’t reconcile that to the other data I apologize but we’ll work with you on that.<br><br>The very encouraging thing is that while there was some pipeline volume which was obviously part of our forecast in the second quarter the January business is very strong.
We have seen no dip at all.
In fact perhaps with the exception of the hair care category which is probably one of the most active given the number of new entries that have occurred over the last couple of years.
But as you rightly pointed out Jason I think the antidote or the method of growth here is behind innovation.
And we have our particularly strong innovation program.
As you know Vidal Sassoon Pro series.
Jon talked about Pantene Expert adding over 6000 -- like adding over 6000 hairs to your head.
I know I can certainly use that.
Our oral care business continues to grow consumer remain very receptive to real innovation and are willing to pay for it.
And importantly I guess you did mention you had a little bit of sell-in the beauty that gave you a positive impact in that segment.
Maybe if you could quantify that.
And then how do you turn around volume in grooming.
I know you got some innovation our beauty business has grown organic sales 11 out of last 12 quarters averaging roughly 3% growth over the past three years.
In our grooming business 11 out of 12 quarters averaging 4% growth over the last three years.
In hair care as I said we are expanding the portfolio vertically with innovations like Vidal Sassoon Pro series in the salon affordable segment.
And the Pantene Expert series in the super premium space.
And then as Jon pointed out we have got Wella ILLUMINA and COLOR RECHARGE in the professional space.<br><br>In skin care we are investing to ensure sufficiency our core Olay business and we are bringing new innovation that addresses key segments where we currently have portfolio gaps and it’s critical to fill those portfolio gaps.
Examples include in the United States New Olay micro-sculpting cream.
Total Effects CC cream which stands for color correction and Olay Fresh Effects.
In China we have got Olay Natural Pro-X Whitening.
The launch of a new mid-tier brand in the coming months.<br><br>In blades and razors the interventions we talked about last fiscal year are working.
The share is up nearly 2 points to 74% and we are launching a bundle of new innovations across Fusion MACH 3 disposables and shave preps that are focused on sensitive skin.
And every man we have talked to about shaving talked to about sensitive skin.
And last but not least Jon talked about cosmetics and the two exciting COVERGIRL innovations this quarter U.S.
Europe and emerging regions.
And then on the U.S.
alone do you -- according to your numbers averagely about 4% a little over 4% and that breaks down to about high-singles in developing markets obviously relatively low-singles in developed markets.
And on the share question on the U.S.
we are growing or holding share in the 60% of our business in the U.S.
If you look at the overall U.S.
number it’s down a little bit but the trend is getting better.
And as you would expect with these new innovations that started shipping at the end of December and with the strength that Jon talked about we are seeing in early January thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Back on Beauty Mark I don’t think I think there is a timing sequence difference here.
I don’t think we are losing share despite the innovations.
In fact in the places where we are innovating and introducing new innovations are for example in the Western Europe Latin America where we have introduced Oral Care where we are gaining share.
The innovations that we have talked about particularly those in this call are really those they have shipped in December are strengthening the business in January but you will really see the impact more in the balance of the fiscal year.
And certainly that’s true with something like Vidal Sassoon Pro Series or Pantene Expert is the company investing enough to really drive that top-line growth we are still on the journey and we do intend to get to growth rates that are above the market level.
We are investing significantly to do that as I said in my remarks.
Bob has said we spend a lot of time working on strengthening plans for the second half of the year with an eye towards doing exactly that plus strengthening next fiscal year.
And we will be making we were already making significant investments in the back half and those will be strengthened based on the over-delivery in the second quarter.
So our productivity program will continue to accelerate as well.
So I would assume it was flattish year-over-year or maybe even down.
And is it right to assume that the commodity comparison will get even better in the next two quarters? And then on the Fabric and Home Care did the Hurricane Sandy positive effect how much was that on the whole category growth was it for the segment first of all you are absolutely right commodity impacts were essentially neutral on the quarter that’s about what we are expecting on a go-forward basis.
There are some that are moving up a little bit.
There are some that are moving down a little bit but in broad terms it’s fairly neutral.
In terms of the cost savings components within gross and operating margin there are about 100 basis points of savings that positively impacted gross margin and about 60 basis points of savings that positively impacted the SG&amp;A line.
So that in total there were about 160 basis points of productivity savings in the quarter.
That compares to about 150 basis points in the last quarter.
So you are seeing some as you would expect increasing contribution from productivity.
Frankly it will be very hard for us to tease out the Sandy impact on any of our individual businesses.
We worked hard to manage inventories and supply in a way that minimized the impact to consumers.
So which has washing machines on it was up and down the East Coast washing the clothes of people who lost their homes and introducing people who had never seen the Tide or never used the Tide brand before to Tide so a good trial effort you said it benefits the supply chain could you talk about how that – could you talk about other issues that going through your decision and how you evaluate that differently now versus maybe 5 or 10 years ago? And finally you want to establish a business that’s big enough to create a rate of return for the capacity but you also want to look at some key criteria location government support the quality of the workforce these are the risk-adjusted rate of capital.
These are all things that we look at.
Relative to the change it’s very interesting.
Two things one when I joined the Procter &amp; Gamble company in 1980 manufacturing expense was a big element that we worried a lot about and logistics cost was a very small element because the price of diesel was very low.
Today manufacturing expense is relatively low because there are very few people in our manufacturing plants.
Jon talked about our ability to build 20 new plants but not add any enrollment or headcount to the company because of 6.5% improving productivity in manufacturing roles.<br><br>But the logistics cost has skyrocketed.
And as a result of that we worked very hard to distribute our plants globally.
We have roughly 150 plants around the world.
They have to be near the consumers they serve.
We export very little and we have a competitive advantage because we create scale by having all of our global business units around one plant.
So when we buy land we buy land for all the business in the company planning to take advantage of that scale.
That scale then helps us in filling logistics orders because our trucks don’t weigh out with something like Gillette blades and they don’t cube out with something like Pampers disposable diapers.
We are able to get the optimum balance of weight and cube which gives us the competitive advantage on costs.
So Caroline we can take that offline because that’s a really long discussion.
But as you would imagine in some categories it’s the local competitor that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's Quarter-End Conference Call.
Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G's most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures and objected for after tax impact of major divestitures.
Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings excluding divestiture gains.
Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G’s Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I am here this morning with Bob McDonald and Teri List-Stoll.
Our third quarter results were on track with our plan on the top line market share showed broad based improvement and strengthened as the quarter progressed.
And we’re ahead of plan on operating profit earnings per share and cash flow.
We announced an increase in our dividend and we’re increasing our share repurchase projection on this call to the top end of our target range.
In the March quarter organic sales grew 3%.
Sales came in at the lower end of the guidance range due in part to lower market growth.
Underlying global market growth was choppy month-to-month and was down about half a point in the March quarter versus the December quarter.
Organic volume grew 2% and pricing added one point to organic sales growth.
Product and geographic mix was neutral to sales growth.
Foreign exchange impacts lowered sales growth by one point resulting in all-in sales growth of 2%.
Global market share trends have continued to improve.
We held or grew market share in businesses representing over 50% of sales in the March quarter with third consecutive quarter-to-quarter improvement from 30% in the June quarter to 45% in the September quarter to just below 50% in the December quarter and now over 50%.
Within the quarter we saw a sequential market share strength ending the period with a strong month in March.
In the U.S.
we held or grew value share in businesses representing two-thirds of sales in the March quarter.
This is up from 15% in the June quarter of last fiscal year and about 55% in the first half of this fiscal.
As with the rest of the Company results strengthened as the quarter progressed with businesses representing over 70% of sales holding or growing share in the month of March.
We have more work to do but trends are continuing to improve.
Moving to the bottom line all-in earnings per share were $0.88.
All-in earnings per share include an $0.08 non-core impact from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolívar and $0.03 of non-core restructuring investments to drive productivity improvement.
Core earnings per share were $0.99 up 5% versus the prior year and $0.03 above the high end of our guidance range.
Better than expected earnings were driven by strong cost savings and productivity progress particularly in SG&amp;A where we are exceeding enrollment reduction targets.
One of the objectives of our productivity and cost savings plan was to create financial flexibility to maintain strong investment levels and long-term growth while delivering on our bottom line commitments even when we face a weaker microenvironment or other challenges.
This quarter was a good example.
We over delivered our [go-in and] [ph] guidance despite slower market growth.
Core operating profit margin grew 10 basis points including 260 basis points of productivity improvements and cost savings.
Core gross margin improved 20 basis points.
Cost savings and productivity helped gross margin by 170 basis points.
Pricing and volume leverage improved gross margin by roughly 80 basis points.
These benefits were partially offset by 120 basis point negative impact from a combination of product and geographic mix.
Innovation and new production capacity startup costs lowered gross margin by about 70 basis points and commodity costs and foreign exchange were a combined negative impact of approximately 40 basis points.
Core SG&amp;A costs increased 10 basis points.
Overhead cost savings of approximately 90 basis points and top line leverage were offset by higher marketing spending increased plans and benefits costs and foreign exchange impacts.
On an all-in basis including restructuring costs and non-core impacts from Venezuela gross margin improved 50 basis points and SG&amp;A costs increased 40 basis points.
All-in operating profit margin improved 20 points.
As we highlighted on our last earnings call the March quarter tax rate was reduced by the true-up needed to reflect the extension of U.S.
corporate tax law benefits by Congress in early January.
The core effective tax rate for the quarter was 22.2% about a point below the prior year level and consistent with guidance.
We generated $3 billion of free cash flow in the quarter which is also ahead of our initial forecast.
We delivered adjusted free cash flow productivity of 114% for the quarter which brings fiscal year-to-date adjusted free cash flow productivity to over 90%.
This compares to a year ago year-to-date cash flow productivity figure of 76%.
During the quarter we repurchased $1 billion in stock.
This brings fiscal year-to-date repurchases to 5 billion compared to our estimate of 5 billion to 6 billion for the full fiscal year.
We returned $1.6 billion of cash to shareholders in dividends.
Earlier this month we increased our quarterly dividend by 7%.
This marks the 123rd consecutive year in which we paid a dividend and the 57th consecutive year in which the dividend has increased.
At the new annualized dividend of $2.41 per share our current dividend yield is about 3%.
We remain committed to returning value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
Fiscal year-to-date we've returned 9.8 billion to shareholders; 4.8 billion in dividends and 5 billion in share repurchase.
Over the past 10 years we've returned nearly $98 billion of cash to shareholders over 90% of net earnings.
Stepping back we're continuing to make good steady progress in our plans we're on track on the top line despite choppy market conditions with improving market share driven by innovation.
Productivity savings are strong enabling us to beat our bottom line commitments while maintaining strong investment levels for long-term growth.
We're generating solid cash flow and aggressively returning cash to shareholders.
As we complete fiscal 2013 and finalize our plans for fiscal 2014 our priorities remain unchanged; maintaining strong developing market momentum strengthening our core developed market business building and leveraging the strong innovation pipeline and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvements to fuel growth.
I'll briefly step through the progress on each of these four priorities.
First maintaining strong developing market momentum; organic sales in developing markets grew 7% in the March quarter consistent with the growth rate in the first half of the fiscal year despite a modest deceleration in market growth particularly in Brazil and China.
Our business in India grew organic sales more than 20% the 43rd consecutive quarter of double-digit sales growth.
Organic sales in Brazil were up 8% as we grew market share for the 36th consecutive month.
China organic sales growth improved versus first half growth rates with businesses representing roughly 75% of sales sequentially improving market share.
We’re growing beyond the BRIC markets.
In Argentina and Venezuela local currency sales were up about 20% in the March quarter and West Africa sales were up in the high teens.
Portfolio expansion continues to be an important component of our developing market plans.
This fiscal year we’ll expand our portfolio to over 30 new category country combinations.
Portfolio expansion is enabling us to build scale and improve profitability in these markets.
We’re localizing production which lower supply chain costs and improves customer service.
And we’re improving the productivity of our SG&amp;A spending as these businesses grow.
These are two important drivers of significant profit improvement we expect to deliver in our Top 10 developing markets this year.
We’re improving profits while increasing marketing spending and accelerating the pace of innovation.
While we’re being prudent with the pace of our expansions we are in no way pulling back.
By the end of this fiscal year developing markets will represent nearly 40% of annual sales in over 45% of shipments.
Sales and after tax profit in developing markets have both increased four fold over the last 10 years.
We remain committed to strong profitable growth in developing markets.
At the same time we’re working to strengthen our core developed market business with a focus on the 40 largest category country combinations.
Most of these businesses are in developed markets and account for about 50% of company sales and 70% of operating profit.
In the U.S.
we held or grew value share in businesses representing two thirds of sales in the March quarter with over 70% of sales in the month of March.
This is up from 15% in the June quarter of last fiscal year and about 55% in the first half of this fiscal.
We’re now growing share in Laundry Diapers Family Care Dish Care Oral Care Blades &amp; Razors Hair Care Feminine Care in Antiperspirants and Deodorants.
While shares are below year ago in Skin Care and Cosmetics recent innovations have helped drive sequential period to period share trend improvement.
We have strong innovation plans coming soon on Pet Care and Personal Cleansing that should help us return these businesses to share growth.
In Western Europe the percentage of businesses holding or growing share is up to 40% from lows of around 25% earlier this fiscal year.
And constant dollar share is improving sequentially on a past 12 to six to three month basis.
Japan results have also improved steadily over the past few quarters returning to share growth during the March quarter.
Improving developed market trends are being driven by stronger innovation vertical portfolio expansion and more effective marketing including strong performance and value claims as well as targeted consumer value corrections.
Innovation underpins all of our growth efforts as is our work to drive greater productivity in everything we do.
It would take a long time to go through each of the innovations we’re leveraging expanding or introducing so I thought I’d focus on just five today.
First Tide PODS.
Tide PODS now hold the 6.5% value share of the U.S.
detergents market and over 75% share of unit dose form.
We expect PODS will generate about $500 million of sales this fiscal year in one brand and one region.
With additional supply now online we’ll soon to be able to increase our levels of advertising and in-store display to drive more consumer trial.
There’s been a lot written and said about the impact of PODS on the U.S.
detergent category.
There are several base period impacts that are often conveniently or inconveniently being ignored in these comparisons.
These include our 15% price correction on powder detergents.
The impact of increasing high-efficiency washing machine penetration and unusually high market growth leading up to the PODS launch due to competitive pantry-loading.
By the end of the summer most of these impacts will be fully into or out of the base period and category growth rate should be more stable.
Tide PODS are great for consumers.
It provide consumers with a super concentrated exceptionally performing detergent brightener and stain remover at just the right dosing level all in one convenient package and product from a brand they trust.
Tide PODS deliver as much cleaning power as the 6th next leading competitive unit those products combined.
Tide PODS are great for our retail customers.
They offer customers a super premium innovation on one of the strongest brands in the world that sells for roughly double the category average price per load in a shelf space return friendly compact form.
Tide PODS are great for the environment.
They’re the most concentrated detergent available in the market significantly reducing packaging materials and energy usage making each load a more sustainable one.
And finally Tide PODS are great for P&amp;G shareholders.
P&amp;G PODS are a consumer preferred product delivered through a proprietary formula made on proprietary equipment using a proprietary manufacturing process.
It's a disruptive innovation that creates a significant competitive advantage for our brands.
Ariel 3-in-1 PODS started shipping in Western Europe earlier this month in France Belgium and the Netherlands.
Next month we'll begin installing PODS in Poland and the Baltic countries.
Distribution results are excellent and week one market shares are outstanding already over a three-share in France and at a two-share in Belgium.
We began the launch of Ariel PODS in Latin America with initial shipments starting in Mexico in the March quarter and we'll start shipping in Brazil in a few weeks.
We're just entering the laundry category in South Africa with shipments to customers beginning in just a few weeks.
Offerings will include a full range of detergent forms including Ariel 3-in-1 PODS.
Next innovation in our shave care business.
Gillette's sensitive skin innovations across Fusion and MACH3 blades and razors and shave preps are beginning to improve share results.
70% of men believe they have sensitive skin and these innovations leverage the fact that our ProGlide products have been recommended by dermatologists in the U.S.
as the best shave percent of the skin.
In the March quarter we held our grew value share in the U.S.
in all three major elements of male blades and razors; Fusion MACH3 and disposables.
And we're also growing share on Venus blades and razors.
In the dry shaving category we're in the midst of the global expansion of Braun CoolTec.
CoolTec is the world's first dry shaver with integrated active cooling technology which is clinically proven to show a noticeable reduction in skin irritation.
Consumer response to Braun CoolTech has been outstanding in our testing and early in market experience.
Next we have a strong innovation bundle on pet care.
In the March quarter Iams launched a restage of its ProActive Health premium dry dog and cat food lines.
The restage includes new package sizing to indicate consumer preferred price points and new marketing messages that remind pet owners that they're dogs and cats are not vegetarians.
Some pet foods add plant proteins like gluten.
Iams have 50% more animal protein than competitive products and includes no added gluten.
Over the next two months Iams is launching several very exciting new product lines.
IAMS SO GOOD will be the brand's first entry into the mid price tier of dry dog food.
Unlike other leading brands SO GOOD uses tasty wholesome ingredients like chicken fruits and vegetables with no dyes no added sugar and no artificial preservatives.
Iams WOOF DELIGHTS are our first significant entry into the wet dog food segment.
They use high-quality real meats and fish like turkey chicken beef and lamb with no added gluten no fillers or no artificial flavors.
These innovations are healthy alternatives for pets and pet owners and have been extremely well received by our retail customers.
IAMS SO GOOD starts shipping next week and WOOF DELIGHTS will start shipping in late May.
We also have a strong program on U.S.
hair care that has returned us to share growth with value share up nearly 1 point in March.
Our hair care innovation bundle launched in January expands the vertical portfolio.
Pantene Expert Collection includes two super premium lines; Age Defy and Advanced plus Keratin Repair.
Age Defy leverages a new formula based on our hair biology science yielding hair that acts 10 years younger by thickening hair as 6 500 new strands were added.
Pantene Advanced plus Keratin Repair formula leverages a breakthrough in new conditioner technology to repair two years of hair damage in two minutes.
The early results of Expert Collection have been very good delivering shipments display and trial results at or above our going-in plans.
We've started the expansion of Pantene Expert Collection in Latin America with the launch in Brazil in March.
We've also launched Vidal Sassoon Pro Series in the U.S.
a complete hair care line offering shampoo conditioner styling and permanent color to give consumers salon genius brilliantly priced.
Vidal Sassoon Pro Series is priced in the salon affordable value-oriented segment.
Vidal shampoo and conditioner are quickly approaching a 2% value share with shipments nearly double our prelaunch estimates.
We're especially pleased with the results of the Pantene and Vidal Sassoon innovations considering the high level of competitive promotional activity during the quarter which included buy one get one offers and high-value instant coupons.
We've also delivered strong hair results in many developing markets including Wella Pro Series in Brazil and Mexico Head &amp; Shoulders in Russia and Saudi Arabia and across Pantene Head &amp; Shoulders and Wella in India.
On the salon professional side of the business Illumina color from Wella Professional leverages a new patented micro-light technology and as well as biggest innovation in the last 20 years.
With Wella our consumers experience hair that appears lit from within.
Results in Europe and North America have been outstanding delivering sales more than 50% above the internal launch commitments.
We just completed the global rollout of the Illumina Color from Wella Professional in the March quarter with expansion in the Latin America and Australia and New Zealand.
Last category and cover today is Oral Care where innovation is driving strong market share trends in many markets.
Toothpaste all outlet value share is up over one point in the U.S.
so more than 37%.
Behind the continued strength of innovations across the 3D White Pro-Health and Crest complete lines.
3D White which includes toothpaste brush rinse floss and whitestrips is driving strong share growth in Mexico and the U.K.
Mexico reached an all-time high toothpaste value share of nearly 14% for the quarter up about three points versus prior-year.
In the U.K the compilation of 3D White Oral-B Complete and Oral-B Pro-Expert drove value share to over 10% up nearly three points versus the prior-year.
China market shares are also improving.
We have entered the toothpaste category in more than 40 markets over the past four years including recent expansions in markets as diverse as France Australia Senegal and Cameron.
All of our expansions are delivering results at or above the expected levels.
For example in Australia we have reached nearly an 8% value share of toothpaste just one month after launch.
In Latin America Oral Care sales will be up about 50% this fiscal year.
We are going through expansion but are also growing strongly in established markets behind innovation.
In Mexico Oral Care sales are projected to be up nearly 40% this fiscal year.
In Brazil a market we entered four years ago local currency sales are forecasted to grow by more than 60% and shares up by nearly four points.
Now as you know innovation is not just about invention.
It’s also about execution.
We are delivering improved results across all of our innovations by strengthening our execution with both consumers and retailers.
Our communications contain stronger performance and value claims.
On air in digital media on the package and at the shelf that demonstrate the superior value our brands provide.
We are improving customer service levels which along with improved innovation are being recognized by a retail partners and in third-party evaluations.
For example Kantar Retail recently released China PoweRanking named P&amp;G the overall winner by a wider margin than last year.
We are increasing distribution in our top of the markets like China Brazil Russia India and Africa.
We are also gaining new distribution with key retailers in developed markets based on the strength of our leading brands and commitment to lead innovation.
We are a growing share and distribution for example in the Discovery Channel.
Ae do sales double-digits in the Channel for the quarter and are increasing distribution with new and existing retail partners.
We have also been successful in expanding distribution of Duracell batteries across several important accounts as we continue to strengthen Duracell results in the coming quarters.
So we have a very strong innovation program that we are working to execute well globally.
Like innovation productivity also underpins all of our developed and developing market efforts and here too we are making strong progress.
The overhead reduction plan we announced last February call for a reduction in non-manufacturing staffing of 10% or roughly 5 700 roles by the end of this fiscal year so by June 30th.
As of the end of March we’ve reduced 6 250 roles putting us 550 roles or about 10% above the fiscal year commitment with a full quarter still to go.
Exceeding our goals this year gives us a running start on our announced plans that further reduce non-manufacturing enrollment by an additional 2% to 4% each year over the next three years bringing the total reduction to between 16% and 22% by the end of fiscal 2016.
We're making good progress on the organization design work being led by Jorge Uribe Senior Business Leader and we’re feeling confident in our ability to deliver the additional enrollment reduction objectives.
We are on track to deliver more than $1.2 billion in savings this fiscal year on cost of goods sold.
Our efforts in this area include a targeted 5% net productivity increase across our manufacturing operations even as we add new manufacturing capacity and enrollments in developing markets.
This will allow us to add about 20 new manufacturing operations with no increase in headcount.
So far this year we are tracking well ahead of target at nearly 7% manufacturing productivity improvement.
While we are still early in the planning process we already have line of sight to at least $1.3 billion in additional cost of goods savings for next fiscal year.
We're also achieving efficiencies and marketing spending and are reinvesting in these savings to strengthen plans to support our innovations and expansions.
We're shifting a greater portion of media spending to digital.
This offers a higher return on investment.
We're also making good progress on cost savings in non-media marketing spending.
As we embrace our cost savings work we will continue to keep our eye on the overwriting objective of shareholder value creation with growth being an important part of this.
In our efforts to cut costs we will not compromise our growth prospects or capabilities.
We are building and executing our strategy with the objective of getting this savings and growth balance right.
Now let me turn to our updated outlook for fiscal year 2013 in the April-June quarter.
Starting with the fiscal year we're holding our organic sales growth guidance range which we improved last quarter at 3% to 4%.
Given results in the first three quarters it's likely we'll be closer to 3% than 4% for the full year.
We expect all-in sales growth in a range of 1% to 2%.
This includes the foreign exchange headwind of two points based on year-to-date results and mid-April spot rates for the fourth quarter.
We're raising the low-end of our core earnings per share guidance range by $0.02 to $3.96 to $4.04 according to an increase of 3% to 5% compared to prior year core earnings per share of $3.85.
I want to repeat what I've said on several previous occasions relative to guidance.
We set a guidance range for a reason.
We're committed to deliver a plan that creates long-term value for our shareholders.
We will not chase commodities or currency out the window just to deliver a top of range guidance number.
We will execute our plan and we'll do it in the most fiscally responsible way we know how.
We believe that our core earnings per share guidance range is realistic not conservative given several profit headwind we're facing.
As I mentioned earlier market growth rates have weakened dynamics in countries such as Venezuela Argentina Egypt Syria and South Korea continue to be very volatile.
Foreign exchange has moved against us in markets such as Japan Brazil Argentina and of course Venezuela.
We're incurring preproduction expenses in cost of goods sold as we start up several manufacturing operations simultaneously around the world.
And we're investing and marketing to drive our strong innovation pipeline.
We're adjusting our all-in earnings per share range to $3.90 to $3.98.
This range reflects the improvement in core earnings per share expectations updated estimates for non-core restructuring costs and the non-core impact of Venezuela currency to valuation.
The all-in earnings outlook now includes approximately $0.19 per share of non-core restructuring investments an increase of $0.04 since our last estimate due mainly to higher than expected enrollment reductions this fiscal year.
One risk not included in our all-in earnings guidance is the potential impact from revaluation of Venezuelan Bolivar's earmarked for foreign currency transactions through the former [Sidney] market.
Venezuela has created a state run [side-cat] auction market to replace [Sidney].
At this time this is no official information available on the details or planned frequency of the auction process or the underlying rates.
So far we've measured all our Venezuela exposures at the official exchange rate of 6.3 Bolivar to the U.S.
dollar.
If it becomes clear as a [side-cat] market forms that it will operate in a liquid and transparent manner at a different rate we may need to adjust our balance sheet which will result in additional non-core impact on earnings.
We'll keep you updated on this as we learn more.
We continue to expect free cash flow productivity of 90% of net earnings for the year.
We increased the dividend by 7% earlier this month and our increasing our share repurchase target to 6 billion which is at the top end of our prior guidance range of 5 billion to 6 billion.
For the April and June quarter we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 4%.
Foreign exchange is expected to be a two-point headwind to sales growth which leads to all-in sales growth guidance in the range of 1% to 2%.
On the bottom line we expect June quarter core earnings per share in the range of $0.69 to $0.77.
We expect the effective tax rate for the June quarter to be somewhat higher than the previous year's rate.
On an all-in basis we estimate earnings per share in the range of $0.67 to $0.75 including non-core restructuring charges of approximately $0.02 cents share.
In summary over third quarter results were on track with our plan on the top line market share showed broad-based improvement we're ahead of plan on operating profit earnings per share and cash flow.
We've announced an increase in our dividend our increase in our share repurchase target and have modestly tightened our fiscal year earnings per share guidance range.
Having said this we still have more work to do.
The next piece of this work is planning for 2014 which we’re starting now.
We plan to give guidance for 2014 on our next earnings call which is scheduled for Thursday August 1st.
This will give us appropriate time to develop strong plans and more fully assess macro-dynamics like foreign exchange and commodities market dynamics like Venezuela and Argentina and internal dynamics such as pension cost new category expansions and new innovations before providing our outlook.
We remain confident that our focus areas maintaining momentum in developing markets strengthening our core developed market business building and leveraging a strong innovation pipeline and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvement are the right ones and that executing these with excellence should generate over time the kind of earnings progress that will put us among the best industry.
This combined with strong cash flow and a track record of capital return to shareholders should enable us to generate superior levels of shareholder return.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
As a reminder business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides which will be posted on our website <a href="http://www.pg.com" rel="nofollow">www.pg.com</a> following the call.
While Teri and I would be happy to take your questions and the IR team will be available after the call to provide additional perspective.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman from Barclays.
You may begin.
I was hoping you guys could talk a little bit more about Beauty Care I mean clearly very good news to hear about how the U.S Hair Care portfolio is performing in the U.S.
especially given how competitive it's been but Beauty Care volume down one organic sales down one there’s obviously a lot that you didn’t talk about most notably probably Skin Care and I’m guessing also the overall China business.
Thanks.
Lauren I think in Beauty &amp; Grooming we have three key points.
Number one is we’ve got a strong portfolio of leading brands.
Number two is we’ve got clear plans and sufficient innovation to address these near term opportunities you’re asking about.
And number three there’s a significant opportunity to expand and grow our Beauty &amp; Grooming business beyond where it is today.
Let me deal with the clear plans and sufficient innovation piece since I think that’s where your question is coming from.
As you suggested in Hair Care we’re expanding the portfolio vertically with innovations like Vidal Sassoon Pro Series in the Salon Affordable Segment and Pantene Expert Series in the Super Premium Segment and this has returned U.S.
Hair Care to share growth with value share of one point in March as Jon mentioned.
In the U.S.
Expert Collection shipments display and trial results are all at or above expectation and Vidal’s shampoo and conditioners quickly approaching a 2% value share and shipments are nearly double our pre-launch estimates.
In Blades and Razors our sensitive skin innovation across Fusion and MACH3 blades and razors and shave preps is leading to improve share results.
We’re holding or growing value share in the U.S.
on Fusion MACH3 and Disposables and we’re also growing share on Venus blades and razors.
In cosmetics share trends have improved sequentially over the past two quarters behind three exciting COVERGIRL innovations.
Clump Crusher Mascara by Lashblast Outlast Stay Brilliant Nail Gloss and Stay Fabulous 3-in-1 Foundation.
In Salon Professional we returned the growth behind the launch of ILLUMINA Color which is delivering sales more than 50% above going in estimates.
Billion Dollar beauty &amp; grooming brands I have talked about the strength to them.
And then in Skin Care which was the point you asked about Skin Care in China we’ve launched several new innovations including upgrades to our existing lines and new innovations would address key segments that we have portfolio gaps.
Examples in the United States new Olay Regenerist Micro-Sculpting Cream Total Effects CC Cream Olay Fresh Effects.
In China Yu Lan You Naturals Pro X Whitening a restage of the Olay brand new counters and the launch of a new mid-tier brand.
So results are improving sequentially and I expect that sequential improvement to continue.
I think if you look at as I mentioned in the share comments Lauren versus a year-ago you’re absolutely right that Skin Care continues to be a drag in terms of market share being down versus year-ago.
We have more work to do there but as Bob indicated there have been a number of things that have been just recently put out on the market that we hope to drive that behind.
China beauty shipments grew double digits this quarter.
Your next question is from the line of John Faucher from JPMorgan.
Please begin.
Yes thanks.
As we look at lower raw material inflation over the course of calendar 2013 you're going to see less pricing in the category and I guess we're not seeing a volume bounce back which is what's leading to deceleration in overall organic top line growth maybe in these categories.
So can you talk about what you're seeing from an elasticity standpoint as we look at less pricing and how you think that maybe plays out over the course of the year? Thanks.
Well to me John Jon talked about the fact that in the quarter we saw a half a point reduction in growth versus the previous quarter.
I think the economic recovery is going to continue to be choppy as we alluded to in our remarks.
And to me the ultimate response is growth through innovation and growth through productivity improvement.
We're going to continue to work on the productivity improvement.
Jon talked about the fact we're ahead of the pace that we expected to be at this point in time.
Some of that productivity improvement will fall to the bottom line some of that productivity improvement will fuel the launch of the new innovations and the new market category combinations.
And as Jon said we're not pulling back.
We've introduced 30 new category country combinations this year and we're going to continue to do that.
Jon went through a litany of those including the broad global expansion of our oral care business.
So we're expecting sequential improvement in the top line driven by innovation.
And we're expecting continued sequential improvement in market share just as we tried to indicate with this quarter's report.
You're next question is from the line of Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Bob I just wanted to focus on the top line.
The two-year average organic sales growth decelerated in the quarter versus Q2 and last year despite the higher marketing and the greater innovation.
And it looks like it was even rounded up to get to 3%.
I know you mentioned weaker market growth but how comfortable are you that you're getting a solid ROI on the investments you're making in marketing and innovation and the other areas given the lack of a top line payback this quarter? And second more importantly to broaden out the question longer term it seems like in recent history you've been a bit at mercy of variances in market growth of the competitive environment from the top line perspective obviously that will impact any company but market share has only improved modestly here sequentially in the last couple of quarters despite the price adjustment.
So can you take us through some more detail on what you're doing internally from a market share standpoint to manage through the external environment and you're level of confidence that you can sustainably turnaround market share as we look out over the next couple of years here? Yeah Dara I'm very confident in our sequential improvement and market share driven by innovation.
I would differ with your characterization.
I think we've made substantial progress in increasing the percent of our business growing market share and I think that ties pretty directly to the innovations you've seen.
I mean a classic example is the fact that the Tide PODS is helping us grow laundry market share in the U.S.
and it's only on one brand and one country and it's worth $0.5 billion of top line.
I think we're on the early days of seeing these innovations have a broader impact globally and that will translate to an accelerated growth on the top line.
We're continuing to invest in innovation we've increased the spending on research and development the past three years we're going to continue to make sure that we're building the capability to keep that innovation going.
And the results in the marketplace are demonstrating that we're executing with excellence today more so perhaps than the previous periods you were talking about.
So I'm confident we're going to continue this sequential improvement and you'll see it in the share and you'll see it in the top line.
I share Bob's confidence.
If you just step back over the last couple of years as we’ve discussed many times from a geographic standpoint the one market that we weren’t growing and that we needed to grow in was North America and that's obviously a large part of our business.
And if you just look at the percentage of businesses holding or growing share there growing from 15% in the June quarter to 55% in the first half of this fiscal year to two-thirds in the March quarter to over 70% in the month of March that gives us a lot of confidence that we are on the right trail here.
The next question is from the line of Wendy Nicholson from Citi Research.
You may begin.
Hi good morning.
My question is on … Hi.
Wendy.
…the gross margin and the expansion slowed significantly I think on a sequential basis and you called out sort of the start-up cost within new production facilities.
So is that all of the plans coming online in the emerging markets for is that also just innovation stuff that's launching in the U.S.? And if it is the emerging markets is that something that's going to be here to stay for the next couple of quarters or do we think gross margins going to re-accelerate with the better commodity backdrop? Thanks.
Thanks Wendy.
It is both of the things you mentioned.
It's emerging market start-up of localized manufacturing in emerging markets it is also the start-up of manufacturing operations to support our innovations in developed markets for example the POD start-up in Europe.
Both of those will be with us next quarter and it's one of the reasons that you see some of the trends that you do but I don't expect this to be an ongoing dynamic.
This should be another quarter or two.
One of the things we have worked hard on Wendy is ramping up our process reliability as vertically as we can when we start up a new plant and process reliability is in a sense the amount of throughput that you get from a plant versus what you expect and our process reliability as a Company is now at the highest level it's ever been.
And that is what's leading helping to lead to some of the productivity improvements you see in manufacturing productivity because as we increase the throughput of every single plant we then don't need to buy additional capacity in essence that capacity comes with the productivity improvement.
So we're going to continue to work as we start-up these new plants to get the process reliability curve as vertical as possible to minimize those expenses.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.
Please begin.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey can you just talk about the sort of fourth-quarter guidance and all the reinvestments you think about you did 3% organic growth in the year-ago quarter you’ve announced a massive restructuring you reinvest all this money back into the business but it seems like organic growth is just going to be flat so is it really just sort of category growth contraction? And then what would happen if we really did have some commodity inflation because I think you have like 260 basis points of productivity savings in the quarter and I think that kind of carries forward.
So what sort of the puts and takes in how long is this negative mix impact going to last? And I know that was a long question so I apologize.
Wow! I’m not quite sure how to cut through that.
I will try.
So first of all just let me step back on our guidance philosophy since your question started with guidance.
Last quarter we over delivered our guidance.
We increased guidance a little bit but invested a lot of the money back to ensure that we continue to leverage innovation pipeline we have an sequentially build market share.
Effectively this quarter we have done the same thing.
We have over delivered by a little bit we've taken up the bottomline – the bottom end of the guidance range but are going to continue to invest to get the share where it needs to be going forward.
As we invest to do that and drive higher profitability through productivity I'm confident that the returns will be there because each case we are growing it’s worth more and the – I expect from a commodity standpoint if anything may be a little bit of fairly benign.
I don't expect a big impact going forward and so these productivity savings should begin to impact both gross margin and operating margin as they have in prior quarters particularly when we get beyond the start-up of these new manufacturing facilities that Wendy was describing.
So I see accelerating top line based on continued market share progress kind of irrespective of market size and the productivity savings over time enabling us to both fuel that and drive our earnings per share growth.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Ferrara from Bank of America.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Guys I guess I wanted to try to pull together some of the comments you've made on your confidence in the market share recovery the timing of the build out of the innovation pipeline right because it seems like there's been no shortage of new products at the second half of '13 yet a couple of things.
In the Q4 organic guidance implies only flattish markets here at 3 to 4.
You're saying momentum was building through the quarter but the Q4 outlook is not even an acceleration from Q3 when you came in at the low end of your organic range.
So I get that you're saying it's early days and some progress is made but wouldn't you have expected that share recovery to have kicked in a little bit more by now and if so why do you think it has? And if not why not? Obviously the market share is affected by many factors Chris some of which are external but I would say that all-in-all as we step back from it we're on track with what we want to deliver in terms of sequential improvement in market share and we expect that to continue.
We expect that to continue in the fourth quarter and we're looking forward to the next fiscal year.
The innovations many of which we've talked about are one country one brand and they're supported by a technology platform that we will put across more countries and more brands.
I mean we talked about PODS and we talked about the entry of PODS into parts of Europe and the parts of Latin America and the parts of Africa.
This is only now starting.
We're just now shipping those cases taking those orders.
You're not seeing the impact in the marketplace at all yet.
I think by the end of the quarter you'll obviously see that impact and just like this quarter it will ramp up through the quarter.
And as we've said March was a much stronger month than the beginning of the quarter and that's why we grew share at the 70% plus of the U.S.
business grew and held share at 70% plus.
Your next question is from the line of Nik Modi from UBS.
You may begin.
Yeah just quickly on all the innovations to just on how you guys are thinking about the FTU complexity across the business especially at a time where you're trying to also reduce the cost structure and can provide any thoughts on that? And then just a housekeeping can you just talk a little bit about the health care business and what was driving such strong growth? Was it just the flu season or was there something else going on there? Well in terms of innovation and SKU proliferation our point of view is one where we work with customers and retailers and create joint value creation.
We have scorecards that we work with customers and part of that is working efficient assortment where we don't bring an innovation to retailers that we don't think will command or attract a large number of consumers.
And while we go in with that new innovation and expect to or try to sell a certain amount of shelf space at the same time we help retailers pull out eliminate some of the innovations that other competitors or even we have launched that may not have worked.
So we try to keep the SKU proliferation under control.
I think I would point to our manufacturing productivity.
Our manufacturing productivity and our work on inventory which is turning in great cash results wouldn't be where it is if there was evidence that we were [prolifering] SKUs.
At the same time I'd encourage you to look at some at the new items that we launched by some of our competitors that haven't done well and we'll be working with retailers to try to get the shelf space back so the retailers can make money off that shelf space.
In terms of health care there are really three drivers Chris.
So one you rightly cite which is the strong cold flu season.
The second is the expansion of the Vicks line up in Eastern Europe that we've talked about before.
And the third is a real strong quarter on the P&amp;G (indiscernible) business as we continue to drive the products of that joint venture.
So those are the three main drivers of our health care progress.
Do you mention ZzzQuil? I would also mention the launch of ZzzQuil which is multiples beyond our expectation and success.
It's already the number one branded sleep aid it's expanded the category.
ZzzQuil is off to a tremendous start and I would recommend it for all of you who may suffer jet lag if you travel internationally.
Your next question is from the line of Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
You may begin.
Hey guys.
So I think like a lot of other people on the call I’m kind of struggling with the dichotomy between the positive tone of your press release the confidence you’re clearly exhibiting on this call all the very very enticing innovations that are out there.
First is essentially I think disappointing top-line results at least from investors analyst and I think you’re seeing that on the stock reaction probably.
So I got a few things; one is how is your share gain related to the slow down in the market growth? Two is; I guess if everything is going to plan why is it pretty impossible to get to the high-end of your top-line growth range for the year? And then three is you say there’s more to come.
I’m trying to understand what's -- like are there other bigger things you’re expecting to happen whether it be an incremental reinvestment that you need to make whether be an acceleration to the chart changes or structure changes or in census structure.
What else can get us to feel better to tie in this dichotomy to your confidence and frankly somewhat disappointment when everybody on this call so far asked questions in some of the market right now.
Thanks.
Well our top-line growth delivery was within our guidance range Ali.
And I think maybe part of the dislocation that you’re perceiving between our confidence and your lack of confidence may be just in time sequence.
I mean the innovations we’re talking about as I responded to Chris’s question are all future oriented and future related and you’re looking at past results.
I think that we’re going to continue to do what we’re doing.
We’re going to continue to invest in innovation.
We’re going to continue to bring out a large number of innovations.
We’re going to continue to fuel that with productivity improvement and with investments in innovation.
I’m really excited about the work that we’ve done around productivity both in the manufacturing area where we’ve offset the headcount that we need to run 20 new factories but also in the area of non-manufacturing where we’re ahead of target.
And the work that we’ve done already in the productivity area with Jorge Uribe team and his leadership is suggesting that we can get to the 2% to 4% reduction which by the time we get to 2016 could have us down 16% to 22% of enrollment.
And I think that’s terrific progress and it gives us a lot of confidence that we’ll have the fuel to then spend behind innovation and get those sequential market share growth goals that we talked about without regard to choppiness of the global economy.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Altobello from Oppenheimer.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
I guess since you just mentioned choppiness again Bob I’ll start there.
You guys have talked about that a lot this morning.
We’ve heard that from other companies as well.
Could you give us a little more color or past anecdotes in terms of what you’re seeing from your customers where they’re buying and what they’re buying how often they’re buying how that’s changed in the quarter perhaps.
And then secondly the market share trends obviously are improving but I think your overall market shares are still down year-over-year so when would you guys expect to see those overall market share start to grow overall? Thanks.
Well let me deal with the year-over-year first the year-over-year varies by category by country.
For example year-over-year now in North America we’re obviously seeing growth because we’ve got 70% plus of the business holding or growing share.
So obviously with the sequential improvement over time with 50% plus now holding or growing share globally we’re going to expect to see a year-over-year growth sequentially in the coming quarters.
Relative to the choppiness of the economy it's more of an evolution I think then a cathartic revolution.
What we’re seeing is obviously retailer’s concerned about their level of inventory and their cash investment.
We see them worrying about attracting traffic to their stores but we don't see extraordinary levels of promotion like we may have in 2009 2010 but there are times where there are extraordinary levels of promotion.
For example when we launched Vidal Sassoon and Pantene Expert and one of our competitors launched a new brand the third competitor who did not have very strong innovation program this quarter put instantly redeemable coupons on all of their hair care offerings in every store.
So you do see choppiness in that regard.
The promotion spending when you don't have innovation but the rest I would see as evolutionary but an improvement in the way retailers are operating.
Another point that you see is the move to online or ecommerce.
We've been working hard to understand what our market share is in ecommerce.
We've been putting a lot of resources against it.
I'll just give you the U.S.
example if you take our U.S.
market share our ecommerce digital market share both through bricks and mortar and through digital players is 20 points higher than it is through regular retail.
And this was a fast growing channel so that may lead to also some of the choppiness that you may see because most of that that sale is not transparent to the marketplace.
But if we're going to continue to operate in an environment that is a little bit choppy I think we're extraordinarily well positioned from a standpoint of both the productivity program and the innovation program which are the antidotes to this kind of market environment.
Your next question is from the line of Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital Markets.
Please begin.
Good morning.
Another question on market shares.
If U.S.
shares are growing in 65% to 70% of your businesses and your shares are growing in 75% of businesses in China but your worldwide shares are growing 50% -- and 50% worldwide.
In which international markets are you losing share and why? And when would you expect to turn? Well Connie first of all we said that holding and growing share not just growing.
And that's a significant difference.
Places we're losing market share frankly we've talked about the work we're doing on skin care globally and trying to improve our [VT] business.
That's a major focus for us.
Brush laundry we were losing some share and we've put a plan in place to regain share.
So we have pockets like that around the world but believe me we are all focused on turning those shares around and doing it through innovation.
Your next question is from the line of Javier Escalante from Consumer Edge Research.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone.
I would like to come back to beauty and the choppiness and again the market in a spending and the innovation that you're talking about.
If you step back you did major launches in the U.S.
in Olay in hair care in makeup with COVERGIRL and yet we don't see any traction from it.
So I understand that L'Oreal did a competitive launch but under the same choppiness they grew 5.5% in the quarter on GVU contracted minus 1%.
So what I'm hearing is doing the same thing spending more and doing the same innovation blaming competitive activity in terms of the lack of traction that shouldn't you be thinking about doing things differently so that there is more effectiveness in the A&amp;P spending and on the innovation? Thank you.
Javier we understand.
We see it a little bit differently than you do.
We launched these items recently they’re making sequential progress.
We talked about Vidal Sassoon already approaching a two value share which is double our pre-launch estimates at this point in time.
These things are making progress period-to-period.
Pantene Expert for example has a higher repurchase rate than our competitor’s new brand.
So we’re seeing progress period-to-period and we think that will be reflected in the market share results and the top-line growth sequentially as we said.
And your next question is from the line of Jason Gere from RBC Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just I mean I’m not going to use the word complexity because I think it's been over used a little bit.
But I guess I’m just trying to figure out when you’re looking at all the innovation that you’re bringing out and the top-line growth that’s coming through.
Can you talk about some of what I would consider as the non-core businesses in the portfolio.
Obviously we know its for the 2010 the area that you’re focusing on and where you’re playing to win.
But it just seems like there is some volatility with some of these non-core businesses that you guys I think are not continuing disposing at time.
So I was just wondering when you see the results that are coming through and the great innovation that you’re getting and some of what I would consider more core businesses does that change your outlook in terms of keeping other brands in the portfolio or kind of I think one of the last questions was on the SKU complexity kind of eliminating that so you can put up healthier numbers and seeing the results of better innovation in some of the core brands? Thanks.
Jason as you know we have quite a robust process for weeding and feeding our portfolio and we have divested businesses in the past.
We are happy with our portfolio that we have today.
And any item in our portfolio there is an expectation that we innovate.
Jon went through the innovation for example that we have in Pet Care coming to market good for you and the (indiscernible) item.
We have innovation in Duracell another category that you’ve asked us about in the past in (indiscernible) with a 10-year guarantee on Powermat.
So we expect to innovate into every one of our businesses.
There maybe a different cycle of innovation a need for that but we expect to innovate in every one of our businesses and that’s the primary way that we attract consumers and grow our business.
Your next question is from the line of Bill Chappell from SunTrust.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Just wanted to dig back into the PODS in the U.S.
and certainly half a billion in sales and improving market shares in great but just if you could give us some color of after being out in the market for a year I mean is the six household penetration where you expected better or worse and I mean can you get to 10 in the near term and do you need to have gain PODS or something else to really kind of jumpstart the category even further? Thanks.
Thank you Bill.
With the technology like Tide PODS we usually start with the leading brand and then we expand that technology across countries and across brands.
What we’ve seen with PODS is that it's a preferred form of laundry detergent.
And people who move from a powder to a liquid historically now move from a liquid to a POD and they typically don’t go backwards.
Once you start using a POD you don’t go back to a liquid.
Once you’ve moved to a liquid you don’t go back to a powder and that just is the generational shift in the laundry category.
I think one of the things that’s been interesting about PODS is its attracted users even though it has a higher cost per load.
It's attracted users across the entire spectrum of users across the entire spectrum of income.
So there are many many people who are forced to over dose their laundry detergent today because they aren’t getting satisfactory cleaning and they buy a low priced brand that brand doesn’t work it has a low level of actives has a lot of water and so they overdose.
And they move to this form which cleans better and they find it more economical even though it has a higher cost per use.
The reason the cost per use is higher is you’re not paying for water you're paying for active ingredients.
So I think it surprised us a little bit to see where the source of volume has come from.
If you look at the track of what percent of the business this has become we said that we think we'll get to 30 eventually because of what we've seen in dishwashing over time and automatic dishwashing and we have no data to refute that.
This is – it's going to be an evolution over time but as we expand the form about the world you'll see a higher proportion of our laundry business go into PODS and eventually I think we'll get near the 30% number that dishwashing has.
And don't forget that we were constrained in terms of supply until just recently so we'll be increasing the levels of marketing of in-store support.
So to your point of driving a higher household penetration that's still ahead of us.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Astrachan from Stifel Nicolaus.
You may begin.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
So I wanted to go back to the underperformance in beauty and try to think about it a little bit differently.
What do you think has led to some of the underperformance? And when do you think the innovation-based strategy potentially needs to shift or how do you sort of evaluate the efficacy of what you're doing? And then sort of related to that how do you think about supplementing the internal innovation with acquisitions externally? And then sort of related to that how do you think Jon about the optimal leverage structure on an overall basis for the business? And does the cost savings program limit the acquisition appetite overall? Well we've been working to strengthen the organization strengthen the business now for some time.
We're starting to see progress.
As we reported in this quarter we've launched a number of new innovations and the innovation program looks even stronger in the future.
We have more what we call bigger change innovations coming in the future and we're excited about that.
So I expect – as I've said I expect the performance of the beauty organization to improve quarter-to-quarter and sequentially and we're going to continue to invest in it both in terms of innovation and in terms of marketing.
And we've said before that we're interested – we continue to be interested and fill in acquisitions that would be true in beauty as well.
I don't think there's anything that holds us back from that at this point except asset availability and asset attractiveness but that's something that we'll continue to look at.
There's really no constraint within either our leverage targets or our earnings projections to the activities should something attractive present itself.
Your next question is from the line of Alice Longley from Buckingham Research.
You may begin.
Hi good morning.
I have a housekeeping question and then my real question.
My first is could you just tell us why you're category growth rate was by region emerging markets U.S.
and Europe? And then my real question is on Tide in the U.S.
I know it's not suffering the price reversal in powders that some of the others are.
Could you tell us how much Tide as a brand overall was up or down in the quarter if you include powders liquids and PODS together? Thanks.
Let me take the first one Alice.
In terms of the market growth rates developed markets in our categories grew about 1 point.
Developing markets were up about 7 points leaving us with a global total of about 3.5 points which compares to 4 points in the prior quarter.
Now within that you asked about the U.S.
the U.S.
was up about 2.5 points with Europe down and Japan essentially flat.
And Tide? Hi Alice.
Jon Moeller here.
Tide was down in the quarter from a shipment standpoint.
If you recall that this is the quarter that we're comping the PODS launch so the underlying trends again from a market share standpoint are very strong shipments are down year-over-year only because of the pipeline.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Lachky from Wells Fargo Securities.
You may proceed.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could outline your opportunities and efforts you're making on working capital specifically inventory I think you mentioned that briefly but also payables and receivables and remind me if you’ve quantified how much opportunity you see there and how you plan to use that cash either reinvest in your business or potentially return additional cash to shareholders? So we’re actively working on inventory days on hand and our goal is to be able to reduce working capital by sufficient levels to be able to offset the increase in capital spending behind the developing market expansion such that we continue to deliver 90% free cash flow productivity which gives us ample cash to return to shareholders and that's exactly what we're doing now.
We are on target in terms of a pretty significant reduction in inventory days on hand this year.
We're targeting again the same next year and I'll let Teri briefly talk about what we’re doing on payables.
Yeah so there has been some press recently about a new program that we've introduced with suppliers how supply chain finance.
We were partnering with some of our world-class banking partners to be able to present what we think is a win-win solution to suppliers.
As part of that will be extending our payment terms which obviously frees up cash for us so we are offering lower cash financings and actually a rear access that cash to our suppliers as part of that program.
So that’s something that we think over time and we are implementing it over time so it is not disruptive to suppliers.
That will free up a tremendous amount of cash starting next year and then over the next two three years.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Steib from Credit Suisse.
You may proceed.
Good morning.
You made several references towards investing behind marketing spending could you be a bit more specific please? What does that mean does that mean that ad spent for example is up sequentially in absolute terms and as a percentage of sales? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
It also means we are investing in things like sampling – door to door sampling selling things that will generate trial and awareness of the new innovations.
And your next question is from the line of Linda Bolton Weiser from B.
Riley Caris &amp; Company.
You may begin.
Hi.
My question is on cash flow.
You had 20% year-over-year growth in operating cash flow in the first half of the fiscal year and it was only up slightly in the third quarter.
So is there – is your working capital performance actually deteriorating a little bit or is there some other strange comparisons that happened in the quarter? And also it looks like in the quarter you pay down reduced debt by about $800 million or so.
Is there any reason why you cant just maintain the debt that you added into the balance sheet in the first half and use instead of paying down debt in the second half just do more share repurchase.
Would that put you over – would that not allow you to maintain your credit ratings as you would like or what’s the reason that you cant just maintain that a little bit additional leverage and repurchase shares because other companies have levered up a little bit here and are repurchasing more stock.
So can you just kind of explain that? Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Well stepping way back again 10 years $98 billion of cash return to shareholders that’s clearly a focus area.
Generated $3 billion of cash in the quarter so a strong quarter of cash flow the IR team can take you through the line item comparatives versus the base period.
We’ve been using that increase in cash flow to increase our share repurchase.
You may recall when we first started talking about share repurchase for the year was $4 billion to $6 billion.
We increased that range based on cash over delivery the $5 billion to $6 billion last quarter this quarter we increased a range again to $6 billion based on cash over delivery.
So we’re very much focused on that objective.
And we increased the dividend 7% at the same time as you know.
And your final question comes from the line of Caroline Levy from CLSA.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Just wondering if you look at your base businesses it may be where a lot of the problems arising you launch new products in Hair Care but the base Pantene must be where the weaknesses I’m assuming similar with liquid Tide and the Olay product.
So is this something with all the innovation as we talk about and do is there some way one can address the base business to make sure that there isn’t that kind of erosions that’s my first question.
I was also wondering if you could just talk about your diaper share in the top few markets there I’m not sure I quote what trends alike in diapers anywhere in your big markets? Caroline we’re very focused on growing the base business.
Without growing the base business there is no growth.
And I think evidence of that is the fact that we’re holding or drawing share in 70% of the U.S.
business in the month of March.
The innovations are helping but you couldn’t do that without growing the base business.
And so we evaluate people on drawing the base business its important to us and we know we cant grow without growing the base business and that’s particularly true in developed markets like the United States but its also true in developing markets.
So we’re focused on that and that’s why market share is such an important measure for us.
And at this time we have no other questions in the queue.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's Quarter End Conference Call.
Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G's most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures and adjusted for after tax impact of major divestitures.
Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings excluding divestiture gains.
Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G’s Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
I am joined this morning by A.G.
Lafley and Teri List-Stoll.
I will start our discussion with a review of our fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 results.
A.G.
will discuss our key strategies and focus areas going forward and I will then wrap up with guidance for fiscal 2014.
Fourth quarter organic sales results were at the high end of our forecast range with core earnings per share slightly ahead of plan.
Organic sales were up 4%.
Importantly this sales growth was underpinned by strong organic volume growth of 5% and was achieved during a period in which underlying market growth rates were decelerating.
Pricing was neutral to organic sales growth and mix reduced sales growth by 1 point.
Foreign exchange lowered sales growth by 2 points resulting in all-in sales growth of 2%.
P&amp;G global value share was around 20% for the March to May period roughly in line with the prior year.
Market share improved sequentially throughout the quarter.
In May the last period for which we currently have global share data volume share increased 0.4 points versus prior year with growth in all regions except Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa.
On a mixed adjusted basis May global value share was up 0.2 points.
In the U.S where we have data through June mix adjusted value share was up 0.3 points.
We held or grew global market share in businesses representing nearly 60% of sales in the March to May period.
In the U.S we held or grew value share in businesses representing over 70% of sales.
Moving to the bottom line core earnings per share were $0.79 $0.02 above the high end of our guidance range due to cost savings and a $0.01 help in tax.
Core earnings per share was down 4% versus the prior year as the benefits from top of range organic sales growth and strong cost savings were more than offset by mix higher marketing spending and a $0.06 per share or roughly 7 percentage points earnings per share growth headwind from foreign exchange rate.
All-in earnings per share were $0.64.
This includes a $0.02 non-core impact from restructuring costs a $0.04 non-core impact from legal items in Europe and a $0.10 non-core non-cash impact of a further impairment of intangible assets related to the Brown business reflecting the 20% devaluation of the currency in Japan where Brown earns the majority of its profits.
Core operating profit margin declined 130 basis points as core gross margin was down 90 basis points and core SG&amp;A cost increased 40 basis points.
Operating margin was about 50 basis points less than we had originally anticipated due largely to foreign exchange.
The core effective tax rate for the quarter was 22.3% in line with last year.
We generated 2.8 billion of free cash flow in the quarter repurchased $1 billion in stock and returned $1.7 billion of cash to shareholders in dividends.
Turning to the fiscal year we met our commitments on each key measure.
Organic sales growth was 3% in the mid-point of our initial guidance range of 2% to 4%.
We grew core earnings per share of 5% above our initial minus 1% to plus 4% guidance range.
We absorbed the unexpected impact of the Venezuela Bolívar devaluation and significant overall dollar strengthening while increasing marketing investments as the year progressed.
We continued to make good progress on our productivity plans.
Through June we reduced non-manufacturing enrollment by 7 000 roles.
This is 1 300 role reductions ahead of our initial enrollment reduction target for June 30 2013.
We delivered over $1.2 billion in cost of goods sold savings and approved manufacturing productivity by 7% versus the target of 5%.
Our progress on working capital and capital spending productivity enabled us to deliver 98% adjusted free cash flow productivity ahead of our 90% target.
We returned $12.5 billion to shareholders 110% of net earnings through a combination of $6.5 billion in dividends and $6 billion in share repurchase.
In April we raised the dividend by 7%.
We’re beginning to restore growth in the core U.S.
Market that represents over a third of P&amp;G sales and an even greater percentage of profit.
U.S.
Fourth quarter organic sales grew at 7% on a volume growth of 5%.
We maintained good developing market momentum.
Organic sales growth in our top 10 developing markets was up 8% in the fiscal year.
We grew profit meaningfully ahead of sales in developing market while increasing investments in these markets year-on-year.
We stabilized global market share and ended the year with modest market share growth.
We are moving in the right direction but there is more work to do.
To talk us through that I’ll turn the call over to A.G.
Thanks Jon.
We’ve spent a lot of time doing a deep dive over the past two months making sure we fully understand our reality ensuring we see things as they are not as we want them to be.
We’ve gotten grounded in the realities of our consumers and markets.
I’ve personally dialoged with customer partners and suppliers.
We've listened to a range of outside advisors critics as well as fans.
We’ve taken a hard look at business strategies reviewed budgets and business plans and dug deeply into innovation programs and productivity initiatives.
We know we are not winning like we know we can and we are committed to make the changes we know we need to make to improve P&amp;G's performance significantly.
First we will establish value creation.
First and foremost for consumers but also importantly for share owners as our clear priority.
Operating TSR will be our primary business performance measure.
Operating TSR is an integrated measure of value creation at the business unit level requiring sales growth progress on growth and operating margins and strong cash flow productivity.
We focused on business unit value creation because we are determined to have more P&amp;G business units deliver more operating TSR more consistently.
We will we guided by disciplined strategies and operating plans.
We will focus strategically on core businesses our leading most profitable categories in brands and leading most profitable market channels and customers.
Delivering consistently strong results in our core business is the largest contributor to shareholder value creation an important contributor to growth and an important enabler of investments in developing markets and innovation.
Many of our strongest business units and total company positions are in the U.S.
we need to ensure P&amp;G's home market stays strong and growing.
We will focus developing market investments on the categories and countries with the largest size of the prize and the highest likelihood of winning.
Developing markets driven by demographics and household income growth will continue to be a significant growth driver for the company.
We will continue to focus the company's portfolio allocating resources to businesses where we can create disproportionate value and continuing to exit those where we cannot.
Second we will strengthen and accelerate productivity and cost savings.
Productivity and innovation are the primary drivers of growth in value creation.
Productivity is particularly important in a slower growth world and in an environment of increased volatility in foreign exchange commodity and interest rate markets.
And the more productivity means more opportunities to invest in core business in developing markets expansion and in innovation.
Here is what we are doing specifically with P&amp;G's productivity initiative.
We will deliver the productivity program we promised on or ahead of schedule.
But that is not an end-point for productivity improvement.
It's just the next milestone along our productivity journey.
We know we can do more.
We are already mobilized to address the next round of productivity initiatives.
We are working these significant opportunities in parallel not sequentially.
They cover a full range of cost and cash opportunities.
Projects are being led by business unit and function leaders.
They are being worked on short cycles.
Some are yielding savings as we speak others will take years to fully implement.
We have opportunities to further localize supply chains in developing markets reducing cost and improving customer service.
In developed markets we are taking a blank sheet of paper look at supply chains designing from the consumer and customer back.
We are studying options that would reduce the number of facilities build scale across categories and reduce cost and inventory all while improving customer responsiveness and service.
This will require investment but will generate very attractive returns.
That’s a huge opportunity.
We will redesign and strengthen our go-to-market operations in North America and Europe to be more effective and efficient.
In Europe we will look to scale operations across larger and fewer country clusters.
We will evaluate organization design options to improve effectiveness and efficiency in developing markets.
We will further reduce the size of support staff and move from fully dedicated functional support organizations to a more productive hybrid of dedicated and (inaudible) work resources and shared services.
We will improve marketing ROI driven by an optimized mix of advertizing media greater clarity of communication and messaging and greater efficiency in non-advertising marketing spending.
The key point to understand today is that we are committed to making productivity a core strength for P&amp;G like branding or innovation and with innovation a second big driver of operating TSR and value creation.
It has to for P&amp;G to deliver leading value creation and growth.
Productivity will become systemic not episodic.
We will continuously improve our effectiveness and efficiency.
We'll measure productivity.
We'll recognize it and we'll reward it.
Third we will improve our operating discipline.
We simply have to execute better more consistently and more reliably every day everywhere to win with consumers and win with customers.
Execution is the only strategy they ever see.
Winning with consumers and winning with customers day-in and day-out is what it takes to generate leadership returns in our industry and that's what we've committed to do.
Fourth we will reallocate some of our savings to make strategic investments in a very focused way in innovation and go-to-market capabilities.
These are two of the company's core strengths and two important sources of competitive advantage.
They are critical to winning the first and second moments of truth with consumers.
We will build on the past year but we will be more focused.
We’ll commercialize brand and product innovations with excellence.
We’ll prioritize productivity initiatives significantly simplifying and streamlining how we work together and we will bring a sense of urgency to realizing hard savings.
We'll focus on best in class execution and we'll continue to invest selectively where needed to win.
I’m confident that P&amp;G has what it takes to win with consumers with customers and for all of our shareholders.
We have a strong brand portfolio with 25 category leading billion dollar brands and 15 more between $0.5 billion and $1 billion in annual sales.
We have leading brand equities in most of our categories.
We have consumer preferred products in a majority of our brand product lines.
We have a well-balanced geographic portfolio.
We have the leading CPG business from the U.S the largest and fastest growing developed market and we have the leading household and personal care business in developing market.
Both are significant sources of value creation opportunities.
We have an innovation portfolio and pipeline that will only get stronger.
We have an exciting portfolio of productivity initiatives we're working hard.
We have outstanding people.
The productivity and organization design changes we are making are freeing up P&amp;G-ers to fully leverage their creativity and initiative their skills and capabilities.
They are passionate about the consumers they serve and about their businesses.
They are committed to win.
They are our most important asset a critical source of strength and ultimately competitive advantage for this company.
We've taken a hard look at what we need to do how we need to change to perform better.
More business units have to deliver more consistently.
We're committed to do what it takes to get P&amp;G back to balance consistency reliability and sustainability in the creation of value for consumers and customers and value for shareholders and employees.
It takes time to work out of a tough patch.
We take encouragement from the progress we've made in the year just closed but we are focused on the future and we are determined to deliver industry leading value creation.
Thanks A.G.
As we said we would at the Deutsche Bank conference in June A.G Terry John and I have spent some time reviewing our guidance framework.
We've talked to shareholders and analysts as we've done this work and we’ve looked at a number of benchmarking studies.
The preponderance of feedbacks we've received supports the decision we’ve made to focus our guidance on the fiscal year which we’ll update quarterly.
This approach is the norm in our industry.
We believe it provides a better match between our guidance timeframe the long-term view we take while managing the business and the investment time horizon of many of our shareholders.
We've also reviewed long-term guidance targets.
We continue to believe that the right organic sales growth target is one that is modestly above the rate of market growth.
At current market growth rates we see high single digit bottom-line growth as a right objective.
We believe these targets will allow the company to strike the right balance between long-term investments in growth flexibility to respond to macro and competitive challenges and delivery of consistent dependable results in our value creation goals.
With that let me move to guidance for the fiscal year.
Fiscal 2014 presents several challenges and opportunities headwinds include weaker underlying market growth a much stronger dollar higher commodity costs and a highly competitive operating environment.
Opportunities include positive market share momentum a number of promising innovations and savings from productivity improvements.
We're currently forecasting organic sales growth of 3% to 4% which is better than last year at 3% and compares to expected market growth rates of about 3% to 4%.
Foreign exchange is expected to be a sales growth headwind of about 2 points which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of 1% to 2% for fiscal 2014.
Moving to the bottom line our current forecast is for core earnings per share growth of 5% to 7%.
Equal to prior year growth at the low-end of the range and within our long-term annual growth target range at the high-end.
This core earnings per share guidance includes a 6 point impact from foreign exchange.
We expect the effective tax rate on core earnings to be in line with prior year levels.
Our plans include another year of strong productivity improvement.
We have line of sight to $1.4 billion in cost of goods sold savings in fiscal 2014 including manufacturing and productivity improvements of around 6%.
As I said earlier we exceeded our overhead enrollment reduction targets by 1 300 roles as of the end of June giving us a nice head start on the 2% to 4% reduction we were planning for fiscal 2014.
We will deliver this and accelerate fiscal '15 reductions in to fiscal '14.
We expect marketing spending to increase in absolute dollars but decrease modestly as a percentage of sales as we continue to drive higher ROI.
On an all-in GAAP adjusted basis we expect earnings per share to grow approximately 7% to 9%.
This range reflects somewhat lower non-core restructuring cost in fiscal year 2014 versus the prior year.
We continue to operate in a volatile environment with uncertainty in the foreign exchange and commodity markets decelerated market growth rates and a rapidly developing policy environment.
Our guidance is based on mid-July foreign exchange spot rates further strengthening of the dollar or significant devaluations for example in Venezuela are not built into our forecast.
As we described last quarter one particular risk not included in our all-in earnings guidance is the potential impact from the revaluation of Venezuelan bolivars earmarked for foreign currency transactions through the new (inaudible) auction rate market.
At this time there is no official information available on details or plan frequency of the new auction process or the underlying rates.
So far we've measured all our Venezuela exposures at the official exchange rates of 6.3 bolivars to the U.S.
dollar.
If it becomes clear as the auction rate market forms that it will operate in a liquid and transparent matter at a different rate we may need to adjust our balance sheet which will result in additional non-core impact on earnings.
We'll keep you updated on this as we learn more.
Major changes in market growth rates or significantly adverse policy changes are also not assumed within our guidance range.
Absent these or other unanticipated events we believe our core earnings per share guidance range is realistic and balanced.
It reflects the headwinds we're facing the investments we'll be making and the strong cost savings progress we are committed to deliver.
If you think about earnings progress throughout the year there are several headwinds that will impact first half earnings growth that will dissipate or disappear in the second half.
For example foreign exchange will be a significant headwind in the first half but should moderate in the second half.
We'll continue to have relatively high spending and manufacturing startup costs but this will largely annualize in the second half of fiscal 2014.
We will annualize the operating impacts of the Venezuelan bolivar devaluation in the second half.
Stepped up marketing support levels will also annualize and productivity savings will build throughout the year.
Last the first half comparison includes the onetime gain from the Western European bleach business in the base period.
With all of these factors considered core earnings per share growth will likely be down modestly in Q1 with slight improvement in Q2.
Second half earnings will be much stronger.
We expect to deliver another year of about 90% free cash flow productivity.
Our plans assume capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of sale and share repurchase in the range of $5 billion to $7 billion continuing to deliver on our commitment of cash return to shareholders.
In closing our primary objective for fiscal 2014 is to continue to build on the momentum we’ve created making this year another stepping stone back to our long-term growth objectives.
Our plans are even more focused and even more balanced.
We will make choiceful investments in our core business most promising developing markets and biggest innovation opportunities and we will aggressively drive productivity and cost savings.
Above all we'll remain focused on value creation for consumers for customers and for our shareholders.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
As a remainder business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available on slides which will be posted on our website www.pg.com following the call.
A.G Terry and I would now be happy to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of with John Faucher JP Morgan.
Please proceed A quick question for you.
Historically you guys have talked about revenue growth 100 basis points I think ahead of the market.
So if we look at your organic sales growth guidance this year it's more of an in line number.
Then when you factor in you're dropping a decent amount of the productivity to the bottom-line.
Can you talk about maybe why you're not spending more to maybe get a little bit more market share given the growth of the category? So what's driving the decision in terms of dropping more to the bottom-line versus potentially spending it back? Thanks.
John we'll continue as we have good opportunities to drive return and create value to invest behind innovation as A.G.
mentioned behind go-to-market capability and advertising where we can generate a return.
And as I’ve said many times before cost savings is not the objective.
Value creation is the objective and we will not follow cost savings out of the window at the expense of capability and opportunity of which we have many.
Jon two quick points.
The past five years two three three three three.
Most recent quarter four.
So if you’re going to see things as they are we’ve got to demonstrate we can grow faster point number one.
We’re prepared to invest to grow faster.
And with clearer strategies we’ll make investments where the size of the price is attractive and where we think we have the plan to win.
Second point this is our external commitment.
We have internal goals.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Hey you talked about the deep dive that you did.
Can you just talk about what you think that P&amp;G was doing wrong during the period? And then maybe what you're going to stop doing? and then maybe empirically like how you're going to define success going forward mid 30% numbers around it? I'd like to take a couple minutes here to step back because this is an opportunity to talk about strategy I think at the company level and at the business unit level.
The quick answer to your second question or second part of your question Bill is it is value creation.
And the first place we've got to create value is for more consumers more consistently with our brands and product offerings.
And then the second place we have to do it is for the company for shareholders.
And that's a balanced mix of net sales growth gross and operating margin growth and cash productivity.
If I may on the strategy at the business unit level we want to be more choiceful clearer.
We want to be more focused and we want to be really clear about our priorities and we want to be very specific about what is winning for the business unit with consumers to create value.
We want to be very specific and prioritize where we're going to play.
We're going to be much more specific about our business model how we're going to win.
And we're going to get really clear in our core strength not just how we leverage the core strength that the company has or what very specific and particular core strengths we need to win in that industry with that market.
So that's really the focus at business unit level.
Get more focused get clear set our priorities and then operate with discipline and execute with excellence.
At the company level the keyword is balance.
And you've followed this company many of you followed this company and this industry for a long time and when we have a pretty good decade three things happen.
We grow the value of our core businesses whatever our core is at that time.
We find at least one major new business that we can turn into core.
Baby diapers in the 60s tissue (inaudible) family care in the 70s care in the 80s hair care in 90s.
Arguably we got home and oral care and family care back into the core fold the team did over the last decade.
And we made some progress creating cores in skin and Prestige beauty and we bought a shaving business which is core.
So that's the second leg of the stool.
The first leg of the stool is you grow the value of your existing core.
The second leg of the stool is you find some new core and the third leg of the stool has been moving into new space.
Generally we talk about geography but it's also included channels okay.
And if you really look at the history of the company we've found new geography and we've also found new channels okay.
But we need to do all three.
We need to grow from the core.
We need to accelerate growth into faster growing higher margin more structurally attractive.
That means less capital intensive less competitively concentrated industries and we need to extend into emerging markets.
And we are just trying to get that balance back.
And as I said in my prepared remarks generally winning in the core drives a surprising -- the existing core drives a surprising amount of the value creation and actually a surprising amount of the growth each decade and here is the key.
It's what enables okay.
It brings us the capabilities it brings us the cash it brings us the human resources to extend into new industries and categories that can be core and to extend in the new geographies and channels.
So we're just working hard to get the balance right.
And when you've got an $80 billion plus company that's in 15 to 20 different businesses depending on how you count them and the 100 plus geographies balance is really important.
The other thing we're doing is we're taking a hard look at our core strengths.
And again as I said in my prepared remarks we've got to turn productivity into just as strong of strength as innovation because those are the two biggest drivers of value creation in the P&amp;G business model.
We've got to turn operating with discipline and executing with excellence into a core strength just as we turn choice full sharpened strategies into a core strength.
We still have to have deep understanding of consumers we still have to be able to create brands and build them forever if we can.
We still have to be the innovation leader in the industries and categories we choose to compete in and we still have to have our go to market capabilities and grow them and we try to create as we go along some scale.
So that's really where we focused.
We focused on balancing getting crystal clear about what is winning.
Balancing with where to play and taking a hard look at the core strength.
So again we have a balanced set of core strengths to go forward.
We are locked on it.
I think at the company level all that’s left to do is get the expression in the fewest possible words which is a burden that Jon and I will predominantly carry in the next couple of days.
And at the business unit level as you might imagine we’re just grinding our way through one business at a time.
We’ve been through them all once.
We’ve been through their operating plans and budgets for the next year which is another shot at them.
And now we’re doubling down and working real hard where we think we have the most opportunity either the most upside opportunity or the most production opportunity.
So I hope that helps because I think it’s really important to understand.
Balance at the company level three legs on the stool core totally new businesses where we can play to our strengths and hopefully create new core and new space.
And right now the biggest opportunity in new space happens to be developing markets which are demographically and economically advantaged.
But it's also e-commerce.
So like I said I hope that's helpful.
That's what we’re trying to do and now of course we’ve got to execute.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Please proceed So I guess what I'm really curious about is thinking over the last year review of where things stand and looking over the past few years.
The message on productivity couldn't be more clear and is obviously very important to the go-forward capability to operate in a tougher world.
But if you look at the last call it two years or so investment in the business hasn't really been the challenge.
There has been money to spend and even when there hasn't been a lot of money to spend there has been money spent to try to drive topline yet something’s still been missing.
And I feel like over the last couple of years we've seen P&amp;G have more disappointments on what was expected to be a good innovation pipeline new ideas things that would change the trajectory of -- and this is the broad statement because it applies across the business unit.
So in this deep dive A.G what have you seen that says to you maybe we’re not as good as we used to be or why are we not as good as we used to be understanding what the consumer wants what the competitive landscape is because there has been a lot of shortfalls that aren't about spending.
It's about what the company has been spending on.
Thanks.
Maybe a bad baseball analogy but we've got to get our batting average and our OPS up.
And as we go through this industry-by-industry business-by-business where the strategies are clearer and more choiceful where we know who the consumers are that matter most where the brand promise is crystal clear and we execute it in the communication and where our products are preferred by consumers we get it done.
And in any mix of businesses we in just the past few years and I’ll miss a few we have the family cares and we have the prestige beauties and we have the oral cares.
And I don’t want to leave out home cares and others that have been consistently performing.
But I think if you do your analysis or we do our analysis it comes back to real clarity around who the consumer is and delivering for that consumer.
Ultimately it's a better consumer value equation and a better experience.
Real strategic clarity a proven business model and by the way it isn't a proven business model that lasts forever.
You're continually adjusting your business model.
But a business model that’s agile and still actionable and still works and frankly the ability to operate with discipline and execute with excellence.
This is an industry where execution really really matters.
And like I said of the handful of businesses that have done it really well we now have 15 to 20 businesses that are focused like a laser and doing it really well starting July the 1st 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
A.G I was hoping for more perspective specifically on beauty and what strategy tweaks you’re making behind that business to improve market share trends.
And as you look back over the last few years what are some of the learnings as you look at the performance there.
And then also from a portfolio standpoint are you comfortable with the current portfolio you have in beauty or there are gaps you would like to fill in overtime? Okay.
On the second one.
We are continuing -- we are always reviewing the portfolios at the company level at the business unit level.
And again as I said in my prepared remarks if they are a strategic fit and they are performing delivering value they are in.
If they are not we'll deal with it.
On the first one it's not really different conceptually okay.
It's not really different in getting the consumer focused right.
Getting the brand and the product innovation program right and having the clarity and sharpness and the strategy that translates to operating discipline and executional excellence.
That's all we're saying.
I think again if you really look at the beauty business we took a business we put together this collection of businesses.
Mark and I and others know it was a collection in 2000 of businesses that we called beauty.
And in six or seven years we tripled that business.
We took it to $21 billion.
The problem is we are still looking at it we actually took it to 22 plus.
We are still looking at $20 billion business.
Now I view that as opportunity okay in seven years right.
Shiseido has been in beauty for 150 years L'Oreal since 1900 so over a 100 years.
Estee Lauder since World War II so over 60 years.
We have been really at it for over 15 years.
Fortunately we picked up a couple of decent assets back in 2000.
But it's a learning curve and we clearly stalled in a couple of places.
But again Prestige Beauty is in very good shape.
We went from nothing in arguably one of the toughest segments two a $3 billion plus business.
We have a very fine fine fragrance business that makes -- and that's grown at a very consistent rate.
From the time we bought the two little pieces back in the yearly 90s we've grown at a compound annual growth rate on the top line of 11%.
It's been volatile through the recession it's been a pretty consistent value creator.
And hey let's face it we're up against some of the best in the world in (inaudible) skin care and fine fragrance and we've done quite well.
And the reason we've done quite well is our strategy is sharp and we know we need a certain sort of core strengths to play in Prestige beauty and we leveraged some of the P&amp;G core strengths to be a little bit different.
We've stayed very steady on some of our hair care brands.
We have an issue on Pantene we're working it.
It's primarily but not exclusively a U.S.
and North America issue.
We've ground through those plans a few times we picked the boards room.
I have been here like six days okay.
We went through an innovation review we have been through the strategy.
We know what the program should look like over the next six months to the next 12 months to the next 18 and 24 months.
Hey businesses stall but it stalled at $3 billion okay.
I would rather -- one of the things I learned in private equity the last four years I had rather work -- spend as much time and energy on $1 billion business as you do on $200 million business.
And believe me you get better value creation for it if you can get it going.
On the skincare side it's pretty much the same story.
We went from frankly playing but not winning for the first 15 years after we bought Olay from RBI.
To all of a sudden we took a business that was several $100 million and we turned it into a $2 billion plus business.
It stalled and again bored through it been through the strategy been through the product program.
We know what we are going to do over the next 6 12 18 and 24 months.
But these are assets.
They have little connections with consumers.
If we get the consumer connections back if we get the brand promises and architecture collections whatever you want to call it right and if we execute like we think we can with our marketing and product program there is plenty of room to grow.
And I guess a last point I will make because I know I am going on a little long here.
Remember why we choose to get beauty and personal care in the first place.
They are large.
They are demographically driven.
They grow a little faster.
They’re big in the U.S and the developed markets.
They’re big in developing markets and only getting bigger.
They’re structurally attractive low capital high gross margin and they are fragmented.
It's not like anybody is dominating these spaces.
There is room for a lot of players who can get it done to do well.
So long winded way of saying hey we stalled a lot of it with choices we made and maybe things we struggled at but we know what to do and we’re on it.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Please proceed.
First thing I know you had a target of delivering a 50% improvement in your local currency EBIT margins if you will and (inaudible) profits in emerging markets.
Can you tell us where you came out for the full year on that? And related to that I’m having a hard time reconciling the concept of balance and striving for balance when you’re talking about EBIT growth 3 or 4 or 5 times your topline growth.
And I’m just wondering how that sets you up.
I think A.G your historical strategy was to deliver consistent results.
And I have a hard time seeing how that strong double digit EPS growth is going to be sustainable and why you wouldn't in your first year here coming back to the company find a bucket to put some pennies to save them for a rainy day because it seems like it's an awfully aggressive goal at this juncture.
Thanks So let me provide a little bit of perspective on both of those questions Wendy.
We did grow profit in developing markets meaningful ahead of sales.
So we did build margin.
I’m not go into the actual number.
As you can imagine with all of the currency movements a number compared today to what we were talking about three or even six months ago is not that relevant.
What's relevant is that we continue to grow profit meaningfully ahead of sales.
And I can commit that we have done and we'll continue to do that in developing markets.
While by the way somewhat an answer to your second question increasing investments.
So this isn't about building profitability by pulling back.
It's about increasing profitability through productivity through localization of supply chain through increasing scale and through the right choices.
On the second piece if we grow our topline let’s just be optimistic for a second at the high end of our guidance range at 4% that translates absent volume leverage to 4% on the bottom-line.
And the productivity program which is about $2 billion of savings per year on its face is worth another 11 points.
So that brings you to 15.
We get benefit from share repurchase of 1 to 2 points.
So you’re at 16 to 17.
And we've talked about a non FX impacted number of something like 11 to 13.
So there is a significant amount of investment back within that number.
And as I said earlier we're not going to be guided by specific metrics.
We're going to be guided except one which is value creation.
And when there is an opportunity to create value through additional investments we will not hesitate.
If I just might add maybe two or three points Wendy quickly.
We have a stronger product and brand innovation pipeline this year going in but it's not huge yet.
So a lot of the pipeline is still in development qualification or early stages of commercialization.
So you can't invest in it in development.
Second point is we said we are investing back in core strengths.
Without going into the specific number we have invested back the biggest amount of money in this next year.
You have to go back to the middle of the last decade to get that investment.
And as we went through the strategies and product programs it was very clear to me and to others that we needed to make that investment back.
And I guess the third thing I would say is we are trying to thread a needle here.
And we're trying to look at what we can really do and what we really need to get ready to do.
And I think it's going to take a couple of years before we have got everything in place so that we are hitting on enough cylinders to perform to our full potential.
So we view this as a transition year last year was a stepping stone year and we'll see how it goes.
Absolute last point.
Jon and I and the team are totally together.
If we are on something that's taking off we are going to invest in it.
And hopefully we've given ourselves enough flexibility and in the end we're going to do what's right for the business over the mid and long-term and we're going to create value as we do it.
Just one more point sorry.
I spend a fair amount of time maybe too much time in our prepared remarks talking about things that weren't in the forecast in terms of further FX weakening and those type of things.
And I've told you before that we're not going to follow FX or commodities out of the window just to deliver a number.
We are going to execute the strategy.
I would just repeat that in terms of our commitment to do what it takes to get the business growing.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
A.G.
welcome back.
I wasn’t covering you when you were here before so I look forward to meeting you.
I have reviewed the history and some of the initiatives you spearheaded and how you're operating.
In your time apart kind of reflecting back in we have private equity experience and we work in academia.
I guess my question is how does it change your perspective and as you come back into the organization how do you see yourself either managing or operating this business differently? Well I think there are probably three things.
The first one is the importance ultimately overriding importance ultimately of value creation in a B2B business for your customers and your shareholders in a B2C business like ours for your consumers and your shareholders.
If we get just those two pieces right a lot of this other stuff is going to fall into place.
Second thing is sense of urgency.
Private equity world you don't have -- you have a certain amount of time to generate the value and I think bringing a sense of urgency is helpful.
Thirdly you have to be very choice full and you have to be very focused and you have to be very prioritized with your strategy choices because they drive the operating budget and plan and they drive the execution.
So I think we are tightening them down.
And I guess the last one is sort of our culture.
We had a great conversation about this as a leadership team and we're going to build on the strengths.
But we have just got to we have got to a much more agile a much faster a much more decisive culture.
And we've talked a lot about agreeing disagreeing committing and going.
And we are just trying to -- we are making decisions quickly.
We are delegating the the decisions where they should be made.
I need to make a few but most of these decisions are made by the business unit leaders or they are made in the markets where we are closest to the customers and the consumer.
So getting clear about who makes the decisions getting clear about making the decisions getting on with it and then executing.
And I guess the last thing is you get on very short learning cycles.
And my point is you learn as much as you can from the past.
You learn from your successes and you learn for your missteps and then you get on with it.
You get focused in the future and you get out there and you try it the next time.
So those are probably some of the things.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Just a quick clarification on 2014 and a real question.
Maybe Jon this is for you want to get a better sense of you're saying that Procter will be accelerated but you're also saying that the restructuring charges will be lower in 2014.
And also just want to get a sense of how should we think about capital allocation assumptions from buybacks et cetera that are embedded in your numbers.
But the bigger question maybe A.G.
For you is the story you paint out is very exciting in terms of fixing some things that were wrong.
But I really want to get little more specifics if you can at this stage.
So it’s like get that the consumer wasn't read right but how are you going to fix that as a company? I get that execution wasn't right but what's going to change on that? I get that choiceful decisions weren't necessarily made perfectly.
Why was that case? How you are going to fix that? And I ask on the context of as you look at the company today you’ve done your deep dive the past two months.
What are the big capability gaps that you think exist? And particularly relative to your competitive set that has clearly been progressing during not just the past four five years but the past decade on getting some of these core things that a CPG company does right better.
Ali I feel like I’m repeating myself.
So I'll try to get this clearer.
In the external world that we've been in choicefulness and clarity are even more important.
And it's not just me.
It's as I said the business leaders market leaders channel leaders customer leaders country leaders.
Point number two I’m not going to -- we have the methodologies.
We have the tools and techniques to understand who our best consumer is business-by-business brand-by-brand and to act on it but you’ve got to use it and you’ve got to act on it.
So we've rededicated ourselves to really understanding the consumer really winning with the consumer.
Everything begins and ends with the consumer.
We win a consumer we get a higher -- our business model is very simple.
If we can get a higher trial and purchase rate and we can get better usage and more loyalty that drives the value creation.
But we need to be incredibly disciplined to stay on that business model.
The third thing is operating discipline.
The strategic discussion of the business unit level is about discipline the discipline of choice the discipline focus the discipline of prioritization.
We need to be more disciplined in our operating plans.
We need to be more disciplined in our financial forecast.
We just need to be more disciplined.
And then the last one is -- and again it's not that we don't know how to do it because we are doing it.
We just need to do it more consistently and we need to do it more broadly.
We need to be disciplined in our execution.
This is a highly executional industry and we have to win one shopper at a time one consumer at a time one retail location whether it's a store or an open market or e-commerce at a time.
And we just need to be very executionally focused.
And I think those are the key things.
And the answer to the first part of your question Ali on the relationship between the acceleration of productivity savings and the appearance of lower restructuring next year and all those things reconcile I’ll just make three points there.
First not every savings opportunity requires a restructuring investment.
So for example improving our marketing ROI does not cost anything in terms of restructuring and that scenario that we’re going to get better at next year than we have been historically.
Not all cost of goods sold savings require restructuring investment.
And to the extent that we can deliver savings that are at or ahead of plan with even less restructuring investment that's a good thing.
Second we’ve talked about over the period of time enrollment reduction of 16% to 22%.
The 7 000 roles we’ve reduced represents about 13%.
So we're going to keep going and it doesn't stop at the end of the five year period.
But a big chunk of the role reductions which drive disproportionately restructuring spending have occurred.
So that's kind of how that's happening.
As with the prior commentary we're not fixated on a restructuring budget.
If there are good opportunities to drive savings sooner and more we will fund those.
And we'll be sure to update you on that as we progress.
Last real quick on capital allocation.
We will continue to prioritize the dividend.
This year was the 57<sup>th</sup> consecutive year we've increased the dividend as I said before without the 58<sup>th</sup><sup> </sup> you will probably be talking to somebody else.
And we'll continue to repurchase shares with the balance of cash that's available.
Our philosophy on this is very simple.
Cash that we have is not ours that yours.
It's our job to deploy it to earn decent returns and then what's left we will distribute.
So really no significant change in capital allocation philosophy going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Just two quick sort of high level questions.
I guess first A.G.
You have talked about looking at today's reality and seeing things as they are and not how you want them to be.
So I just want to clarify what you're speaking to there not necessarily P&amp;G's capabilities and opportunities versus where they were three four five years ago but more or so what you are seeing in the marketplace and specifically market growth which has obviously slowed in the last two three four years.
And then sort of related to that you talk a lot about creating value both for consumers as well for shareholders and I think part of the consumer value equation clearly is price.
And so could you comment on how you see your price levels right now generally speaking? Are you comfortable with the price levers or does there need to be some strategic change in parts of your business? Thanks.
Okay.
Let me talk about market maybe some first impressions of consumer changes and then talk about value and I'll let John talk about the pricing situation.
First market.
I mean obviously developing markets are slowing but they are still projected to grow at 6%.
And as I said earlier all you have to look at are demographics and economics.
And I think that's a pretty long arc of growth for our industry and still a pretty big opportunity for this company.
We've actually grown since the Berlin Wall came down and Guangzhou City markets opened in 88 89.
We've grown 9% a year compounded annual growth in developing markets.
We have grown 14% compounded in the last 10 years.
As Jon said in his comments we've grown 10% in the BRIC markets this last year.
And that growth is there for a lot of players in this industry.
Because a lot of it is still tailwind right.
It's babies being born households forming incomes rising and you just get market growth.
Second point is how have consumers changed.
You don't go through the second biggest financial crisis in recent history and a prolonged global recession without changing some of your habits practices attitudes and beliefs.
And we of course have been digging into that.
I think you could make an argument I'll use -- you can make an argument that there may three critical moments of truth right now.
The consumers I call it zero other people call it something else but there is clearly a period driven by the desire to get the best value they can.
Not only the best price but the best value.
And driven by technology mobile technology computer technology the internet etcetera.
And there is this period of information gathering education brand and product comparison and that includes price comparison.
So a lot of shoppers are coming to the purchase decision with having done a lot more preparation.
Still what matters is the first one that really matters is the purchase.
We've got to win the preliminary.
We've got to get into the consideration set.
We've really got to win the purchase so we don't have the chance of winning the usage.
So I think that's one thing that’s changed.
I think the second thing that’s changed and you see it in a number of our businesses is we really have to build a strong vertical and horizontal brand and product line portfolio.
And it's not just about developed market and developing markets.
It's about giving more consumers more opportunities to try their way in make that first purchase into your brand and product line.
And they’re going to make the choice about where based on what they need and want and based on what their value equation is.
So if you look at shave care or you look at hair care or you look at fabric and home care you’re looking family care we’ve tried to build much more robust vertical offerings.
And we’re continuing to work hard on that.
So the consumer can come in at different points.
So think about it as we need to trade them in first and then we can work on trading them up.
And I guess the -- so that's the market.
That's the consumer.
And hey there’s a third thing.
No matter -- I didn't want to get into the details here and I’m not going to but every business that's really delivering and we have at least a handful or more they really know who their consumers are.
They have a very clear consumer segmentation model and we need that.
That's the math that we start with.
So here is the key.
Regardless of what segment you’re in value is a factor.
So if you’re buying SK-II at 145 bucks for the opening price point on Essence billion dollar plus brand and Prestige Ultra Prestige Skincare there is still a value equation.
And we have to understand what it is for that one (inaudible).
If you’re buying Charmin Basic at a buck or two a pack there is a value equation.
And we need to understand those value equations.
We are never going to compete purely on price.
We are a differentiated branded innovative product company.
But we are going to compete across a broader range of price point and we are going to compete with brand and product line architectures that attract more consumers and give them a chance to try it.
And clearly one measure of our success in presenting propositions with appropriate value equations for consumers is our share of the market.
And right now we're modestly building market share growth which would imply that more times but not always but more times than not we’re getting the value equations right.
We'll continue to refine that.
This is something that requires daily attention but generally I think we are across the broad portfolio in the right place.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
In the context of your comments on execution and understanding and creating value I was hoping to get your perspective on what's been going on Tide PODS.
Is this a product that is actually creating value? What went wrong with the execution? We're looking at monthly sales that have been flat since the start of the year or the end of last year even as the capacity issues were supposedly resolved.
So your perspective on that might help give a little bit of context to the things you see as you come back.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Connie I think -- first of all we are committed to Tide PODS.
It’s a $0.5 billion business with a lot of upside growth.
And it clearly -- it's a good value for consumers who want -- don't want to think about the dosage amount and who want the convenience in performance that is delivered in that brand’s performance offering and product form.
Second thing is -- yeah we've been struggling to keep up with demand.
I don't think we were merchandised until last month.
Do I have that right Jon? I mean the first month we were merchandised ever merchandised so far in a U.S.
customer was last month.
So I would argue we have been out there with one hand behind our back because we can't display it and we can't support it.
I think as we've reported we are moving into Europe.
It's a different source of supply.
It's not going to impact what we're trying to do here in the U.S.
and North America.
But I guess the last thing I would say is hey in four decades you work on a lot of disruptive new products and product forms start- ups aren’t easy.
We don't always get it right the first time.
We did an (inaudible) liquid back in the mid 80s we did untie with bleach we have it on some others.
But this one is so unique it's so discontinuous and for a group of segment of consumers at least so far early returns they seem to like it if they try it.
And they seem to come back and buy it again.
It's clearly creating value for the industry.
And this is a category or industry that's hard to create value in left with own devices.
Some would commoditize it.
And it's in our interest to keep it differentiated branded and innovative.
So we are taking a mid to long-term point of view on Tide PODS and we are going to stay at it and we are going to see what it's ultimate potential is with the consumers.
Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Please proceed Good morning everyone and welcome back A.G.
I wonder whether you could in the context of breaking out fourth quarter organic sales growth between the U.S.
Europe and developing and emerging markets not just BRIC.
How this execution that you want to improve is going to helped by the changes in the go-to-market capabilities? Because one of the things that actually surprised us in the last couple of years is is that the bulk of the weakness of your business was the U.S.
was in the backyard.
So the inability of the company to adopt to the volatility of the consumer environment was surprising to us.
So to what extent does decision making process needs to be reviewed beyond making the go to market capability more efficient in terms of savings? Thank you.
Okay.
Two points that I think are relevant and important to your question.
We need to grow in the U.S.
even at 2% to 3% estimates for the future 3% GDP growth market growth.
You know you pick a number but it's still growing and it's definitely growing faster than Europe or Japan.
And given our position we need to grow in the U.S.
and we need to get stronger in the U.S.
Point number one.
I think you see hopefully you can see that we reinvested in the U.S.
We started to get it going again in the U.S.
in this last year and it definitely showed up in the fourth quarter.
But as far as I am concerned that's only the beginning okay.
Point number one.
Point number two is we need to do a better job in all the important channels where consumers shop.
I won't go into the details but we're clearly strong in some channels.
We play in others we need to get stronger in those channels and we're even testing coverage in channels that we haven't served in the U.S.
and Canada.
So I do think there is a distribution opportunity and I have a very simple principle.
If a meaningful number of consumers shop in this channel whether it's ecommerce whether it's a small urban store or whether it's a drug chain a club store whatever we have got to be there.
We have got to be available.
We have got to be in distribution and we have to have the right mix of brands and products to meet her or his needs.
So I am totally with you.
I think there is an opportunity in the U.S.
By the way we also have opportunities in Western Europe along the same lines and that's a huge business for us too.
So even though it's not growing we’ve got to get our share.
Developing markets is still a huge opportunity for the company and part of the opportunity is distribution related.
Again I won't go back into the detail but we've gone back into some big strategically core developing markets and we've taken a hard look at our distribution and coverage position.
And we're concluding that we have big opportunities there.
So you will see us work hard on making sure we have availability making sure we’re in distribution and make sure we have the right brand and product presence where we need to which is where consumers shop.
Your next question comes from the line of Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Analyst Welcome back A.G.
Wanted to talk a little bit about the commitment to investment spend.
You’ve talked a lot about it on a high level.
Can you talk about what marketing spend you expect going forward? And then obviously the U.S.
growth was very solid.
Can you provide some colors on the sustainability of that and then the growth drivers behind that? Thank you.
So first in terms of advertising spend we will again increase advertising spending pretty significantly year-on-year but we'll do it probably 20 basis points lower than the rate of sales growth.
That does not mean less advertising.
It does not mean less reach less frequency.
it means more effective advertising the right mix of media and importantly reducing non-advertising costs that the consumers never see.
So we feel good about our ability to continue to support growth in the business with a more efficient model.
A.G do you want talk to about the U.S? Yeah.
One more one very quick comment on the point Jon just made.
We're interested in effectiveness.
We know brand by brand in the U.S and in a lot of other markets the range of effectiveness we can deliver and it’s wide.
And so we are holding all of the businesses to a minimum ROI.
We're pounding away on communication effectiveness.
We’re pounding away on best media.
Our digital I think is now up to 35% in the U.S.
roughly.
It goes up and down 25% to 35%.
We have some businesses and brands where digital is incredibly effective and we’re doing more.
We have other brands that are on the learning curve.
They’ve got to get up the learning curve faster.
But it’s a brand by brand category by category consumer segment by consumer segment set of decisions.
And basically what we are going to do -- our problem is not the total amount we are spending.
Our problem is the mix our opportunity is the mix and we are going to get the mix better and better and better and there is a lot of opportunity there.
On the second question which is the U.S yeah we think it's sustainable.
We definitely think it's sustainable because if you crawl inside the fourth quarter results we’re doing much better overall but we’re still being carried by fewer businesses than we would like to be.
And there’s an opportunity for all of our businesses to do better in the U.S.
and North America.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Steib with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
My question relates to the portfolio overall.
You spoke at length about focusing on the core business.
Could you talk a little bit about what criteria you might use to determine what's not core for the longer-term growth prospects of the company since you mentioned I think a couple of times that you might to exit some businesses? Strategic fit particularly is a strategic fit with our core strengths and core capabilities value creation potential and performance and then frankly the ability to deliver.
That’s it.
At this time we've reached the time for questions.
I would like to turn the call back over for closing remarks.
I'd just like to thank everybody for joining us this morning.
We are very excited about the direction that we are on in the path ahead.
And we'll continue to keep you abreast of developments in that regard.
We’re available the balance of the day.
Please don't hesitate to reach out if you've got a question.
We’ll also be reaching out to our shareholder group over the next couple of months both A.G and myself and look forward to spending time with you.
Thanks a lot.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's quarter-end conference call.
Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G's most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures and adjusted for after tax impact of major divestitures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings.
Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G’s Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Thanks and good morning.
Before we get to results I want to start with a few housekeeping items.
Consistent with our emphasis on productivity as well as our focus on annual versus quarterly planning periods A.G.
Lafley and I have decided to apportion our efforts on P&amp;G investor communications as follows.
A.G.
will lead our fiscal year end call providing perspective on the year we’ve just completed and outlining our priorities for the new fiscal year.
A.G.
will represent P&amp;G at our most significant each year.
This year those will be the Barclays Back to School conference and CAGNY.
And he will lead the annual shareholders meeting each October.
I’ll head up the non year-end quarterly calls and the remaining investor conferences.
We will both continue to meet on a one-on-one basis with current and potential investors.
We’ll continue to involve other key executives in investor meetings and conferences as we have in the past.
Our objective is to provide shareholders the information they want and need in a more productive manner that is consistent with our business planning approach.
One last announcement John Chevalier who heads up our investor relations practice will now report directly to me.
John was previously reporting to our treasurer Teri List who is now at Kraft Foods.
John joins me on the call this morning.
Let me move now to our first quarter results.
All-in sales grew 2% including the 2-point headwind from foreign exchange.
Organic sales grew 4% putting us on track to deliver 3% to 4% organic sales growth for the fiscal year.
Organic sales growth was driven by strong organic volume growth of 4%.
Pricing and mix were both neutral to sales growth for the period.
Organic sales were in line or ahead of a year ago in all reporting segments.
Organic sales were up low single digits in developed markets and high single-digits in developing markets.
P&amp;G global value market share was around 20% for the most recent 3-month period.
We held or grew global market share in businesses representing about two-thirds of global sales.
Moving to the bottom line all-in earnings per share were $1.04.
This includes $0.02 of noncore restructuring costs.
Core earnings per share were $1.05 down $0.01 versus the prior year.
Foreign exchange was a $0.09 per share headwind.
On a currency neutral basis core earnings per share was up 8% for the quarter.
Core operating profit margin declined 70 basis points as solid organic sales growth and 200 basis points of cost savings were offset by foreign exchange and gross margin mix impacts.
Core gross margin was down 130 basis points.
Strong cost savings of 160 basis points and volume leverage was more than offset by geographic and category mix of 140 basis points foreign exchange of 80 basis points higher commodity costs and higher manufacturing startup costs versus the prior year.
Core SG&amp;A costs decreased 60 basis points driven by overhead cost savings of 40 basis points marketing spending efficiencies and volume leverage.
These benefits were partially offset by foreign exchange general wage inflation and reinvestments in innovation and go-to-market capability.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 23.8%.
The combined impact from tax interest expense interest income non-operating income and outstanding share count was essentially neutral to core earnings per share growth.
We generated $1.3 billion in free cash flow in the quarter repurchased $2.5 billion in stock and returned $1.7 billion of cash to shareholders as dividends.
Free cash flow was reduced by a discretionary cash contribution of nearly $1 billion to our German defined benefit pension fund.
This is reflected in the change in other operating assets and liabilities line on the cash flow statement.
Free cash flow productivity was 43% for the quarter including a negative 32 point impact from the pension contribution.
This contribution was included in our projection of about 90% free cash flow productivity for the fiscal year.
Overall we remain on track with each of our fiscal year objectives.
We’re focused on four important areas to drive continued improvement in our results.
Value creation for consumers and share owners is our top priority.
Operating TSR is our primary business performance measure.
Operating TSR is an integrated measure of value creation at the business unit level requiring sales growth progress on growth and operating margin and strong cash flow productivity.
Operating TSR drives focus on core businesses our leading most profitable categories and leading most profitable markets.
Our strongest business unit and total company positions are in the U.S.
We need to continue to ensure that our home market stays strong and is growing.
We’ll continue to grow and expand our business in developing markets with a focus on the categories and countries with the largest sizes of prize and the highest likelihood of winning.
Developing markets will continue to be a significant growth driver for our company.
We’ll continue to focus the company’s portfolio allocating resources to businesses where we can create the most value.
We will continue to exit businesses where we determine that potential buyers with different capability sets can create more value than ourselves.
Consistent with our focus on operating TSR we’re continuing to push forward with our productivity and cost savings efforts.
We made good progress over the last fiscal year and a half we have strong plans for fiscal 2014 and are working to accelerate fiscal 2015 plans into 2014.
Versus the target run rate of $1.2 billion we’re planning more than $1.4 billion of cost of goods savings this fiscal year across materials logistics and manufacturing expense.
We expect to improve manufacturing productivity by at least 6% this year.
We’re up more than 8% fiscal year to date.
We’re continuing the work on North American and European supply chain redesign to lower cost reduce inventory and improve customer service.
This work will require additional investment in both restructuring and capital but should generate very attractive returns.
We’ll communicate more details as plans are finalized.
We will deliver our 2014 enrollment reduction goals and then work to accelerate [role] reduction’s plan for 2015 into 2014.
There are several teams supported by external advisors and benchmarks working in parallel on plans to deliver these reductions.
The teams span business sectors market development organizations and corporate functions.
We’ll be working to consolidate individual team plans into one overall company plan by the end of the calendar year and plan to discuss key elements with you at the CAGNY conference in February.
We continue to drive marketing ROI improvements through an optimized mix of advertising media greater clarity of messaging and greater efficiency in non-advertising marketing spending.
We expect absolute marketing spending to increase this year but marketing as a percentage of sales to decline modestly versus the prior year level.
We are committed to making productivity a core strength and a sustainable competitive advantage.
We’ll continue to strengthen our innovation efforts.
We aim to be the innovation leader in every product category where our brands compete.
Near term we’re shipping major innovation upgrades across the entire baby care line in North America providing superior dryness comfort and fit particularly overnight to better deliver what moms want for their babies.
The Ariel pods launch in Western Europe is tracking well above expectations.
Consumption trends on Tide pods have accelerated even further in the U.S.
behind new trial-building merchandising.
We’re continuing to see strong growth in our new oral care expansion markets and are experiencing significant growth behind the expansion of our 3D White innovation.
We’re delivering strong market share gains in the U.S.
deodorant category behind the Secret Stress Sweat innovation and on Old Spice as we launch new scent collections and commercial campaigns.
We’re also strengthening our share position of the U.S.
battery business behind the Quantum innovation and recent distribution increases.
P&amp;G battery value share is up nearly 1.5 points for the past three months.
In family care our recent Bounty upgrades were recognized in external product testing.
Bounty had the top three products in the test including a landslide victory for Bounty Duratowel over all other products.
Recent product packaging and commercial innovations on Pantene are driving strong growth in the Latin America and Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region.
Pantene shipments were up double digits in both regions for the quarter.
Next we’re improving execution and operating discipline.
We simply have to execute better more consistently and more reliably.
It’s not about exhorting the organization to do better it is about rigorously following tried and true work processes that deliver results.
It’s only airing high ROI advertising.
It’s disciplined initiative launch qualification and planning.
It’s about staying ahead of changing regulatory standards to ensure we’ve maintained a full supply capability.
It’s about everyone playing their position and playing it well.
Our progress in operating discipline and execution is beginning to be recognized.
In the most recent Advantage Monitor U.S.
customer survey which rates retailer satisfaction with their suppliers P&amp;G improved its overall ranking for the middle third of the 40 suppliers evaluated to the top third with significant improvements in areas such as category development and shopper insights.
Our goal is to be number one and our focus is on translating this improved operating performance into better and more consistent top and bottom line results.
Last we’re making strategic investments in innovation and go-to-market capabilities.
The budget increase in R&amp;D will enable us to strengthen our near and mid-term innovation pipeline.
Our go-to-market investments are primarily focused on improving sales coverage in our fastest-growing markets and fastest-growing channels.
We believe that the focus we’re bringing to these four areas: operating TSR productivity innovation and operational excellence will enable us to continue to improve results which brings us to guidance.
We’re reconfirming 2014 guidance top line bottom line and cash.
We’re maintaining our organic sales growth range of 3% to 4%.
Achieving organic sales growth in the upper half of our target range would result in modest overall market share growth.
Foreign exchange is expected to be a sales growth headwind of about 2 points which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of 1% to 2% for the fiscal year.
On the bottom line we’re maintaining our forecast for core earnings per share growth of 5% to 7%.
This translates to constant currency core earnings per share growth in the range of 11% to 13%.
On an all-in GAAP basis we expect earnings per share to grow approximately 7% to 9%.
This range reflects somewhat lower noncore restructuring costs in fiscal year 2014 versus the prior year.
First half core earnings per share growth will likely be flat to slightly down versus prior year.
Second half growth will be much stronger.
Our second half forecast is not based on a significant deceleration in organic sales growth.
Second half earnings growth increase is driven by foreign exchange and cost structure.
Foreign exchange will be a significant headwind in the first half but will moderate in the second half at recent spot rates.
We estimate that about 70% of the fiscal year FX impact will be in the first half of the fiscal year.
We’ll also annualize operating impacts from last year’s Venezuelan bolivar devaluation in the second half.
There are several second half cost benefits.
Manufacturing startup costs will largely annualize in the second half of fiscal 2014 and productivity savings will build throughout the year.
As you prepare your sales and earnings estimates for Q2 there are a few items you should keep in mind.
Recall that the second quarter base period includes a $0.07 per share one-time gain from the sale of the Western European bleach business.
We expect the foreign exchange headwind for Q2 to be similar to the impact we saw in the first quarter.
We’re expecting a heightened level of competitive promotional spending ahead of our product initiative’s launch in early next calendar year especially in North American fabric care and beauty.
We expect to deliver another strong year of about 90% free cash flow productivity.
Our plans assume capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of sales and share repurchase in the range of $5 billion to $7 billion continuing to deliver on our commitment of cash return to shareholders.
In addition to the assumptions included in our guidance we continue to be very transparent about some key items that are not included.
Foreign exchange continues to be very volatile.
Rates improved somewhat in September and October largely reversing the large negative move we saw in late July and August.
But this could quickly change.
The guidance we are reconfirming today is based on mid-October spot rates.
We’re closely watching the unrest in Egypt which is a large business for us and a base of export for the balance of Africa.
Venezuelan price controls access to dollars for imported products and devaluation present risks as do import restrictions and price controls in Argentina.
Finally our guidance assumes no further degradation in market growth rates.
We continue to operate in a volatile environment with uncertainty in the foreign exchange decelerating market growth rates and a rapidly developing policy environment.
Against this backdrop we have good market share momentum a number of strong innovations coming to market over the balance of the year and savings from productivity improvements that will continue to build.
Our first quarter results were in line with what we expected putting us on track to deliver our goals for the fiscal year and enabling us to make progress toward our long term growth objectives.
We’re making targeted investments in our core business in the most promising developing markets and biggest innovation opportunities and are aggressively driving the productivity and cost savings.
Above all we remain focused on value creation for consumers and for our share owners.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
As a reminder business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in the slides which we’ve posted on our website www.pg.com following the call.
I’d be happy now to take any questions.
[Operator instructions.] Your first question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
You may begin.
Two quick ones.
China it seems like business is doing pretty well market share-wise everywhere in the world except for China.
But if you look across categories at least in the Nielsen data we have you know laundry diapers toothpaste it seems like shares are under quite a bit of pressure recently.
So wondering kind of what’s going on there and sort of what the plan is to kind of fix that.
And the second thing is and maybe I’m making a huge deal about this but this [influx] technology on the package side could that be a game-changer going forward in terms of how you make and buy bottles and give you a pretty neat competitive cost structure advantage? First of all China volume market share was essentially flat in the quarter.
We did lose a little bit of ground on value share though that continued to build sequentially has continued to build over the past 12 6 3 months.
So we’re reasonably comfortable about our position there.
We’ve got a very strong innovation program coming in the back half of the year and expect China to continue to be a significant source of growth for us.
On [influx] this is something we actually talked about at CAGNY.
It’s a disruptive proprietary breakthrough in the packaging area and when rolled out across our businesses it should deliver about $150 million in cost savings per year and will allow us to avoid about $50 million in capital expenditures annually.
It will also bring significant sustainability benefits.
It could reduce resin usage by over 100 million pounds per year and eliminate energy usage by over 250 million kilowatt hours.
And finally we’re hopeful that this breakthrough will allow us to reduce our time to market for package development by up to 50%.
So it is something that we’re excited about and should benefit from.
Your next question will come from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Wanted to talk a little bit about the negative FX leverage you’re seeing here in terms of from the top line to the bottom line particularly how your manufacturing footprint is impacting that whether that’s a big transactional hit as you’re importing products into countries like Brazil.
And then to sort tie that in I’ll try to make this two questions it’s actually one question can you talk a little bit about the plan for local manufacturing? You’ve got a lot of startup costs there.
When can that go to being a real benefit as you look at not just your manufacturing cost but also the ability to be more flexible when you’re manufacturing locally? You’re absolutely right on the dynamic on foreign exchange and the divergence between the top and bottom line impact.
That disparity is primarily driven by very large currency moves in countries that have a significant dollar and euro denominated cost structure for imported materials and finished product.
Just for perspective Japan and Venezuela which both fall into that category account for more than 40% of the FX-related profit hurt on the quarter.
And you’re also right that as we’re able to localize more of the manufacturing not only will we save a significant amount of money but we’ll in essence be operationally hedged more on the bottom line.
Timeline we’re bringing on a number of new facilities currently as reflected in the startup cost figures that we’ve been discussing for the past couple of quarters.
I would look at that to yield benefits more in our next fiscal year.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
First just a detail question.
Can you tell us how much U.S.
organic sales growth was in the quarter in emerging markets? And then the real question is I just was hoping you could characterize the pricing environment you’re seeing right now both in the U.S.
and around the world.
Clearly you’ve made significant market share progress but you did highlight you expected heightened competitive activity going forward.
So should we expect pricing to deteriorate a bit going forward in the balance of the year? And do you view heightened competitive activity as a big threat at this point to your markets progress? First on U.S.
growth rate organic sales was about 2% and that’s also consistent with the total developed markets growth rate which was low singles.
Developed markets grew about 8%.
On pricing let me say a couple of things.
First relative to history including the last quarter if you look at price inclusive of promotion it was neutral to organic sales growth on the quarter.
If you look further back price inclusive of promotion has been neutral to positive for 11 consecutive quarters.
It’s been neutral to positive for 9 consecutive years.
We would much rather invest a dollar in innovation or equity because those benefits are proprietary and sustainable.
Promotion price discounting there’s nothing proprietary about it and it’s typically not sustainable.
If you look at our promotion the percentage of sales that moved on promotion in the July-September quarter it was down versus a year ago not up.
So that’s the past.
As we look forward it’s important that while we’d rather spend money on innovation and equity it’s important we be competitive from a promotion standpoint.
We are not going to be ones who lead promotion escalation but we will be competitive.
We do have a period coming up in the next quarter here that precedes pretty significant initiative launches for us and it’s not atypical in that environment that we see a little bit of an increase in promotion from the competitive set trying to load consumers ahead of our initiatives.
So we do expect that environment to tighten over the next three months as we head into our big initiative launch.
Again that’s not something that we’ll be leading.
We’ll continue to focus on innovation and equity.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson from Citigroup.
On the gross margin I know you don’t want to give too much specifics in terms of the full year outlook but I assume some of the manufacturing startup costs are going to fall away.
Hopefully anyway.
Can you comment kind of over the full course of this year whether you expect gross margin to be up or down? It certainly will sequentially improve and should be positive certainly by the fourth quarter early fourth quarter.
We’ll have to see where it nets out total year.
I honestly don’t think that much about that.
But we do expect for gross margin progress to turn positive by the end of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
I wanted to ask a bit about beauty margins.
They were up so significantly in the quarter I was curious what was driving that.
The change in allocation of resources or holding back as you sort of sort out plans for skincare? So questions on that.
And then coupled with that was in your prepared remarks Jon when you mentioned the heightened promotional environment expected in the second quarter ahead of initiative launches you actually mentioned not just fabric care but also I think you said beauty and that was sort of news to me if there’s something significant coming in beauty so if you could talk about that it would be great.
A large part of the quarter to quarter variability in profitability in beauty is being driven by initiative timing and we have as I mentioned in the prepared remarks and as you referenced we have a strong slate of initiatives coming to market December through March in beauty.
The specifics are not items that we’ve disclosed yet and we’ll do that as we get closer to the events themselves but there is significant innovation coming.
The other thing that’s impacting quarterly variability which is a great thing is real progress on productivity within the beauty business.
They’re working that as hard as anybody and are frankly doing a great job.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara from Wells Fargo.
I just wanted to ask about Tide Simply.
So I guess relative to Charmin and Bounty basic it looks like the price gap there between the premium and the mid-tier segment in those respective categories is not as wide as in direct to laundry.
Premium Tide versus the baseline is a very very large gap.
So the gap between Tide Simply and premium Tide is likely to be wider than what it is between Bounty and Charmin basics and those mainline products.
So I guess the question is can you use those two as a benchmark? And how do you manage that? And is the thought process even correct there? It ultimately comes down to strong consumer segmentation and benefit alignment against those segments and the benefits that they’re seeking.
And it’s more about that than it is about relative price point.
And as you can imagine we’ve been working this for some period of time as you know and we’ve been working very hard to ensure that the offering is very attractive to the consumer segment that we’re targeting and is less attractive to the current Tide consumer which we believe we have achieved.
And that is more the mark of success on things like Bounty Basic Charmin Basic Luvs versus Pampers that consumer segment and benefit alignment with their needs that drives success.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
Two things.
I first wanted to follow up on the language in the press release and your prepared remarks about the $0.07 I guess now one-time gain you asked us to include in your core last year although it felt like it was smaller than $0.07 last year.
I’m just a little confused.
Are you now asking us to restate that and take out the $0.07? Or what do you want us to do with that? And then the other question I had is about the 200 basis points that you’re saving this quarter.
Obviously that’s good.
Is that enough relative to the way your competitors are doing? It certainly sounds like you’re going to be ramping up that savings number.
How much higher do you think it ramps to and for how long? First relative to the $0.07 gain what we’re asking you to do is just simply be aware of it.
We’re just providing that as an awareness point.
What you do with that is obviously your call.
But we like people to not be surprised and that’s simply why we’re calling it out.
It will be in our core numbers in the base and will be reported as part of our core comparison.
So we’re not restating anything here.
On savings look there’s no amount of savings that’s enough.
Now there is an amount of savings that’s too much when it starts cutting into capabilities for growth and those kinds of things.
But we’re going for everything we think is feasible and then asking ourselves is there more after that? And I’m not going to speculate on the ultimate amount of savings but I think as you’ve seen both last year and this year generally we’re exceeding as opposed to underdelivering our savings targets.
Last year we had $1.2 billion in cost of goods savings.
That’s about what we need to deliver the $10 billion objective this year.
So far we’re at about $1.4 billion.
Last year we significantly overdelivered the SG&amp;A enrollment and this year we’re committed to deliver our 2014 target and work to accelerate 2015 into 2014.
And we really want to make this as many of us have described before an ongoing part of our business model our culture our ethos.
And I think there’s a lot of possibility to the extent that we’re able to accomplish that.
Your next question will come from the line of Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital Markets.
I remember when A.G.
first came back he was talking about the cost structure in some parts of the developed world still being too high.
I’m wondering where you stand on what sounded like it would be another more traditional type of bricks and mortar restructuring program that would run concurrently with the productivity initiative underway.
That’s what I was referring to in my prepared remarks relative to supply chain redesign in both North America and Western Europe which is underway.
It’s in process and we’ll talk about it more as we kind of finalize our plans.
But that is a significant opportunity to both reduce cost improve cash through reduced inventory and importantly improve customer service and we’re pretty excited about that that opportunity.
Basically our supply chains in both of those markets have come about over years and through a number of acquisitions.
And this is an opportunity to step back and say you know if we were doing this over how would we do this? What are the right levels of aggregation in terms of number of categories that are produced at a site? What are the right locations? How do you think about distribution opportunities serving existing customers and new customers? And so pretty excited about that opportunity and we will bring more information to you as we finalize those plans.
Your next question will come from the line of Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to come back to beauty.
You talked a little bit about the innovation slate coming up and some of the margin expansion.
I wanted to drill down on the organic sales growth.
You were showing signs of acceleration to year-end.
We see deceleration despite the easy comp and it also stands in contrast to what looks to be in terms of U.S.
consumption offtake accelerating trends.
Can you help us understand what drove that deceleration whether there’s anything transitory behind it and maybe what’s working and what isn’t within that segment? First of all this is a very competitive category.
It’s a category where I will readily admit we continue to have more work to do.
So we’re not yet where we want to be on this business.
There are pieces of it that are working very well.
Our personal cleansing business was up high single-digits on the quarter our cosmetics business is doing extremely well our deodorants business is doing extremely well.
I mentioned Pantene.
In several parts of the world it’s doing well.
We continue to need to make progress on North American Pantene on Olay and we need to make progress in our salon professional businesses.
So those are kind of the strengths and the weaknesses as it were and we’re fully focused on maximizing the opportunity behind the strengths and addressing the opportunities.
Your next question will come from the line of Olivia Tong from Bank of America Merrill Lynch Want to talk a little bit about the share improvement.
Obviously it continues.
Where do you think that can top out at? Well as I said several times on this call we are in a very competitive market.
Our expectation is that when we get everything working we should be able to build a little bit of share each year.
We’re never going to be in a position where 100% of our business is building share at any given point in time.
That’s just not a realistic scenario in a very competitive industry that we compete in.
We’ve talked about targeting kind of two-thirds to 70% of the business growing share holding or growing share at any point in time and that’s the level that leads to modest share growth on an annual basis.
So that’s what we’re targeting.
Your next question will come from the line of Javier Escalante from Consumer Edge Research.
Question on the gross profit or gross margin side.
To what extent does a lot of what is happening have to do with the category mix in which basically the fabric and baby care are the two [unintelligible] that are leading the growth? And in that context knowing that beauty and grooming are challenged can you help us understand healthcare why the deceleration beyond the recall of the pet food product? You’re absolutely right in terms of the drivers of part of the gross margin pressure.
There’s about 140 basis points of mix impact within that gross margin comparison.
Approaching half of that is the product mix exactly what you referenced which is faster growth in lower gross margin businesses like fabric care and our paper businesses and slower growth in some of our higher gross margin businesses.
In terms of healthcare the real impact on the quarter was the recall on pet.
The good news there is we’re back up manufacturing full speed a perfectly great product.
And so that should be in the past.
Your next question will come from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Just in terms of the portfolio I think one of the things that A.G.
has tried to hammer home the last three or four months has been that Procter needs to be more focused and I think the word he’s used a number of times is “choiceful.” And so on that point can you give us an example or examples of businesses where you believe you’re underinvesting right now and where you’re overinvesting? And also could you see yourself doing something like Unilever has done in the past or like Kimberly-Clark has done more recently where you actually pull out of certain geographies or categories in whole? And then also in terms of a housekeeping item you mentioned that you held or gained share in two-thirds of your businesses.
I think that was a global number.
What was that number in the U.S.? The two word choices that you provided are accurate focused and choiceful.
And that’s what we’re all working to do here.
Obviously you can appreciate from a competitive standpoint why I wouldn’t want to lay over many cards right here in terms of where we’ll accelerate investment or decelerate investment.
But it is very much as I said in our prepared remarks a focus of ours which is flowing investment to the areas both businesses and geographies where we believe we can create disproportionate value and looking real hard at businesses where we’re struggling to create value and looking to see if somebody else could potentially create more value than us.
We have pulled out of regions in the past.
We used to be in Asia in the tissue/towel business.
We used to be in Western Europe in the tissue/towel business.
And we’re now largely a North American tissue/towel business.
And that was all driven by our assessment of our ability to create value in that industry which we viewed as low potential.
So these are things both categories and geographies that we’ll continue to look at.
And as we always have done whether it’s pharmaceuticals or Folgers or snacks or the Western European tissue/towel business where we determine that we can create more value on any business in a divestment context there are two pieces of that.
One is what our prognosis is going forward the other is obviously we’re not going to exit businesses in a value dilutive manner so we need to have somebody who’s willing to monetize some of that value they can create for our shareholders.
Your next question will come from the line of Bill Chappell from SunTrust.
Jon you had talked I guess this morning on CNBC about Europe and kind of moving sideways.
And I was just wondering if maybe you can give us a little more color there because as you alluded to a lot of other companies are seeing pockets of growth in certain areas and didn’t know if it really is just straight sideways or if there’s any sign of hope or kind of just any color you have would be great.
There are definitely areas that are stronger within Europe.
I’m not telling you anything you don’t know.
Northern Europe is certainly stronger than Southern Europe.
Southern Europe continues to be a real struggle.
And there are markets that are pockets of hope if you will.
But I want to step back on the whole Western European thing for a second.
Changes in Western Europe in the consumer products category space have never been dramatic and they continue to not be overly dramatic.
You know growth tends to oscillate between minus 1 and plus 1 and it’s a good year when it’s plus 1 and a bad year when it’s minus 1.
And we’re not seeing significant departures from that aggregate picture.
And so it continues to be an environment where we think we can build sales.
We believe we can build profit and create value.
It’s an area that we’re focused on.
But we just don’t see a rebound to date.
Your next question will come from the line of Jon Andersen from William Blair.
I’m interested in asking about new channels specifically the online channel.
How important is the online channel to you today? What role does it play going forward? And are there distinct advantages to Procter from selling online? And I’m thinking of things like increased consumption reaching more consumers or perhaps it’s more profitable to sell through that channel.
Well we want our products to be available wherever whenever and however consumers want to shop.
And there is certainly a segment of consumers in some categories that want to shop online and we’ll work to be available for them.
The amount of our business that’s currently in that channel varies by category.
Still as you would expect the vast majority of our products are sold in traditional channels.
And I think the channel offers several advantages and several disadvantages just as our other channels do.
It’s a very effective way to target consumers both from a marketing standpoint and then conversion to purchase.
So we’ll continue to look at it from that standpoint.
But we really want to be present and viewed as best in class in each of the retail channels.
Your next question will come from the line of Mark Astrachan from Stifel.
Do you think the competitive environment is getting better or worse relative to your expectations? And I say this in the context of some of what I thought relatively provocative comments by your large competitor yesterday that it plans to rebase cost to fund investments.
And sort of related to that how do you think about the spending between promotional allowances and real advertising spend? I know you had mentioned that as a percentage of sales it would be up but less so absolutely as a percent? That’s true of our aggregate marketing expense.
Promotion expense in the July-September quarter in terms of the percentage of our sales that moved on promotion was actually down 7% versus a year ago.
If you look at the total industry it was about flat versus a year ago.
So there are certain categories certain items certain competitors where there may be an escalation in promotion but it’s not a broad characteristic of the environment at least as we’ve seen it to date.
Your next question will come from the line of Alice Longley from Buckingham Research.
A housekeeping question and then something else.
Can you update us as to your category growth rates in emerging regions and the U.S.? And then could you break out the 2% organic sales growth that you had in the U.S.
in terms of volume mix and price? And then my other question is the 140 basis point negative hit to gross margins from mix are you expecting that to lessen as you go through the year? And maybe [by half]? Is that a significant part of the gross margin improvement you’re expecting? In terms of market growth rates broad strokes we see 1% growth in developed markets about 7% in developing markets and aggregate developing markets ranged from kind of mid-single digits to low double-digits depending on the region.
And the developed markets range anywhere from 2% market value growth in North America to about a 1% decline consistent with what I was saying earlier in Western Europe.
Relative to the 140 basis points mix impact and how that evolves going forward as I mentioned in my response to Javier about half of that is geographic and about half is product.
And I would hope that over time as we get our beauty business growing at market growth rates the product portion of that would largely dissipate.
I do expect we’ll continue to have disproportionate growth in developing markets and we’re not yet to the point in terms of economic development where those margins will be equal to the balance of the rest of the world.
So we will continue to see some drag on mix from a geographic standpoint.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Stieb from Credit Suisse.
I was wondering if you could give us some more detail on the volume decline in the grooming segment.
Is that largely due to category weakness? Or is it from some share losses? The category in the last three months was about flat.
I think it was a 99 index.
We did lose a little bit of share in the latest quarter.
That was primarily driven by disproportionate growth in the disposables section of the business where we are less well-developed.
The encouraging piece of it is that Fusion continued to grow share and that’s a good thing long term.
And if you look over longer periods of time last year for example we built share in blades and razors and I would expect that would be more characteristic of the situation going forward.
Your final question comes from the line of Caroline Levy from CLSA.
Jon if you could just go back to the North America share question I don’t think we got an answer.
Just if you could give directionally where things were strongest and weakest.
And specifically in cleaning materials so Tide Pods if you could just break out what happened on the pod side versus the liquid laundry side.
Thanks for giving me a chance to recover there.
Multipart questions my feeble memory sometimes gets the best of me.
In North America we’re holding or growing share in businesses representing between two-thirds to 70% of sales.
So that continues to hold up very nicely.
I actually don’t have segment level in terms of pods versus liquids versus powder shares in front of me here but please feel free to call John or Katie or Brian during the balance of the day and they can get you that information.
We have no other questions at this time.
Thank you everybody for joining us this morning.
As I mentioned earlier we’re reasonably happy with our first quarter results.
In terms of its relation to our expectation we know we still have more work to do.
We’re determined to do that and we look forward to connecting with each of you soon.
Thanks a lot.
[Operator instructions.] Welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's quarter-end conference call.
Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G's most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
“Organic” refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings.
Any measure described as “core” refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G’s Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Good morning.
Our October-December results came in pretty much as we had expected keeping us on track to deliver our fiscal objectives.
All-in sales were up modestly versus the prior year including a 3-point headwind from foreign exchange.
Organic sales grew at 3%.
Organic sales were in line or ahead of year ago in each reporting segment.
Coupled with 4% growth in the first quarter this leaves us on track to deliver 3% to 4% organic sales growth for the fiscal year.
Sales growth was driven by organic volume growth of 3%.
Organic volume was ahead of a year ago in each of our reporting segments.
Pricing added 1 point to sales growth and mix reduced sales growth by 1 point.
Consistent with the reported market growth and market share data you’ve seen October and November were relatively soft months for our categories and for P&amp;G.
December on the other hand was a relatively strong month for us.
December organic volume growth was over 5% with each sector growing at or above 4%.
Organic sales were up mid-single digits.
December quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $1.18 core earnings per share were $1.21 which leaves us on track with our plans to deliver 5% to 7% core earnings per share growth for the fiscal year.
Earnings for all segments were ahead of a year ago except for baby feminine and family care due to foreign exchange.
Foreign exchange was an $0.11 per share headwind for the company in the quarter.
The year ago period also included a $0.07 per share gain from the sale of our bleach business in Italy.
Combined these two items constitute a 15% core earnings per share growth headwind for the quarter.
Core operating margin was about equal to last year down 10 basis points.
Organic sales growth leverage and 230 basis points of cost of goods overhead and marketing savings were offset by foreign exchange and negative mix.
Core gross margin was down 90%.
Cost savings of 130 basis points and volume leverage were offset by geographic and category mix of 130 basis points foreign exchange of 90 basis points higher commodity costs and higher manufacturing startup costs.
Core SG&amp;A improved 80 basis points driven by 100 basis points of marketing and overhead productivity savings.
These benefits were partially offset by foreign exchange imps and targeted innovation and go-to-market investments.
The effective tax rate on core earnings was 21.5%.
This included a positive 1 point impact from the release of a tax reserve following a favorable outcome in Asia.
This reserve reversal accounted for roughly $0.02 of earnings per share benefit on the quarter.
The net impact from all of the items below operating income tax interest expense interest income non-operating income and supply chain was a slight headwind to core earnings per share growth for the quarter.
We generated $2.4 billion in free cash flow and remain on track to deliver free cash flow productivity of about 90% for the fiscal year.
As planned we returned $1.7 billion of cash to shareholders in dividends and we repurchased $1.5 billion in stock bringing year to date share repurchase to $4 billion.
Net the second quarter came in pretty much as we were expecting on both the top and bottom lines leaving us on track to deliver our sales and earnings forecast for the fiscal year.
As we move forward value creation for consumers and share owners remains our top priority.
Operating TSR is our primary business performance measure.
Operating TSR is an integrated measure of value creation at the business unit level requiring sales growth progress on gross and operating margin and strong cash flow productivity.
Operating TSR drives focus on core brands and businesses our leading most profitable categories and leading most profitable markets.
We’ll begin to make more operating TSR progress as we move into calendar 2014.
Our strongest brands and business units and total company positions are in the United States.
We need to continue to ensure our home market stays strong and is growing.
The actions we’ve taken over the past two years to restore consumer value expand our vertical product portfolios and horizontal regimens and lead innovation have enabled us to restore value creating share growth in many parts of the business.
We still have more work to do in a few categories and the competitive environment is intense which leads to choppy results on a quarter to quarter basis but we’re making good progress.
We have a stronger brand and product innovation program ahead of us in the U.S.
this quarter.
We continue to grow and expand our business in developing markets with a focus on the categories and countries with the largest sizes of prize and the highest likelihood of winning.
This is where the world’s baby’s will be born and where more new households will be formed.
Developing markets will continue to be a significant growth driver for our company this year and for years to come.
In October/December organic sales grew 8% in developing markets.
We’ll continue to focus the company’s portfolio allocating resources to businesses where we can create value.
We’ll continue to exit businesses where we determine that potential buyers with different capability sets can create more value than ourselves.
Consistent with our focus on operating TSR we’re continuing to push forward with our productivity and cost savings efforts.
We’ve made solid progress over the last fiscal year and a half.
We have strong productivity plans for fiscal 2014 and we’re working to accelerate some fiscal 2015 savings into 2014.
Versus a target run rate of $1.2 billion we’re now forecasting more than $1.6 billion of cost of good productivity savings this fiscal year across materials logistics and manufacturing expense.
This is up $200 million since our last update.
Versus a going-in target of 5% we expect to improve manufacturing productivity by at least 6% this year.
We’re up more than 8% fiscal year to date.
We’ve now exceeded our 2014 fiscal year non-manufacturing enrollment reduction goals only 6 months into the year and have begun work to accelerate role reductions planned for fiscal 2015 into 2014.
Our strict objective is to get substantially to our end of 2015 objectives by the end of 2014.
This would put us close to or within the 16-22% reduction goal we’ve established 1 to 2 years ahead of target And we won’t stop there.
We continue to identify opportunities to simplify and streamline our organization design.
We continue to drive marketing productivity and effectiveness through an optimized media mix with more digital mobile and social presence improved message clarity and greater non-advertising marketing efficiencies.
We expect absolute marketing spending to come in slightly above prior year levels but marketing as a percentage of sales to decline.
Importantly the overall effectiveness and impact of our marketing spending will be well ahead of the prior year.
We see several more years of effectiveness improvement ahead driven by new more efficient digital and social mobile media and big opportunities to continue to improve the efficiency precision and effectiveness of our communication.
We remain committed to making productivity a core strength and a sustainable competitive advantage.
We’re equally committed to being the product and commercial innovation leader in our industry.
We’re currently bringing significant innovation to market in fabric care including upgrades on all of our Tide Plus value-added liquid detergents; new extra-large tub sizes on Tide Pods; Gain Flings a triple-chamber single-load laundry pack providing Gain consumers with enhanced scent better freshness and more cleaning power all with the convenience of a single-load form; scent upgrades on Downy Unstoppables and Gain Fireworks in Wash Scent Beads; Tide Oxy a multipurpose stain remover that can be used in the laundry or around the house; and Tide Simply Clean and Fresh laundry detergent specifically designed with the right level of cleaning and freshness for mid-price-tier consumers.
We’ve received strong retailer support for these innovations overdelivering our distribution shelving and initial merchandising objectives for the launch.
The Arial unit [dose] innovation in Western Europe is tracking well above expectations.
We’re continuing the expansion launching in Italy Iberia and the Balkans earlier this month.
Consumption trends on Tide Pods have remained strong growing in the low teens fiscal year to date versus the prior year.
We’re also launching a very strong oral care innovation bundle next month including Crest 3D White Brilliance delivering our most advanced whitening and freshness benefits in one toothpaste; Crest 3D White Luxe which removes up to 90% of tooth stains in five days and with our new White Lock technology locks out future stains and microfine lines in the teeth; Crest 3D White Luxe White Strips with new Flexfit Film an innovation created with technology from our baby care business that stretches and molds for a custom fit for more whitening coverage; our new Crest Sensor Relief Innovation which delivers improved sensitivity relief combined with Scope freshness; and Crest B a new line for experiential consumers including flavors like B Dynamic Lime Spearmint Zest B Inspired Vanilla Mint Spark and B Adventurous Mint Chocolate Trek.
In North America our recent baby care absorbency comfort and design innovations are driving diaper market share growth.
U.S.
diaper share is up 1.5 points versus prior year with particular strength on the Pampers Swaddlers and Luvs product lines retaking market share and leadership for the first time in many years.
We continue to strengthen our share position in the U.S.
batter business behind the Quantum innovation and recent distribution increases.
P&amp;G batter value share is up 2.5 points for the past three months to over 40%.
In December we started shipping Pantene in North America with improved product performance and packaging.
The shampoo and conditioner formulas contain a new Pro-V antioxidant complex delivering clinically proven healthier hair with every wash.
We’re also leveraging Pantene’s Shine Strong advertising that has received global acclaim for tackling gender labels and encouraging women to show their strength and shine.
The advertisement has generated nearly 1 billion consumer impressions globally.
We’re expanding Old Spice into the rapidly growing North American male hair care segment behind a full array of shampoos conditioners and styling products with Old Spice’s most popular scent collections.
This started shipping last week.
Old Spice Body Spray is growing strongly behind the new Smellcome to Manhood commercial campaign.
To date the campaign has generated over 700 million consumer impressions the vast majority of which have been free through social media and mass media coverage.
Duracell’s Trust Your Power advertisement has also gained high awareness online.
It features Derek Coleman the only legally deaf player in the NFL and the barriers he’s overcome by trusting his inner power.
The U.S.
advertisement has driven over 1.7 billion consumer impressions in just two weeks since it was launched on January 10.
We recently launched our new commercial campaign for the Winter Olympics.
The commercial program includes a balanced combination of single brand and multibrand executions.
Our research shows stronger purchase intent is generated when individual brand executions are closely coupled with the multibrand execution.
The Olympics ad campaign had generated nearly 1.6 billion consumer impressions so far and like Old Spice and Duracell most of these are earned or free impressions generated through traditional and social media.
These product and commercial innovations should contribute to strong top line momentum in the back half which combined with productivity savings should enable us to deliver our fiscal year objectives.
Next we’re improving execution and operating discipline.
We simply have to execute better more consistently and more reliably.
We need everyone playing their position and playing it well.
Consistent with the customer service improvements we discussed last quarter we were recently named the top rated manufacturer in China our second largest market as rated by our retail partners and both the Advantage Group and Kantar Retail surveys.
These surveys reflect the quality of our customer business development organization promotion plans and customer service reliability.
Last we’re making strategic investments in innovation and go-to-market capabilities.
Targeted R&amp;D investments are enabling us to strengthen our near and midterm innovation pipeline.
Targeted go-to-market investments will enable us to strengthen sales coverage in our fastest-growing markets and fastest-growing channels.
We believe that the focus that we’re bringing to these four areas: operating TSR productivity innovation operational excellence along with targeted reinvestment will enable us to continue to improve results even as we work to address several remaining opportunities.
We remain on track to deliver our 2014 guidance top line bottom line and cash.
We’re maintaining our organic sales growth range of 3% to 4%.
Achieving organic sales growth in the upper half of our target range should result in modest overall market share growth.
Foreign exchange is expected to be a sales growth headwind of 2 points which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of 1% to 2% for the fiscal year.
We’re maintaining our forecast for bottom line core earnings per share growth of 5% to 7% despite stronger headwinds from foreign exchange and softer market growth rates.
We aim to make up the difference through productivity advances which will primarily benefit the fourth quarter.
The fiscal year headwind from foreign exchange has continued to increase.
We now expect foreign exchange to be a 7-point headwind to core earnings per share growth.
As a result our guidance now translates to constant currency core earnings per share growth in the range of 12% to 14%.
We now expect the tax rate on core earnings to be a point or so below prior year levels.
On an all-in GAAP basis we expect earnings per share to grow approximately 7% to 9%.
This range reflects somewhat lower noncore restructuring costs in fiscal 2014 versus the prior year.
The second half earnings growth increase that’s implied within our guidance is driven by foreign exchange and cost structure improvement.
Foreign exchange was a significant headwind in the first half but will moderate in the second half at recent spot rates.
We’ll also annualize the operating impacts from last year’s Venezuelan bolivar devaluation.
Manufacturing startup costs will annualize in the second half of fiscal 2014.
Productivity savings and devaluation related price increases will build sequentially.
As you prepare your estimates for Q3 and Q4 please keep in mind a couple of items.
We won’t annualize the Venezuela impact until mid-February in Q3.
We’ll had a full quarter of laundry and oral care innovation impacts in Q4.
Productivity savings that are being advanced to offset stronger FX impacts and lower market growth will primarily benefit the fourth quarter.
Also pricing that we’ll be taking to offset recent devaluations in some markets will take effect only in Q4.
We expect another year of about 90% free cash flow productivity.
Our plans assume capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of sales and share repurchase in the range of $5 billion to $7 billion.
In addition to the assumptions included in our guidance we want to continue to be very transparent about some key items that are not included.
The guidance we’re reconfirming today is based on last week’s FX spot rates.
Further currency weakness is not anticipated within our guidance range.
We continue to monitor unrest in Egypt which is a large business for us and a base of export for the balance of Africa as well as unrest in economic instability in the Ukraine though the situation has recently improved.
Venezuelan price controls access to dollars for imported products and devaluation present risk as do import restrictions price controls and devaluation on Argentina.
Finally our guidance assumes no further degradation in market growth rates.
Our first half results were in line with what we expected putting us on track to deliver our goals for the fiscal year and make progress towards our long term growth objectives.
We continue to operate in a volatile environment with uncertainty in foreign exchange some deceleration in market growth rates and a rapidly developing policy environment.
Against this backdrop we’ve maintained top line growth and improved constant currency operating earnings growth.
We have an even stronger innovation program in the back half of the year and savings from productivity improvements that will build.
We’re making targeted investments in our core businesses most promising developing markets and biggest innovation opportunities and are aggressively driving productivity and cost savings.
Above all we remain focused on value creation for consumers and for our share owners.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
As a reminder business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available on slides which we posted on our website www.pg.com following the call.
Our next significant investor event ahead of A.G.
Lafley is the Cagney conference on February 20.
We hope to see many of you there.
I’d be happy now to take your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara from Wells Fargo.
John I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the cadence of the quarter.
I think you mentioned that December was up 5%.
Can you put that in the context of sell-in versus sell-through? What was going on in October/November? I think your shipments probably exceeded consumption by a reasonable margin in December.
Why is that? How do you feel about inventory levels there? And then just if you can go through the same sort of cadence for the quarter for the emerging markets too given all of the concern there that would be great.
You’re certainly right in that the timing of innovation did affect the timing of shipments in the quarter.
We’re very comfortable with inventory levels currently and offtake in January has been very encouraging.
So we really do believe that there’s strength behind the December numbers and that that should carry through into the third quarter.
In developing markets there really wasn’t a significant difference in aggregate across the months of the quarter.
We continue to see some softness in market growth rates but there continues to be very strong growth overall between 7% and 8% in the quarter we just completed from a market standpoint.
And we expect that to continue through the third quarter as well.
So what we’ve seen in OND while presenting some challenges leaves us confident as we head into JFM.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Jon as you look at the move to more local manufacturing can you talk about the glide path that we should see in international operating margins over the next couple of years? It seems as though you exclude Russia and China you’re probably looking at maybe a high single-digit operating margin in your international business.
And how long do you think it will take to see meaningful impact there? And then a related question given the fact that you guys are still producing in some high-cost countries and you’re seeing this massive negative transactional impact are you thinking now about potentially hedging transactional going forward? One of the big questions as it relates to glide path going forward on margins in developing markets obviously is foreign exchange.
But if you take that out last year we were talking about growing profit ahead of sales growth.
So improving margins on a constant currency basis in developing markets.
We made pretty significant progress.
This year is really the same story.
On a constant currency basis we’ll grow earnings significantly ahead of the rate of sales growth.
So I really can’t because I can’t predict exchange give you an exact glide path but we should continue to make progress quarter on quarter year on year on those developing market margins as we as you mentioned localize manufacturing but even more importantly as we continue to bring innovation to those markets value creative innovation which allows us to mix consumers up which is happening pretty encouragingly in places like Brazil and places like China in Russia.
So I said from the beginning that our developing market efforts particularly as they’re focused on the biggest opportunities with the highest chance of winning should over the long term be a margin accretive endeavor not a margin dilutive endeavor.
And we continue to see that.
As it relates to hedging we’ll continue to look for all opportunities to operationally hedge.
And obviously the localization of manufacturing is part and parcel of that effort.
In terms of financial hedging we continue to look at that periodically as well.
A lot of the FX impacts though frankly are in nondeliverable currencies whether it’s in Egypt Venezuela Argentina the Ukraine etc.
where there really isn’t financial hedging option.
And in many of the other markets the interest rate differential is so high that even the cost of forward hedging gets pretty prohibitive.
And as you know all that that does is buy time.
As those instruments expire we’re right back to the issue that we started with and I’d rather where we have the opportunity solve the issue real time up front.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
John beauty continued to drag down the organic sales growth number.
The other divisions looked pretty solid.
So I was hoping for more detail on how you plan to drive market share improvement going forward in beauty and when you think we’ll start to see some improving share trends.
And also grooming you mentioned market contraction in developed markets.
Can you run through what’s driving that? And what are your plans as the category leader to drive improved growth going forward particularly on the innovation side? We continue to make progress on our efforts to strengthen the growth rates in beauty.
And many parts of the beauty business are growing quite well.
Personal care shipments for instance increased double digits in the quarter.
Strong growth really in all regions.
Up double digits in China midteens in central and eastern Europe and more than 25% in Latin America.
Cosmetics we continue to do very well in.
U.S.
Cover Girl value share I think was up about 0.5 point in the quarter behind innovations like the Hunger Games Capital collection and the new Bombshell Volume mascara collection.
Our antiperspirant and deodorant business continues to perform well with U.S.
deodorant value share up 1.5 points versus a year ago driven by recent innovations on Secret and as I mentioned Old Spice.
And then we come to haircare.
Many parts of the haircare business are doing well.
Head and Shoulders grew mid-single digits in the quarter including double-digit growth in western Europe and central and eastern Europe the Middle East and Africa.
Our biggest opportunity there is Pantene.
I mentioned the innovation that’s coming to market that we feel good about.
We’re feeling increasingly good about our overall equity and advertising campaign efforts and as you know as I mentioned we’ll also be expanding haircare into the young male segment behind the Old Spice brand.
So we’re hopeful that we’re rounding the corner in haircare.
On skincare we still have some work to do and that’s going to take some time.
So we share the impatience that exists externally.
We know that we have more work to do but we are comforted by the progress that we’re making.
On the question of developed markets market growth and our responsibility as category leaders for market growth the good news is that the developed markets are growing albeit at a modest rate.
It kind of oscillates somewhere between 0.5 point and 1 point of value growth per month.
And within that the better news is that where market growth is strongest in developed markets is in the U.S.
and Japan.
It’s weakest in Europe.
We are overdeveloped in both the U.S.
and Japan and so from a footprint standpoint relative to developed market growth we’re fairly well-positioned.
We absolutely accept the responsibility for growing markets in the categories where we’re leaders and in the countries where we’re leaders.
And increasingly our retail partners are looking at us as partners in that regard to grow their business as well.
We bring innovation that does grow markets.
If you look at what’s happened for instance with Crest 3D White and some of the other innovations we bring innovation that increases trips and grows market baskets.
So it is very much a part of our focus.
It’s actually more important in many places of the world than share.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citigroup.
Just first a clarification.
The 7-8% growth in emerging markets less than 100 basis points of that I assume would be the benefit of new country or new category combination launches? So if you could just clarify that and make sure if that’s a real sort of same-store sales number or close to it.
And then my second question is with regard to what AG has talked about the sort of strength to grow and I know you said you’re looking for partners who can grow your businesses better maybe than you can are you entertaining full brand divestitures? Or is there the possibility too of just sort of country category combination exits kind of like what Kimberly’s doing getting out of diapers in western Europe? Is that the stuff you’re entertaining as well? From a developing market growth standpoint the vast majority of that 8% growth in developing markets that we posted in the latest quarter is if you will same country same category apples to apples growth rate.
I don’t know exactly but I would guess that the impact of any new white space businesses is well below a point.
So that should be a pretty good number and representative of the progress that we’re making.
And on divestitures historically if you look at our efforts in this space where we determine we can’t create value whether that is at a category country combination level or a brand level we’ve looked at other options.
So in the past historically for instance we exited the family care business the tissue/towel business in various parts of the world because we just didn’t see at that point a financial structure and an industry structure where we could sustainably create value for our shareholders.
We did the same as you know in several categories recently from pharmaceuticals to coffee to snacks to water purification and in some markets the bleach business.
And rather than point to specifics because as you know this is something we really only want to talk about when we have something to talk about I’ll just reassure you that - hopefully it’s reassuring - that as I mentioned everything we’re looking at is through the lens of value creation and there’s nothing that’s off the table.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Just a follow up what was the percentage of market share that the holding are gaining both in the U.S.
and globally? I don’t think I caught that.
And the the growth rate in developed markets? I know you gave us the emerging markets number.
And then my real question is clearly the March quarter has been a troubling one for P&amp;G historically.
So can you just give us some more color? I know you gave us some data points.
And it seems like as we look at the back half of the year it’s really going to be fourth quarter weighted.
But I know you don’t want to give quarterly guidance but maybe your comfort level and kind of where estimates are now the Street consensus that would be very helpful.
Percentage of business holding and growing share is down a bit from where we were last quarter.
And that’s primarily driven by two items.
One is fabric care in the U.S.
the other is haircare in the U.S.
both of which are big businesses which are growing share and where we lost a little bit of share in the OND quarter.
Both of those categories are items that we highlighted going into the quarter as likely going to be experiencing a significant amount of competitive activity particularly promotional activity ahead of our launches in both of those categories which are just happening now.
So the decline in percentage of business holding or growing share is really driven by those two things which we expected going in and we’re very comfortable that both of those businesses from a share standpoint will strengthen as the innovations hit the market.
Just for perspective if you look at for example Lever’s percent volume sold on promotion in haircare in OND it was up about 6% versus the prior year.
If you look at some of our laundry competitors percent volume sold on promotion in the OND quarter it was up over 20% versus a year ago.
So again these were things that we called out going into the quarter things that we expected and it’s all ahead encouragingly of very strong innovation that’s now just hitting shelves.
Your second part of your question on developed market growth rates we were about flat slightly ahead in developed markets.
So the total is 8% developing flat or just a little bit ahead in developed.
And relative to the March quarter I think your statement in terms of fourth quarter predominance is correct and it’s consistent with the various impacts that I was calling out in terms of when the different pieces are going to fall in place.
Having said that I expect us to make good progress in the JFM quarter on both the top and bottom line.
But as you think about the modeling across the quarters it will be fourth quarter loaded.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
The first was just on healthcare.
Very big volume number and then weaker mix impact.
So just curious if that was primarily because of the expansion of the personal healthcare business in emerging markets or if there’ something else driving it.
And then the other question was just perhaps a bit nit-picky but I was reading through the release yesterday that you guys put out about Gain Flings and it just struck me as a little bit too reminiscent of some of the innovation in the last two or three years where it’s like this massive bundling of benefits into one product.
So it’s Gain Flings with great cleaning power amazing scent plus Oxy plus Febreze.
It reads like it’s like 10 people sat in a room and couldn’t make up their minds which was the most important benefit.
So I just would love some clarification maybe on the thought process on why so much in one product where the form should speak for itself and how this is or isn’t different from the innovation you guys have been putting out over the last two or three years in terms of that messaging.
The healthcare difference between the sales line and the volume line is really just category mix more than anything.
And John can give you the details on that later today.
Sorry I don’t have that level of detail right here in front of me.
But that’s primarily what’s driving it.
On Gain Flings you know if you think about it when we brought Tide Pods to market which has been extremely successful that was a multibenefit proposition too.
It was not only the form it was a better cleaning product.
So it was an upgrade from that standpoint as well.
And obviously nothing comes to market without a lot of work to understand what will delight consumers and what they’ll be willing to pay for that and that certainly is the case here as well.
Early both customer and consumer reaction to the proposition has been very positive.
Your next question comes from the line of Olivia Tong with BoA.
I wanted to ask about grooming margins because they were up significantly year over year after being down in Q1.
So going forward is Q1 or Q2 more indicative of going forward? And is this due more to timing of some cost savings initiatives or promotions or innovation? Or is there something structurally different so that profit growth will continue? It’s hard to draw meaningful understanding from one quarter’s worth of margin increase or decrease in any one of our categories.
There’s a lot going on out there whether it’s foreign exchange whether there’s pricing in some markets.
The cost savings program is itself not ratable.
It moves up and down across quarters.
So I would encourage you to look more call it 12 months at margin trends as being indicative of what’s happening there.
We’re reasonably happy with our margins on that business.
That doesn’t mean that we’re satisfied and we won’t stop working both on the productivity point and on the innovation point to improve margins in a way that’s value accretive for consumers.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.
Just a quick question if you could provide some perspective on some of the transitions that took place in leadership in R&amp;D with Bruce retiring.
Just curious on the replacement any thoughts on changes in terms of processes within the innovation group.
Any thoughts there would be much appreciated.
Kathy Fish will be taking R&amp;D leadership for the company.
She has a long track record of innovation success and consumer delight across a number of our businesses and across the global portfolio.
So we’re very excited to see Kathy taking that responsibility.
We just announced this recently.
She and Bruce are in transition and I wouldn’t want to presume any changes in emphasis that she will choose working a AG and others to make at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
A couple of things.
One is on beauty.
We haven’t really heard much about what you need to do to fix Olay.
And I wonder sometimes whether you actually need to acquire something in that business because it really is your only skincare brand to backstop that business.
So I’d love a perspective on that.
And then secondly when we do see the beauty margins go up I understand that a quarter doesn’t make a trend but at least to a broader question that I have which is when do you expect that crossover point to happen as a company where the productivity savings ramp up to above your investment level? And if you could talk about that crossover point as you see it going forward in the context of some of the supply chain work you guys are doing internally that would be helpful.
The great part of the Olay story is that that remains an incredibly strong equity with very high equity scores very high net promoter scores the highest in the category.
So from an equity standpoint it doesn’t mean we can’t do more work but we start with a very strong asset.
And really from a product standpoint as well.
We have a very competitive product.
But the work to do is in brand architecture it’s in packaging it’s in positioning the various properties in a way that is most relevant for consumers.
And it’s entering some benefit segments that we’ve frankly neglected.
And those are growing faster than the benefit segment that we’re in.
It also involves ensuring we reach consumers at different ages which is part of what we were trying to do with the Olay Fresh Effects item.
Now this is going to take some time as I said before.
But I would feel much more concerned sitting here if this was an equity problem or a fundamental competitive product problem which it’s not.
In terms of crossover point back half and the supply chain work we’ll talk a little bit more about it at Cagney.
We continue to be encouraged about the opportunity to potentially replatform most of our supply chain in both North America and Europe to do really several things.
One is as you mentioned to bring in savings but also to get to standard platforms across the world which allows for faster initiative expansion to get closer to our customers with multicategory manufacturing facilities in a way that allows us to serve them better.
And it’s something that we’re really just beginning the work on.
I don’t see it having a material impact say in the next 12 months.
This is going to take a while both to think through and to execute.
But it should enable us to bring in a new round of savings in addition to the savings we’ve been talking about over the last 18 months.
But that’s probably two or three years out.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for the incremental color on beauty.
I want to drill a bit deeper on laundry.
A few questions.
First on Europe it sounds like Arial Pods are off to a good start but Nielsen data suggests you’re still struggling in the market.
So what are the offsets there? Second with the launch upon us can you give us more detail behind the merchandising location and targeted price points for Simply? And lastly what signs are you looking for to gauge when or if the U.S.
market will be ready for the next round of compaction? Well it seems like Ali has now trained all of you well.
You all ask three-part questions.
[laughter] First of all on Simply the price is ultimately the sole discretion of our retail partners.
But generally we’re expecting that to be about 30% on a list price basis below current Tide.
Compaction is something that we are always looking at as an opportunity actually across categories beyond laundry.
And if you think about it we’re really actively doing that as we sit here because the unit dose offering whether it’s Tide or Arial or now Gain is the most compact form that exists in the marketplace today and as more of the market converts to that it has all the benefits of a standard compaction in terms of lower cost better value equation for the retailer better value equation for consumers.
And in terms of the question on Europe really where we’ve lost a little bit of business is in liquids where we’re responding to heavy competitive promotion levels.
So it’s just a very competitive marketplace which makes sense as we bring in Pods and people are emphasizing the other parts of their portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital Markets.
I am just going to have to question on Venezuela and that is as we contemplate another pretty steep devaluation has there been any change in the policy there about prices? Have you been able to work around any of the pricing restrictions? And do you see any easing of that coming? That’s a very good question.
Currently there are price controls in place.
That doesn’t mean that there won’t be opportunities to take pricing.
The level of pricing is reviewed regularly by the government and we’re obviously in discussions with them.
And I would say that they understand the need for some level of pricing for both international and local competitors to remain viable.
Also the price controls that exist apply to a portion of the portfolio not to all.
It’s what’s referred to as regulated items where the pricing controls are relevant.
And there are unregulated items where there’s more pricing flexibility.
So we continue to work to improve our financial situation in Venezuela which starts off from a very attractive place to begin with but your question is an appropriate one as we look forward.
To the extent that there’s more devaluation will there be more pricing that’s allowed? And that’s just something I don’t have the answer to today.
It’s something that we’ll be very transparent about and keep you updated on.
And that question is one of the reasons I continue as I talk about guidance to hold that item out if you will because I have no way of forecasting exactly what the puts and calls are going to be.
Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante from Consumer Edge Research.
Question on the negative mix again.
I would like to ask it from a planning standpoint.
Could you tell us whether the commitments that the [DBUs] presented back in August when you created the fiscal ’14 plan could you tell us whether beauty and grooming are meeting their plans considering this very negative gross margin mix? And if they don’t which DBUs are being asked to overdeliver in light of the reiteration of the corporate outlook for the balance of the year? Or does the plan assume that beauty and grooming are going to accelerate and therefore the negative mix to improve in the next couple of quarters? On a macro point in terms of delivery versus expectation we’ve been talking about on the top line a mix impact of one or two points going forward and this last quarter was one point so pretty much in line with what we expected as was last quarter.
Each of the businesses has a strong commitment to deliver their plan that creates value for consumers and for shareholders.
But equally each of them is looking out for the company and is willing to help out where that’s needed.
As hard as you can imagine going into a year knowing exactly what’s going to occur during the course of that year particularly given the volatility in FX some of the policy volatility commodity costs which are up more in some categories than other categories.
And so that’s an equation that gets constantly rebalanced.
But I can tell you that no one in any category is giving up.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Just wanted to go back to beauty for a second.
I think in terms of the question from Ali you mentioned that you don’t think it’s an equity problem and I would probably agree with that.
But is it a portfolio problem? Do you think that you’re still missing that brand that you could sort of slide in between let’s say SK-II and Olay for example on the skincare side in particular? Is there something you could do there to address that? And then more secondly in terms of overall beauty if you look at the successful companies in this space most of them are pure play.
So is it a different mindset and culture that’s really required to succeed in that business than say versus fabric and home care for example? Thanks for reminding me of that part of Ali’s question.
Sorry that I missed that.
In terms of additional equities that may be brought to bear in skincare it’s something that we look at routinely.
It’s certainly not something that we’ve crossed off the list.
But also I think you shouldn’t then therefore assume that “we need to make an acquisition” in order to get skincare growth back to where it needs to be.
There are opportunities on both Olay and SK-II and there are opportunities if we need to create equities or properties organically.
But if you think about Olay really that’s a series of properties that were created organically from Total Effects to Regenerist to ProX.
And so I think the question is a good one and yes we may need additional properties whether under existing brands or new brands but I wouldn’t necessarily therefore conclude that we need to acquire in order to make that happen.
In terms of the capabilities and skill sets that are required to grow a successful beauty business if you just step back a bit here over the last 20 years Procter &amp; Gamble with its skill sets and capabilities has built the largest and most profitable beauty company in the world.
If you look at what we were able to do with brands like Pantene like Olay like Old Spice like SK-II like Hugo Boss LaCoste Head &amp; Shoulders is another good example that literally started out as very small kind of one-country two-country less than $100 million in sales businesses and now are in some cases multibillion dollar businesses category leaders global leaders in their categories wouldn’t indicate that we don’t have the basic skill set and confidence required to develop and grow a beauty business.
Having said that we are not arrogant in our ways and believe that we have all the answers.
We have significant partnerships many partnerships externally which give us access to other thinking in the beauty space whether that’s in the packaging arena whether that’s in the ideation and conceptualization arena the equity arena.
And we’re also not averse to where there’s very strong talent that needs a specific skill [outage] to bring that in from the outside.
If you look at most of our design group and that applies to both beauty and the balance of the company was brought in from other companies other situations with the knowledge that that was an important capability that we weren’t able to source sufficiently internally.
So we will take any help that exits wherever it exists but I’m pretty confident we have the abilities across our internal resources and our external partners to keep making progress in this space.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell from SunTrust.
First on the other Bill’s question I missed the actual percentage in North America and the rest of the world of held or gained market share.
And then second you talked about kind of being ahead of plan on the cost savings cost of goods sold restructuring and pulling some of that forward from 2015 yet obviously there’s no change to your EPS guidance.
Is that just conservatism? Is that we’re spending more back into promotion and marketing with some of these launches? Or is that just FX is a little bit different from what you thought? Back to numbers on market share overall market share was about flat in the quarter.
And percent holding or growing I don’t have the exact numbers it was probably 55ish.
So that’s the market share numbers both of which we expect will improve as we head into the back half of the year.
In terms of the acceleration of productivity savings I’d say there are two motivations for that maybe three.
The first is we want to make productivity part of our culture and just like we never ask the question in P&amp;G what is enough innovation we don’t like asking the question of what is enough productivity.
We’ll always be endeavoring to become more productive and we’re doing that for multiple reasons.
There’s the financial reason obviously but there’s also speed to market clarity of decision making organization transaction costs etc.
So if we were in a position where FX was a tailwind we’d be looking to accelerate productivity savings into the current year and identify the next round.
The second motivation is exactly as you described which is that FX as I mentioned in our prepared remarks has had a bigger impact a significantly bigger impact than we had been expecting.
And as you know at the margin while market growth still offers ample opportunity for all the best competitors to succeed it is down somewhat from what we were expecting when we went into the year.
And as you’ll remember when we started talking about productivity this is exactly the kind of thing we were working to be able to do which was offset as one of the objectives macro-level developments without having to compromise our earnings objectives.
Your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley from Buckingham.
I’m thinking based on your comments about what’s happening in developing versus developed world that trends and mix and price are quite different in the two regions.
So could you take your 0% to 1% growth in developed markets and your 8% growth in developing markets and break those down into mix price and volume? And then as the second part of that will mix and pricing get better do you think in the U.S.
in the second half than in the first half? Let me just give you and I think you can get the rest of it the volume growth rates in developed which was 1% and developing was 6%.
So the mix dynamics pricing dynamics aren’t that different between the two though obviously there are some differences between them.
But those are the volume numbers.
You have the sales numbers and I think you can deduct the balance.
In terms of going forward every problem is a significant opportunity and any acceleration in the developed market business growth rates represents an opportunity to improve mix going forward.
And clearly to the extent we continue to make the progress we’re making on beauty as an example that’s an opportunity to improve mix going forward.
And each of our businesses has its own opportunity to improve mix through value accretive innovation.
And so while we expect that the developing developed market dynamic will be prevailing - in other words we still will have some negative mix going forward - there are many reasons to believe that the magnitude of that impact can lessen over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan from Stifel.
I wonder if you could talk a bit broadly about expectations for level of competitive activity in the back half of the fiscal year and how we should think about the split between gross margin and SG&amp;A expense leverage to drive the operating margin that’s expected.
I expect that in an environment of growth but modest growth that competitive activity will remain strong.
But the biggest antidote to that kind of situation is innovation.
The first half innovation program was fairly strong behind the baby care innovation the tissue/towel innovation batteries innovation and the laundry innovation on a global basis and that just builds as we go forward with some of the things I talked about and frankly some of the things I haven’t talked about yet.
So competing on the basis of innovation is something that is much more comforting than not and we’re in a good position in that regard.
I think the other thing that oftentimes is missed particularly in a developing market context but also in developed markets and it goes to the point of one of the questions that was asked earlier about market size we really don’t look at this as a zero sum game.
There’s enough growth for all of the better companies to continue to do well and there are opportunities to grow markets to create new businesses to build markets.
And think about developing markets for example.
It’s really not about share it’s about market.
And more competition tends to be accretive from a market growth standpoint.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy from CLSA.
Just going back to beauty margins they seem to be as high as they’ve been in many years in the quarter.
If you could help us understand that.
I know you said we should look at it on an annual basis but a couple of quarters now where margins are actually going up while the business itself is challenged.
Is that a trend that we should expect to continue the margin growth in beauty and grooming beauty in particular while you’re improving things and working to turn around Olay and Pantene? And then secondly if you could just break out the volume growth in China.
You said it was very strong but if you could talk about your six major categories if there were any standouts there? First on beauty I think the question behind the question is efficiency of support for the growth of that business and we are comfortable with the levels of support.
As I mentioned we’re working to increase the effectiveness and the strength behind that effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs across the business and that’s obviously relevant in beauty as well.
And so it gets more difficult to look just at dollar trends and spending and assess sufficiency of support.
So we’re very comfortable we’re supporting the new innovations we’re bringing to market heavily.
And there’s no reason that if that’s the case we shouldn’t be looking to take productivity savings to the bottom line.
It’s a balance always and it will continue to be a balance but you’re starting to see in those numbers the reflection of very strong productivity progress which is a good thing.
Your first question comes from the line of Leigh Ferst of Wellington Shields.
You made several references to your digital ad spending.
Could you give us a little more insight into it in the aggregate? Is it a third of your spending? And what kind of impact does that have on your impressions and what impact will it have on your future spending on an absolute and relative basis relative to sales? We are continuing to increase our presence in the digital social and mobile spaces as it relates to marketing.
The percent that is in those media or channels is different by category.
In total I think we’re probably about or getting close to 30% of the spending being in those areas.
It does offer based on what we’re seeing today higher return potential.
And that’s why the shift is occurring.
And you heard me talk in the prepared remarks about some of the dynamics of digital social and mobile media in terms of earned impressions and that’s one of the reasons that we’re seeing higher returns in that space.
And a huge number of those impressions were not paid for by us.
The other aspect of those channels and media is that it allows very effective and tighter targeting of a message to a consumer.
If you think very simplistically about men and women if you’re advertising on TV in particular depending on what shows you’re on that’s going to everybody and we can much more carefully target content to recipient in a digital environment.
So I expect that will continue to be an area of focus as we move forward but I really do think this is a world of and not of or and we’re really looking at comprehensive campaigns across media that consumers want to access.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thank you very much.
John myself the rest of the team are available at your convenience the balance of the day.
Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble's quarter-end conference call.
Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G's most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
"Organic" refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Any measure described as "core" refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G's Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Thanks and good morning.
Our January-March results came in as we had expected keeping us on track to deliver our fiscal year objectives.
All-in sales were unchanged versus the prior year including a three point headwind from foreign exchange.
Organic sales grew more than 3% in a very challenging macro environment with significant market level events in places like Venezuela Argentina and the Ukraine declining levels of market growth in both the developed and developing world and weather-related issues in North America.
Organic sales were at or above prior year levels in each of our five reporting segments.
Organic sales growth was driven by strong organic volume growth of 3%.
Volume was at or above prior year levels in each of our five reporting segments.
Pricing added one point to sales growth and mix reduced sales growth by one point.
Fiscal year-to-date we deliver between 3% and 4% organic sales growth leaving us on track to deliver 3% to 4% organic sales growth for the fiscal year.
March quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $0.90.
All-in earnings per share include approximately $0.04 per share of non-core restructuring charges Core gross margin declined 110 basis points cost savings of 200 basis points pricing and volume leverage were offset by product category and geographic mix of 150 basis points foreign exchange headwinds of 100 basis points and higher commodity costs.
Core SG&amp;A improved 130 basis points driven by marketing efficiencies and overhead productivity savings.
Importantly therefore core operating margin increased 20 basis points.
Core earnings per share grew 5% to $1.4 leaving us on track to deliver 3% to 5% core earnings per share growth for the fiscal year.
Foreign exchange was at $0.12 per share headwind for the company on the quarter.
Excluding foreign exchange core earnings per share grew 17%.
The effective tax rate on core earnings was about 20%.
Tax accounted for roughly $0.03 of earnings per share benefit on the quarter versus the prior year.
We generated $3.2 billion in free cash flow achieving 119% free cash flow productivity and remaining on track to deliver free cash flow productivity of about 90% for the fiscal year.
As planned we returned to 1.7 billion of cash to shareholders in dividends.
We also announced a 7% increase in our dividend.
P&amp;G has now been paying a dividend for 124 consecutive years since its incorporation in 1890.
This is the 58th consecutive year the company has increased its dividend.
We repurchased $1.5 billion in stock bringing year-to-date share repurchase to 5.5 billion.
Stepping back we are satisfied with our top line growth particularly against the difficult macro backdrop.
Constant currency earnings progress was very strong.
We're reliably converting earnings to cash and are building on a strong track record of cash returned to shareholders.
As we move forward value creation for consumers and shareowners remains our top priority.
Operating TSR is our primary business performance measure.
Operating TSR is an integrated measure of value creation at the business unit level requiring sales growth margin progress and strong cash flow productivity.
Operating TSR drives focus on core brands and businesses our leading most profitable categories and leading most profitable markets.
Our strongest brands and business units and total company positions are in the U.S.
We need to continue to ensure our home market stays strong and growing.
The actions we've taken over the past two years to restore consumer value expand our vertical product portfolios and horizontal regimens and lead innovation have enabled us to restore value creating share growth in more parts of the business.
We still have a lot more work to do and the competitive environment is intense which leads to choppy results on a quarter-to-quarter basis but we're making steady progress.
We'll continue to grow and expand our business in developing markets with a focus on the categories and countries with the largest sizes of prize and the highest likelihood of winning.
This is where the world's babies will be born and where more new households will be formed.
Developing markets will continue to be a significant growth driver for our company this year and for years to come.
We'll continue to focus the company's portfolio allocating resources to businesses where we can create value.
Over the past six years we exited businesses that have accounted for over $6 billion in sales including coffee pharmaceuticals snacks kitchen appliances and water purification.
Last quarter we announced our exit from the bleach business.
Two weeks ago we announced our plan to exit the pet food business.
Mars will buy our business in the Americas and several other countries.
We expect to sell the European business to a different buyer.
The $2.9 billion purchase price Mars has agreed to pay for the nine European business represents a 1.8 times multiple of sales and an 18X multiple of EBITDA on an average of the past two year's sales and profits for the global pet food business.
We'll begin the process of selecting a buyer for the European market in May; early interest in this asset is strong.
We'll continue to exit businesses where we determine that potential buyers with difficult capability sets can create more value than ourselves.
Consistent with our focus on operating TSR we're continuing to drive productivity and cost savings.
We made solid progress over the last fiscal year and a half.
We have strong productivity plans for fiscal 2014 and we're accelerating some 2015 savings into 2014.
Versus a target run rate of $1.2 billion we are now forecasting about $1.6 billion of cost of goods productivity savings this fiscal year across materials logistics and manufacturing expense.
Versus a going-in target of 5% we expect to improve manufacturing productivity by at least 6% this year.
We're up more than 7% fiscal year-to-date.
At the CAGNY conference we announced the complete redesign of our end-to-end supply chain in North America.
We operated 35 manufacturing facilities in North America today only six of which are multi-business or multi-category.
We're consolidating operations into multi-category sites located closer to the customers and consumers we serve allowing us to respond quickly to their needs and provide better service at the best possible cost.
We're examining the potential for similar improvements in Europe.
At the same time we are converting to common manufacturing and technology platforms for faster innovation qualification and expansion.
We are designing supply systems to allow for more online product differentiation and customization.
We're also transforming our distribution operations consolidating customer shipping and product customization operations into fewer distribution centers which are strategically located closer to key customers and key population centers enabling 80% of the business to be within one day of the store shelf and the shopper.
All of this would drive step change improvement and responsiveness reducing out of stocks taking down inventory and lowering cost.
It leverages the scale and scope of our production and distribution network in a way we've never done before.
Savings from this transformation will accrue over three to four years and should be in the range of $200 million to $300 million annually which will be incremental to the $6 billion of cost of good savings we previously communicated.
We expect additional top and bottom-line benefits from improved service levels.
Turning to overhead we have exceeded our 2014 fiscal year non-manufacturing enrollment reduction goals and have accelerated over a thousand role reductions originally planned for fiscal 2015 into 2014.
Through March we're down 8000 roles or 13%.
Our strict objective is to get substantially to our end of 2015 objectives by the end of 2014.
This would put us close to or within the 16% to 22% reduction goal we've established one to two years ahead of target.
Underpinning this progress are some important and fundamental changes in our organization structure and focus.
We've organized into four industry-based sectors or global business units.
The businesses in each sector are focused on common consumer benefits and needs.
They share common technologies.
They partner with common customers and common trade channels and they face common competitors.
These sectors or global business units are big enough for scale and small enough to stay in touch with consumers and markets and move with the agility and flexibility to consistently grow value.
We've made a significant clarification in roles and announced a significant de-duplication of effort between the GBUs and the go-to-market operations.
GBUs will create design manufacture and market our brands and products.
They will be the focus of brand building at the global regional and local levels.
Brand franchise building resources will be in the GBUs.
We've changed the name of our go-to-market organizations from MDO to SMO Sales and Market Operations.
This is more than a name change; it clarifies the work SMOs need to do in the work they do best superior effective and efficient selling distribution shelving pricing execution and merchandizing; every day every week and every store.
Selling resources will be concentrated in the SMOs.
We're aggregating the SMOs to be more logically focused on the consumers channels customers and markets we serve.
We're merging western central and eastern Europe into one European organization.
We're merging India the Middle East and Africa into one IMEA region.
We're more fully integrating Greater China ASEAN Australia New Zealand Japan and Korea into one Asia SMO region over the next year.
Within the SMOs we'll aggregate countries at a higher level reducing the number of geographic country clusters to about 25 a 20% reduction versus today.
And back in the GBUs we're moving from four disaggregated brand building functions; design consumer and market understanding communications and marketing into one integrated brand building or brand management organization.
We have embedded resources that are required to win in the GBUs and SMOs reducing the size of the standalone support functions following those resources to work and outsourcing more of their activities.
The changes I just described are significant.
They will reduce interfaces and transaction costs clarify who is accountable for what de-duplicate effort and simplify operations.
These changes will enable us to operate with more agility and speed to operate with clear accountability and effectiveness and to operate at a lower cost that will also enable further enrollment reduction.
Moving next to marketing expense we continue to drive marketing effectiveness and productivity through an optimized media mix with more digital mobile search and social presence improved message clarity and greater non-advertising marketing efficiency.
We expect marketing spending to come in below prior year levels due to productivity improvements in non-working marketing and advertising cost.
Importantly the overall effectiveness and the consumer impact over advertising spending will be well ahead of the prior year.
While acknowledging the progress I've just described across cost of goods overhead and marketing you maybe asking yourself "Where have all the savings gone?" This year a disproportionate number of them have gone to offset FX.
We have leading positions in some of the markets where currencies have soften the most Japan Venezuela Ukraine Russia and Turkey.
As I mentioned earlier January to March earnings per share would be 17% ahead of a year ago on a constant currency basis.
Year-to-date constant currency core earnings per share is up 11%.
Partially as a result of devaluation or the same significant wage inflation in developing markets which we also need to offset and we're making targeted investments and innovation and then selling covers drive growth.
The majority of the offset though has been FX which hopefully will annualize and will be partially offset by pricing.
As more savings come online and we see several more years of significant opportunity we will get a greater percent reinvested in growth or brought to the bottom line.
We're committed to make productivity a core strength and a sustainable competitive advantage.
We're equally committed to maintaining innovation leadership in our industry.
Innovation and productivity are the two most powerful and sustainable ways we can drive value creation for consumers and shareholders.
The IRI Pacesetter results for calendar year 2013 demonstrate our commitment to leading innovation.
P&amp;G launched seven of the top 10 non-food U.S.
consumer product innovations in 2013 with Tide Pods topping the list.
In addition six P&amp;G innovations were included in their list of rising stars.
Innovation is creating value on building cumulative advantage in the fabric and home care sector.
Our breakthrough of proprietary three chamber unit those laundry technology launched as Tide Pods Ariel Pods and Gain Flings has reset that the life of consumer usage experience product performance and convenience store.
Unit-dose detergents are currently available in over 20 markets around the world and have generated well over $1 billion in retail sales.
The recent launch Gain Flings is going extremely well reaching nearly a 3% value share in the U.S.
laundry category in just two months.
Unit-dose now represents 11% of category sales of which we have an 80% share.
The balance of the fabric care innovation bundle that we launched in North America in February is also off to a good start.
And so our execution of Tide Simply Clean and Fresh has gone very well.
Total pricing share was up more than half a point over the past three-month period an indication that so far Tide Simply Clean and Fresh is attracting incremental users to the brand.
Improved scents and new sizes of Downy Unstoppables and Gain Fireworks in Wash Scent Beads have helped accelerate growth in this new product segment.
The broad range of baby care innovations launched in the U.S.
last fall continue to deliver excellent results.
Nearly every diaper across all sizes and price tiers was improved to deliver better absorbency comfort or design.
Overall P&amp;G U.S.
baby care share was up two points with share growing in 90% of retail customer.
This has led to our largest market share in the past 20 years enabling us to retake market leadership from Kimberly-Clark.
The extension of the Swagger's form in the sizes four and five has been particularly successful.
Swagger share is up three points to a 10% value share of the U.S.
diaper category.
At the CAGNY conference in February we announced we will be launching two new innovations in blades and razors.
The first was the launch of Gillette BODY which is moving well.
The second and more significant innovation will be announced next Tuesday April 29th.
Men have told us they prefer the new innovation two to one versus the best selling razor in the world.
More information will be coming to you soon on how you can watch the unveiling of our newest male shaving system.
Product innovations like the one I've just described at laundry baby care and grooming are critical to drive in strong sustainable top line momentum and delivering superior consumer value.
We're also working to improve execution and operating discipline.
We're seeing this improvement play out in the supply chain in the execution of innovation launches in stores and then the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing programs.
We are performing better but there is still more to do.
Operating discipline and execution have always been and must continue to be a core capability for Procter &amp; Gamble.
We believe that the focus we are bringing to these four areas; operating TSR productivity innovation operational excellence along with targeted reinvestment will enable us to continue to improve results even as it work to address several remaining opportunities.
We remain on track to deliver our 2014 guidance top line bottom line and cash.
We're maintaining organic sales growth range of 3% to 4%.
Foreign exchange is expected to be a sales growth headwind of two to three points which leads to all-in sales growth of approximately 1% for the fiscal year.
We're maintaining our forecast for bottom line core earnings per share growth of 3% to 5% offsetting stronger headwinds from foreign exchange and softer market growth rates with productivity savings.
We currently expect foreign exchange to be roughly nine point headwind to core earnings per share growth.
As a result our guidance translates to constant currency core earnings per share growth in the range of 12% to 14%.
Recall that with the planned sale of the pet care business we are restating pet care earnings from continuing operations to discontinued operations.
This will reduce core earnings per share by approximately $0.03 and $0.04 per share for fiscal years 2013 and 2014 respectively.
All-in earnings per share growth remain the same.
We have included a table in the press release this morning which provides an estimate of the quarterly restatements.
Please pay attention to this when you adjust your models as the impacts vary across quarters.
On an all-in GAAP basis we now expect earnings per share to grow approximately 1% to 4%.
This range reflects the non-core impacts from foreign exchange policy changes in Venezuela approximately $0.15 of non-core restructuring cost in fiscal year 2014 and the restatement of pet care earnings into discontinued operations on both the current and prior fiscal years.
The fourth quarter earnings growth that's implied within our guidance is driven by a combination of operating growth driven by productivity savings and devaluation-related pricing a low tax rate of about 21% on core earnings and $0.03 to $0.04 of small brand divestiture gains.
We expect to deliver another year of about 90% free cash flow productivity.
Our plans assume capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of sales and share repurchase of about $6 billion.
This comes to the assumptions included in our guidance; we want to continue to be very transparent about some key items that are not included.
The guidance that we're confirming today is based on last week's FX spot rates.
Further currency weakness is not anticipated within our guidance range.
We continue to monitor and invest on several markets the Middle East for example and Ukraine Venezuela and price controls access to dollars for imported products and devaluation present risks as do import restrictions and price controls in Argentina.
Finally our guidance assumes no further degradation in market growth rates.
Our year-to-date results are in line with what we expect to deliver putting us on track to deliver our goals for the fiscal year and make progress towards our long-term objectives.
We continue to operate in a volatile environment with uncertainty in foreign exchange deceleration in market growth rates and a rapidly developing policy environment.
Against this backdrop we have maintained a top line growth and improved constant currency operating earnings growth.
We launched a strong round of innovation in the third quarter and have significant new innovation coming in the fourth quarter which will be complemented by further savings from productivity.
We're making targeted investments in our core business most promising and developing markets and biggest innovation opportunities and are aggressively driving productivity and cost savings.
Above all we remain focused on value creation for consumers and for our shareholders.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
As a reminder business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides which will be posted in our website www.pg.com following the call.
I'll be happy now to take any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Thank you good morning.
Jon as we look at the cost savings particularly on the gross margin line they're not really flowing through at this point.
Obviously some of that is the big transactional impact but you have also got this very big mix impact which is really offsetting a lot of the work you're doing there.
How should we think about that over the next couple of years? And is this going to continue to be a massive drag? Or is it -- should it dissipate as you get more local manufacturing in place? And just give us a little bit of an update there.
Thanks.
So there are two things as you rightly pointed John and as we talked about in prepared remarks that are offsetting the cost savings on the gross margin line and one is FX which is significant.
Hopefully that annualizes and as I mentioned we're committed to price we are legally allowed to help mitigate that effect as well.
So hopefully that portion of the dynamic dampens going forward.
The other dynamic as you rightly point out is a mix dynamic which has two components.
One is -- two primary components.
One is the category component.
In the quarter we just completed -- we had a great quarter of growth both volume and sales in our home care segment which is very profitable overall but which does have lower gross margins than the balance of the business.
By contrast we had relatively soft quarters in our healthcare business and our grooming business which are higher gross margin.
I look at that as one quarter's impact.
I don't think that sustains itself going forward.
Some quarters it will be positive; some quarters it will be negative.
The second component of that is the geographic component made up as you all know by faster growth in developing markets which have lower gross margin.
That impact will continue to exist.
I don't see a scenario in the near-term where developed markets grow faster than developing markets.
We will make progress on the margin in developing markets as manufacturing is localized as we build scale but it's going to continue to be a component of drag.
Do I think we can get to a place where this mix dynamic is only partially offsetting cost saving such that we're growing gross margin? Absolutely and I expect that absent -- other big foreign exchange event that would characterize the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Dara.
I was hoping you could discuss the sustainability of the gap between organic sales growth of 3% or 4% this year and the local FX core EPS growth of 12% to 14% particularly with a negative geographic gross margin mix impact.
Do you think that gap is sustainable as you look out the next year in longer term? Then just on a related note I know you are not going to obviously give guidance on EPS next year but given as a company that's in difficulty hitting the initial EPS targets over the last few years I'm just wondering if conceptually there might be more of a need to bake in some conservatism as you set guidance going forward particularly given the royalty it's more volatile and obviously there had been a lot of external issues that have pressured results and could going forward and if that's part of your thought process as you look to next year's guidance? Thanks Dara.
In terms of the spread between organic sales growth and constant currency earnings per share growth for successful in delivering basically the $2 billion of savings per year that are implied in our $10 billion five year goal; that by itself is 11 points of earnings per share benefit.
You add that to 3% to 4% organic sales growth and you're in the ballpark of the spread that we are talking about for this fiscal year.
We have no intention of letting up our cost savings and productivity efforts and see several years of significant savings ahead of us.
So I think that relationship is representative of the work that's going on.
How much of it actually gets to the all-in bottom line numbers will be a function of FX and also a function of some degree of reinvestment is good opportunities present themselves.
In terms of philosophy on guidance obviously we haven't spent a lot of time focusing on next year yet but in general what we are going to try to continue to do is be incredibly transparent or as transparent as we can.
If you look at the year that we just went through the one reduction in guidance we made midway through the year was due to currency in Venezuela.
The way we handled that in the initial forecast of the year was by communicating that we didn't have anything assumed in the numbers.
We didn't know when or what the devaluation was going to be.
We wanted to provide full transparency so that you and other could in essence use your own understanding and knowledge to come to a form point of view what you thought the result was going to be.
At minimum we will continue to be very transparent tell you what's in tell you what's not in and generally we like making our goals.
We don't like not making them and that will be reflected in our approach as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Could you talk a little bit more about the comment that marketing efficiencies helped sort of generate all that SG&amp;A leverage? How much of that was a shift from advertising to promotion? How much of that is just part of AGs long-term "Hey we want to lower advertising by 100 basis points?" Is there a risk that in some of these categories given how competitive the market is; is there a risk you are underinvesting or maybe just comment on all of that.
Thanks.
Sure Wendy.
So the SG&amp;A offset to gross margin which resulted in operating margin accretion is driven by both overhead productivity and marketing effectiveness and efficiency improvements.
Within marketing effectiveness and efficiency a significant portion of that is a reduction in non-working dollars tighter operations if you will and the design and creation of marketing programs.
And another big portion of it is the work I mentioned to get to more effectively target consumers through new capabilities that are available to use new forms of media and consumer engagement to generate more effective communication as well as more efficient communication with our targeted consumers.
So it's really all of that.
As I tried to say in the prepared remarks we are very focused on assuring that the overall impact of our advertising program the number of consumers that we are reaching the quality of that interaction grows does not decline.
I think there is -- we are at a point where simply looking at dollars it's just not representative of the strength of a marketing program in a rapidly changing marketing landscape.
We do -- to your question of underinvesting; that is something that we look at very carefully.
There have been some categories this year where we have reduced spending as the years going on and there have been some categories where we have increased spending as the year going on.
We are not going to underinvest but we are going to be effective and efficient in our investment.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Great thank you.
Good morning everybody.
So a couple of questions; first one is can you just break down the growth in emerging markets versus developed markets? And then I know we really talked about it but can you talk a little bit about family care because I think they are like your second and third largest businesses in the U.S.
and clearly that slowed quite a bit.
I know you cited some competitive promotional activity but maybe yelling for that business and kind of how you respond to it because it is obviously a decent chunk of the U.S.
business.
Thanks.
First of all the breakdown between developing and developed; developing in the quarter was plus five developed was plus one.
We are in here with a total of plus three.
In terms of family care you rightly pointed to the issue Bill which is a -- which heightens competitive activity reflected in the amount of promotion that's going on in the category primarily driven by Georgia-Pacific.
I'm not at liberty to talk about future actions that we might take but I'll assure you that that's a category that we intent to be competitive in and will be.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks.
So just first real quick Jon I think you mentioned that there were gains coming in the fourth quarter -- you said three to four points.
I just wanted to confirm that but the real question is look obviously you face a ton of headwinds this year.
And when you talk about productivity you guys are using a term pull forward savings right? You brought fiscal '13 savings into '14.
You are almost at your 16 to 22 target on non-manufacturing roles.
Can you talk about what that leads for '15? What do you need to sustain that pace of productivity? You need some of the supply chain stuff to start to come through? Or do you still see incremental runway from the sort of blocking and tackling savings that you are doing already? Thanks.
So first on the small brand divestiture gains in the fourth quarter those should be between $0.03 and $0.04.
Those are things we've talked about before; which is primarily the closure on the bleach sale which we announced at CAGNY.
That isn't a certain event we are going to have to wait to see how the regulators proceed.
I think it is a certain event in terms if it's eventually happening but the timing that is uncertain but that's what's assumed in those numbers that I gave you.
In terms of productivity going forward as I mentioned I see -- we see several more years of significant productivity opportunity.
I wouldn't take the acceleration of savings into last year or this year as an indication of reduced savings potential next year or the following year.
And I can assure you that as our leadership team discusses this topic that's not the mindset that we have.
So I would expect similar levels of savings for the foreseeable future.
Your next question comes from the line of Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Great thank you.
I appreciate it.
First is it possible to parse out the impact of mix from a country perspective versus a category perspective considering that you think that the country will continue to be in a case of developing (indiscernible) developed versus the category which may flow overtime? Then can you also update us on the percentage on market share that you are holding or gaining in overall also for the U.S? Thanks.
In terms of the components of mix it's about half-and-half Olivia between the two drivers that you cited and of course that varies quarter-on-quarter but think of it as roughly 50-50.
And then yeah the market share question sorry.
We are about flat on the quarter the market is growing about 3% and that dynamic is true and our aggregate basis both globally and in the U.S.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Yeah thank you very much.
Just a quick clarification Jon the organization design changes that you talked about is that a function and output of what Jorge Uribe was working on and if there is any more work to do in that area? And then the actual bigger picture question is can you just give us an update on the OTC business? And it seems like a scalable business where P&amp;G can win with their brands.
Any appetite for M&amp;A; I know there is a lot of assets out there that potentially could kind of get unlocked for purchase.
So I just wanted to get a philosophical viewpoint on that.
Thank you.
Sure Nik.
First as it relates to organization design some of the changes that I talked about are very much a product of the work that Jorge Uribe and others have been leading.
Most of it is just been put in place now or in the summer.
And I fully expect that as that happens not only our operations going to improve as we reduce duplication and increase clarity of accountability but I expect that we will identify additional opportunities from those new ways of operating.
That's very much what we saw when we set up the sector organizations a year ago.
We had an estimate for savings that could be possible but as we got into it it became clear that there were additional savings possible.
This is again something we are going to keep grind in way at day-after-day week-after-week and create an organization that's not only more efficient but is more effective that has a broader range of job responsibilities and is a funner easier place to work.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Do you want to go back to pick a few things; one is on the negative 75 basis points roughly of the mixed element on gross margin that should dissipate? Can you give us a sense of kind of over what timeframe you think that will happen given all the investments you are making to grow the categories but also frankly on a geographic piece as well I think your plans etcetera like the one in Brazil? The second thing is you mentioned on the release in the beauty section the sales declines in salon and skin care primarily in Asia.
So that mean you are getting better skin care stability in the U.S.
And then the last question is want to understand better the grooming negative 4% mix that we saw in the quarter.
Thanks.
Okay let me first -- I apologize Nik I breezed by the second part of your question.
Let me go back to that first and then come back to you and if I continue my trend this morning forgetting the second part of the question you can remind me what they were.
Nik in terms of OTC it is a space that we like and certainly demographically advantaged it's an area that we feel we have strength in within select product treatment areas.
As we have said for several years it is a place that we would consider adding to our business both organically.
Clearly the Teva joint venture has enabled us to accelerate our progress internationally quite significantly.
We added the new chapter asset recently.
So it is a space that we will continue to look for opportunities in but we are also going to be choiceful and value-driven as we pursue and evaluate those opportunities.
Only on the glide paths for mix the developing/developed split is so much informed by foreign exchange.
I mean there is a constant FX cost differential.
I'd say that's -- I think we have talked before probably a three to five year glide path it's not overnight but we will get there just as we have in China just as we have in Russia just as we have in Saudi and places that we have been operating for longer periods of time.
How much of that actually gets to the bottom line is going to be a function of FX which is why I hesitate to say definitely it's going to be X period of time.
The second piece on skin care we had a reasonably good quarter on both U.S.
skin care which was up mid single-digits and on U.S.
Pantene which was also up mid single-digits.
We continue to have opportunity in Asia.
I wouldn't say that we have necessarily fully rounded the corner on either U.S.
skin care or U.S.
Pantene but certainly are making a significant progress.
Then on Gillette mix large part of that is geographic as you're probably well aware.
We have some category growth challenges in the U.S.
so the size of that market is down and that's the most profitable piece of the business.
That's something as category leaders were responsible for managing and we are actively doing that.
We certainly like the position that we start from in that task.
We have 70% of market share the most profitable segment huge levels of consumer loyalty very high especially relative to other participants in the category net promoter scores.
We offer really a significant value to consumers.
A man can use Gillette Fusion ProGlide for a cost of about $1 a week.
For that he gets uncompromised quality from a brand that spanned over a century developing the best shaving products for men.
We have significant innovation coming to market in the shave care space as well which should help both market growth and mix going forward.
We have launched the body product that we talked about at CAGNY.
On the 29th of April we will be revealing the next major innovation for Gillette and well I can't give details of that today.
All of that will be revealed on the 29th.
What I can tell you -- what man are telling us which is that they prefer this product two to one versus the world's best selling razor currently.
So we are active in terms of managing the category challenge in the U.S.
and are excited about some of the innovation that we are bringing the bearer to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Stieb with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Good morning Jon.
You mentioned earlier that emerging markets growth I think in the quarter was 5% if I understood that correctly.
From memory I think it was 8% in the last quarter.
Could you just tell us where you are seeing most of that -- majority of that slowdown please? And then on that note could you also provide us an update on the growth that you are seeing in China please? Well China continues to be a very attractive market.
We have grown that business 50% over the last three years.
And quarter-to-quarter there can be some chop but it continues to be a very attractive market for us.
Market growth in general in developing markets has slowed by one to two points over the last six months and that's what explains most of the slowdown that I mentioned in our developing market business.
Fiscal year-to-date were high singles call it 7%.
So the 5% is two points lower than that.
If you look at share as a measure of whether we are holding or losing ground we built share in Brazil by more than half a point.
We have built share value there for 22 consecutive quarters.
We build share in India where we have grown double-digits now for 47 consecutive quarters.
We built a modest amount of share in Russia.
China; frankly is very hard to read shares at the moment.
There is a significant channelship that's occurring for instance to e-commerce where we are doing very well on share point but which Nielsen doesn't measure.
We have wholesalers that are shifting from Nielsen measured retailers as their source of volume to non- Nielsen measured distributors.
It's a bit complex but again it's a business we feel good about.
We have got good innovation coming to market there.
We just launched a premium diaper which in its early days has done extremely well taking market leadership in three out of the four major e-commerce platform is for diapers in China in its early entry period.
So as I said in our prepared remarks I expect developing markets will continue to be a disproportionate source of growth across the board for many years to come.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning folks.
Thanks for the question.
Two questions first a small housekeeping item.
Can you give us a sense of what sort of gains you expect on the pet care business once it's sold just as we think about modeling into next year? Then back to my other question I want to go back to the organizational changes that you talked about in prepared remarks and a little bit in Q&amp;A.
I get the cost efficiency benefit of reducing role redundancy and merging countries into fewer SMO clusters but I was hoping you could help me on your agility comment.
How does further centralization and decision making in an already heavily centralized organization make you more agile? As you move forward with this how do you ensure that local execution doesn't falter? Thanks.
Good question.
First relative to the gains I think if we go back to the press release we issued moving out to the sale we said we expected very little impact positive or negative from a one-time gain standpoint from the sale of the pet business.
John can give you more specifics there later today but generally it shouldn't be a major impact.
In terms of the organization question I think there is couple of things that we can do a better job explaining.
One is that there seems to be a notion that when we talk about global business units that by definition moving work into global business units centralizes that work and moves it to a global level.
I understand completely why one would have that conclusion because when we describe it that's just what it sounds like but that's not what happens.
So we have GBU resources at a global level at a regional level at a local level.
We have brand managers at a global level at a regional level at a local level for each of our major product lineups.
So what we are trying to do is just clarify that the work of brand building belongs with those people locally regionally and globally.
It shouldn't be done by other organizations in addition to those resources.
We need those resources focusing on one of the most strategic things we do which is sell and build joint value creation with our customers.
And you can imagine if you have two different organizations working on the same thing from an internal standpoint how that can create a lot of complexity if you're in an executional role in the organization it's hard to know what to execute when you're getting multiple sources of direction.
And so clarifying this de-duplicating it should have both I think cost opportunity associated with it as well as enabling us to be more agile be clear be more decisive be quicker in terms of the action that we take.
And to-date over the last roughly two years we reduced the number of overhead roles by 8 000 people.
We've done that without significant business disruption without significant organization disruption.
It doesn't mean it's all done easy but it gives us confidence that we can continue to improve here without being overly concerned about business disruption.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Please proceed.
Hi Jon.
Good morning.
Regarding your North American and potential western European supply chain restructuring programs do you have any estimates for the costs whether cash or non-cash associated with those programs in the 200 million to 300 million savings you mentioned? I guess how should we be expecting the flow over the three to four year life of the program? Will there be non-core charges elevated CapEx; will it show up another area etcetera? That's my main question.
Then just if I can tag on one more which is related to taxes I think the quarter and your guidance for next quarter imply kind of a tax rate for the year in the 21% to 22% range if my math is right I just wanted to get your update on whether you think that rate is sustainable going forward and what the risks are in either direction to sort of the more normalized tax rate as we look ahead? Thanks.
On supply chain there will be costs there will be capital; those will be significant so obviously we wouldn't do this if we weren't running a significant return on those.
We'll try to detail those for you at some level when we provide guidance for next year.
As I mentioned earlier we are still working through ordinary exploratory process of this in Europe.
We would like to come to you with total package which we will do as we provide our guidance for the year.
Within that though capital spending I don't see going -- I see it's staying in kind of 4% to 5% range as we execute this program.
We'll continue working very had on working capital reduction as an offset to this.
We've been able to do that successfully over the last three or four years with our whole build out program in developing markets really maintaining our free cash flow productivity targets despite somewhat higher capital spending and that's certainly the objective going forward.
So I wouldn't consider it net of major change to the cash profile of the company.
There will be some cost to execute it.
Some of those will be non-core some of those will be core and we will provide more contexts with guidance.
Tax rates on the year based on everything we know today should be 21%.
We saw it a quarter ago.
So that can change but that's what we're seeing currently.
This is going to continue to be a bit lumpy as we go forward.
You're going to see quarters where it's going to be lower that you're going to see quarters where it's going to be higher than.
And that's a function of geographic mix as you can appreciate.
It's also a function of the timing of audits and reserve establishments and reserve reversals etcetera.
We'd try to provide disclosure on the big chunks of that within our financial disclosures in our statements.
In terms of what can -- what are the major drivers that could affect tax rate going forward clearly again geographic mix can affect it.
That should be generally a net positive as we go growth assuming that developing markets continue to grow faster than developed markets and there are lower tax rates in developing markets.
The other change of course that is unknowable and can affect us either positively or negatively is our policy developments both in the U.S.
and overseas.
Well to say those in general there seems to be a lot of competitiveness on the part of governments to maintain business-friendly status in a slower growing economy.
So I think it would be somewhat unlikely that there would be a major adverse event that would affect our tax rate significantly but of course that's completely unknowable.
Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
I just had a question for clarification on the supply chain savings.
I think you were talking about $200 million a year could you say if that is only for North America and when you'd expect it to start? The 200 million to $300 million range I gave you which is a very off-range at this point is inclusive of our early thinking on Europe.
So it's North America and Europe.
We will start seeing some of those savings next year particularly the distribution-related savings as we consolidate distribution and customization centers into fewer distribution centers located closer to customers.
That's a relatively smaller portion of the overall savings which will accrue the major savings will start accruing in three and four years from now.
So it's something that -- we're changing our footprint so dramatically that we want to do it in a very disciplined organized way to avoid business disruption.
The savings will be significant but they will be -- they are not immediate.
Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I will like to come back to the emerging market negative mix issue and basically if you can help us Jon kind of like at least have an average emerging market gross margin and operating margin figure? And also more philosophically you have over $30 billion in sales in emerging markets which is much -- these are much bigger than most your competitors combine and essentially you have lower profitability and then the question is is it because you're leading with long categories leading with categories that have low margins as opposed to leading with categories like beauty or healthcare and essentially you're doubling down in the negative mix by leading with the legacy businesses which is detergent and some paper as opposed to the high margin businesses beauty healthcare and grooming? Thank you.
Thanks Javier.
We'll give you some better gross and operating margin breakdown relative to company average for developing markets as part of our guidance for next year.
The reason I'm not giving that to you right now is because it's all changing as we put in pricing for FX etcetera.
And I'd like to get to a more stable situation so I can give you something that's actually useful but I understand the need and we can provide something that hopefully will help there.
In terms of our developing market business profitability it's really a tale of two cities in markets where we have been for extended periods of time where we've developed the scale to justify localization of the supply chain where we've built local organizations and where we've developed significant relationships with our retail partners we have very good margins; in many cases at the company average and in some cases above the company average.
So I mentioned markets before like Russia like China like Saudi; there are number of examples.
And take China as an example that's not only our second largest market in terms of sales it's our second largest market in terms of profit.
So obviously it's a very profitable situation there.
And I think that is more what needs to occur than altering the mix of product categories in the markets where we're earlier on in our journey like Brazil and like India.
We need to get the cost structure.
We need to get consumer usage of premium products which is happening -- it happened in China it clearly happened in Russia; it's happening right now in Brazil a little bit less so in India.
Those are the things that will enable us to get margins to a place that I'm very confident that we'll get to which is somewhere close to -- little bit below the company average.
Your point though on other categories is an important one.
I mentioned earlier that we are really through the joint venture with Teva for the first time building out our healthcare business which is very high margin across the globe including developing markets.
We've talked before about the less expansion in Russia and Eastern Europe.
We have some things going on in Latin America.
And so we will continue to where there are smart value-creating opportunities expand not just the paper and detergent businesses but also the beauty and healthcare businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Jon.
I guess first question is in terms of the innovation strategy and how you're seeing it right now? Given that we've seen you go down market recently with Tide also up market it sounds like in blade razors well the emphasis still be on moving up market going forward and staying true to what has been a very successful trade-up strategy for you guys? Or given the environment do you think the innovation going forward will be a little more balance between mid-tier and premium price points? And then secondly in terms of the outlook for next year I know it's very early so I'm not going to ask for guidance here but given that you're going to be anniversarying the FX headwinds and given that the manufacturing startup costs are behind you what do you see as the biggest headwinds of you guys in fiscal '15? Thanks.
In terms of innovation we'll continue to pursue a balanced innovation strategy.
If you just think about the laundry bundle in North America now it has lower priced components deigned for consumers for whom prices are a biggest part of their personal value equation it also has premium items.
We generated more new sales on Gain Flings than we did on Tide Simply Clean and Fresh in the last quarter.
And innovation decisions are going to be guided by consumers their needs and wants.
It's less about price point and it is about value for a particular consumer.
Value as you know is a combination of pricing and product efficacy consumer experience our communication of that experience etcetera.
So we are going to continue to be focused on consumers with whom we can create value and to whom we can provide value.
Relative to headwinds going forward I think one of the biggest headwinds is market growth both in developing and developed markets.
The good news is we have a say in that and we can create growth with innovation by trading in consumers in many markets trading consumers up in other markets but that is -- it's challenging in a 3% growth world and that's just the reality that we're going to have to adapt to.
It is part and parcel of the combined productivity and innovation strategy.
Those are the two things that are required to win in a slower growth environment.
And the two things were committed to deliver.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Thanks for the question.
I just want to go back to divestiture of the pet business and I think we will go back few years when the divestiture of the coffee business the plan was to take the proceeds and reinvest in actually restructuring and try to offset some of the dilution.
And this divestiture there is just for general corporate purposes.
So just trying to understand at what point 2.9 million 5 billion I mean is there a philosophy change in terms of maybe reinvesting some of this money back into the business or reinvesting it to share repurchases or kind of a thought because this doesn't seem to be one of the smaller divestitures you've done over the past few years? A couple of things here; first of all the 2.9 billion becomes 2 billion once we pay Uncle Sam.
So that's the amount of cash that we're looking at this point.
And really that cash that we'll earn next fiscal year when the deal is likely to close; buyers have a nasty habit of not paying new until they have certainty on ownership of the asset.
And so we'll build that cash into our planning for next fiscal year and we will be very clear with you how we're intending to use that.
Relative to the Folgers situation there are two things that are different with regard to restructuring.
The first is that Folgers was much more dilutive than pet is going to be and so the need was greater from that standpoint.
Second at the time that we announced Folgers we didn't have a non-core restructuring program.
And so we chose to increase restructuring to accommodate that objective.
We have a fairly robust restructuring program right now.
We're not capped or limited.
If there is more opportunity to generate return and create value by all means we will.
But again this is a next year cash flow and we will get back to you with the use of that cash as we describe plans for next fiscal year.
Your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
I have just a couple leftover housekeeping questions.
You're 1% organic growth in the developed regions; can you break that out in terms of volume price and mix? And my other question is when you give us your EPS growth adjusted for currency could you explain what you take out to get to that number? Do you take out the pricing that you're getting in emerging regions? Is there an offset to currency? Do you take out all the cost benefits the local cost benefits you're getting as the result of currency as well? Thank you.
Developed market organic sales breakdown we had 2% volume growth in developed markets a minus 1 point price mix dynamic getting you to 1% organic sales growth.
So that's the breakdown there.
The currency numbers do not include pricing.
They do include the total transaction impact on the cost structure.
So if there are local cost benefits that's in the currency number.
We just take our currency exposures on the rate of change and that's the number we're providing.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan with Stifel.
Please proceed.
Yeah.
Thanks and good morning.
I wanted to clarify a couple of things on the North America beauty business.
Was there any benefit from restocking from destocking a year ago six months ago? And then from the slowdown in developing markets any commentary there about whether the categories or a category-specific has become more promotional as a result of the slowdown? I think the beauty organic sales numbers are representative of the state of the business.
I don't think they include any one-time significant one-time impacts of any sort.
So I think you should look at them as decent numbers.
Relative to promotion levels we're seeing increased promotion in North America in a few categories.
We talked earlier about the family care category where we have some increased promotion.
We've seen increased promotion not surprisingly in response to our laundry innovation launches in North America.
And we've seen increased promotion relative to -- in response to our innovation in the hair care space.
But we look at those generally as temporary in nature and it's not -- as I've said many time before promotion is not high on our list of strategic choices to grow business so it's certainly not a dynamic that we're going to be encouraging.
If you look at price mix inclusive of promotion for the last quarter it was a positive impact on a global basis.
It's been a neutral or positive impact for 13 consecutive quarters.
It's been a positive impact for the last nine years.
So we're going to try to compete on the basis of innovation make sure the base price of our product is as sharp as it can be as a result of our productivity efforts.
We'll need to be competitive on promotion levels but it's not (indiscernible) that we're going to drive.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Please proceed.
Yeah.
Good morning Jon.
You mentioned a significant shift to e-commerce in I think referring to China that you're seeing but I guess I suspect you are seeing a similar shift in perhaps developed markets as well.
Should we think about this as a net positive for P&amp;G manufacturers in terms of reach your ability to target consumers even profitability? And if you could just discuss maybe that opportunity and any plans you have to capitalize on that channel shift over time? We want to be available for consumers wherever they want to shop and that includes the e-commerce space.
Jon you mentioned some very attractive aspects of that space.
One is the ability to target -- to more narrowly target consumers more effectively target consumers and that's certainly relevant.
There is also an opportunity to provide sometimes some more information as "E" in general becomes what we're calling the Zero Moment of Truth and sometimes it's the zero and first moment of truth.
In general e-commerce shoppers represent a more attractive demographic.
We're seeing larger basket sizes in some of the e-commerce channels than in bricks and mortar not always but in some cases.
And we're working very hard to ensure that our share of both sales and profits is at least as good as the case and more traditional retail channels.
And that currently is the case.
But this is a channel that's been evolving fast and we'll continue to change significantly in the next three to five years and it's something that we need to do and intend to be a significant part of.
Your final question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Please proceed.
Good morning Jon.
It's on margins I'm just looking at the EBIT margin expansion in beauty and grooming and I'm wondering if going forward you believe you will be able to sustain that or if you actually see some pickup in margins in any other divisions? Well I think sustaining 17% earnings growth which is what you see in the beauty segment in the last quarter is not an objective we would have.
We're happy with that growth.
We want over time to achieve more balance between that top line and bottom line.
We're still delivering a very strong bottom line.
And the bigger margin improvement opportunity I think comes as we do three things; 1) get the higher margin categories growing at their rate of category growth and that includes beauty.
2) Improve our margins in developing markets as we've talked about with several of you this morning and 3) is continue focusing on growth behind innovation in developed markets where we have higher margins.
And that's -- all three are very much part of our thought process and activity system presently.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble’s Quarter End Conference Call.
Today’s discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G’s most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.
Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G’s Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Good morning.
I am joined this morning by AG Lafley and John Chevalier.
We will start our discussion with a review of fiscal year and fourth quarter results AG will then discuss our going forward strategy and plans to strengthen our results and I will close with guidance for fiscal 2015.
One housekeeping item before we begin all the numbers we will be discussing today assume discontinued operations treatment for the pet care business reflecting in our planned exit.
Impacts of the move from operating results to discontinued operations were provided previously in an 8-K filing and are available online.
Now on to results we grew organic sales 3% in the fiscal year we just completed in line with median performance in our industry.
We essentially held market share.
Core earnings per share increased 5%.
Organic sales and earnings per share results were both within our target ranges.
In fact they were both within the pre-Venezuela devaluation ranges that we established going into the fiscal year despite more than a 25% reduction in market growth rates from 4 points a year ago to 2.5 points to 3 points currently and significant negative foreign exchange developments versus our going in plan.
Our productivity program which we will talk more about later was a significant enabler in delivering in this outcome.
On a constant currency basis core earnings per share grew double-digits despite market growth headwinds.
All-in sales grew 1%.
All-in earnings per share grew 4%.
We generated $10.1 billion of free cash flow with 86% free cash flow productivity.
We increased the dividend 7% the 58th consecutive year that the dividend has been increased.
We have returned $12.9 billion in cash to shareholders $6.9 billion in dividends and $6 billion in share repurchase.
About 110% of net earnings all-in.
We made significant progress on productivity operating discipline and execution.
We delivered $1.6 billion of cost of goods savings well ahead of our target run rate of $1.2 billion and ahead of our going in estimate of $1.4 billion.
We improved manufacturing productivity by over 7% reducing overall enrollment while adding new capacity and new sites.
We opened the first new multi-category distribution center in the U.S.
with five additional centers slated to come online by early next calendar year.
We continued to accelerate overhead reduction.
In February 2012 we announced the targeted 10% reduction of non-manufacturing enrollment by June of 2016.
As of July 1 2014 we have reduced roles by 16% more than 50% ahead of the original objective two years earlier.
We have made good progress driving marketing effectiveness and efficiency through an optimized media mix with more digital mobile search and social presence improved message clarity and greater savings in non-media spending.
While acknowledging the progress I just described across cost of goods sold overhead and marketing you maybe asking yourselves where have all the savings gone.
In the year we just completed most went to offset FX.
We have large leading positions in some of the markets where currencies have softened the most Japan Venezuela and Ukraine and where our price controls are in place.
Excluding foreign exchange core earning per share were up double digits.
Partly as a result of devaluation we are seeing significant wage inflation in developing markets as much as 30% per annum which we also need to offset.
We are continuing to make targeted investments in innovation trial generation and in selling coverage to drive growth.
In addition to productivity we made good progress this year in continuing to focus the portfolio.
Just yesterday we closed the Americas pet care sales to Mars.
Mars has also chosen to exercise their option to purchase the Asia business which accounts 10% of sales.
We are working the European pet transaction with a different set of buyers.
We exited concierge health services business and MDVIP.
We exited the bleach business and we divested several additional smaller brands Latin America Pert as an example.
Moving from the fiscal year to the fourth quarter organic sales grew 2% in a very challenging macro environment with decelerating levels of market growth in both developed and developing regions and intense competitive spending in several categories.
Organic volume was in line with prior year levels pricing added two points to sales growth.
All-in sales were down one point including the two point headwind from foreign exchange and a modest negative impact from minor brand divestitures.
Core earnings per share were $0.95 a 20% increase versus the prior year.
Foreign exchange was a $0.04 headwind on the quarter.
Excluding foreign exchange core earnings per share grew 25%.
This includes the 5 point benefit from tax and a 4 point benefit from minor brand divestitures.
Core operating margin improved 170 basis points driven by productivity savings.
Core gross margin was down 50 basis points.
Cost savings were approximately 270 basis points were offset by product category and geographic mix foreign exchange and higher commodity costs.
Core SG&amp;A costs as a percentage of sales improved by 220 basis points driven by overhead savings of 110 basis points marketing efficiencies of 30 basis points and other SG&amp;A reductions.
As we previewed in the last call non-operating gains from minor brand and business divestitures added approximately $0.03 to core earnings per share on the quarter.
The effective tax rate on core earnings was 19% bringing the fiscal year rate to 21% consistent with the outlook we provided in the last call.
June quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $0.89 which include approximately $0.04 per share of non-core restructuring charges and $0.02 of charges from legal reserve adjustments.
In summary we have just completed a challenging and tough but on-target year.
We met our objectives delivered double digit constant currency earnings growth meaningfully advanced our productivity and portfolio focus agendas and built on our strong track record of cash return to shareholders.
There is more work to do to deliver sustainable sales growth and reliable profit cash and value creation.
I will turn it over to AG to talk about strategies and plans to accomplish this.
Thanks Jon.
So that we are crystal clear as John reported we delivered our business and financial commitments in 2013-2014 but we could have and should have done better.
If just a couple of businesses that missed their going in operating plans had delivered we would have achieved our internal leadership team goals of 4% sales growth built modest market share delivered 7% core EPS instead of 5% and 5% core operating profit growth instead of 2%.
Despite all the market realities Jon described country volatility market slowdowns currency hurts customer and competitor challenges the point here is delivering a better year was solely in our influence and control.
So while operating discipline and executional capability is getting better a lot better around here it must continue to improve to reach the levels of performance this company and our organization is capable of.
We are increasing our focus on shoppers and consumers they are the boss.
Everything begins with consumer understanding winning the zero first and second moments of truth and everything ends with winning the consumer value equation consumer preference purchase and loyalty.
We are focused on creating and building consumer preferred brands and products that generate leading industry growth and value creation.
This is how we will generate top tier total shareholder return.
We need to continue to strengthen our brand positions our product portfolio and pipeline and our selling effectiveness in the country’s channels and customers in a way that maximizes shopper trial and regular purchase drives brand and category growth and delivers more reliable value creation for customers partners for P&amp;G and of course for shareowners.
Today we are announcing an important strategic step forward that will significantly streamline and simplify the company’s business and brand portfolio.
We will become a much more focused much more streamlined company of 70 to 80 brands organized into about a dozen business units and the four focused industry sectors.
We will compete in categories that are structurally attractive and that play to P&amp;G strength.
Within these categories we will focus on leading brands marketed in the right countries channels and customers where the size of the prize and the probability of winning are highest with product lines and SKUs that really matter to shoppers and customers.
Why this significant strategic where to play change in brand portfolio? These core 70 to 80 brands are consumer preferred and customer supported.
These brands are for the most part leaders in their industry category or segment 23 with sales of $1 billion to $10 billion another 14 with sales of $0.5 billion to $1 billion and the remainder 30 to 40 with strong brand equities in sales of $100 million to $500 million.
These brands are all well positioned with consumers and customers and well-positioned competitively.
These brands have strong equities in differentiated products and a track record of growth and value creation driven by product innovation and brand preference.
These brands are core strategic and have very real potential to grow and deliver meaningful value creation.
Over the last three years the 70 to 80 brand portfolio has accounted for 90% of company sales and over 95% of profit.
It has grown 1 point or 100 basis points faster than the total company and has earned more than 1 additional point of before tax margin.
This new streamlined P&amp;G should continue to grow faster and more sustainably and reliably create more value.
Importantly this will be a much simpler much less complex company of leading brands that’s easier to manage and operate.
This simplicity will significantly focus investment and resource allocation and enable execution.
We will harvest partner discontinue or divest the balance 90 to 100 brands.
In aggregate sales of these brands has been declining 3% per year over the past three years.
Profits have been declining 16%.
These brands make up less than half the average company margin.
The strategic narrowing and refocusing of the brand portfolio will have a number of significant benefits mutually reinforcing.
70 to 80 brands will bring clarity focus and prioritization and simplicity to a smaller more integrated better coordinated organization.
The brand business units will be responsible for brand and product programs end-to-end down to the local country level.
Selling and market operations will be responsible for customer and channel strategies (Technical Difficulty).
I will continue.
Selling and market operations will be responsible for customer and channel strategies for distribution shelving merchandising and pricing execution for winning at the first moment of truth at the retail customer and distributor level.
This focus on fewer core strategic brands will enable a strategic rationalization of product lines within brands and an even more significant pruning of unproductive SKUs.
As we rationalized business and brand portfolios product lines and SKUs P&amp;G brands and products will be easier to shop and more productive and profitable for our customers our partners and for the company.
This focus on fewer strategic brands will enable R&amp;D to focus product and technology development on more consumer relevant and impactful brand and product ideas.
We have already started reallocating R&amp;D resources and budgets cutting out low value activity and doubling down on our most promising product innovations.
This focus on fewer core strategic brands will importantly inform our supply chain transformation.
We will now match manufacturing capacity to the brand portfolio and product lines.
We will build distribution and mixing centers for only the brands and products we choose to sell.
This should enable industry leading responsiveness and service to customers at lower cost throughout the value chain.
With this refocus on consumer and shopper preferred leading brands we will be able to focus selling operations by retail account wholesaler and distributor strategies tactics and in-store executions that really make a difference.
The same simplification and prioritization enables all our functions to provide the business units and sales operations better value-added help and support.
In summary we are going to create a faster growing more profitable company that is far simpler to manage and operate.
This will enable P&amp;G people to be more agile and responsive more flexible and faster less will be much more.
As a result of the company’s strategic focus on its leading brands we will both accelerate and over-deliver the original $10 billion productivity plan.
While we are not going to publish or report specific endpoint savings numbers today we will clearly over-deliver the original goals and we will update you on progress along the way.
In cost of goods sold we are driving further and faster than when we established the original savings objectives.
The annual manufacturing productivity improvements we are making and have made measured by the number of cases of product produced per person per year are well beyond initial targets that our process reliability and adherence to quality standards is resulting in less raw material and finished product scrapping.
Increasing localization of supply chain is driving transportation and warehousing cost savings.
Earlier this year we initiated what is probably the biggest supply chain redesign in our company’s history.
We are moving from primarily single category production sites to fewer multi-category manufacturing plants.
We are taking this opportunity to simplify standardize and upgrade manufacturing platforms for faster innovation qualification and expansion and improve product quality.
We moved to standard manufacturing platforms a little over 10 years ago in baby care.
We are developing standardized manufacturing platforms for a number of businesses fabric care grooming oral and personal power to name a handful.
We are transforming our distribution center network moving from shipping products to customers from many ship points as if they were coming from different companies to consolidating customers shipping into fewer distribution centers.
These centers are located strategically closer to customers and key population centers in North America enabling 80% of P&amp;G’s business to be within one day or less of the store shelf and the shopper.
This will allow both P&amp;G and our retail partners to optimize inventory levels while still improving service and on-shelf availability efficient customer and consumer response and more importantly reducing in-store out of stocks.
All of our new distribution centers will be up and running by early 2015.
To manage and operate the simpler brand portfolio we have made several important organization design changes move to four industry-based sectors streamlined and de-duplicate – de-duplication of business units and selling operations recombination of four brand building functions into one reduction of hierarchy with all the sales operations and business unit leaders working together and working directly with Jon and with me.
Each of these changes reduces complexity.
Each creates clear accountability for performance and results.
We are just beginning to benefit from these opportunities to improve performance and reduce overhead costs that the organization changes create.
We believe we have more opportunity to improve marketing effectiveness and efficiency in both media or non-media areas while increasing overall marketing effectiveness and improving top line growth.
When we get brand and product innovation right source and sell brands and products effectively and efficiently we grow and we drive meaningful value creation.
We generate higher sales and profit per unit which enables us to capture greater share of the value profit and cash where we choose to compete.
It is this share of value the share of profit and cash that is generated that we really want to focus on and if we can disproportionately capture.
Today we have about 60 share of U.S.
laundry market sales that earn approximately 85% of the profit and cash generated in the entire category nearly a 70 share of grooming business worldwide and about a 90 share of value or profit.
This disproportionate capture of category value is direct result and reflection of our business strategy and our business models.
There has been some discussion in this context about whether premium price brands and products are still drivers of growth and value creation and I want to comment on this briefly this morning.
We are shopper and consumer led.
Their wants and needs come first.
We meet those needs with differentiated brands and better performing products priced to deliver real and perceived consumer value.
In all four industry sectors and in most of our businesses there is as much and often more sales growth and value creation profit and cash in the premium and super premium segments.
We have had some success in these segments.
In the grooming market premium products generate about 43% of category sales.
Gillette has an 88 share of this segment.
Four years ago we introduced Fusion ProGlide priced at the higher end of the premium segment.
Fusion grew global value share for 31 consecutive quarters reaching $1 billion in sales faster than any other P&amp;G brand or any other Gillette shaving systems in history.
Fusion has been successful in developing markets which accounts for 25% of the brand’s and product line’s total business.
In countries where Fusion has been in the market for several years it has earned value shares that rival those is the best developed markets.
South Korea we have a 45 share and Russia a 33 share for example.
Last month we launched the newest product in the Fusion lineup FlexBall is the first razor designed to respond to the contours of a man’s face maintaining maximum contact in delivering a close or more complete and more comfortable shave.
End market go side - premarket men preferred FlexBall two to one versus the then best selling razor in the world our own Fusion ProGlide.
FlexBall is off to a very good start and appears to be revitalizing consumer interest in the category.
While it’s only been available a couple of months we have seen a 30% spike in male razor category value in the U.S.
and acceleration in cartridge sales and shares.
Crest 3D White premium oral care regimen was also launched in the U.S.
and grew market share for 17 consecutive quarters expanded worldwide and has become $1 billion business.
3D White has been an important driver of toothpaste market share growth in Brazil and Mexico adding about 0.5 of share in Brazil and a point in Mexico.
We have recently launched 3D White in Spain France and Australia.
Early results are encouraging with growth in both category and our market share.
In Western Europe the oral care category grew 3.5% in value this last quarter in the region where many other categories are declining 1% to 2%.
3D White is a big driver of that category growth.
Following up on the 3D White launch we introduced Crest 3D White Luxe toothpaste and White Strips.
The toothpaste removes up to 90% of surface stains on teeth in just five days and protects against future stains with a proprietary technology.
The Whitestrips with FlexFit stretch and mold to your teeth for a custom fit.
Tide Gain and Ariel unit does laundry detergents have been an innovation breakthrough resetting the bar for delightful consumer usage experience product performance and convenience in the laundry detergent category.
Tide Pods have priced at a 20% premium to base Liquid Tide and had grown to over 7% of the laundry category.
In March we launched Gain Flings their version of Pods priced at a 60% per use premium to Gain liquid detergent.
Flings have already grown to nearly 3% value share combined Tide Pods and Gain Flings now hold a more than 10 value share of the U.S.
laundry category and over 80% of the unit dose segment.
We now offer this innovative product in over 50 countries.
And several other markets including Japan and China we’ve recently launched single chamber unit does product setting the stage for future upgrades as the unit dose segment develops.
In Japan Ariel and Bold unit dose detergents are off to a strong start achieving a nine value share in just three months.
Managing a brand and product portfolio is obviously a balance.
In some categories where affordable pricing is more important part of the consumer value equation.
We broaden our brand product line package size and price offerings to serve more consumer needs.
Bounty and Bounty Basic Charmin and Charmin Basic Pampers and Luvs Tide Gain and now Tide simply clean and fresh.
While we will continue to compete with product innovation and brand differentiation we will not allow ourselves to be uncompetitive on a consumer value basis and segments where we choose to play.
There are times we must and will make appropriate pricing adjustments to remain competitive.
We’re doing this now which you know on a targeted basis in U.S.
Fabric Care and Family Care where competitors have been price discounting and promoting heavily since last calendar year.
In the end we follow the shopper and the consumer.
We meet their needs with consumer preferred P&amp;G brands in better performing products priced at a modest premium that delivers superior consumer value.
We’re currently entering the female adult incontinence category.
This is an attractive $7 billion global category growing at an annual rate of 7%.
We’re entering the category with consumer preferred superior performing products that deliver significant benefit advantages from Always a brand women trust in prefer.
We began shipments of Always discrete in U.K.
last month and we’ll start shipments in North America and France over the next few weeks.
We’ll be sending you more details about this exciting new product line from Always next week.
In September we’re launching Crest Sensi-Stop strips.
This is a revolutionary new product technology that provides the tooth sensitivity relief like never before.
One strip applied for just 10 minutes delivers immediately and up to one month of protection from sensitivity pain for many consumers.
We’re setting the brand and product innovation agenda in our industry.
When we do this well we build consumer preference for our brands extend the level of product competitive advantage build brand and product consumer preference accumulatively overtime and capture a larger share of category value profit and cash.
The final area that will benefit from brand portfolio simplification is the consistency and quality of our brand building and selling execution.
This execution is the only strategy our consumers and customers ever really see.
We’re bringing renewed focus to brands.
When we get brands right we deeply understand consumers and we create desirable ideas iconic equities and become a prototype in the category.
We consistently express the brand promise with ideas that attract consumers to the product superior benefits to create trial purchase lasting preference and loyalty.
This brand focus allows us to improve execution and build on those strategic brands to win ultimately with consumers.
We’re also focusing selling resources to improve coverage expertise and execution in key retail channels wholesalers and distributors.
This should lead to improve distribution shelving merchandising and pricing execution to win consistently at the first moment of truth.
We are and we will continue to increase coverage sector and category dedication of our sales force and merchandisers in the store.
I am excited by the opportunity to further elevate brand and selling execution and feel very strongly these efforts will be enabled by the portfolio focus we have embarked on.
I am working directly the sector and SMO leaders on these opportunities to profitably accelerate top line growth while Jon and the team continue leading the work on portfolio simplification and productivity.
This portfolio transformation may take a little more time than any of us would like because streamlining the brand and product portfolio will be governed by our ability to create value on every exit.
When we get there to our in effect P&amp;G new-co with the streamlined 70 to 80 brand portfolio this will enable faster and more sustainable growth and more reliable value creation through the end of the decade and beyond.
We will be a simpler faster growing more profitable company that is far easier to manage and operate.
We will be a company of brands that consumers prefer and customers support well positioned competitively.
A company of brands simpler to source sell and service.
The streamlined company of leadership household and personal care brands will deliver more reliable value creation for consumers and customers partners and suppliers and will deliver reliably and sustainably total shareholder return in the top third of our industry peer group.
I look forward to updating you on our progress when we meet for our Analyst Meeting here in Cincinnati in November.
Now I will turn the call back to Jon to provide the details on our outlook for this year.
We continue to expect global markets in our categories to grow in value terms 2% to 3%.
Against this backdrop we are currently forecasting fiscal 2015 organic sales growth of low to mid-singles.
With this level of growth we will maintain or modestly grow global market share on a local currency basis.
We think this is pragmatic and realistic starting point for our fiscal ‘15 financial commitments.
Pricing should again be a positive contributor to organic sales growth though likely not to the same degree we have seen over the past several years.
Foreign exchange is expected to be a one point sales growth headwind.
With this level of sales growth we are forecasting mid-single digit core earnings per share growth.
We will benefit again from significant productivity savings but like last year these will be partially offset by FX headwinds which won’t annualize at current spot rates until the back half of the year.
We have a few value corrections to make.
We are also going to invest and consumer trial of preferred brands and major new product innovations that are in market and that are coming to market.
We will continue to make investments in innovation and go to market coverage in the fastest growing sales channels.
Non-operating income and tax should be roughly in line with prior year levels.
And we are targeting to deliver 90% or better free cash flow productivity.
Our plans assume capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of sales and share repurchase in the range of $5 billion to $7 billion.
At this level share repurchase should net of option exercises contribute about one percentage of earnings per share growth.
On an all-in GAAP basis we expect earnings per share to also grow mid-single digits including around $0.20 per share of non-core restructuring investments.
In addition to the assumptions included in our guidance we want to continue to be very transparent about key items that are not included.
The guidance we are providing today is based on last week’s FX spot rates further currency weakness including Venezuela is not anticipated within our guidance range.
We continue to monitor unrest in several markets in the Middle East and Eastern Europe.
And we continue to closely monitor markets like Venezuela and Argentina where pricing controls and import restrictions present risk.
This guidance does not assume any major portfolio moves.
We will update guidance as these occur.
Finally our guidance assumes no further degradation of market growth rates.
There are a few things you should keep in mind as you construct your quarterly models our toughest top line comps are in the first two quarters.
The top and bottom line impacts from consumer value corrections will disproportionately affect the first quarter and the first half.
FX impacts will not fully annualize until the back half and productivity savings will build as the year progresses.
In summary we are pleased to have delivered an on target year on both the top and bottom lines but realized there is more work to do.
We are realistic about where we stand in the journey and are excited about the path ahead.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
As a reminder business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides which will be posted in our website www.pg.com following the call.
AG and I will be happy now to take your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Hi gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Good morning.
Hey can you give us a timeline for the sales of those your 90 businesses that have been deemed non-core? Well as AG said in his remarks the timing on this is going to be governed by our ability to create value which we are committed to do as we exit this business as much as we have done exactly as we have done with the prior category and brand exits.
And rough order of magnitude this is I would guess Bill though I am not providing the specific guidance probably call it 12 to 24 months but again we are not going to be governed by timeline we are going to be governed by value creation.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher (JPMorgan).
Please proceed.
Yes thank you.
Sort of continuing with this one of the things you guys are working on is driving sort of more cost efficient structures and I guess how do you fragment some of these brand groups or is this I guess can you talk a little bit about how this is making the structure less complicated as you go to this many brand groups? And then secondly as you look at some of the productivity efforts can you talk a little bit about the focus on stranded overhead and do you feel like your recent productivity will allow you to eliminate some of the potential dilution from selling off some of these businesses? Thanks.
So John first of all as we look at the portfolio in the way that AG described we are really looking at it through a strategic lens and we are wanting to play in categories with brands leadership brands that play to our strengths.
We have talked before about the core capabilities that we believe we have as a company and very simply brands that leverage those capabilities have proven over time to sustainably create value.
And those that don’t fully leverage those capabilities on average we have struggled with.
And so part of this simplification if you will is just matching up our businesses with what we are good at and not having to struggle with some things that we are not as good at.
So that in itself is a big simplification.
You can imagine going from a company of call it 160 brands to a company of 70 or 80 brands is in itself incredibly simplifying the number of innovation platforms that we need to focus on the number of manufacturing platforms that we need to focus on the number of products that we need to sell to each and every customer and distributor.
So there is tremendous simplification that comes with this.
To your specific question of stranded overheads it is our objective and expectation that we will use the productivity savings that are available both through simplification that comes from portfolio focus but also the productivity savings that come through the organization structure changes that AG talked about to in effect offset the stranded overhead impact.
There will be some dilution as these businesses go out just as there have been with businesses that we have been divesting.
But it will be on that order of magnitude and it will result primarily from the loss of operating earnings of those businesses.
We will take care of the stranded overhead.
John just a couple of additional points I mean this is the classic strategic choice.
We want to be in the businesses we should be in not the businesses we are in.
Secondly it is driven by shoppers and consumers in the market primarily.
We are focusing on the brand and business portfolio in the four industries that consumers actually buy and prefer right that customers really support and can support where we have very strong brand equities where our net promoter scores are higher where our brand positioning is well-differentiated and where the product performance delivers.
So it’s very straightforward.
And the objective is growth.
The objective is balanced profitable sales growth and much more reliable value creation much more reliable generation of cash primarily by cash and profit.
In terms of the organization side it’s going to get a lot simpler.
It’s already begun to get simpler.
A lot this is already underway but we just have real clarity about what a regional selling operation does and what a business unit does.
And they are now connected with far fewer handoffs and we will continue to improve that design to further reduce the handoffs.
And we are just going to be much more agile and much more adaptable in a much quicker inside much simpler inside so we can deal with all of the change and the pace outside.
That’s really the objective here.
Look we had our last global leadership council meeting last week okay I don’t know the number Jon what are there 30 to 40 people and go okay we now have a lead team of about 10 of us.
And basically the region leaders the sector BU leaders Jon and myself 10 to 12 of us we meet more often we work on the business we get things done on a weekly – by weekly and monthly basis.
So we are just going to be more adaptable.
We are going to be more agile.
We are going to be more responsive.
We are going to be able to make decisions a lot faster and turn the decisions into action in the market that really matters.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just two quick things.
First was just around any kind of tax implications or risks from selling businesses at a very low cost basis? And then the second was how do you think you will be able to kind of ensure you don’t lose shelf space or facings as you divest or discontinue brands? Thanks.
On the tax question Lauren there will be some low business assets that will be part of the portfolio that’s going to be disposed.
We have done a pretty good job historically about managing that through tax efficient structures.
Those do take time which is what we are talking about when we say that value creation will guide the pacing of the exits.
So we will try to manage that as effectively as we can.
AG you want to talk about? Yes.
I mean Lauren obviously we have anticipated the concern that you raised and a whole bunch of other concerns that we have to manage through the transition and through all the details of the execution but I guess I just mentioned three quick examples.
One in the U.S.
we started out with a laundry brand portfolio of 15 brands okay.
Today we have a brand portfolio of 5 and over the decades our share has increased.
And as we pointed out in my prepared remarks our share is approaching 60 again.
And more importantly our share of the value created in that segment is at probably the highest level based on our calculations ever.
So I think there is a lot of evidence in a number of our business categories that the shopper and the consumer really don’t want more assortment and more choice they want efficient consumer response.
If you just look at what’s going on in the omni-channel and pure-play e-tailer environment with online shopping we are doing a pretty doggone good subscription business.
We are doing a good shopping list and automatic replenishment business because in a lot of our categories frankly their low involvement and consumers want to keep their life simple and convenient.
And having the leading brand better performing products and a good value everyday helps them keep life simple and convenient.
Two last very quick points if you look at this company decade by decade at the end of the decade all of our growth in value creation is driven by three things: one we are able to grow and continue to create value from our core established brands and businesses going into the decade.
Two we’re able to create transform or acquiring build at least one major new business.
And three we’re able to move successfully in the new space.
Okay whether that’s developing markets or new channels or whatever.
And I suspect in2021 when we look back at this decade we’re going to see the same pattern.
We’ve done a lot of analysis that shows more does not drive growth and more certainly does not drive value creation absolute last point and you will know this one as well our better than I.
When the team sort of got us into the beauty and personnel care business between 2000 and 2007 we tripled the sales from whatever was under 7 to 20 plus we quadrupled a profit and we did it on half a dozen brand businesses.
Pantene and Head &amp; Shoulders Olay and SK-II and a trio of fragrance brands accounted for virtually all of that growth in value creation in an industry that’s notorious for activity and complexity.
So I just believe very deeply that we’re picking our spots in these industries that played our strengths and our assets and we’re going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Please proceed.
I had two questions.
First maybe for you AG you said at the beginning that there were several businesses that missed plan during the course of the year.
And I’m curious whether that is – was predominately innovation at some short of expectations or misprice products or what the problems were and I think you said you feel more confident about your execution ability going forward.
But may be specifically why is that is it different people in charge or do you have a better sense of adoptability if things are going wrong.
So that’s question number one.
And then number two Jon your comments really surprised me you said that for next year you only play in to maintain or modestly grow market share which strikes me as a very – I don’t know weak stands to enter the year I mean I would think with all the innovation and all your plan spending you would have more confidence or more enthusiasm about your market share trends thanks.
Let me take the second part of that question and then turn it over to AG.
Look we’re trying to establish very realistic external guidance that frankly is reflective of the macro environment that we’re in as reflective of what we’ve proven ourselves capable of delivering thus far.
We delivered 3% organic sales growth this year or forecasting low to mid singles next year.
We delivered 5% core earnings per share growth this year or forecasting mid singles for next year.
We share completely your desire to do better than that and as we proved that capability if and as we prove that capability guidance will reflect that.
Wendy on your first question first to be very clear about what I said it’s just a couple – two businesses had delivered their operating plans.
We would have achieved our internal goals of 4 7 5 operating okay and generated of course even more cash just two okay.
The issues were different in one business frankly they let their pricing get out of line and the thing that was frustrating about it is it was out of line and for whatever reasons I don’t feel like the team came to grips with that reality fast enough okay? It’s being fixed.
It happened before in this category we know how to fix it will get fixed.
And ironically it was a business that had like a 10 or 12 your run of very strong balanced growth and value creation.
In the other case we got our nose ahead of the tips of our skis on an investment in a new line of brands and products.
And we just need to get back to the discipline okay of testing and qualifying major investments that we are going to make.
Hey there is a lot of risk in the product innovation side.
There is a lot of risk when you are making investments in the marketplace but we try to and we have a track record of and when we are performing to our capability we do a reasonably good job of testing things before we expand them.
And we just got the investment way ahead of the actual results in the marketplace.
Those are the two.
The things I feel good about I should say is and my teams knows this is I actually feel very good that more of our businesses are executing better are sharpening their strategies and translating it into operating plans and that our execution is improving.
But hey this is an intensely executional industry and we just absolutely we have to be at the top of our game all the time.
And just one more point on this.
While we did have problems in a couple of businesses as AG described we had many businesses that had the best year they have had in a long time.
That’s right.
So for instance our Duracell business had a fantastic year.
Our salon professional business had one of its best years in quite a long period of time.
So there are many more things working than not working.
Your next question comes from the line Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
So A.G.
on the portfolio rationalization can you discuss why you are implementing it now the strategy makes sense but what’s kind of change is driving you to undertake this now.
You previously outlined that 90% of the business was core and you expected divestitures I am assuming the brand rationalization announcement today includes those businesses you already expected to divest or should we look at this as rationalization on top of that.
And then last just given the process will take one to two years are you committed to staying on board as CEO for as long as at least the bulk of the brand rationalization process takes? Okay.
Dara stop me if I don’t – if I don’t capture all of your questions.
Okay last question first the Board I am serving at the pleasure of the Board and we are criteria driven we are not schedule driven okay.
So obviously I wanted to drive this strategy and accelerate it but that’s totally driven by our understanding of shopper and consumer needs and wants and the realities okay of the marketplace whether we are talking about channels and customers whether we are talking about competitive factors or whatever.
So this is purely consumer market and competitive driven strategic choice.
Second thing is we are already underway okay.
So this is a continuation in acceleration.
I mean we are underway on the portfolio pruning I just want to accelerate it okay.
We are underway on the organization redesign I just want to accelerate it.
We are underway on the major restructuring and productivity savings that were announced 2 to 2.5 years ago.
I just want to get it to a logical end point for the first phase so that we can focus on operating with excellence and growing this business and performing at our peak.
And I am sorry the third part of the question was Dara remind me.
Just why now specifically I mean it makes sense but what drove you to make the change at this point? Okay.
Look in an ideal world okay in an ideal world we would have done this at the depth of the financial crisis and recession.
That would have been the perfect time to do with if you think about it right dramatically focus dramatically simplify.
Get the cash flowing right and then once the bank is full bide your time until the market starts to come again right that would have been perfect right.
If we work Monday morning quarterbacks I could look over the last 40 years that would have been the perfect time.
But I missed.
We missed some of that opportunity.
And frankly when you are in the middle of a financial crisis when you are watching oil approach $150 a barrel and chaos is reining around you in the biggest recession since the 30s you always – you don’t always have the time to think through or the resources to act on a transformation of this seismic scope.
But having said that I don’t see any reason to wait I don’t see any virtue in waiting another minute.
And I guess the last thing I would say is just think about what we are going to undertake.
I don’t want to go out and spend $1 billion round numbers on totally redoing the sourcing and supply chain in North America and do it for the wrong business shape and size that would be a terrible mistake right.
So in a lot of other places we are making investments that are going to make this company stronger help us operate better etcetera etcetera.
And we have to make sure that we are doing this for the business that we think we are going to have and we think we are going to run for at least the next five plus years or so.
Your next question comes from the line of Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Can you talk about what other strategies you considered why is this the right strategy and why doesn’t this at least in the interim take some focus away from fixing issues in the 70 to 80 brands that you are planning on keeping? I don’t see any trade off there Olivia.
In other words we will have more talent more resource in our financial and people against the 70 to 80 brands.
So I mean we are – we have been all over several of those businesses.
And frankly I am involved with 10 to 15 of them working with the leadership team.
So I don’t see any trade off.
Now I won’t tell you that there – that we haven’t taken on extra work for another year – year and a half maybe at most for parts of it.
As Jon said maybe the last disposals are as far as 18 to 24 months away.
But now job one is to take care of shoppers and consumers work with our customers and suppliers and deliver the operating plans and commitment on the 70 to 80 core brands that make up the portfolio that’s going to drive this company ahead.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
AG you highlighted P&amp;G following the consumer as it relates to innovation at the premium side of categories and at higher price categories and I think you called out the success of innovation in high end laundry as an example.
Now I understand like you don’t report laundry standalone but fabric and home was up 1% organically the Nielsen data in the U.S.
shows share erosion even following the launch activity obviously there was a lot of competition there with lot of deep discounting you responded that your own deep discounting I guess is this an anomaly what’s happened in this category like how do you reconcile that the view that innovation is successful at the high end at least in this category? Okay.
Chris let’s go through this one in some detail because I think it’s instructive.
And if you have the patience we will go through one or two others because I think they are instructive too.
I would like to just take U.S.
laundry and let’s go back to about a year ago in early September when we were at Barclays.
And you may recall that we announced a series of fabric care category brand and product innovations that would be coming to market in the middle or end of the first quarter of 2014.
I think we said at that time that they included the extension and expansion of our Pods product innovation to Gain and Ariel and two other countries like China and Japan which I spoke.
We announced strengthening of our heavy duty liquid product offerings the so called value added offerings to meet consumer needs that were unmet and we announced the introduction of Tide Simply Clean &amp; Fresh to meet unmet consumer needs and mid-tier segment and category.
I think at the time we pointed out that virtually all of the category growth and most of our P&amp;G sales growth and value creation would come from the Pods and the value-added heavy duty liquid brands and product lines.
So let’s look at when happened while in September and October the media and many of our analysts commented on the program and 95% of the commentary was on Tide Simply Clean.
In October November and December our three main economy competitors all unleashed a series of essentially price rollbacks and price discounting and temporary promotion after temporary promotion all of which has continue to present.
We started shipping in mid to late February.
And frankly we couldn’t keep up with all demand of customers.
So we were probably well established in stores that retail by March and the beginning of April.
Now let’s look at what’s going on with the market shares week-by-week from let’s say the time that we really got established by retail.
Well lo and behold we’ve increased market share every week okay and if you look at our past 52 week share and compare it to our past four week share were up a full share point.
Now what else went on in the market well with all of that spending by the economy players they essentially took dollars out of the category which concerned some of the retailers and basically they traded cases dollars and share and made less profit on the ones they trade it.
So yes there was a winner in that group but they were also losers in that group.
I think there is some indication.
We think there is some early indication that may be we’ve reached the point where it’s pretty clear about what the middle and premium part of this category is going to look like and what the economy part of this category is going to look like.
And then if we turn to Tide Simply I think we said last September that the worst case scenario would be – we get a big share and we cannibalize from ourselves.
While we’ve gotten a medium size share frankly about what we thought it might be and we still don’t know where to land up because it’s still only got 50 plus percent retail distribution and relatively low travel rates among its target but over 60% of it has been net extra to us.
So I don’t look at this week versus the same week year ago.
I don’t look at this quarter versus the same quarter a year ago.
I look at shares overtime.
We’re on our way we think back to 60 a share we have only had 60 a share of dollars a few times in the history of this company and in fact peak it’s not a 62 to 63 when one of our principle competitors withdrew from the market back in 2007.
But we have a higher share the higher share we’ve ever had at the value created.
So that’s how we think about it.
I know I’ve gone on a bit but I just want to mention a couple of others so that you get the point.
We didn’t talk about at this morning.
But in our diaper business in the U.S.
and North America we’d rather quietly move back to share leadership which we lost 20 years ago when our competitors brought training pants to market and we recaptured it in the last 18 months and we’ve opened up a spread of almost 6 share points on diapers and I think a couple of share points plus on the whole baby care category that counts wipes and some of the other product lines.
But how do we do that okay how do we do that without pants? Well we did it because our baby stage of developments line of product and particularly Swaddlers which is unique consumer preferred etcetera has just cumulatively year-after-year slowly but surely increased its trial increased its share and is now just in and of its own right a $600 million sub-brand that we think now that we offer Swaddlers on all sizes now we are finding moms actually prefer the designs could become a $1 billion business.
So my only point is I want to look at the cumulative impact of our brands and our products.
Last point in 2007 we introduced a novel totally new proprietary product and technology on Always.
It was called Infinity.
I think we weren’t as clear as we could be with consumers about what the product was and what it did but without boring you in all the details it is a very unique ultra-thin phone product far and away the best absorbing.
This past year we had all kinds of issues trying to get a totally new technology in manufacturing process started up.
We struggled as I said to connect with consumers but this last year we did over $200 million on Always Infinity.
We have now expanded into parts of Asia and parts of Europe.
It represented 15% to 20% of our growth.
It’s a clearly superior product.
Women who have tried it and purchased it are repurchasing it at a rate of 60% to 70%.
So I actually see across most of our categories brands and products that are really unique and/or highly differentiated that when properly presented to consumers when the values clearly explained and if they have a chance to try it that we can drive a lot of conversion.
And final point I am not going to take you through the details but virtually every brand and product line we sell even in the U.S.
is dramatically under-tried dramatically under-tried.
So we will be back at ensuring that consumers who are prospects for these brands and product lines have a chance to really try the product and give it a chance.
Sorry Chris I went on a long time but I wanted to make the broader point about brand differentiation product superiority and consumer preference.
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Yes thanks.
Hey AG maybe you can just provide a little bit more context on the streamlined portfolio will there be a geographic angle for this as well or is it just hey these are the 80 brands that we are going to focus on globally or if you look at it on India or Venezuela or Brazil are there certain brands that maybe you will pullback from even though they are a global brand? Thanks.
Okay.
Understandable question I am going to – hopefully I will be able to answer this as clearly as possible.
Remember Nik we are shopper and consumer driven.
And that means where all of the shopping and consumption occurs locally.
So if and when we get this right we will have the right mix of brands product lines and SKUs for China.
We will have the right mix for Brazil.
We will have the right mix for the Arabian Peninsula and Turkey.
We will have the right mix for India and the sub-Sahara.
Okay so this is totally shopper and consumer driven.
We looked at the real growth and value creation potential.
And as I pointed out these are brands that for sometime have not been delivering on that front okay.
So yes if we get this right we will have the right – we will not be short of brands or products to win in any market we choose to compete in.
And eventually I think as you know that’s going to mean all the emerging markets of the world because that’s where the demographics will be driving us.
That’s where the babies are born.
That’s where the households form.
That’s where incomes are rising.
So we think this positions us just as well in emerging markets as it does in any developed market.
And if you think about the screen we talked about earlier Nik which is businesses that play to our strengths.
Typically when we are operating the business that does play to our strengths we can operate that business globally.
And so this is not a – there is not a geographic frame to this.
It’s as AG said consumers shoppers match with P&amp;G strengths.
Yes.
And Nik just one more thing so again in our attempt to help everyone understand in some cases it’s simple.
We sell one brand name everywhere in the world Pampers Pantene okay.
In some we sell two Always Whisper.
In some of our lines in fabric in home in beauty and personal care we sell what we call clone brands.
Okay? So the principal brand might be Rejoice okay but we sell Rejoice under a different name okay in individual markets because that’s sort of the history of the brand.
We keep those brands same in laundry same in cleaning.
So we are very practical.
We are very consumer and customer driven.
And we worked outside in from the markets to our brands and then to our business categories and sectors.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
So before I get to the question and I often hate doing this but I think it’s worth just a comment because I have heard it from many investors.
I am not sure you did yourselves many favors on the – in the press release not talking about the quarter really at all.
So we all got to Page 13 or whatever it was saying that there is some rounding and beauty was down three but there is no explanation I am not sure you did yourself any favors.
So just for the sake of it heard from a lot of people want to put it out there.
The question though more is around just again learning more about this very interesting structural change.
So it feels like I think most people’s ingoing assumptions was 10% of the business that was going to be divested was going to be more along business segment lines.
And now I think you are flipping a little bit and talking about it from a branding line.
So I want to understand that if that’s true? And then a few questions that come out of that.
One is lots of changes and the rationale is focus which I get but where do you know where the right balance is? So why isn’t something even further like a bigger breakup not the right answer? How did you make that decision? And then also from a focus perspective if these brands are going to sell are about 10% of the sales 5% of operating profit can you give us a sense of how much of your time management’s time and resources were on those? And then last want to go back to a question from before I give you another chance if AG the Board says we want you here through this 12 to 24-month period big transition period we trust you to do this do you want to be there for that time? Thanks for all those.
Criteria-driven I am having fun.
I am full of energy.
I am 24/7.
So that will take care of the last one.
If my e-mail volume is any indication it just backs up what AG said he is here and working hard.
Second point Ali it’s strategy first structure second right.
Structure supports strategy.
Third point is ultimately it’s about competitive advantage and value creation right.
So we don’t see – we see competitive advantage in multi-industry sector participation.
We see competitive advantage in technologies that flow across categories and industries.
We see competitive advantage in sourcing as a company and providing information and other services as a company and purchasing as a company.
So when we do the math on the value creation we get to this choice strategic choice this set of businesses has the potential to be the biggest value creator right which should be in the interest not only of our company but also of our shareowners.
But yes I mean the balanced point is a very fair one and I am not going to tell you that any of us are good enough to get this precisely right.
And you know what we will adjust as we go.
I can’t tell you whether a 50-brand company might not be a little bit better than a 70-brand company if you see what I mean okay.
The last point to your direct question is the management distraction is episodic intermittent and not the driver.
The activity and complexity that clogs us up is the real issue okay.
Let’s just take SKUs okay.
I don’t know what the end result will be here it’s being worked business-by-business and iteratively but believe me the SKU reduction will be a lot bigger than the 10% up to sales line or revenue line.
Let’s take product lines the same okay.
So all of the sudden one of the reasons that a number of our businesses have performed better is because the businesses and the R&amp;D team and I all sat down in July and we sat down several times since and we just pruned out the bottom 10% 20% 30% 40% of the activity and focused on few others and that’s accelerated better products to market.
The businesses – some of the businesses that Jon mentioned in other businesses that did really well this last year didn’t well because there were extremely focused.
And the last point and I could use the whole bunch of different examples here when you’re carrying the bag I’ll use the old metaphor with all the P&amp;G brands and product lines in it to distributor or wholesaler to one of our sophisticated retail customers believe me it is a huge advantage to be selling fewer leading consumer and shopper preferred brands and product lines.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Steib with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Thank you good morning.
I have a couple of questions please.
AG you mentioned you emphasized really the importance of having the right balance between premium priced products on the one hand and affordable products on the other hand where the consumer demands it.
I was wondering in the core brand portfolio of 70 to 80 brands that you have identified now.
Do you think that that balance is right at this point? And in other words should the sort of negative mix effect on the top line going forward be less of a headwind once you’ve gone through these various disposals? That’s my first question.
And then Jon forgive me just for asking a financial question but given your outlook for fiscal ‘15 you suggested that essentially the top line growth is going to be against tough comps in the first half and cost savings will build through the year? Should we therefore expect earnings growth to be sort of flattish in the first half and it all comes good in the second half? Thanks.
A couple of things and one on the expectation of the reduction and negative mix on the top-line as we go forward that will in all likelihood continue.
We’ve been pretty clear about that.
It’s driven by disproportionate growth in developing markets which we expect to continue and as we move consumers up those portfolios overtime that impact will lesson as developed market growth is reintegrated that dynamic will lessen but it has been with us and we’ll likely be with us for some period of time.
On the guidance question we’re not providing quarterly guidance but all dynamics that you talked about are the right ones.
I think you focus on the right things and I’ve encouraged you to follow-up with the IR team later today.
And I’ll let AG to handle the question on whether we’re priced right broadly.
Yes Michael let me try to make the couple of strategic points and then I’ll try to give you some insight into where we think we are at this moment in time.
The first thing is incredibly important and often not well understood and that is the issue in our industry in household products and personal care products is almost always consumer perception of value and value has different drivers in different categories and different brands.
Price is one of them.
Okay price is one of them but brand awareness and trial rates and household penetration brand equity okay product performance also are incredibly important.
Second point we have a huge opportunity to get a lot clearer with consumers about what the value equation really is.
I am going to give you a specific example from Gillette.
We talked earlier that we just introduced FlexBall and it’s off to a good start.
We will see how it does.
Alright.
We did pre-market research in a blind context so they don’t know what the brand is and the new FlexBall razor was preferred 2 to 1 by system users versus the best performing product in the market which happened to be our ProGlide.
We are now in the market four six eight weeks.
We went out and did a 400 male person panel where we asked them to use the new FlexBall razor versus whatever they are using today.
So we had disposable users.
We had shave club users.
We had system users.
We had electric razor users.
95% of them preferred a FlexBall 95%.
Interestingly a lot of disposable users by the way half of the world okay uses the disposable razor today.
The interesting thing is disposable users often say they use disposables because they think it shaves just as well as a system many of them have never used a system.
And they think it’s a better value.
So their first belief if they try and use the FlexBall they see it is a totally different experience and result.
And then the second thing is when you ask them what they think the prices or the cost is or the value is they always say it’s way more expensive when we tell them.
You can have a cartridge for $1 a week they are astounded and then we show them the math.
So my only point here is if you just read the Wall Street Journal okay or if you just listen to the anecdotes in the Street or if you look at the $50 for 10 cartridge pricing in some retail establishments you may perceive that the price is high but the actual price per use and the actual quality and performance of the use is better.
And that’s incredibly important.
Now that the direct question I said in my prepared remarks where in some businesses where the price point doesn’t matter or in fact a higher price point is better.
I saw more SK-II when my price point is better.
We sell a lot of Oral-B electric toothbrushes at very high price points and I could go on and on throughout our line.
But if you step back and look at all of our businesses around the world we are in the best shape we have been in three years in terms of our relative pricing.
In other words we have the smallest percentage of our total business that has a price gap and is losing share.
And here is the important part.
The three biggest opportunities are tissue towel in North America which is Bounty and Charmin and laundry which Chris asked me about earlier all of which are being addressed okay.
Interesting point there on laundry is major retailers are sort of discounting Tide 15% to 20%.
It’s still a better deal for them because Tide at a 15% discount is the higher price and generates more value for them than the balance of the category.
Last point on this one the number of opportunities we have where we are priced low where we should be or mixing below where we should be are as large or greater than the opportunities we have to adjust our price.
And your final question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Please proceed.
Believe it or not a few more questions if I could.
First Jon maybe I missed it but did you offer any cost or timing estimates associated with the supply chain restructuring that you are undertaking.
And then second taking a step back you are clearly making progress on the cost cutting especially in SG&amp;A but the top line continues to lag a bit this quarter it does feel like you rounded up 2% organic growth in the quarter so does it make sense to drop all these marketing efficiencies to the bottom line or should you be reinvesting even more aggressively.
And then lastly maybe related to that AG as you said it all starts with the consumer and you guys have been long known for leading consumer insight capabilities so what specifically is the consumer telling you that you need to do better in the market that you are not doing and maybe you can just talk about that in the context of beauty for example? Thanks.
In terms of the marketing I mean we are perfectly happy to reinvest and are looking for opportunities to reinvest and feel that we can do that and continue to become both more effective and more efficient.
We are going through a transformation in this industry that we want to take advantage of while remaining fully in front of consumers with our marketing efforts.
And so we look at things like the reach the frequency the targets that we are reaching the conversion rates on the messaging and that’s much more important than actual dollars spent given what’s happened in that industry.
But you should not mistake this for a second as lack of willingness to invest behind smart ideas to build the top line.
Yes.
We are maintaining or increasing our investment in marketing that works and we are driving for savings and frankly non-working dollars or other efficiencies that you get from the move to more digital mobile social etcetera.
On the consumer insight side that is the focus the full focus of a lot of people in this organization.
And again I think we had a lot of activity going on and we weren’t relentless about digging digging digging for shopper insights and consumer insights.
Very simple thing the mindset at Gillette was to test the new system with system users.
You sort of slap yourself in the forehead and say well wait a second.
Everybody grooms some people do a clean shave some people do a sculptured groom in the face.
Some people body groom.
Let’s first of all understand what the job to be done is.
And then second of all let’s make sure we are putting together instruments okay and experiences that meet all the needs.
So I mean we are going to sell an opening price point disposable razor from Gillette at I don’t know $2 to $3 and we will take you all the way up to $200 to $300 if you want to buy art of shaving product or a top of the line Braun product.
Specifically regarding beauty look here is the headline on beauty.
In terms of value creation they were one of the better performing sectors this last year.
Unfortunately it was a little unbalanced too much of the value creation came from cash and profit improvement although I will take it and there is a lot more there.
Secondly the progress we are making okay.
The Old Spice and Safeguard some of the hair care brands we had – we showed some real progress on Pantene in a lot of important countries around the world still not the progress I would like.
In the U.S.
we had a little bit of share pickup in the first quarter which excited some of our competitors and turned into a second quarter that was heavily promoted but anyway we will get through that.
But Pantene is growing very strongly in important places like Brazil it was growing in – sequentially in China it’s growing and in a lot of developed and emerging markets.
And I can see the product program starting to come.
Head &amp; Shoulders has just gone from strength to strength.
Herbal is growing again.
Vidal is growing again in key markets.
So I think that’s going to come.
And then before the year was out even on Olay which is still struggling we have some real encouragement in a couple of places.
We had two of the top five new facial cleanser products two of the top five new facial moisturizer products.
And this line called Luminous is actually driving a little bit of share growth in the past couple of months.
So the bigger point okay the bigger point is the one you made which is everything begins with shopper understanding and consumer understanding.
And when we have it and understand it that informs importantly and allows us to do a much better job with our brand idea and our product pipeline and portfolio.
I want to thank everybody for joining us this morning.
I realized we didn’t get to everybody.
It’s a cheap substitute but I am available the balance of the day.
Don’t hesitate to call John and the team are here as well.
And we thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Procter &amp; Gamble’s Quarter End Conference Call.
Today’s discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G’s most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.
Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings adjusted for impairment charges.
Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
Currency neutral refers to the equivalent GAAP measure excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate changes.
P&amp;G has posted on its Web site www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G’s Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Good morning.
July to September was a challenging quarter from a macro standpoint with slowing market growth in both developed and developing regions.
Strong foreign exchange headwinds market level challenges in the Ukraine Russia and the Middle East Venezuela Argentina and Hong Kong and increased consumption taxes in several large markets including Japan and Mexico.
Despite this we were able to deliver top and bottom-line results for the July-September quarter which were in line with our going-in expectations.
Organic sales grew 2% and were in line or ahead of year ago in all reporting segments.
Organic volume was in line with the prior year pricing added more than a point to sales growth and sales mix was positive.
All-in sales were roughly equal to prior year including more than a point of headwind from foreign exchange and the impact of brand divestitures.
Core earnings per share were $1.07 up 2% versus the prior year.
Excluding FX core earnings per share grew 9%.
Core gross margin was up 20 basis points cost savings up approximately 140 basis points and benefits from pricing were partially offset by foreign exchange higher commodity costs innovation and capacity investments and negative margin mix.
Core SG&amp;A cost as a percentage of sales increased 30 basis points 70 basis points of overhead savings and 50 basis points of marketing savings were more than offset by foreign exchange impacts and investments in R&amp;D and selling capabilities.
Total productivity savings in cost of goods sold and SG&amp;A were 260 basis points.
Core operating margin was down 20 basis points versus the prior year.
The effective tax rate on core earnings was about 23% nearly 2 points higher than the fiscal year guidance of about 21%.
September quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $0.69 which includes approximately $0.03 per share of non-core restructuring charges $0.04 per share of charges related to a change in the exchange rate at which certain historical Venezuela and receivables will be paid and a penny per share of benefit from earnings of the discontinued Pet Care operations also included is a $0.32 per share non-core non-cash charge to write down goodwill and certain intangibles of our Battery business.
Duracell is a strong brand equity in Personal Power an attractive business but we are writing the asset down to be more reflective of the value we'll receive and they recently announced sale of our interest in the Nanfu Battery joint venture.
We generated $3.6 billion in operating cash flow and $2.8 billion in free cash flow with 96% adjusted free cash flow productivity reflecting our focus on balanced growth and value creation.
This quarter is the best first quarter cash performance in the past five years improved results on payables including good progress on our supply chain financing program was a main driver of the strong cash performance.
We returned $4.2 billion of cash to shareholders including 1.8 billion in dividends and 2.4 billion in share repurchase.
In summary first quarter sales and core earnings growth were in line with going-in expectations and we continue to build on our strong track-record of cash productivity and cash return to shareholders.
We expect the headwinds facing our industry to continue.
We are consequently continuing to sharpen our strategies accelerate and increase productivity savings and strengthen our execution.
As we announced last quarter we’re taking an important strategy step-forward to streamline simplify and strengthen the Company’s business and brand portfolio.
We will become a simplifier and more focused company of 70 to 80 category-leading competitively-advantaged brands organized into about a dozen business units and four industry-based sectors.
We’ll compete in businesses that are structurally attractive and play to P&amp;G’s strengths where we can achieve sustainable advantage.
Every brand we plan to keep is strategic with a potential to grow and create value.
The core 70 to 80 brands are leaders in their industries categories or segments.
They are brands shoppers buy consumers use and customers support.
They’re leaders in brand equity awareness trial purchase and loyalty.
They’re leaders in product performance and product innovation and leaders in growth and value-creation.
Over the next 18 to 24 months we will create a faster growing more profitable Company that is far simpler to operate.
In the September we complete the exit of the Pet Care business.
We closed the divestiture of the Americas Pet business to Mars in July.
Mars then executed their option to purchase the business in Asia and last month we signed an agreement to divest the European Pet business to Spectrum Brands.
All remaining elements of these transactions should close in calendar year 2015 pending regulatory approval.
We generated very good value in this three-stage transaction earning more than a 20x EBITDA multiple on past three year average results.
The Pet Care exit transitions seven brands to new owners.
In total over the last five quarter we have divested discontinued or made decisions to consolidate about 25 brands.
Today we are announcing the exit of the Personal Power or Battery business.
Our goals in this process are to maximize value to P&amp;G’s shareholders and minimize earnings per share dilution.
There are two steps to this plan.
In late August we finalized an agreement to sell our interest in a China-based battery joint venture in a cash transaction.
The second step is the exit of the Duracell business.
Although no decision has been on the form of exit our preference is currently a split-off of the Duracell business into a standalone company.
Duracell is the global battery market leader with attractive operating profit margins.
It’s a brand equity and products innovation leader in the category with a history of strong cash generation.
It will receive greater priority and attention as its own company.
If we choose to pursue a split-off transaction P&amp;G shareholders will be given the option of exchanging some none or all of their shares for P&amp;G for shares in the newly formed Duracell Company.
P&amp;G’s outstanding share count would be reduced by the number of P&amp;G shares exchanged.
The exact exchange ratio will be set just prior to the completion of the transaction which we expect will occur in the second half of calendar 2015.
While a split-off is our preference any alternative exit scenario that generates equal or better value will be fully considered.
We are developing incremental savings plans to offset standard overheads that remain in our core cost structure to minimize the dilutive impact of exiting the Duracell business.
For the time being Duracell will continue to be reported in our core results.
As we continue to strengthen our category and brand portfolio we will strengthen and focus our brand building and product innovation efforts and investments against our biggest opportunities.
We are committed to be the brand and product innovation leader in the categories in which we compete.
Year-after-year decade-after-decade successful brand building and supported by product innovation has built our businesses transformed our categories and created entirely new businesses.
Innovation vast commoditization stimulates category growth and builds accumulative advantage of our brands overtime.
With branding and product innovation we built leading positions in laundry and many markets.
In the U.S.
we have nearly a 60% share of the U.S.
laundry market sales and earn about 85% of the profit in cash generated in the category.
We launched our North American Fabric Care brand and product innovation bundle about 8 months ago and upgraded Tide Plus line up that make our best liquid detergents even better.
Gain Flings that accelerate consumer conversion to new premium unit dose detergents.
Tide Simply Clean &amp; Fresh that provides value to our consumers and new and better option from a brand they aspire to use new sizes in scents of Downy Unstopables and Gain Fireworks and the addition of Bounce Bursts to the scent portfolio.
Innovations like these build on the consumer and competitive advantages our brands have created over decades.
Innovations like these enable us to earn a leading share of market sales and an even greater share of market profit and value creation.
Innovations like these stimulate market growth.
They spark new consumer interest in the category and grow market baskets.
They trade consumers up to higher performing products.
Tide Pods and Gain Flings are priced at more than double the average price per load in the detergent category and are still very affordable for the vast majority of consumer households.
Over the last 30 years the price of a load of laundry has lagged the price of cheese or eggs and is a much better value than a cup of coffee or a bottle of soda.
The U.S.
category’s two biggest laundry brands Tide and Gain have each grown market share over the past 4 13 26 and 52 week periods.
Tide value share was up 2 points for the quarter.
Tide Simply Clean &amp; Fresh is nearly a 3 share with cannibalization results better than expected.
Distribution of Simply Clean &amp; Fresh continues to grow with a top U.S.
retailer expanding to full national distribution earlier this month.
P&amp;G’s unit dose business across Tide and Gain is 9% share of the total U.S.
detergent market.
We have over 75% share of the unit dose form.
We are continuing to leverage our consumer preferred unit dose form with Tide Free &amp; Gentle Pods which started shipping in July.
Just over a year ago we introduced a broad range of Baby Care products innovation in North America.
Nearly every Diaper across all sizes and price peers was improved to deliver better absorbency comfort or design.
Our premium mom preferred Diaper design Swaddlers was extended in the sizes 4 and 5 and subsequently size 6.
P&amp;G’s U.S.
market-leading Diaper share is now nearly 44% up more than 3 points versus a year ago.
On a global basis P&amp;G has about 35% of the global Diaper share and earns about half the profit in the category.
We’ve built this leading Baby Diaper business despite the absence of a consumer preferred pant style Diaper offering.
We’re now launching Pampers Premium Care Pants beginning in Russia.
Pampers Pants provides exceptional skin comfort and dryness benefits in an underwear-like design that should add to cumulative products and equity advantages we’ve established with Pampers.
Gillette has a long history of innovation blades and razors that reset the performance standards in the industry.
Overtime we’ve earned nearly a 70% share of blades and razor sales globally and a 90% share of value and profit.
ProGlide FlexBall our newest innovation is the first razor designed to respond to the contours of men’s face maintaining maximum contact and delivering a closer and more complete and comfortable shave.
Every man has a different shaped face One Gillette FlexBall and cartridge delivers a uniquely better closer more comfortable shave for everyone.
Prelaunch testing indicated men preferred FlexBall 2:1 versus the bestselling razor in the world our own Fusion ProGlide.
Post-launch men who have used FlexBall indicate closer to a 90% preference rate.
Trial has come from across the category with an encouraging 25% from disposable users.
In the four months since launch we’ve seen an improvement in U.S.
blades and razors market growth including more than a 25% spike in razor sales and have seen sequential improvement in our razor shares over the past 12 6 and 3 month periods.
Gillette earned nearly 80% of the male razor sales and nearly 90% of male cartridge sales in the U.S.
last quarter.
We’ll begin the global expansion of ProGlide FlexBall early next calendar year.
Also next year we’ll extend our breakthrough FlexBall technology to women with our market-leading Venus brand.
FlexBall offers clear benefits to women helping them to easily manage tricky spots such as knees and ankles.
Women who have tried the new razor love it preferring it 3:1 over the current global bestselling women’s razor Venus Embrace.
We believe we can grow the adult incontinence category with innovation transform the desired consumer experience and increase consumer customer and shareholder value.
This is currently an attractive $7 billion global category growing in an annual rate of 7%.
Women aren’t satisfied with current product offerings 1 in 3 women over 18 years old suffers from incontinence but only 1 in 9 uses an adult incontinence product of any kind.
That spells consumer dissatisfaction which spells opportunity for P&amp;G.
We’re entering the category with superior pad and pant-style products that deliver better fit and protection from Always a brand that women trust and prefer.
We began shipments of Always Discreet in the UK in July where market growth is accelerated by 20% since our launch.
We have quickly grown to over 9% value share.
We started shipping Always Discreet in North America and France in August in less than two full months in the market.
The U.S.
adult incontinence market growth rate has accelerated to 10% and we’ve grown to over a 7% value share.
Last month we launched Crest Sensi-Stop Strips providing unprecedented tooth sensitivity relief.
Unlike toothpaste that takes several weeks to reduce sensitivity and need to be used twice per day one Sensi-Stop Strip applied for 10 minutes provides immediate relief and up to one month of protection from sensitivity pain for sound consumers.
This is another significant market growth opportunity nearly 60% of American’s suffer from sensitive teeth but only 4 in 10 are satisfied with their available sensitivity product solutions.
Our focus now is on driving awareness and trial of this revolutionary new treatment for tooth sensitivity sufferers.
In July we introduced QlearQuil a product innovation that extends Vicks into allergy treatments.
This innovation leverages a very strong and trusted Vicks band equity across a variety of products including nighttime daytime and 24-hour treatments.
QlearQuil is a great product for the numerous occasional sinus and allergy sufferers who only want relief when they need it and don’t want or need everyday preventative dosing.
In September we launched a new bundle of Metamucil brand.
This includes a base brand restage of Metamucil fiber with a new satiety benefit of helps you feel less hungry between meals.
In addition to its current heart health blood sugar and digestive health benefits.
Meta Bars our new fiber bar form that fit with consumer lifestyles and capitalize on the rapid growth of the health bar meal supplement and snack category.
MetaBiotic is a new probiotic that puts Meta into the fast growing immunity benefit space.
As I said earlier we’re committed to be the brand and product innovation leader in our categories and we’re increasing investment behind it.
The best companies in any industry find a way to lead brand product and business model innovation and productivity returning productivity into core strength of P&amp;G making it a systemic and enduring value creation pillar alongside innovation.
We have significantly accelerated and will significantly exceed the $10 billion cross savings goal we set 2.5 years ago.
We’re driving cost of goods savings well above the original target run rate of $1.2 billion per year.
We’ll be above target again this year for the third consecutive year with strong savings across materials manufacturing expense and logistics.
We expect to improve manufacturing productivity by at least 6% again this year reducing staffing even as we add capacity and start-up new production modules.
We have begun work and what is probably the biggest supply chain redesign in the Company’s history moving from primarily single-category production sites to fewer multi-category production plans.
The supply chains will be informed excuse me the supply chain plans will be informed by portfolio decisions that we have made.
We build the supply chain around the future portfolio not the one we have today.
We are taking the opportunity to simplify standardize and upgrade manufacturing platforms.
For faster innovation qualification and expansion and improved product quality.
We are transforming our distribution network in the United States consolidating customer shipments into fewer distribution centers.
These centers are strategically located closer to key customers and key population centers enabling 80% of the business to be within one day of the store shelf and the shopper.
We now have two our new U.S.
distribution centers up and running and we will open the other four in early 2015.
Earlier this month we announced steps to streamline our distribution network in France consolidating to fewer larger distribution centers.
The distribution network projects will allow both P&amp;G and our retail partners to optimize inventory levels while still improving service and on-shop availability and reducing in-store out-of-stocks.
We have now established a $1 billion to $2 billion value creation target for our global supply chain reinvention effort.
We have doubled the associated cost of goods savings target from this global effort from 200 million to 300 million up to 400 million to 600 million in annual savings building to this target level over the next three years to five years.
These savings are incremental to the $6 billion of cost of goods savings we originally communicated and are on-track to exceed.
We expect addition top and bottom-line benefits from improved service levels.
We have reduced non-manufacturing enrollment by 16% in three years enabled by several important organization design choices.
We have organized around four industry-based sectors we are streamlining and de-duplicating the work of business units and selling operations.
We have consolidated a four brand building functions into one.
Each of these changes reduces complexity and each creates clear accountability for performance and results.
A more focused portfolio of brands and businesses will enable further changes.
In the first quarter we again reduced enrollment versus the prior quarter despite the addition of many of this year’s new hires to our enrollment ranks.
We have additional opportunity to improve marketing efficiency in both media and non-media areas while increasing overall marketing effectiveness and the strength of our programs.
We continue to drive marketing productivity through an optimized mix driven by new more efficient digital mobile and social media.
We are making targeted reinvestments to support strong innovation.
We increased marketing support behind the Tide brand in the U.S.
by 60 basis points last year and increased Campus market in the U.S.
by 230 basis points.
As we generate efficiencies we will look for good opportunities to put some of those savings back to work to improve top-line growth.
The final priority that I will touch on this morning is execution.
The only strategy our consumers and customers actually see.
We are bringing a renewed focus to brands building leadership brands with iconic equities that become the prototype in their categories consistent expression of the brand promise with ideas that attract consumers to the brand’s superior benefit.
Create trial ongoing preference and lasting loyalty.
Building trial with targeted advertising and sampling is a significant opportunity for many of our brands.
For example thousands of recent male high school graduates will receive ProGlide FlexBall razors.
The babies in the 80% to 90% of new moms in the U.S.
will try Pampers while they are in the hospital.
Many buyers and new dishwashers or a cloth washing machines will have to opportunity to try our best Cascade and Tide product innovations.
We are focusing selling resources to improve coverage expertise and execution in the key retail channels wholesalers and distributors that make a difference.
This will lead to improve distribution shelving merchandising and pricing execution to consistently win at the first moment of truth.
We are and will continue to increase the amount of sector and category dedication of our salesforce to improve category expertise and tenure and increase channel coverage.
Improving our branding and selling execution will be significantly enabled by the business and brand portfolio focus we have embarked on.
The strategic strengthening of our portfolio innovation investment in core categories strengthened and accelerated productivity efforts and stronger marketing and selling execution should enhance our results.
We are operating though in an extremely difficult macro environment with an increasing number of issues.
In Russia the Ukraine the Middle East Argentina and Venezuela with the dollar that continues to strengthen with markets that continue to decelerate and with increasing commodity cost despite lower crude oil prices.
We are making targeted investments in our value equations and are increasing the level of investment in our brands and product innovation.
With all this considered we are maintaining previous organic sales and core earnings per share guidance ranges while we work to try to offset the macro headwinds with more productivity savings pricing for FX and market accretive innovation-enabled top-line growth.
Our forecast for organic sales growth remains at a range of low to mid single-digits.
We now expect foreign exchange to be a negative 2 point impact on sales growth and a 5 to 6 point headwind on core earnings per share growth.
This is roughly double the impact we had estimated last quarter.
We’re maintaining our core earnings per share growth guidance range of mid single-digits while FX currently skews us towards the lower end of this range we will do our best to try to offset these impacts with productivity savings and pricing without comprising increased investments and brand equities value equations innovation and selling capability.
This is what we were able to successfully do last year.
Excluding FX we’re now forecasting double-digit core earnings per share growth for the fiscal year.
On an all-in GAAP basis we expect earnings per share to be down 2% to 5% versus the prior fiscal year including approximately $0.55 per share of non-core items mainly $0.20 per of non-core restructuring costs and a $0.32 impairment charge.
We’re targeting to deliver about 90% free cash flow productivity.
We plan to offset additional capital investments with continued working capital improvements.
We plan to return this cash to shareowners through dividend payments of about 7 billion and share repurchase in the range of 5 billion to 7 billion.
Our guidance is based on mid-October foreign exchange spot rates.
Further significant currency weakness including Venezuela is not anticipated within our guidance range.
Our outlook is based on current market growth rates which we’re monitoring closely.
We also continue to monitor unrest in several markets in the Middle East and Eastern Europe and we continue to closely monitor markets like Venezuela and Argentina where pricing controls import restrictions and access to dollars present risk.
The guidance does not assume any impact from major portfolio moves including the sale of the Nanfu Battery joint venture.
We’ll update guidance for Nanfu one it closes and we’ll update for other transactions as they are decided and completed.
There are few things you should keep in mind as you construct your models for the remainder of the year.
Our top-line comps are more difficult in the second quarter versus the back of the year.
Benefits from new pricing to offset foreign exchange impacts at Venezuela and other markets will build throughout the year.
We expect significant top and bottom-line headwinds from foreign exchange in the October-December quarter.
At current FX rates we will annualize a portion of the FX headwinds in the back half and productivity savings will build as the year progresses.
We look forward to talking with you more about our strategies plans and progress and engaging with you on your questions at our Analyst Meeting here in Cincinnati on November 12th and 13th.
That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning.
As a reminder business segment information is provided on our press release and will be available in slides which we have posted on our Web site www.pg.com following the call.
Now I’d be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
Good morning Jon.
You walked through a lot of new innovation in your prepared remarks and it’s notable considering that this is the first time in a few years that mix has actually contributed to top-line growth but meanwhile volume continues to be flattish again so perhaps can you talk through how you think about the contributors to top-line growth going forward? And then following on that can you tell us what the breakout was in U.S.
growth versus emerging markets and given slowing macros can you talk about how growth progressed through the quarter? Thank you very much.
but as importantly base brand execution and brand building where we have significant opportunities also represent some opportunities for growth.
So that’s kind of without getting really specific how we’re thinking about driving growth forward.
And I think it’s important that we just step back a minute in the midst of some of the macro difficulties and reflect on opportunities for growth.
Developing markets are still growing mid to high single-digits depending on the market so while growth rates in our view are 1 to 2 points lower than they were a year ago there is still a lot of opportunity there.
And there are significant opportunities in developed markets.
It’s very early but we’re starting to see a little bit of uptick in the market growth rates in North America presumably driven by lower unemployment wage rates just beginning to increase and lower gasoline prices and hopefully that continues.
But even if that doesn’t there are still significant opportunities for growth in developed markets.
Just one example think about the Asian demographic there are 10 000 Americans everyday crossing the 65 years old line and we talked in our prepared remarks about the adult incontinence opportunity.
The tooth sensitivity opportunity with Crest Sensi-Stop Strips is also should benefit from that demographic shift and even things like Tide PODS which are more convenient from a carrying and handling standpoint for older body’s enhance will help us benefit from that demographic change.
So we continue to be very aware of the challenges we face but very hopeful about the opportunities that are in front of us.
In terms of the split developed and developing both North America and developed market’s total were essentially flat on the quarter in terms of organic sales growth with developing up 4%.
Gross margin performance clearly improved in the quarter it was up for the first in a year and a half year-over-year.
And I am guessing it was probably better or ahead of what you guys expected.
Can you discuss the key drivers behind that in terms of the sequential gross margin improvement? And if you think that’s sustainable going forward.
And then also just wanted to get an update on the drag you are experiencing from emerging markets growth in terms of gross margin mix and the progress you expect to make in emerging markets over the next couple of years on gross margins with more localized manufacturing?  The biggest driver as you would expect of the gross margin improvement was the productivity savings which were about 140 basis points.
There was also less difference if you will between developing market growth rates and developed market growth rates.
So part of the answer going forward depends on that dynamic.
And there was also an offset from foreign exchange.
So the dynamics going forward also depend on that dynamic.
We continue to focus on improving the profitability in developing markets so that growth there becomes less of a gross margin drag.
If you look the last two years and then what we are projecting this year two years ago we grew constant currency profits in developing markets 2 times faster than sales.
Last year we grew them 4 times faster than sales.
This year we are forecasting again to be about double the rate of sales growth.
So we are very intentional and very deliberate in our efforts to improve developing market margins to a point where they are not as much of a drag on mix.
But we are very happy with the gross margin performance.
We delivered I think on a fiscal year basis while we will continue to be volatile by quarter.
We should continue to see progress.
When you announced in August that you were going through this portfolio rationalization process you said that you wouldn’t be selling billion dollar brands basically and yet now we are getting the divestiture of the spin of Duracell.
So my question is does the target for the 10% number of sales that you are going to be exiting now go up to kind of 12% to 13% when you include Duracell or has there been some change in how you build off to that 10? Thanks.
You are right Wendy in referring to the Pareto of brands that we talked about that we have been re-divesting and we said there were many that were much smaller than they were those that were bigger.
But we didn’t say that there wouldn’t be any large ones if we did that was a misstatement.
But in terms of taking the number up no this is part of the plan and as I said we are about 25% of the way through the plan through the end of the quarter this is additive to that.
So we continue to make progress against that originally articulated plan.
There will be some larger businesses but the majority will be small.
And I apologize if we miss-communicated that previously.
Just following on Duracell why even though you have taken a decision to exit this business now is it still included in the ongoing operations? And then related to that at what point you are going to sort of tell us what level of operating profit you are essentially loosing by exiting that business? And then secondly are there significant stranded overhead costs that you are expecting in that disposal process?  U.S.
GAAP accounting requirements require that we account for something in a split-off context in continuing operations until a split-off is executed.
And that’s why it remains in continuing operations.
But as we execute the split-off or as we were to sign any other agreement the business would move into discontinued operations at that time.
In terms of stranded overhead there is some overhead that this business is absorbing.
As we talked in the last quarter we are going to do our best to offset that to help minimize dilution.
And in terms of what the dilution will ultimately be it’s really too early to give you helpful guidance on that because a lot of that’s going to depend on what form the transaction ultimately takes.
It will depend on the amount of shares that are exchanged and that exchange ratio which won’t be said until closer to the transaction itself.
So we will try to keep you updated as we have information.
But right now it would be a pretty wide range.
But again I think the takeaway is that we are committed both through the form of the transaction and through our efforts to reduce standard overhead to minimize that dilution number.
Jon can you talk a little bit more about the kind of the commodity basket and what you see over the next remainder of fiscal ’15 and clearly with oil coming down and diesel trades other than should be a tailwind but you kind of allude to there are some other headwinds so just trying to see what’s you’re seeing and what the next inflation will be this year? Yes we’re certainly hopeful that this becomes a tailwind overtime but it takes awhile for instance crude reductions to work their way through the refineries and there is a bit of a bottleneck right now in refining capacity in parts of the world which is why we’re not seeing the immediate flow through into our commodity cost base.
So our commodities currently are about a 2 to 3 point headwind versus last year and we’re seeing some moderation in a small decline for instance in diesel prices and hopefully that continues but we still have resins and polypropylenes due to the dynamic I mentioned earlier up fairly significantly versus year ago.
So hopefully that 2 to 3 point headwind is a worse case number and hopefully we get some help as things continue to evolve.
Two quick questions well one quick one probably a little bit longer.
First off can you talk a little bit about the sustainability of the working capital improvement that you saw this quarter there was a nice benefit year-over-year? And then the second question relates to the mix from a margin standpoint obviously it was better this quarter because emerging markets got worse let’s say you know but can you talk about some of the margin improvements you can make outside the U.S.
and outside of developed markets that will create a little less margin pressure particularly on the operating profit line as we look out over the next couple of years? Thanks.
Thanks John.
On the sustainability of working capital improvement side I view them as very sustainable.
Cash is one of our clear focus areas and we have some strong plans that are continuing to make progress.
The progress that we made in the quarter that we just reported was driven primarily by the supply chain financing program which has future benefits associated with it.
We’re not all of our way through that yet and those benefits are sustainable going forward.
On top of that as we execute our portfolio focusing program there is a significant opportunity that we’re committed to go after once we have rationalized the category and brand portfolio at the skew level and that also presents a significant inventory and working capital opportunity the bottom 5% of our skews in terms of movement not surprisingly account for a much greater percentage of our inventory so as we get after that there should be a benefit.
And third as I mentioned in our supply chain redesign efforts we’re hopeful we can take significant levels of inventory out of the total system and at the same time decrease shelf out-of-stocks improve customer service.
So there are a number of big drivers that we should have available to us to continue to make progress in that area which we’re committed to do impart to offset the impact of some of the capital spending that we’re doing in the supply chain redesign on a global basis.
In terms of what we can do in developing markets to reduce the margin mix impact as I mentioned in an answer to a prior question we’re making significant progress in this area on a constant currency basis.
2x the rate of organic sales growth two years ago 4x last year at least 2x again this year also some of the developing market investments that we made for instance the Oral Care investments those are beginning to accrete and that should be a source of help going forward.
The productivity savings are not simply a developed market dynamic.
They are equally a developing market dynamic on items like TDC items like marketing even in the non-manufacturing overhead arena.
And then as you know we’re also increasingly localizing our production.
We’ll be bringing some of the same redesign to parts of the developing world that we’re doing in the developed world today at least from a distribution center standpoint.
And so I see no reason why longer term developing markets margin should be a significant drag on earning though they will continue to be a negative drag in the near-term.
Jon I guess can you talk a little bit about beauty I guess in particular can you go through Pantene U.S.
which the scanner data looks a little better recently and then also Olay U.S.
your skincare in general U.S.
skincare in China? And then I guess maybe elaborate on the Prestige comments you made in the press release that’d be great? So if you look at beauty parts of that business are doing a fairly well.
We grew antiperspirant and deodorant mid single-digits cosmetics grew organic sales mid single-digits in the quarter with Max Factor growing shipments on a double-digit basis globally.
Safeguard was growing mid single-digits globally with double-digit growth in parts of the developing world.
And we had a pretty strong quarter on Hugo Boss which is largest Prestige fragrance.
Hair Care grew about 2% in the quarter.
We were very encouraged by the developments that you point out on Pantene in the U.S.
where volume was up 11% on the quarter.
As I have cautioned before this will be not be a straight line and competitive intensity in this category is significant but still forward progress is encouraging.
Olay remains work in progress.
We are making some good progress in addressing some of the consumer benefit segments that we had neglected and that are important in the category with items like Luminous with the items like Fresh Effects.
But we still have work to do both in North America and in China.
But sequentially quarter-on-quarter better results in beauty from a top-line standpoint and we are hopeful we can continue that.
A couple of questions just to sort of drill down more in the U.S.
can you just talk about some of the price interventions you discussed last quarter if they are done yet and kind of where they happened.
And then some of the personnel changes in the U.S.
and your views on the sustainability of the U.S.
recovery.
I know it’s like very nascent but curious why you think things are improving and then maybe how long you think it will last? And then lastly just urgency on some of the share losses in China and if you saw any material distributor destocking in any of the major emerging markets? Sorry for the long question.
Obviously pricing is a sensitive topic so I don’t want to get into really granular specifics.
But we did mention that we had made value equation interventions in both the laundry and the paper products businesses specifically tissue towel and toilet paper.
And those appear to have been going pretty well.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks we have built share on a almost in a period of time you can look at it in the last 52 weeks on both Gain and Tide.
Tide was up 2 points in the quarter.
And so we will continue.
We need to be competitive on pricing we will continue to be competitive.
But I think we are pretty much where we need to be.
I don’t see of course this changes on a daily basis.
But as we sit here today I don’t see any additional significant moves that need to be made.
In terms of personnel look we are just taking advantage of normal retirement and normal attrition to design the organization that’s going to lead this more focused more strategically-oriented company for a balanced growth and value creation.
And that’s what we are doing.
We are going to have a management team that’s going to manage this company that would be the same size as the team that existed in 2000 managing a company that’s 2x or actually more than 2x the size of the company in 2000.
And that’s the design intent.
In terms of China China continues to be an attractive market in our view it’s market where we’ve grown over 50% in the last four years.
Market growth continues the last quarter based on our look at our categories market growth was up was about 6%.
Our inventories are pretty much inline throughout the trade chain.
So we really have not I would view those destocking dynamics as company specific rather than systemic.
I was hoping maybe just to step back and put this quarter in a better context of all the improvement efforts that you are doing clearly there is lots of things that you have done internally over the 12 months that you summarized and that you view as positive in the re-org the supply chain restructuring.
Overall productivity focus you build the brand refocusing initiative et cetera.
I think all that’s good.
But despite that and despite the innovation successes and the brand strength that you ran through organic growth is still only rounding up to 2%.
Only two of the divisions grew this quarter.
And I guess that improved focus overtime an easier compares going forward should help but even many of the core brands you attempt to retain remain pretty sluggish and have been so for some time.
So I guess in that context what are you planning to do to change that paradigm.
Is it truly all about the better execution that you mentioned or they are things that consumers currently want from P&amp;G in certain areas that you are not delivering? Because I am trying to discern how much you can do to reaccelerate growth on your own versus how much such improvement is just more dependent on macro improvement? Thanks.
There is a lot that we can do on our own.
And that’s why I talked about the whole brand building and selling execution opportunity that’s completely within our control.
And I mentioned the sampling opportunities.
We have opportunities to continue to improve the quality and clarity of our communication with consumers.
We have significant opportunities which the supply chain redesign will help us address at the first moment of truth just in terms of out-of-stocks.
And generally while market growths have slowed consumers continue to be very responsive to innovation that increases the value of the product that they are purchasing.
If we’d look at the segments of our business that are growing the fastest and I’ve talked about some of them in the opening remarks many of those are premium priced items but come with product superiority and consumer benefit that more than justifies that price.
And put simply we believe that the antidote to relatively slow overall market sales or market growth is threefold it’s innovation it’s productivity and it’s execution.
And I would be remised if I didn't mention in this context that to the point of the prior question we still have work to do on our beauty business and on couple of other pockets of the business and that should also as we improve that make a significant different in our ability to grow not just at but ahead of -- slightly ahead of market growth rates.
May be just buck up on that a bit and let’s maybe focus on grooming because when you talk about some of the sampling opportunities some of them sounded familiar like things you’ve always done the babies in the hospital get Pampers you’ve got incredible reach there sending razors to boys when they turn 18 that dynamic so that’s not necessarily new so we focus a bit on grooming right that’s the trial opportunity.
You had massive innovation with FlexBall you gave some really positive statistics on the impact on the market yet few organic sales growth of the business was flat and it was all pricing and volume was down so just maybe focus on a particular business what was missing if FlexBall has been so successful thus far what’s missing that these numbers are numbers still so weak? Thanks.
Well I think there and it’s very early and you can imagine that most men have an inventory of blades at home that they have to work through before the real driver of growth in that market which is cartridge consumption takes place but we’re beginning to see an increase now in cartridge market share.
We’re up about 1.4 points in the quarter.
We’re also beginning to see a reduction in the rate of market decline in the grooming segment.
It was down as much as 6% to 7%.
Previously it’s down about 3% on a more recent basis and as low as past 1% in a couple of the recent months.
And remember as well that the FlexBall innovation is not only new to market it’s only in one country serving one gender.
And as I mentioned in my remarks we’ll begin globalizing this over the balance of starting in calendar year 2015.
We’ll bring the truly superior benefit of this product to women as well and so we’re early days in that whole dynamic.
Also remember that when we sell an initiative which we did with FlexBall in the last quarter there is an inherent acceleration of sales into the quarter as we work to stock the shelves and fill the supply chain.
So grooming organic growth last quarter was 7%.
If you look at it on a two quarter average basis which I think is a more representative way to look at it given the initiative dynamics it’s in pretty good shape.
How many more businesses are there in your portfolio like the one in China that led to almost billion dollar non-cash impairment charge? As you can imagine we do impairment testing on a routine basis.
We disclosed in our last K that that there was some risk on the Duracell evaluation that we had very cushion.
And then the selling price that we generated and the impacts of decision to sell which frankly changed some of the impairment testing criteria led to that impairment.
You will notice in our disclosures that there are no other businesses that we’re disclosing a similar risk on it doesn’t mean there will never be one but as we sit here today actually that is very low risk.
So I just wanted to tack onto Bill Schmitz’s question regarding the personnel changes and if you could just talk about just along two vectors one is just near-term disruption and how we should be thinking about that as you have new folks kind of getting into new roles and getting up the learning curve? And then the second question is as you streamline P&amp;G’s decision makers and operating model have you thought about changing incentive structures and anyway shape or form just to kind of get people focused on the right behaviors and the right geographies and the right product categories? Thanks.
So I am not terribly concerned about near-term disruption.
I think it’s a fair question Nick but there are many more people continuing to do their jobs and people changing jobs.
And the people that are changing jobs are better and experienced pros in almost every case.
So it’s something that we need to stay deliberate and intentional on not dropping any balls.
But I am really that concerned about that.
Again it’s I meant no way to dismiss the question I think it’s a very fair question.
But I think we are in a good shape.
In terms of rewards and incentives that’s something that we are always looking at that’s something that the Compensation Committee at the Board is always looking at.
I don’t have a specific change to announce today but it’s something that continues to receive the appropriate levels of attention.
I would like to circle back on an earlier question on beauty.
Specifically Prestige I don’t think I heard you discuss the drivers of weakness there.
And I was hopeful you could elaborate.
And then more broadly based on your 10-K disclosures this has been a business with pretty inconsistent performance in the past and obviously it serves a non-core retail customer for you.
So in that context can you walk us through the rational and maybe the puts and takes of why either should or shouldn’t be considered in your portfolio rationalization initiatives?  Thanks for re-asking the question on the trends in the quarter.
Jason I appreciate that I Bill asked such a long question I’d forgotten that part.
And that is not a dig on you Bill.
The biggest driver frankly is a base period dynamic where we had a strong innovation on both Gucci and Lacoste in the year ago quarter and there was less of that this quarter.
As you can understand maybe not appreciate I really don’t want to spend a lot of time talking about specific businesses and their role in the portfolio as we are going through all that changes that we are going through.
We will announce moves and decisions as they occur and we will try to be very clear as to what the rationale is.
And I will leave it there.
Jon a question on the savings and your decision of having double-digit earnings growth in this environment okay currency neutral could you tell us how much savings you striked at this quarter.
And remind us what is the target for the year? And to what extent there is reinvestment allocated in these double-digit earnings growth target at this stage of the turnaround.
My peers are alluding to the very low top-line growth the 2%? Okay thank you.
Thank you Javier.
In the quarter there were about 250 basis points of savings across cost of goods and SG&amp;A.
And a not insignificant portion of that was reinvested.
I talked about the investment levels that we have increased behind Tide when we have strong innovation.
We are going to invest behind it.
We did the same on Pampers and have continued spending to drive that business increase consumer awareness increase household penetration.
I also mentioned that I didn’t give it a lot of time so I understand how we could have crossed over it.
But we are being very intentional in reinvesting in two areas.
One in the SRA area one is in R&amp;D to bring even more innovation to market that’s more relevant for consumers and it improves realize in an even stronger way and in our selling execution assuring that we have got sufficient channel coverage in the channels that are growing in that matter ensuring that we have an appropriate level of category knowledge and dedication.
So we will reinvest when there are good opportunities and which we feel we can drive a strong return.
I wanted to follow-up on an earlier question on beauty and Prestige in particular.
Curious about the recently announced decision to consolidate leadership of the salon and global Prestige units under one person is there a change to how the company is thinking about managing one or both of those units? And then also just quickly anything to read into in the change in the name of that beauty hair and now personal care segment from beauty previously?  I am not in any way trying to back hand the answer to that question.
But there is really not a lot of significance in either of those.
This is Patrice Louvet that you are referring to will be managing those three businesses.
He has a strong track-record within the Company.
He has managed our fragrance business our Prestige business previously.
And he is going to be great going forward.
Hi good morning.
My question is about what you think your category growth rate was globally in the quarter.
I am trying to figure out if you gained or lost share in this quarter? And then are still holding the category growth rate of 2% to 3% for fiscal ’15? And has there been any change in your outlook for category growth rate in the U.S.
versus emerging regions for this year? Thank you.
Okay so overall category growth rate was 2.5% and that’s kind what we’re expecting.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks we’re basing our guidance on the current market growth rates we see which are those.
I also mention that we are -- sorry I might have not mentioned but we’re seeing a slight uptick in growth rates in North America which is encouraging.
We’re talking share fairly modest and as I have said in other calls this is tended to be choppy in the past so it’s up one quarter down the next we’ll see but that’s a reason to have a degree of hope there.
And in terms of where we’re gaining and losing share generally we’re doing we’re about flat in North America we’re up a little bit in Europe we’re down a little bit in a couple of the developing markets and that gets you back to even.
This goes to both Olay and the Baby Care business and you had mentioned you’re looking how to improve your selling execution in the face of new channel development so in China in particular the explosion of online sales and mummy stores beauty shops just could you dive into a little deeper how much that has disrupted the business in China in particular if I look at Baby I think you had flat volume in the quarter and yet you did very well in the U.S.
in Baby so that would be helpful? Thank you.
First of all those the channels that you mentioned are very relevant channels and they’re growing very quickly and we have as you can imagine deliberate efforts to participate in that growth.
Also e-commerce is growing very-very quickly in China it’s about 40% of the growth in the market and we’re very well represented there as well.
In terms of the difference between Baby share development in the U.S.
and China first of all we remain by a wide margin the market leader in Baby Care in China.
The competitive sets are different between China and the U.S.
and as a result you would expect some different dynamics.
But we continue to be very encouraged about the business in both areas and that’s really what I have to say.
So I wanted to get a better understanding of where you think you are versus plan in the turnaround the day you came back.
And I think about it along the three dimensions at least one is productivity and I guess I am reacting a little bit to about a fifth of your productivity coming from advertising spend basis point basis adverting spend this quarter so one is advertising spend? Two is the pace of divestitures of Duracell happening here very shortly after you said you’re going to do something should we expect as fast or a fast pace for larger divestures like this? And then third is something folks have referred to little bit which is two of your five segments are really driving your growth now I want to understand within that how much of that is kind of less sensitivity of those particular segments to the macro environment and how of that is actually execution actually innovation actually things you are doing? And so that’s the core question I just have two follow-up clarity questions on some other things one is what would your growth have been in beauty without the volumes in Prestige being an issue and what would have your growth have been without Duracell in the Battery segment? Thank you.
In terms of where we are in innings if you will in the execution of the plan I think we’re in some of the early innings.
I think there is a significant.
I know that there is a significant productivity opportunity that still stands in front of us.
We’ve talked about the redesign of the supply chains.
We’ve talked about the portfolio focus which will give us more opportunity to get even more efficient in our overhead approach.
So I think there is -- we will accelerate and we’ll exceed the 10 billion and we won’t stop there.
I’d see this being characteristic of our opportunities and environment that we’re operating in for the foreseeable future.
In terms of the advertising question within that we have tried to say many times most of the reduction that’s occurring is in non-media spending.
And of the 50 basis points that we referenced in our prepared remarks 40 basis points of that was non-advertising marketing spending.
So it’s lower product cost it’s lower talent cost it’s more efficient operation it’s not less advertising and reaching consumers or in any way less effective advertising in reaching consumers.
Our objective here is to continue to strengthen the impact of our marketing and advertising efforts while reducing cost that don’t matter to consumers.
In terms of the pace of divestitures as we said as AG said in the call last quarter and as I mentioned today we will do this over an 18 to 24 month period.
Quite frankly we are not going to be time-driven we are going to be value-driven.
And so it’s hard for me to sit here today and say exactly how long it will take.
But we will continue to pursue that at pace.
We’d obviously like to get there as soon as it’s practical but don’t want to compromise value by focusing overly on timing versus quality of execution.
And honestly relative to the last part of the question I think it’s very hard to look at one quarters of results and come to a big conclusion about what’s driving anything.
So I would encourage us to kind of take those segment results over a period of three or four quarters to get a better feel for what’s going on.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from Bill Schmitz - Deutsche Bank.
Jon good morning.
Can you just talk about the first the way this would [ph] impact the strong dollar.
So what’s going on in some of the emerging markets or some of the big price increases you take and then you look at some of the [indiscernible] in the U.S.
and it’s clearing categories like shampoo where like your percentage of sales in ACB is massively spiking.
L'Oréal is talking about seeking revenge Henkel is launching Priscilla [ph] exclusively at Wal-Mart so can you just like talk about what that has relative to your expectations in kind of how you plan to [indiscernible] that going forward? Thanks.
Thanks Bill.
First I’d say it’s still relatively early in the development of whatever that occurs here but so far markets have held up fairly.
As I said it’s pretty really so we really won’t know the impacts in markets like Russia Bill the next quarter or the quarter after.
Like you’re seeing from several of the companies in the industry that are responded in the last quarter the Russian market was actually up as they anticipated price increases come in.
So again we have stream of second leg there.
What I would broadly is that - and I’ll get to the U.S.
in a second but in developing markets those currencies have devalued not just versus the dollar but also versus the euro.
If you take the case Russia which I walked through in some detail on the last call there is every reason for both local competitors and multinational competitors to be pricing in many of these markets and that’s generally might be at early days what we’re seeing.
As it relates to the overall promotional environment competitiveness et cetera and reflecting specifically on the U.S.
if we look at the percentage of volume that was sold on promotion in the January to March quarter it indexes at a 100 so is identical to last year and if you look at it sequentially quarter-to-quarter there is very little change.
That doesn’t mean that it couldn’t change but that’s the data thus far and that’s consistent with the dynamics in our own business.
Obviously by category you mentioned hair care.
We may see some more promotion in one quarter or another.
There is obviously promotion as competitors and ourselves introduce new products and are trying to generate trial of those items.
But to date there is nothing from either a developing market standpoint or developed market standpoint that would indicate systemic change.
Hey good morning.
Hi Dara.
So I just wanted to talk a little bit about EPS guidance and clearly you’re keeping the EPS guidance here despite the FX head and organic sales coming in are now expected to come in a bit below which you originally expected.
Do you think you are stretching the organization here to hit these EPS targets? It seems like every year we’ve got this hockey stick in Q4 earnings.
You’ve now got some gains coming through Q4 earnings and Q4 add spend has been down over the last few years and I know a lot of that is the external environment clearly macros are working against you but I’m just wondering if there is a thought process as you look at the next year in the earnings guidance that given some of this external volatility and some of the internal issues you might need to provide yourself more cushion room when you look at guidance versus what has been the case over the last few years here.
Thanks.
So you make a couple of good observations there Dara let me try to address them holistically.
In terms of forecast and guidance we’re obviously into that and more specifics in August.
We’re just in the middle of our prep season right now.
If all of us know amount of cushion that you can build in that overcomes this $1.5 billion of after tax foreign exchange cost the majority of which we’re not anticipated based on spot markets as we went into the year and expected our budgets last year.
But that doesn’t mean I agree with you point that we need to provide a sufficient room to invest in the business and frankly we’ve not pulled off in that regard.
We have continued to invest as I tried to make clear in my remarks in certain parts of the organization both R&amp;D and sales we continue to invest in our brand and product platforms.
We continue to invest in the redesign of our supply chain.
We’ve continued to invest in new product launches and that’s clearly going to continue through next quarter.
I mean we’re just in the first quarter launches of things like Venus Swirl and Always Discreet and they had received full support.
As well for instance the laundry innovations that I briefly mentioned in the opening remarks.
So what allows us if FX is going to continue to be a headwind and we’re going to continue to invest which we are what allows us to deliver the fourth quarter number that as you rightly point out will be materially better than the first three quarters.
We will have as I mentioned commodity cost tailwinds.
We will have the full benefit of this year’s productivity savings.
Pricing for some of the currencies will begin to kick in.
There will be a minor impact as we noted on a minor investor gains [ph].
But it’s those items - look at the 410 basis points of productivity savings in this quarter and how we continue to invest in all the things I talked about.
It’s a continuation of that that should allow us to deliver.
Philosophically I have no difference I’m completely aligning to what you’re suggesting in terms of how we construct plans and budgets and I think our current plan of budget is constructed that way.
Recall in the middle of the year we took earning per share guidance down.
So we’re not a slave to that.
As I’ve said many times if I’ve proven anything over the last six or seven years it’s that I’m not constrained by guidance.
So we’ll continue investing but we’ll continue to deliver productivity savings as well and we’re hopeful that we invest in right amounts of those in the top line.
We’ll get both the top-line and bottom-line growing at very attractive rates.
Thanks.
Jon can you talk a little bit about gross margin.
You’ve delivered gross margin expansion a couple of times now despite pretty weak top-line it seems like we might be seeing sort of one off mixed benefits from that standpoint in terms of less emerging markets or potentially grooming being better that’s driving that.
So can you talk to us about sort of the progression on gross margin as we look at over the next couple of quarters and do you need sort of one off things to happen within those quarters in order to get there? And what do you think is the rate of benefit coming from local manufacturing particularly in terms of lessening the mixed impact overtime? Thanks.
So the biggest driver of gross margin by far - were the productivity savings of 250 basis points and that’s not one time.
It doesn’t rely on certain categories growing faster than others.
That’s there we’ll maintain our increased path and I expect gross margin to continue to improve next quarter which will make it I think three quarters in a row which again is some indication of the systemic improvement there.
There was some benefit as you rightly mentioned from mix which is frankly the developing and developed markets growing at closer rates to each other and if developing markets were to accelerate that mix benefit would be slightly –mix hurt [ph] would be slightly increased.
In terms of the benefit of local manufacturing that continues to build.
It’s part of the 250 basis points.
I actually don’t know exactly how that breaks out in terms of basis point improvement but John and Katie [ph] can help you with that.
But it’s significant and as I mentioned we’re making very good progress on developing market margins through that and other dynamics including positive mix developments as those market in some cases premiumlize [ph] and as I said we’re growing constant currency earnings ahead of constant currency sales growth 2X three years ago 4X last year 6X this year and that’s a trend that should continue.
Thanks very much.
Jon with organic sales now having to accelerate a bit more can you talk through some of the incremental big initiatives that need to be taken to drive improvements because it seems a bit too simple to say that getting out of some of the slower growing categories and the portfolio shift is going to be enough.
I mean is there a function of consumers across a number of categories not just within HVC [ph] but across Staples sort of trading out of bigger brands and so potentially more niche you’re offering here and there? Thanks Olivia.
Our largest brands are our fastest growing brands.
That’s true over a five year period over a three year period over a one year period and was true last quarter.
So I’m not disputing the dynamic that you describe in terms of smaller brands impact in some categories.
I think it’s more probably for example in some of the beverage categories and two categories.
But any period of time we look at convinces us that along with the intuitive benefits in big brand platforms in terms of innovation importance to retailers et cetera convinces us that this is a business model that will continue to work for us.
In terms of you mentioned organic sales acceleration I just want to put that in context a little bit.
I really don’t see significant deceleration.
Let me explain that.
We rounded up to two2 for the last two quarters.
This quarter we rounded down to one.
We’re talking in very small differences quarter-to-quarter sequentially.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks the impact that the time the expansion tax increase had in Japan.
That item alone if you take that out of the results we would have rounded to two.
My point is not that that’s a measure of victory or defeat.
My point is simply that I don’t see any systemic deceleration in the sales quarter-to-quarter.
Portfolio as you rightly indicate will help from both the top-line and a bottom-line stand point.
And you are absolutely right there is additional work on brands and in some markets we need to do to maximize growth and I mentioned those in my prepared remarks as well.
We have work to do in Mexico though we’re getting through that very nicely.
We have work to do in China and as I mentioned China growth rates continue to be good so that all looks pretty reasonable.
And as you know from our results we have continued work to do on beauty some of which will be addressed through the portfolio and some of which we’re currently making significant progress on.
I think when you step back and I realize it’s a little bit difficult to see and I certainly appreciate that but we’re really on track or ahead of everything we’re trying to do to transform this company to a more sustainable more reliable grower on both the top and bottom line and that gets lost in the messiness of execution if you will and frankly through the flog of FX currently.
We’re very happy with where we sit in terms of the progress we’re making on both the portfolio and on the brands that are going to constitute the new company.
Hey thanks.
Jon I guess I apologize in advance for kind of a long question but inventory reductions and unprofitable promos right that you guys have been backing out I guess.
I want to talk a little bit about.
So can you revisit specifically the drivers of the weakness in Mexico because I know you’re talking about consumption tax? I think there was some exiting of some unprofitable promotion.
I think you’re also citing some inventory reductions.
So can you at least give more specifics I guess around how those issues are may be related and then for Mexico and for China how long do these inventory corrections take? I know in China Unilever should have ripped the Band-Aid off and took a 20% hit.
Do you have a defined strategy on this and how long will it drag and then just lastly are there any other markets where this stuff is happening may be just even on a smaller scale.
Thanks.
Thank Chris.
Let me deal with Mexico first.
In any of the developing markets the supply chains from the manufacturer’s door to a store are long and layered.
China is an example; you’re going through distributors wholesalers secondary wholesalers.
And so when there is a significant change in market growth rate as there was in Mexico as a result of the consumption tax increase last year as there have been in china as many of our competitors have reported there is a lot of inventory in that system which needs to get drawn down.
And you’re not in complete control of how quickly that can be accomplished because you’re not owning all of that inventory.
But we’re working our way through that.
In Mexico if you look at growth rates quarter-to-quarter it improved significantly on the order of magnitude of 10 points and we’re expecting significant further improvement in AMJ.
So I would say that one we are largely at least from a visibility horizon we see our way through that.
China as I mentioned there is - if you look at consumption we’re in a very good place in China in many categories.
We are probably two quarters in through the inventory reduction that needs to occur that’s largely consistent with what our competitors have reported as well.
I would say we’ve got another quarter or two to go there and then we have some structural work that we need to do.
But as I said these are large developing markets with very complicated long layered supply chains and these are dynamics that are affecting the industry broadly but once we’re through them it’s back to business as normal and we compete on the basis of the strength of our products and brands and we feel very good about that.
I would tell you Chris that there are no other large issues like this that I’m currently aware of.
We will have to and we talked about this several times have to manage very carefully in some of the markets where our currency devaluation has been significant because those market sizes can change pretty significantly and we’ll do that.
Hi a couple of things.
First of all just a follow up on China I was listening to what you said and I guess I don’t understand some of the other companies like Unilever and Colgate talked about destocking in China as of last summer if not earlier and now it’s kind of only heading [indiscernible].
I’m just curious why does it seem that the timing is kind of unique to one manufacturer at a time that’s just a follow up.
But then the bigger question is from a volume growth perspective and kind of how it pertains to your kind of longer term growth algorithm.
It just strikes me that we’ve seen an enormous number of really big may be not enormous but order magnitude really big successful innovations from you over the last four quarters and yet we still haven’t seen much volume growth.
And so I know we’re going to get into easier comps but I sort of - it doesn’t sound to me like the innovations are coming down the pike are as big as FlexBall or as big as Pods or Flings or what not.
And so is there a change in your long-term outlook for how much of volume growth is going to contribute to the top line and plus when I promised just on the marketing budget I understand the idea of doing more with less but given how competitive the market is and given how lower your volume growth is why wouldn’t you choose to take some of those productivity savings and jut do more with more? Thanks Alright.
First in terms of timing different companies frankly have very different product mixes and they move through different distribution channels.
So if you think about Unilever as a large food business in China it is very possible that they could have a different dynamic than the other channels and we’re talking displacement of one quarter here or something like that.
So that’s that item.
In terms of volume and initiatives the biggest impact on volume has been the pricing before FX and that will continue until those markets recover or until that annualizes.
But our innovations if you look at the big ones that you mentioned first they’re contributing to both category growth and share growth.
And category growth is a real indication of the strength of an innovation.
Does it lift the entire category? And we’ve seen that behind the things that I mentioned earlier and the good news is that those largely have been fully expanded in one market the U.S.
And we expand those globally we expect to see that same impact just like we did with all Always Discreet in both the UK and the U.S.
for example.
So we’re pretty optimistic as we look forward about the strength of our innovation program and what that can do from the top line.
We’re going to have to continue to manage the volume impacts of FX but we’re really focused on the revenue number as the leverage to generate operating profit and cash and we’re doing reasonably well there.
On marketing as I mentioned we are doing exactly what you would suggest we do Wendy which is invest more where it makes sense to do that.
And these innovations that I’ve talked about are exactly one place where we’re doing is just that and we’ll continue to do that.
I mean the investment behind the introduction of new brand in terms of Always Discreet you could imagine is significant and we’re very happy with that because of the returns that we can generate and because of the impact that’s had on those markets which are as I mentioned have doubled the growth rate versus the pre-entry period.
So we’re not talking here about construction on marketing dollars; what we are talking about is being as efficient and effective as we can and spending those dollars where they drive returns.
Hi Jon.
I just wanted to dig in to your comments on strategy a bit more.
As you step back as you mentioned productivity efforts have been sizeable for a number of years and they seem to be running ahead of plan.
You’ve made significant shifts in how you’re organizing now how your portfolio is structured but alongside that growth has been a struggle.
And I think we’d all acknowledge that the macro environment hasn’t helped but do you think there is a risk that all this inwardly focused change in operational improvement has actually impeded your efforts to execute on a larger strategy that you articulated namely uncovering consumer insights and driving consumer preferred innovations because it just seems like all these internal improvements are continually being offset by relative struggles in that external marketplace.
I don’t mean for this to be an unfair question but I’m just wondering what point its worth asking whether organic growth challenges may actually be exacerbated by all this internal change and whether improvement may have to to some extent just wait until those internal projects run their course? Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
That’s actually a very good and very fair question and it’s something that where we continue to be in active dialogue on here at P&amp;G.
We’ve been very deliberate about the pace of some of the changes and ensuring that we have the capacity to execute to serve consumers to serve shoppers and do that in a more effective manner every day.
So that’s exactly the question that we ask ourselves.
It’s why for example we said we’re going to take two years to complete the portfolio program as opposed to overnight.
That we have the capacity to do that and deliver the business and so again I think you’re asking the right question.
It’s one that we ask ourselves and we will make choices that maximize the total.
That’s one of the beauties of the metric that we’re working against in terms operating TSR it’s an integrated metric which strives choice and balance across both growth and value creation.
You simply can’t get there without one leg of that stool and the third leg being cash creation.
So we’re approaching this in a very holistic sense very cognizant of the right question that you asked and are trying to get the balance right.
As I indicated earlier we feel very good about where we are in terms of the progression against those strategic initiatives that you outlined and others including and the redesign of the supply chain.
And most of our big brands and categories were growing fairly well.
As I mentioned if you look at grooming health care baby care family care and family care we grew at 9% 6% and 2% respectively.
So that’s not an indication of any systemic pinch point if you will where we haven’t performed as well as well it’s more a function of an individual business dynamic.
Thanks good morning.
I thought a follow up I guess on that would - the idea of taking three years for the divestiture process.
I mean to what degree was that creating or is it any disruption on - employees wonder I know about what things sold and when or retailers or competitors are kind of looking at the things that we can pounce on a business where we think that P&amp;G deemphasizing.
So what [indiscernible] did you think that may be actually weighing on organic [indiscernible].
The other thing was that Jon in talking about how you feel good internally about the progress being made is it but a thin map but messing of the execution.
Maybe doesn’t look a great word to it but I feel like the one thing that P&amp;G committed to three years ago was - nearly three years ago was we will improve the execution.
And that doesn’t feel it’s like happening so whether it’s an one off thing to pop up with China and Mexico there and honestly I’m not convinced there won’t be another big one off two or three quarters from now.
So what is it that has or hasn’t changed that on cote-on-cote execution in the market? Thanks.
Let me tackle the last one first.
It was a poor word choice.
I should have said the chunkiness of execution.
Frankly we’ve been very intentional in the focus on improving execution.
I feel very good about the progress that we’re making there.
So I apologize for that word choice.
But there are just big chunks moving in and out as we make these very big transformational moves which can flatter things up a little bit.
In terms of organic sales growth and the portfolio impact if you look at the businesses take Duracell as an example which is we’re currently working to transition to butcher a half away.
But the entire period of the business was working on that project leading up to the signing of the deal and post the signing of the deal managing through transition.
That business has held up extremely well building market share.
I won’t go into the details but several of the other businesses that we’re looking to sell are also performing very well.
In other words growth rates were above the 100 index versus year ago.
So I think we’ve got about the right balance in terms of the pace at which we’re moving and the work to be done.
As I said it’s something that we relook every day but it’s not major concern at this point.
Yeah good morning guys.
So just few quick ones from me.
Jon some in the media world would suggest that P&amp;G has taken its marketing mix too digital heavy so I just wondered if you could respond to that and your perspective around that.
And then the second question is in your prepared remarks you indicated [indiscernible] rationalization will take place in the core portfolio over the next couple of years if I heard that I right.
Just curious how we should think about that and its impact on organic revenue growth as we look out the next couple of years I mean I know you’re not giving guidance but just how should we kind of think about it from a magnitude standpoint? These are skews are at the long far tail in terms of productivity.
So we have businesses that are less than 1% of the sales and the same is true with profit.
So I think if anything by removing the clutter by allowing us to focus on product lines and skews that really matter to consumers and customers that should have a positive impact on the top-line not a negative.
These are itches in some cases but they’re meaningful in terms of the amount of complexities that they create.
That’s true in our operations that’s true at the shelf that’s true in the warehouse.
In terms of our approach to digital versus prudential media we viewed this very much as an and not an or they complement each other.
So we look at it very holistically.
We’ve guided in our choice by two things one is where consumers are spending their time in terms of consumption of media.
We need to be reasonably in step with that and the second is depending on the category what media they want to interact with and learn about our products on.
And that’s different across categories.
So we’re going to be guided as in everything we do by the consumer and if we stay with that approach we’ll probably not stray too far from what’s right.
Good morning everyone.
Jon I have to say that I’m still having a hard reconciling the top-line growth of 1% with your positive remarks about some of your big brands Pampers.
The flip side of the response that you gave to Olivia earlier is that you’re basically are telling the investors that Proctor performance in the past quarters had been actually weaker and organic sales only around up to two.
Shouldn’t you be considering a bigger portfolio change or a breakup even given that sectors like beauty are not only getting more fragmented and smaller than any food and beverages categories that you alluded earlier and instead of reducing SKU’s by 15% and 20% as Nik just said what you’re going to have is split up [ph] top-line growth for the next two years.
Thank you We’re going to try to have fullest ability on the portfolio moves by the summer and I think we’ll be in a position then to articulate why we think these are the right moves and so I’m going to save that conversation for that point in time.
But we’re being federal [ph] in our approach across each of the categories and brands.
There’s no business that we haven’t objectively analyzed and so I think we’re going to end up in a pretty good place in that regard.
In terms of - look on this whole thing of small brands and fragmentation.
One our data doesn’t support that being an issue from most of the businesses that we’re going to maintain.
Second where differentiated performance matters and where differentiated performance is delivered this dynamic does not remain.
So for example and I’ll bring it to beauty in a second Javier but if you think about Pampers as an example I can’t think of a new mother who would be asking herself where performance really matters would be asking herself what’s the new diaper that nobody’s ever tried before or where I can discover the next diaper? That’s not the thought process.
There’s a job that needs to be done there’s a brand that has proven over decades it can do the job it can do it better than the other offerings that are out there and it’s offered at a price that creates a good value.
If you think about performance and where performance matters in a beauty context think about anti dandruff shampoos.
I’ve got a problem I need a solution.
This is not time to experiment this is time to solve.
Head &amp; Shoulders has been solving dandruff issues for decades.
It’s a brand that consumers know and trust and it’s offered at a reasonable value.
So I think we have to think about the specific dynamics of a category the consumer approach to the category the relevance of innovation of the category and differential performance as a driver of purchase before we make broad conclusions about whether fragmentation is going to occur or not.
In terms of your question on split up again let’s wait until we have the portfolio in front of us and talk about it at that point.
We’re very bullish and again this is not just based on what we think is going to happen.
This is based on 10 5 3 and 1 years of data which is very consistent and its outcome.
And these are categories that we have long track records of winning in where we’re typically the market leader with brands and other prototypes in those category.
Operator And next we have Joe Altobello with Raymond James.
Q - Joe Altobello Hi this is Christine on for Joe.
I just wanted to change the topic quickly and go to commodity costs and whether you’re still expecting that to be a $500 million to $700 million tail end next year.
And how much of that do you actually expect to recover out of pricing.
Thanks.
Our current estimate would be more than the order magnitude to $600 million to $800 million of BT commodity cost savings next fiscal year.
Really don’t have a point of view yet on how much of that we’ll be able to take to the bottom-line as opposed to past proven price.
So if you just reflect on the dynamics in the industry this is an industry that with the exception of some international competitors who have FX tailwinds is challenged from a profit growth stand point and that’s a dynamic that generally supports or using this saving as a way to help that situation.
So we’re hopeful that many of these will come to the bottom line but that’s something that we’ll have to see as we move forward.
Hi guys.
Jon I mean you’re getting the same question from many folks over and over again and I’m not sure the message is necessarily clear which is we’ve been hearing a lot of promise that help us round the corner for years years and every back half of the year you kind of limp across the finish line.
If not just this year and I guess for me at least I just wonder whether P&amp;G has the right to be consistently in a short-term optimist at least given its recent track record.
And now the promise is wait till we break up 14% of sales 6% operating profit out of our business things will be much better but at that point how much longer would we have to wait for you guys to decide that maybe something even bigger has to happen maybe you really got to rebase your guidance and you shouldn’t be delivering double digit EPS growth maybe you really have to break up the company even further? I think there’s a lot of frustration in terms of trying to see the logs grant to the macro stuff grant to the FX but others have that too.
How much longer do we wait I guess is really the core question and especially after this next promise divestitures how much longer do we have to wait after that? Thanks.
The last year you mentioned FX I think you’re right to mention that excluding FX we grew 14% on the bottom-line this year will grow double digits.
I think it’s pretty clear that the operating improvements that we are making productivity and otherwise are coming through.
And if it weren’t for FX we would be having a very different discussion right now.
We do have brands and businesses where we need to continue to strengthen the top-line we’re cognizant of that I mentioned that and that kind of is what it is.
We look at the change that we’re in the middle of executing.
It’s probably the biggest transformation this company has gone through across the totality of portfolio supply chain organization structure and design and as I said it’s hard to see that all come together at this point but each of the pieces we’re very happy with the progress and we’ll see.
Good morning thanks so much.
Just a question about beauty again Olay and Pantene are different from Head &amp; Shoulders because there’s not this clear need and promise and delivery.
So if you just look at Olay and the performance.
I know China has been very problematic but around the world why do you think P&amp;G really should be in that passive business? Well First of all Caroline younger looking skin I think is a real need.
It’s increasingly a need of mine.
If you count [ph] my hair care need and I’m not going to comment on specific businesses that we are going to be in or out.
Again we’ll do that when we’re ready to do that but that’s a business where function and performance differentiated performance does matter.
It’s what enabled us to build one of the largest the largest facial skin care brand in the world and continues to have incredibly strong equity and frankly is growing significantly in many parts of the world where we haven’t cluttered the equity in the shelves as badly as we for instance in the U.S.
and China.
I was just a couple of weeks ago in the Gulf in the Middle East and that’s a market where the brand architecture is much cleaner and clear and that business is growing double digits.
Something is true in the UK and Olay we’re again - we haven’t cluttered either the messaging the equity or the shelf.
So skin care is clearly - and SK II as an example that delivers a clear benefit that’s coveted by women particularly in Asia.
So it’ not a business that is all about fashions and style it’s a business that’s about performance.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to Procter and Gamble's Quarter End Conference Call.
Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements.
If you will refer to P&amp;G's most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.
As required by Regulation G P&amp;G needs to make you aware that during the call the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.
Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures and excluding tax payments for the pet care divestiture.
Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings adjusted for impairment charges and Venezuela charges.
Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.
Currency neutral refers to the equivalent GAAP measure excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate changes.
P&amp;G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.
Now I will turn the call over to P&amp;G's Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller.
Good morning.
As you know earlier this week we announced that David Taylor had been elected and appointed as the new Chief Financial Officer of the company which becomes effective November 1.
And sorry Chief Executive Officer.
And so joining me this morning is A.G.
Lafley.
I'm going to start a discussion with a review of the fiscal year and fourth quarter results.
Then A.G.
will discuss our business strategy and ongoing moves to transform the company and I'll close with guidance for fiscal 2016.
One reminder before we begin unless noted otherwise the organic sales and core earnings results we're reporting today continue to include the beauty categories that we're in the process of exiting.
The results of these businesses will be recorded as discontinued operations starting with the first quarter of fiscal 2016.
In September we'll provide an informational 8-K presenting historical results of these businesses as discontinued operations.
Another important accounting item to point out before we get started is the decision we've made to move from consolidation accounting to cost method accounting for Venezuela in our GAAP financial statements.
While this decision is effective for periods beginning July 1 it entails a one-time non-core write down of fixed assets cash and receivables of about $2.1 billion or $0.71 per share that's reflected in our fourth quarter 2015 numbers.
We're committed to continue to serve Venezuelan consumers.
The change we've made to our accounting simply reflects our continued inability to convert currency or pay dividends.
Now on to our discussion of 2015 results.
We accomplished four things in 2015.
First we delivered strong double-digit constant currency core earnings per share growth and very good free cash flow productivity over 100% on modest organic top line growth.
Second we continue to make strong productivity gains across the board income statement and balance sheet with many more opportunities still in front of us.
Third we largely completed the reshaping of our portfolio in less than one year refocusing on 10 categories and 65 brands that best leverage our core competencies with leading global positions and historically superior top and bottom line performance.
This positions us over time for stronger top and bottom line growth.
Fourth we continue to invest in our future and more dedicated selling resources in product innovation and brand building and in transforming our supply chain.
For the fiscal year organic sales grew 1%.
Excluding the businesses we're in the process of exiting organic sales grew 2%.
All in sales were down 5% including the 6 point headwind from foreign exchange.
When we had to make choices between the top and bottom line for example the price for foreign currency rather than shift volume at a negative gross margin or to continue unprofitable non-strategic product lines we've deliberately placed emphasis on driving value creation and cash.
Core operating margin was 19.3% in line with the prior year despite 130 basis point challenge from foreign exchange.
On a constant currency basis core operating margin was up 130 basis points.
Productivity savings contributed approximately 330 basis points to core operating margin expansion for the year.
Core gross margin including foreign exchange grew 30 basis points.
On a constant currency basis core gross margin was up 80 basis points.
We delivered this margin and progress while making important investments in the business.
As I mentioned earlier we've increased investments in sales coverage.
We're investing in innovation in the upstream innovation pipeline and behind recent launches PODS beads Pampers Pants Gillette FlexBall and Venus Swirl launches which both create and build markets.
We're investing in the supply chain including the start-up of six new US mixing and distribution centers.
We invested in a new business with our market expanding entry into the adult incontinence category.
Core earnings per share for the year were $4.02 down 2% versus the prior year.
This includes a 13 point headwind from foreign exchange over $1.5 billion after tax.
On a constant currency basis core earnings per share grew at a double digit 11% rate.
On an all in GAAP basis earnings per share were (6:12) $2.44.
This includes non-core restructuring costs battery business impairment charges and the Venezuela charge.
We continue to be one of the strongest cash generators among competitive peers in comparable mega-cap companies.
We generated $11.6 billion in adjusted free cash flow with 102% adjusted free cash flow productivity increasing our dividend for the fifty-ninth consecutive year and returning $11.9 billion in cash to shareholders $7.3 billion in dividends and $4.6 billion in share repurchase 105% of adjusted net earnings.
Over the past five years we've returned $60 billion to shareholders $12 billion a year on average and intend to pay dividends retire and repurchase shares worth up to $70 billion over the next four years.
Two important drivers of our strong cash generation have been a reduction in payables from the broad implementation of our supply chain financing program and our work to reduce inventory levels.
Inventory days on hand are down 5 days on a constant currency basis 7 days all in.
Moving from the fiscal year to the quarter organic sales grew modestly rounding down to a level that was equal to the prior year.
Organic sales of our 10 core product categories grew 1%.
The quarter was also heavily impacted by 1 full point from market dynamics in Russia.
All in sales were down 9% including a 9 point headwind from foreign exchange.
Core gross margin and core operating margin both improved on both an all in and ex-currency basis driven by productivity savings.
Core gross margin increased 110 basis points for the year.
Excluding foreign exchange core gross margin was up 130 basis points.
Cost savings of approximately 220 basis points pricing benefits of 140 basis points and 40 points for lower commodity costs more than offset 170 points of mix.
Core SG&amp;A costs as a percentage of sales increased 10 basis points as 130 basis points of productivity savings were more than offset by reinvestments in dedicated sales coverage and in our innovation pipeline by foreign exchange and other impacts.
Core operating margin was 18.1% up 90 basis points versus the prior year.
On a constant currency basis core operating margin was up 130 basis points.
Productivity savings contributed 350 basis points to margin expansion for the quarter.
Non-operating income was $300 million above year-ago levels driven by gains from minor brand divestitures.
The core effective tax rate was 19% for the quarter 21% for the fiscal year consistent with our outlook.
Core earnings per share were $1 up 8% versus the prior year.
This includes a 14 percentage point foreign exchange headwind roughly $370 million after tax.
On a constant currency basis core earnings per share grew 22%.
Excluding the non-operating income gains versus last year constant currency core earnings per share was up 12% for the quarter.
On an all in GAAP basis earnings per share were $0.18 for the quarter.
This includes $0.07 of non-core restructuring costs $0.04 of earnings loss from discontinued operations and the $0.71 per share Venezuela charge.
We generated $2.9 billion in adjusted free cash flow yielding 106% adjusted free cash flow productivity.
The strong constant currency earnings growth and cash flow has been driven by our progress on productivity.
As of July 1 we've reduced non-manufacturing overhead roles by 22% more than double the original target set in February 2012 and a year earlier than planned.
We're currently targeting a 25% to 30% cumulative reduction by the end of fiscal 2017.
This excludes role reductions from divested businesses which would increase this figure to over 35%.
We generated $1.5 billion of cost of goods savings in fiscal 2015 contributing 200 basis points of gross margin improvement.
We improved manufacturing productivity by 5% bringing cumulative past three year manufacturing enrollment reductions to 15%.
This includes new staffing necessary to support capacity additions.
On a same site basis manufacturing enrollment is down nearly 20% over the past three years enabled by technology and our integrated work systems approach.
We're still in the early stages of our supply chain transformation.
In fiscal 2015 we completed the construction and start-up of six new distribution and mixing centers all on or ahead of schedule and under budget.
We expect to complete the conversion out of our legacy locations later this calendar year.
We announced the construction of a new multi-category manufacturing facility in West Virginia and a major expansion to an existing manufacturing site in Utah.
Several plant closures were also announced all early steps in the resiting and replatforming of our North American manufacturing system.
We're taking similar steps in the European supply chain.
We announced the consolidation of distribution centers in France and the UK and consolidation of manufacturing for some home care products at our plant in Italy.
We continue to see a $1 billion to $2 billion value creation opportunity from the global supply chain reinvention effort.
We're targeting to build over time to annual savings of $400 million to $500 million and are expecting additional top line benefits from customer service enhancements and reductions of out of stocks.
Marketing spending is another area where we are delivering more greater reach higher frequency more advertising for less overall cost.
The savings are coming primarily from non-working marketing spend.
One example are the fees and production costs for agencies we use for advertising media public relations package design and development of in-store materials.
We're simplifying and reducing the number of agency relationships while upgrading agency capability to improve creative quality and communication effectiveness all at a lower cost.
Our overall agency costs in fiscal 2015 were down about 15% versus the prior year.
In Brazil we consolidated agencies and delivered a 50% reduction in spending.
In US hair care we reduced the number of shopper and consumer marketing agencies by a third and lowered total agency spending by 20%.
In another beauty category we consolidated to a single global agency for digital marketing reducing spending for these services by more than 75%.
In total we reduced the number of agencies by nearly 40% and cut agency and production spending by about $300 million versus the prior year.
Tier 2 there's more savings ahead of us most of which will be reinvested in stronger advertising programs.
Moving from productivity to portfolio as I mentioned at the onset we've made excellent progress on plans to strengthen and focus our business and brand portfolio.
On this call last year we said we were targeting to become a company of about a dozen product categories comprised of 70 to 80 brands over a two-year period.
At the CAGNY conference in mid-February we updated plans to focus on 10 product categories and about 65 brands.
With the beauty brands merger with Coty announced earlier this month we have essentially completed the strategic portfolio reshaping.
We've completed the decision making negotiation and contracting work on businesses that represent 95% of in scope sales and essentially all of the in scope profit.
At the close of the beauty brands merger a year or so from now we will have focused our portfolio on 10 categories and 65 brands that best leverage our core competencies.
We have leading global positions in these categories with consumer-preferred products and leading brands in the largest markets.
These businesses and brands have historically grown faster and have been more profitable than the balance.
As we're able to focus all of our energy on these leading businesses which benefit from our core strengths and as we invest productivity savings and profitable growth we expect to improve both top and bottom line performance.
With that I'll turn it over to A.G.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Jon and good morning everyone.
This morning we're going to talk about the choices we've made are making and will continue to make to drive growth and value creation as measured by operating total shareholder return.
Every choice we take every move we make is intended to accomplish one of three things: increase shopper and consumer preference for P&amp;G brands and products improve operational effectiveness and executional excellence develop more balanced reliable sustainable growth and value creation.
We are rebalancing and refocusing this company to reinvigorate it and accelerate growth in value creation.
We use zero-based goals and strategies reorganization core capabilities and the systems required to win.
At P&amp;G we are successful when we win with shoppers and consumers when we provide consumer-preferred brands and products that become leading value creators in their categories of business.
The best most balanced and integrated measure of value creation is operating total shareholder return.
A foundation building block of OTSR is operating cash flow.
Cash is the financial life blood of any company.
Strong cash flow enables both reinvestment in the business and significant returns to share owners.
The second building block is operating margin and profit.
Our operating margins have begun to improve.
They should continue to improve as we move into the 10 core category 65 brand portfolio and as we continue to deliver a steady stream of consumer-preferred product innovation and consistent productivity savings through the end of this decade.
The third and last building block is net sales growth.
Our results here obviously have been mixed.
But we are making steady progress in most of the core business units.
And we have detailed improvement and growth plans in place for the balance.
Much of the sales growth is ahead of us.
We have a strong lineup of new and improved products that are coming to market over the next one two and three fiscal years.
We believe more of the resulting sales growth will be sustainable.
And we are learning that big obvious consumer meaningful product innovations can continue to grow sales profitably for three five seven and more years.
The strength of OTSR is its actionability.
It helps us prioritize business strategy choices translate those choices to business building blocks and action plans that can be executed on a category and brand country and customer or even manufacturing plant sales rep or distributor basis.
Operating TSR correlates with market TSR over time and aligns the interests of employees and share owners.
The question for any company is not what businesses we are in but what businesses should we be in for the foreseeable future.
As Jon said we chose 10 category-based business units where P&amp;G has leading market positions strong brands and consumer meaningful product technologies from which we can grow and create value Baby Feminine and Family Care Fabric and Home Care hair skin Grooming oral and personal healthcare.
These 10 categories have been growing 50 to 100 basis points faster than the total company.
Their operating margins are up to 100 basis points higher.
Where sales and profits are highly concentrated in a few big countries around the world which makes the current business easier to operate.
Yet every business unit every category still has significant value creation opportunity in both our home US market and other big developed markets Germany Japan et al.
and in growing developing markets the BRIC countries Mexico Turkey et al.
markets where P&amp;G has been continually improving its position.
These categories and brands will continue to play to P&amp;G's core strengths shopper and consumer understanding brand building and product innovation productivity and go-to-market execution and leveraging where appropriate and where it makes sense the scale and scope of the company.
As category leaders we have the responsibility to create occasionally transform and build these categories year in and year out.
About two-thirds of all sales growth comes from category growth and about half of that is driven by the manufacturer.
That's us.
The balance one-third comes from share growth and M&amp;A.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to report where we stand in each of the 10 category business units.
First Baby Feminine and Family Care.
After a drop-off in performance both baby and family care delivered solid double digit OTS results in fiscal year 2015.
And feminine care as you know we have decided to invest in the Always Discreet entry into the incontinence category.
Family care is excellent example of balanced disciplined application of OTSR.
It's a big important North America business that got back on its proven business model and continued to improve structural economics while growing sales and market share at customers representing more than 90% in sales and profits and focusing on the profitable premium care tissue business in Mexico while de-emphasizing conventional lower value tissue products.
With leading brands like Bounty and Charmin consumer-preferred product innovation coming to market this summer and early next calendar both on P&amp;G's unique and proprietary technology and an operating discipline that relentlessly drives out costs and keeps the consumer value equation competitive we expect another solid performance in fiscal 2016.
Baby and fem care results have been more mixed.
Very strong in North America where half of worldwide profit is made mixed in Europe weak in China.
Pampers and Always brands are leaders in these categories with strong equities household penetration that's growing and strong Net Promoter Scores.
The focus in baby and fem is winning with consumer-preferred product innovation.
These are categories where consumers notice and expect performance with every single product usage experience.
We've invested significantly in R&amp;D new plants and equipment and will be investing in product sampling and trial marketing selling and sourcing as we accelerate consumer-preferred better performing products to market.
And next generation of Pampers Pants and the premium taped diaper line are going to market in China and the US as we speak achieving the same share of the faster growing pants segment as we have on taped diapers over the next few years could be worth as much as $2 billion to $3 billion in sales over time.
Over the next one to two years there will be a steady drum beat of product upgrades across Pampers and Luvs in North America Always and Always Discreet every one of them consumer-preferred several unique and proprietary.
We continue to be encouraged by the progress we're making on Always Discreet.
Category growth has accelerated 50% to 100% to 10% plus growth rates in the US UK and France though launched less than a year ago.
Discreet's share has reached 7% to 9% in these markets.
Importantly we are attracting new women to the category.
Recall women are not satisfied with current product offerings that don't work very well.
Discreet pads and pants deliver better fit and significantly better protection from an Always brand women trust.
Product ratings and reviews product usage satisfaction and repeat rates are all strong.
With still an ample awareness and trial opportunity ahead of us we will continue to invest in marketing sales and consumer-preferred product innovation in this new category.
Fabric and Home Care has been a tale of two cities from an operating TSR standpoint.
Home care Duracell and our $1 billion B2B Professional products business have all delivered strong value creation for now several years in a row.
We expect this to continue because each category continues to adapt proven business strategies and models and operates with discipline to deliver balanced growth and value creation across all three OTSR drivers.
In fiscal 2015 modest sales growth and strong profit growth and cash productivity resulted in another very solid year for home care.
We carefully pick our spots in the home care category and segment.
We have leading brands and consumer-preferred products.
We continue to strengthen marketing and selling fundamentals while we improve productivity and structural economics.
Duracell in a year of significant transformation as we stand up an independent company with Marmon and Berkshire Hathaway delivered a fourth consecutive year of strong operating TSR and market share growth while divesting the more commodity-like low tier battery business in China.
P&amp;G Professional is a very focused jewel that delivered its sixth straight year of strong industry-leading OTSR results.
PGP has a unique and proven business model that delivers superior service and value to its customers and delivers consistently for share owners.
Fabric Care has been more challenging as we've talked because it has involved a significant transformation of strategy and business model capabilities and operations and execution across a number of important markets starting with the.
the largest and most profitable market in the world where we have had to get the category growing again and rekindle household penetration and share growth.
We've gotten the strategy back in balance sharpened our business model and have been operating with consistency and excellence.
We exited unattractive segments like bleach unprofitable laundry additives cheap low tier powders and we invested significantly in consumer-preferred products.
We've constructed new manufacturing in the last two years to enable the expansion of premium products like PODS and beads and concentrated heavy-duty liquids not only for the US Europe and Japan but also for big developing markets like China and Brazil.
We've stimulated category growth in the adjacent fabric conditioner category the fastest-growing household products category over the last two years as reported by Kantar and we have grown share behind the Downy and Lenor brand equities and innovative new products.
With leading brands Tide and Gain and Ariel Downy and Lenor consumer-preferred products and much more robust structural economics we're looking forward to more balanced and more consistent growth and value creation in fabric care starting this year.
These segments help Grooming and Beauty.
These segments again as we have talked are a tale of three cities.
Oral care delivered another strong year of OTSR behind 4% organic sales and 10% profit growth with strong cash productivity.
Oral care has evolved successfully to a well-differentiated business strategy and has been steadily improving structural economics.
We've clearly defined the strategic goals for Crest and Oral-B.
We've expanded Oral-B toothpaste into over 40 countries and continue to grow this business by over 20% in its sixth year since launch.
We've created two strong premium-priced properties in Pro-Health and 3D White each now above $1 billion in sales.
We just launched Crest Pro-Health HD in the US a unique and proprietary super-premium two-step toothpaste system that is off to a very strong start.
We have another strong $1 billion business in Oral-B Power Brush which grew double digits in fiscal 2015 and actually doubled off a relatively small base in China.
There's still a lot of upside in the power brush segment as household penetration is very low.
We're developing a business model that drives consumer trial and accelerates Oral-B growth.
Personal healthcare has evolved to a very focused niche player in OTC.
It turned in another very solid year of operating TSR behind 4% organic sales and 5% profit growth and again strong cash productivity.
Vicks our $1 billion OTC brand grew sales double digits and profit a strong double digits behind its premium-priced cough/cold product line SEVERE.
The Meta wellness initiative grew sales 15% and significant market share and our new VMS brands New Chapter and Swisse are both off to a good start in lead markets.
The Grooming business as you know is undergoing significant change the biggest of which may be consumer habits and practices.
This is no longer just a facial shave care business.
It's becoming a broader grooming business face and body.
But still the vast majority of sales and profits are in shaving.
Grooming had a challenging year due to unprecedented FX impacts significant trade inventoried stocking especially in economically challenged countries like Brazil and Russia changes in grooming fashions and habits and the continuing growth of online competitors in some markets like the US.
Despite the challenges Gillette eked out modest sales and share growth and began to stimulate more category growth behind the Gillette FlexBall and Venus Swirl consumer-preferred product innovations.
Both are off to a strong start and continue to roll out around the world.
In the first year in North America alone 15 million men have tried a FlexBall razor.
Gillette's online Shave Club is off to a very good start.
We're building partnerships with e-tailers and retailers who are offering their shoppers subscription tie-ins for the Gillette Shave Club.
Importantly we are helping retail customers move out of the lock boxes on shelves and at checkout and into much more shopper friendly cost and shrink-effective hard tags.
This innovative in-store solution is better for shoppers and for retailers.
And in the first several hundred stores it's significantly improving in-stock and sales off-take.
We'll be rolling out hard tags as fast as we can in the year ahead with our retail partners.
Finally we continue to replatform manufacturing to significantly improve productivity and accelerate the expansion of new product innovation.
We've already announced and will begin shipping the next major new cartridge innovation on Gillette for men in January 2016.
Turning to hair care we've repositioned hair care for growth.
As you know we're exiting the salon service and retail colorants businesses.
We've sold off small non-strategic brands like Fekkai and Wash &amp; Go.
We've invested significantly in product innovation and technology brand building and sales and we've importantly in a big way strengthened the structural costs and cash productivity in this business.
Hair care had a challenging year but progress is being made.
Head &amp; Shoulders grew global organic sales mid single digits for the twentieth year in a row and continued to build profit and cash value creation.
Pantene modestly grew sales worldwide but importantly delivered 4% sales and modest market share growth in the US for the first time in several years.
Pantene's 3 Minute Miracle conditioner product initiative is being expanded right now.
More importantly once in a decade new shampoo and conditioner product innovations built on unique and proprietary technologies will begin to go to market this summer and continue to expand around the world over the next two years on Pantene Head &amp; Shoulders and as appropriate on the local and regional brands in the portfolio like Herbal Vidal et al.
P&amp;G's remaining hair care portfolio consists of brands with real consumer equity.
These brands will not only benefit from better performing products but also from more focus better packaging marketing and sales execution.
As sales continue to pick up the OTSR leverage will be significant with operating margins now 50% higher than leading competitors and superior structural economics continuing to improve.
Skin care and personal care as you know have been mixed bag.
SK-II our $1 billion super-premium skin care brand grew organic sales mid single digits and profits very strong double digits while executing its proven trial-building business model.
Despite strong sales growth and very attractive margins the SK-II team continues to sweeten the mix and improve the structural economics of this very unique business.
The deodorants business behind Old Spice and Secret continues to grow steadily organic sales high single digits and profit high single digits leading to solid OTSR.
In personal cleansing we sold off Camay and Zest and narrowed our brand product line focus to Olay and Safeguard and to a handful of key countries.
Across the above segments we continue to improve structural economics and cash productivity.
Operating margins are improving and free cash flow remains strong above 100%.
This is important because these three businesses are where the lion's share of the profit and cash are made.
On Olay we are committed to return to sales growth and to continued value creation growth in North America in fiscal 2016.
We're back on our masstige strategy.
We've narrowed our boutique and product line focus to Regenerist and Total Effects and new products consumers like like Luminous which has attracted new consumers and has been growing sales and market share.
Right now we're transforming the shopping experience with more streamlined assortments and easier-to-shop shelf presentations where at test retailers category and Olay sales have both increased.
The qualified new Olay brand campaign will break in the fall behind increased effective support across all relevant media.
We're making progress in every one of our 10 core category businesses albeit at different paces and never as much as we want.
Each business is different with different opportunities and challenges but better defined and proactively addressed.
P&amp;G performs best when we stay in balance balanced across industries and categories balanced across developed and developing markets balanced in our need to deliver the near term with our need to invest and deliver the mid and long term.
OTSR is clearly helping with a focus on balanced growth and value creation.
Just as with the company getting the business unit portfolio right matters.
Many of our categories found themselves over-expanded or over-extended and have had to divest or otherwise dispose of non-strategic and under-performing businesses.
The recent divestitures as Jon said representing about 5% of profits 15% of sales and as much as a reduction of 40% to 50% in complexity P&amp;G and its 10 core categories are becoming much simpler businesses easier to operate easier to grow easier to create value creation from.
We're picking up the pace not only of portfolio streamlining but also of core business turnaround.
We've invested significantly in R&amp;D plant and equipment branding and marketing sales and sourcing.
All of this has been enabled by productivity that will continue strong through the end of this decade.
Going forward productivity efforts will be more focused on specific business units countries functions and on the major marketing and trade spending pools Jon talked about earlier.
Despite our sense of urgency and substantial investment the breadth scope and scale of the transformation underway will continue to see cash productivity operating profit and sales growth unfold over time.
But the progress will be steady year by year delivering balanced reliable sustainable growth and value creation as measured by OTSR.
When you're building brands and businesses to last for decades growth does not happen in a straight line.
Even the strongest of brands hit flat spots.
But when we get back to basics the fundamentals putting the consumer front and center delivering consumer-preferred brands and products executing with excellence we put ourselves in a position to win year after year decade after decade successful brand building and product innovation transformed and grown categories and created value for consumers for P&amp;G and its shareowners.
The key going forward will be the robustness of our category business strategies and models the strength of our brand and product differentiation and innovation and ultimately the quality reliability and value of the performance and experience we deliver to consumers every day.
Now I'll turn it back to Jon to provide details of our outlook for this fiscal year.
Thanks A.G.
First a few more housekeeping items.
The guidance we're providing this morning assumes the transitioning beauty businesses are accounted for as discontinued operations and are not therefore included in core EPS for either 2015 or 2016 fiscal years.
This is the same approach we've taken with Duracell.
While the amounts are not yet final we expect fiscal 2015 core earnings per share to be restated from the $4.02 level to approximately $3.77 per share.
The informational 8-K we plan to issue in September will provide more detail including fiscal 2015 quarterly income statements and segment results.
Towards the end of the calendar year we'll provide a fully restated 10-K for 2015.
While we'll no longer include the results from our Venezuelan operations in our consolidated results the fiscal 2015 results will remain in our base period sales and earnings.
This will create a minor drag on organic sales growth trends and a $0.05 to $0.06 per share headwind on core earnings per share growth.
Next some context for fiscal 2016.
We have large positions leading positions in several big markets where underlying growth has slowed most notably China and Brazil.
Foreign exchange will continue to be a significant sales and earnings headwind particularly in the first two quarters.
To offset the foreign exchange impacts and restore structural economics we've taken significant price increases in some markets.
We need to manage through the market contraction and volatility that naturally follow.
We have disproportionately large positions in the markets most affected by FX.
We're market leaders in Russia the Ukraine in Japan and in Venezuela.
In contrast many of our internationally domiciled competitors are benefiting from their weaker currencies providing fuel for reinvestment.
We need to be cognizant of this as we construct our own plans and as we contemplate guidance.
We're not yet able to focus 100% on driving the 10 core categories we've been talking about.
While the portfolio planning work is complete we still own and are operating the transitioning brands including Duracell and the beauty brands.
Some smart choices will also create top line pressure.
We've mentioned previously we're simplifying and strengthening the product form and SKU lineups for our core categories.
As we de-prioritize our exit product forms for example the more commodity section of the laundry business laundry bars as an example there has been and will be some pressure on organic sales growth.
On the bottom line I've mentioned FX.
There will also be a drag in non-operating income as we annualize the small brand divestiture gains and we will see a higher core tax rate.
We'll continue to invest in increased sales coverage and in fast-growing retail channels and formats.
We will increase our innovation our investment in innovation pipeline and in the examples of recent innovations like Always Discreet Fusion FlexBall Venus Swirl and the new diaper innovations that A.G.
mentions that are coming to market now and in the next six months.
We'll continue to invest in the supply chain adding new capacity closer to consumers as our business grows and optimizing the supply chain in developed markets.
Against this volatile backdrop we think it's prudent to start fiscal 2016 from a guidance standpoint with relatively modest relatively wide target ranges.
We're projecting organic sales growth in line to up low single digits versus fiscal 2015.
We've recently delivered towards the low end of this range.
We certainly aim to improve but it's unlikely that growth acceleration will happen immediately or in a straight line.
And as I mentioned there are market and competitive dynamics as well as internal choices that will continue to put some pressure on the top line.
The headwind from foreign exchange will have a 4% to 5 percentage point impact on all-in sales growth.
Also minor brand divestitures will have a modest drag on all-in sales growth.
Taken together we expect all-in sales growth to be down low to mid single digits versus restated fiscal 2015 results.
We expect to deliver solid operating margin expansion driven by another year of strong productivity-driven savings in cost of goods sold overhead and non-working marketing and agency costs.
Cost of goods sold productivity savings are forecast to be consistent with our annual run rate projection of about $1.2 billion.
Commodities will also provide a modest benefit.
These growth margin enhancers will be partially offset by foreign exchange.
Based on last week's rates FX will be a $350 million to $450 million after-tax headwind on fiscal 2016 earnings or a 3 to 4 percentage point drag.
This impact has two primary components.
The spot rate impact of fiscal 2016 is expected to be a 7 to 8 percentage point headwind on core earnings per share growth.
The spot rate impact should be partially offset by about 4 points of balance sheet revaluation hurt in fiscal 2015 but if current rates hold will not recur in fiscal 2016.
SG&amp;A costs will also be a contributor to operated profit growth driven by continued overhead and marketing productivity savings and lower year-on-year charges for balance sheet revaluation.
With this strong operating margin expansion we expect to deliver core operating income growth of mid to high single digits.
This includes the $0.05 to $0.06 per share drag on operating earnings from the Venezuela accounting change and $0.02 to $0.03 per share of beauty deal transition costs that will remain in our core earnings results.
So strong underlying operating earnings progress which excluding the $0.08 impact from these items should be up high singles to low double digits.
Moving below the operating line there are several items you should take into account as you construct your models.
We're forecasting non-operating income to be a 2 to 3 percentage point drag on core EPS growth.
We had a large number of minor brand divestitures last year and the scope and pace of these deals will decrease this year.
We're estimating a core effective tax rate of about 24% for fiscal 2016 about 3 points higher than the fiscal 2015 rate due mainly to lower benefits from audit resolutions.
Combined non-operating income and tax will be a $0.23 to $0.26 per share core earnings per share headwind in fiscal 2016 a 6% to 7% impact on core EPS growth.
Finally we'll retire shares at a value of approximately $8 billion to $9 billion through a combination of direct share repurchase and shares that will be exchanged in the Duracell transaction.
We're now expecting the Duracell transaction to close in the first quarter of calendar 2016.
This is a little later than our original projections as both parties continue to prioritize flawless execution over speed.
We're starting fiscal 2016 with core earnings per share growth guidance of slightly below to up mid single digits versus last fiscal year's restated earnings per share of $3.77 again a wide and relatively modest range.
All-in GAAP earnings per share should be up 53% to 63% versus the prior fiscal year GAAP earnings per share of $2.44.
Non-core items in the current year will include non-core restructuring charges of approximately $0.15 per share and net earnings from discontinued operations of about $0.17 per share which includes the after-tax profit from operations and transaction exit costs of the beauty and battery businesses.
This compares to total non-core costs of approximately $1.33 per share in fiscal 2015.
We expect another strong year of free cash flow productivity 90% to 100%.
Drivers of this strong cash productivity will include continued improvement of payables including continued progress on our supply chain financing program and continued steady improvement in inventory levels.
These improvements should offset an increase in capital spending as we invest in the supply chain transformation A.G.
and I discussed earlier.
We expect CapEx to be between 5% and 6% of sales for the fiscal year.
We'll continue to build on our strong track record of cash and overall value return to shareholders.
In addition to the $8 billion to $9 billion of shares we expect to retire we expect dividend payments of more than $7 billion.
In total $15 billion to $16 billion in dividend payments share exchanges and share repurchase.
To briefly recap the key assumptions underpinning our fiscal 2016 outlook this guidance assumes mid July foreign exchange rates and commodity prices.
Further significant currency weakness is not anticipated within our guidance.
Like 2015 then we're setting up fiscal 2016 as a year given all of the market and FX volatility and pricing of modest top line growth solid core operating income growth relatively robust constant currency core earnings per share growth and strong 90% to 100% free cash flow productivity.
We'll continue to tighten and implement our strategy on the core business investing where appropriate to build capabilities for long-term success.
We'll continue to drive meaningful productivity opportunities.
We'll invest in sales coverage innovation and the supply chain and we'll substantially complete the execution of our portfolio redesign.
That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning.
As a reminder business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides which will be posted on our website www.pg.com following the call.
Now A.G.
and I would be happy to take questions.
Your first question comes from the line of John Faucher.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So you guys have delivered a lot on the structural stuff sort of brand disposals et cetera and you're delivering on the productivity as evidenced by the gross margin performance.
But unlike many of the other companies we all cover the underlying business appears to be getting worse and maybe at an accelerating rate.
So I think this could argue for two things.
One that the organization can't handle this much change at one time and you need to slow down.
Or conversely there needs to be a lot more and bigger change structural leadership et cetera.
So you guys are obviously going with option three right now which is to sort of stay the course with the initial plan.
But why should we all feel comfortable that that's the right course given the results and a little bit to some extent the guidance? Thanks.
Well I'd say John that we're in the middle of executing that plan course three as you've outlined and are to a place where we have the full benefit of for instance being able to focus on the 10 product categories which we will as we get through the beauty transition.
We're also in the middle of dealing with some very significant market level events which are kind of outside the strategy completely.
But we're the market leader in a lot of the countries that are difficult right now Russia's an example and as I mentioned we've made a very deliberate choice.
The choice we had in Russia was very simple.
We could accept negative gross margins in perpetuity or we could price to restore structural economics so that future growth would be worth something.
And that's the choice we've taken there as in other markets.
And it's had a significant impact as we expected.
So if you look at the month of June for example our sales in Russia were down 57% and we've got to work our way through these things.
But we're taking an approach that we're convinced is the right approach for the long term.
As A.G.
mentioned as well the innovation pipeline which we've been investing to accelerate that acceleration is going to start hitting the marketplace as we go through the next year which will help as well.
And then ultimately at some point we get to a place where FX isn't as much of an issue on either the top or bottom line and we continue to deliver productivity savings which allow us to reinvest behind this innovation and grow faster.
We clearly recognize the need to grow faster.
We think we're making the choices that will allow that to happen in a sustainable way over the long term.
We're not going to get there in the next quarter or two.
But we do expect sequential progress as we move through next fiscal year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> John I'd just add two quick ones.
On your first direct question I actually think the employees management and leadership has really stepped up.
I won't bore you with all the details of what it takes to operate in Russia Ukraine Argentina Venezuela even Japan okay and a whole host of other developing markets.
But in virtually every case we are making the right decisions and frankly building our value creation.
We've switched countries like India from a significant negative profit position to making basically $100 million okay in two years all right.
Our Brazil economics are the best they've ever been still not where we want them to be but the best we've ever been.
So I think the organization has won the operational play and executed pretty consistently and pretty well.
We've at the same time dramatically stepped up the productivity program.
And it isn't separate.
It's integrated.
That's the part that everybody misses it's totally integrated productivity program.
And that will run easily through the end of the decade.
Third we have dramatically invested in R&amp;D sales.
All the things we need to get back on our strategy and our game.
And then the second thing I would say is and this is hard for you to see but I'll pick a couple of examples.
Take baby okay.
Round numbers about half the value creation in the world is in the US and North America.
Three years ago the category wasn't growing okay.
In two to three years we've put ourselves in a position where we are growing share and leading in share growth okay.
And we haven't even brought all of our premium taped line or our pants to market and as I said they're coming in the next couple of years.
Take fabric well let me stick with baby.
In Europe we continued to do well on a value creation standpoint.
The game has changed.
It's us and private label.
We're adjusting to that game.
In China we've been very straight up okay.
We still have the leading brand.
We're stuck in the middle of the market.
We went down the consumer went up.
Both the pants and premium taped lines are shipping as we speak.
I could go through category by category but fabrics the same story.
We generated $1.4 billion in PODS.
We are actively adding PODS capacity and expanding around the world $330 million in beads.
We've stimulated fabric conditioner growth 7%.
But on the bottom end as Jon described we've been getting out of cheap commodity-like bagged powders.
We've been getting out of laundry bars.
We've been getting out of unprofitable additives.
We've gotten out of bleach.
So that's what you have to look at.
And I guess the third point I would make is the last thing I want to do is chase volume and share that has no value or very little value.
I do not want to get ahead of ourselves and slam on the accelerator and try to grow faster on the volume or share side.
We've been to that movie before okay.
So we're picking our spots.
We're doing first things first.
We're doing it with product that consumers really prefer.
And here's the other thing that's really important.
Most of the moves we're making are stimulating category and market growth and then it becomes a win for your customer your supplier and your partner not just for the consumer and the company.
I happen to believe the obsessive focus on value creation is incredibly important and we'll get the growth when and where we can and frankly when and where consumers choose our brands and products.
And we believe it's coming.
We all wish it would come faster but it doesn't make a whole lot of sense to try to do it faster.
Your last question I guess implied was should we do something more dramatic.
We think the portfolio that we're moving into actually has the potential to create a lot of value.
And most of those businesses we've created significant value in the past or are beginning to create significant value again.
And we wouldn't be playing there unless we thought we could do it.
We've looked at all the alternatives many times okay and this is the best alternative for us.
It's the best alternative for share owners because it creates the most potential value.
Your next question comes from the line of Olivia Tong Bank of America.
Good morning thanks.
As you look back at this year and the sales shortfall can you talk through some of the key drivers? I mean was it more a lack of innovation or just innovation that missed their target? Or were the products not priced properly or was competition just better? And then what are your categories growing at now? And how do you think about market share growth for next year? And then just secondly maybe can we talk through price mix in developed markets and where you think that will go next year? Particularly as we think about your longer term thoughts on pricing in North America with if we look at baby and family care you know Kimberly has been pushing price in tissue and diaper.
So maybe if you could just address those two things.
Thanks a bunch.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Where to start.
I'll take a shot at the last one.
Yes competition has been pushing pricing in the two examples that you mentioned.
We continue to grow our share and our value creation in baby in the US.
And as I hope I pointed out clearly enough in tissue/towel we've just very smartly picked our spots and we're very comfortable with holding sales as long as we create more value.
We still have leading brand positions in the principal categories.
And the fact of the matter is we're getting more than our fair share of value creation there and that's the way we want to keep it.
Look on the first part of your question Olivia it's really none of the above okay.
It's really none of the above.
And I'll just mention two examples because they're significant because the competitor thing is often mentioned.
We had major competitive moves in big stronghold markets for us in fabric care in the last year okay.
One competitor moved into the Arabian Peninsula where we've had a long and strong position with consumers.
The other as you know moved into the US at the largest retailer.
In both cases our share is at or above the level that it was before the encroachment okay before their introduction.
And in both cases we continued to create strong value.
It's more an issue of timing of the moves that we'll be making category by category and the roll-off of the non-performing or under-performing parts of the business.
And I would say our guidance was low to mid singles.
We delivered low singles.
And the difference between the high and the low end of the range I think can largely be attributed to the macro dynamic in FX which you can sometimes characterize as impacting everybody.
That wasn't the case this year as many of our competitors benefited significantly from FX.
While we it was a huge headwind for ourselves.
And so that is a differentiator between firms in our industry and that is part of the reason that we're at the lower end of the range.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers UBS.
Good morning guys thanks.
So A.G.
it feels like with the Coty transaction and David's announcement this week as CEO you really declared the recent phase of reshaping is in some ways done and now it's time to move forward.
But I guess my question is building on your prepared remarks what are you going to do differently as you move forward? Because while much of what you've outlined sounds reasonable and logical and makes sense but also seems to John's Faucher's point like a continuation of what you've been doing and saying the last few years and we haven't seen that return at least as measured on the top line.
So what I'm looking for is less about what you're going to continue doing and more about where and how you and David are going to invest differently in the coming years.
And I don't want to make this just about beauty but as an example what deficiencies are you trying to overcome when it comes to a brand like Olay and what is that going to cost? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
You know unfortunately this isn't a continuation of what we were doing and I don't want to belabor that.
But we were clearly over-expanded okay into developing markets and even into frontier developing markets and you know what's happened there in terms of growth slowdown economic and political volatility and the FX issue which Jon has mentioned a couple of times is real and will continue through the end of this calendar year okay.
But it is a change.
And the second thing is we were clearly over-extended in several categories.
The most obvious one was beauty where we got into service businesses and more fashion and trend oriented businesses.
That didn't turn out to be a good fit for us.
So I would argue we've changed quite a bit in the last two years.
And the big change has been a dramatic narrowing of the focus and choices.
And the other big change has been getting back to balanced innovation and productivity that really drives value creation.
We were not on a value creation building strategy.
We were on a short-term volume and share building strategy.
That doesn't work unless you're creating value.
The other thing I would say is like it or not and I don't like it very much either it takes time to change direction.
Our plans as I've said before are sold out six to 12 months with our customers.
As you might imagine when you've got plant and equipment and major investment involved it takes time to set up behind major initiatives.
So all of that has had to be done.
And much of it is underway.
And the last two points I'll make is it's more than words that we do well when we focus on following the shopper and consumer not the competitor shopper and the consumer.
We do well when we grow categories and markets okay.
PODS and beads and concentrated HDLs grow the fabric care market.
FlexBall and Swirl grow the shave care and grooming market.
Shave care and grooming market was in the doldrums not growing very fast.
It's actually grown the last six months the fastest it's grown in several years and I could go on there.
But those are the differences.
And I'm not a big fan of change for change sake.
I'm a big fan of running plays that work.
And I think one of the big questions behind the question is how fast can we do this? And my view very strong view is I'm much more interested in getting it right okay and making changes that really sustain value creation and making changes that lead to sustainable and reliable growth.
And that's the path we're on.
And by the way in the meantime the reason we focus so hard on operating cash flow and free cash flow so hard on our operating margins is so we could continue to return dividends and share repurchase to share owners while we are getting this company positioned to grow on a more sustainable basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
A couple times you've mentioned significant reinvestments in sales force.
So I was hoping you could talk a little bit about what's been done so far what needed addressing.
Is it particular channels is it particular geographies? And then also how that fits into a kind of a chicken and egg conversation about having innovation in market and things you really want to get behind versus what sounds like maybe with the exception clearly of things like FlexBall and PODS but some kind of like biding time new product work with the real exciting stuff to come in the next year plus.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Lauren I guess the answer is sort of yes to your series of questions.
Let me try to describe it as clearly and crisply as I can.
When you choose to follow the shopper you obviously have to commit coverage and resources to growing channels and we've done that.
So we're in a much better position for example in e-commerce than we were three years ago.
E-commerce is growing 30% to 40%.
We're pretty competitive.
There's still upside opportunities and there's more to come with subscription and auto-replenishment okay.
So yes.
Follow the shopper into the channels that are growing.
E-commerce is one.
Drug is obviously another one.
Small box discounters.
I could go on.
That varies by region by country and we've made and are making that shift.
The second one is dedicated to category and to retail account sales support.
And I think we've talked before that we've added a significant number of dedicated sales resources.
We started in the US where we're doing it category to customer.
We're doing it in China where it's essentially category to channel or customer.
And as we continue to gain experience and as we continue to see the results we are prepared to make those investments okay.
And that leads to a third and incredibly important point.
This is a highly executional category.
And a big part of how we do day in and day out is whether our distribution's right and whether our shelf's right.
And we didn't talk much about this today.
We touched on it in the Olay context so I'll return to Olay but we've now run a series of tests in countries more than one country around the world several countries around the world.
And we're rolling out in the US first and then in China a dramatically simplified category-based and Olay-based shelf set.
And without going into all the details it fairly significantly reduces the SKUs.
It focuses on the products and boutiques that consumers want.
And in every case so far knock on wood okay we have lifted category sales with our retail partner which they want and Olay has benefited by lifting its sales rate and share.
So we'll see.
But that kind of stuff is like incredibly important.
And yeah it's blocking and tackling but we got to get back to the blocking and tackling that works.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> First of all congratulations A.G.
on the retirement the second time around.
But my real question were you guys tempted at all to more dramatically rebase earnings? Because it sounds like some of the investments are being deferred for because of some of the macro environment.
But it's kind of hard to manage a business based on currency because it's out of your control.
So I was wondering if you had more resources in the P&amp;L could you do both sort of like drive the productivity and the cash flow and also reinvest and stop the share declines? Because it seems like on my math the categories globally grew 3% and you guys were flat.
So that's quite a bit of share loss I guess this quarter.
So I'd just love to hear your thoughts on that topic.
Thanks.
A couple things there Bill.
One is we did not in the year that we just completed curtail investment to offset FX and you'll recall actually that when the more significant FX impacts occurred we took our guidance down specifically to protect the investments that we needed to make in the future.
I think our guidance ranges that we've provided for next year well in fact I know they accommodate fully the investments that we're planning to make going forward.
So and I think there's further opportunity to drive productivity which will provide another opportunity to reinvest I mean productivity beyond even what's in our current plan.
So I do not see these as contradictory in any way.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bill we did not pass on a single growth and value creating investment that was brought to us.
You just have to look at our CapEx.
We're putting hundreds of millions billions into new plants.
We're putting up a new concentrated HDL plant in China that opens this summer.
We're putting up a new plant in Brazil.
We're putting up a new plant in Sub-Sahara Africa.
We've been racing to add PODS capacity.
We're racing to put new Infinity and Radiance capacity in because of demand for our femcare lines.
Across baby diapers hundreds of millions to convert to pants and premium taped as fast as we can.
Again I'm not going to go into the details but in our plans in the year going forward we have 10% 20% and more increases in media budgets.
It's hard for you to see our investments in communication and media because most of it's being funded by reallocation.
We're simply shutting down the unproductive non-working dollars and we're converting it to working and we're getting a heck of a lot more out of our digital mobile search and social programs depending on market depending on category depending on brand.
But we've invested in sales.
Every year we invest in R&amp;D.
And the good news is knock on wood for the most part and R&amp;D's a risky business product innovation's always a risky business but so far the teams have been delivering very high rates of products that are delivering high levels of consumer satisfaction and as I said earlier with a fair amount of uniqueness and differentiation.
The issue is it takes some time to get them to commercialization and then get them expanding.
But we haven't slowed anything down.
If anything we've accelerated a bunch of these programs by three six and some by as much as 12 to 18 months.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian Morgan Stanley.
Hey.
Good morning.
So first just a detail question.
Jon given David's start date is not until November as CEO is this fiscal 2016 earnings guidance blessed by him or might he choose to take a different view around the level of reinvestment needed behind the business and therefore earnings guidance? And the real question is sorry to kind of belabor John's question earlier but while it was helpful to hear that you're making more progress perhaps than is evident in the results it's been a few years now of disappointing results.
So I'd love to hear what's kind of plan B if you don't see the improvement in the business you expect going forward as you look out to fiscal 2017 and the historical changes aren't enough to get you to the TSR levels you desire.
Maybe you can discuss some of the options at your disposal whether it's the earnings rebates that Bill mentioned to reinvest back behind the business a split up et cetera but why those options don't make sense and how confident you are that the historical changes will actually drive improved results going forward.
Thanks.
Well first of all the strategy that underlies the guidance the strategy and the plan are a company strategy and plan.
That's all the way through the board.
It's their strategy and plan.
It's through the senior management team which David has been an integral member of.
And it's part of what the organization every person in the organization's work plan is based off.
So it's not an individual strategy or plan.
It's a company strategy or plan.
Having said that I expect David will do what he's always done and we'll do what we always do which is wake up every morning and put our bare feet on the cold hard floor and optimize what's in front of us.
And we live in a volatile world and we need to be responding to that on a daily basis.
So we're not going to get locked or trapped in a very narrow element of our plan.
We'll modify that as we need to.
And I'm sure David will approach it that way.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And I think Dara to the second half of your question it's again a very simple answer.
We'll change.
Yeah if it's not working we'll change.
Portfolio we think it's 90/10 95/5.
They're never done okay? They're never done.
We will make acquisitions in the year or two ahead.
We will probably have another divestiture or two in the year ahead.
But we'll change.
If the baby program doesn't work we'll modify the baby program.
If the fabric care program doesn't work we'll modify the fabric care program.
If we can't compete in a business after 20 years after 5 years after 10 years we'll get out of the business.
So I mean I think that's very straightforward.
And I think the last year is full testament to that.
I mean you're right the results aren't haven't – we're not there yet.
But moving out 60% of the brands in one year that's not an indication of a company that's unwilling to embrace necessary change.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Hey thanks guys.
I guess just a couple of housekeeping and then a real one.
So first Mexico and Japan right both of those like Japan because of the consumption tax timing and Mexico because of the backing out of promos.
Can you talk about how those have progressed and how they might have affected the top line? On the tax rate going back up to 24% for next year should we view that as the beginning of a more normalized tax rate for you guys? I guess how are you thinking about it longer term? And then just lastly on the Coty deal on the timing mismatch between the lost earnings from moving the business to disc ops and the share retirement I guess because there's a year in between right.
As your shareholders like how should we think about this deal truly being not dilutive right your ability to offset that.
In other words for that really to be true fiscal 2017 you can understand this is a long way out fiscal 2017 needs to be a way above algorithm year because the share count is going to be so low.
So I know you're not going to guide out there but just conceptually would that be the plan? Is that what people should think about that the share count moves that much lower therefore 2017 will be a big bounce back year from an earnings standpoint all else equal? Thanks guys.
I'm going to take those in reverse order Chris.
On the Coty transaction and the impacts there's obviously some accounting changes that move things between continued operations and discontinued operations but until the day that deal closes all of the cash that those businesses generates goes into our bank account.
So in terms of real economic impact next year is all the cash is ours.
And then in the following year which is what we committed to when we had the call a couple weeks ago we said post close there would be no dilution going forward and that's still our plan.
So that's kind of Coty.
The tax rate at 24% I think certainly the rate that we've been at is lower than we're going to have going forward just because we've been as we've been successfully concluding RS(76:51) releasing reserves and those are down to pretty low balances.
So the 20% I would call it 23% to 25% as being a normalized rate going forward.
On Mexico and Japan we saw a sequential improvement in Mexico and are really getting to a point where that will be behind us.
But in the quarter that had a 20 basis point impact in terms of top line growth.
And then Japan obviously went the other way and was a help to the quarter versus the year-ago softness.
Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hi good morning everyone.
I guess I mean we all kind of like gyrating again around the same point which is what it seems to be a lack of balance between top line growth and delivering very strong EPS growth however theoretical because it's all currency neutral growth.
So I wonder whether you have explained to us what you are doing with pruning the portfolio and how that impact top line growth.
Because you had mentioned here things that are not divested that you have been shutting down and cutting.
That may be optically worsening the fundamental of the business.
Thank you.
Yeah so a couple things here.
One and I think it's important to understand the order and the sequence in what we're trying to turn this ship around.
And growing before we have the right structural economics it doesn't create any value.
So we're trying very hard through the productivity program through the work we're doing in FX-impacted markets to ensure that we have the right basis to grow from.
That doesn't mean we're not seizing opportunities that exist but we're being choiceful and we're sequencing.
And then when that growth comes it's going to be worth something.
The I guess I just you know.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah and I guess on the second half of your question Javier the answer is yes.
We tried to give you two or three examples.
The family care or tissue/towel example we were quite okay with a 100 index on net sales because we made in our view a smart decision to get out of over time which is as fast as we can unprofitable conventional paper businesses in Mexico and to replace that with lower sales but much more structurally attractive exports of our best products from the US into Mexico which will be purchased by certain consumers and by certain customers and we talked about being choiceful about which initiatives we took in which sequence.
And we're just not going to move until we think we have a very good chance of winning with consumers and shoppers and until we have the economics right okay.
We mentioned the laundry example because that is a big one.
And while we've been charging forward on PODS concentrated heavy duty liquids machine wash powders all trade up all preferred products by consumers all growing in most developing markets not just developed markets.
We have been pruning Tier 4 and some Tier 3 bagged commodity-like powders.
We've been pruning laundry bars as Jon said.
We have gotten out of commodity bleach.
We have dramatically pruned our additives portfolio and just kept the ones that we thought were strategic and profitable.
So yes that is going on.
And the point we were trying to make is while Jon and I and many others have been working on the company portfolio the business unit leadership has been working on their portfolio.
Some of it has been sold off.
Hair care was an example okay.
Some of it has been shut down or otherwise resolved.
And that just keeps getting better.
And I just want to make sure one last point on this I want to make sure we're being understood.
We know the top line has to grow.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> (81:32) I've shown you charts before.
We'll probably show another one at Barclays which is the exact chart that we talk to our organization about internally which shows that we cannot get to our OTSR objectives with only bottom line growth.
We cannot get to our OTSR objectives equally without only top line growth.
That's the beauty of the metric.
It's a balancing metric.
And so we get it.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
Hey guys.
So you sound very different than I would have hoped on the call today or on CNBC this morning.
There's still a lot of defiance.
There's still a lot of confidence it feels like.
And look all the frustration we're all feeling I feel as well probably times 10.
You're kind of brushing off the tough questions and maintaining this trust us it'll turn it'll turn.
But just let me offer you a look through the lens of a shareholder right who you are as well.
And you see what the stock price has done and you look at organic sales growth and it's dismal and it's getting worse and you admit that.
And the cost savings are good but they seem too small and they seem like they're slowing in some cases like the net part of it is slowing.
The transaction is complex and tough and I get it but maybe it's not as big as it should be and you have a CEO with respect to at least versus a lot of people's expectations of leaving a little early.
You missed four or five years in a row and it just feels like there's still this trust us and things will change because we're divesting things.
But I still struggle to see what's actually going be different.
I get you're going to get rid of 14% of your sales 15% of your sales and 6% of your operating profit.
But is that really it? Is that 1% incremental growth you're going to get out of getting out of those businesses is that what we're hoping for as shareholders? And I guess how long do you want to wait? How long do you want us to wait before you do think about bigger changes? I understand that you don't want to go there now but how long do we have to wait? And particularly on this kind of new normal of more active shareholder I struggle with what keeps us at bay or what keeps us pleased.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Do you have a recommendation Ali? Well I think plan B which is seriously think about breaking up the company.
That's very complex is a viable option.
It sounds like you guys have looked at it and I don't understand why it hasn't worked.
Because the stuff you're doing seems to make sense.
All right the stuff you're doing that we listed cost cutting and trying to innovate more and closing price gaps where you have to and raising accountability all these things from a classic strategic consulting thoughtful way make sense but it's just not working.
So we all are frustrated but we also feel for you because the strategy is possibly the right one.
Which might suggest there's another bigger solution here right? Which is it's just too big to run.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Maybe perhaps you're not even a growth company anymore and you have to think about it differently from just being growth.
I mean there are other options that we don't hear being contemplated or argued against.
It's just a trust us.
And I think that's at least my frustration.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Let me just say a couple of things because we may see things differently although I want to make sure that you understand and everyone understands that we consider every option and run every analysis.
First point the company is 40% to 50% less complex and I don't think that's understood.
It's just dawning on us that that's incredibly important okay.
The second thing is the time horizon okay.
Our time horizon is more consistent more reliable more sustainable growth and value creation and we believe that you build a foundation and you build this sort of a building block at a time.
And I would argue that you just have to look at what we've been able to do with half of our program in place in North America in baby diapers and you could without a great leap of faith consider that we might be able to do the same again in China where we still have the leading brand when we bring a consumer-preferred pull-on or pant and when we bring the next generation of premium taped diapers in a market where new moms are flocking to imported Japanese premium products that we know how to compete with.
The same thing in fabric care.
You could conclude that we have gotten a stubborn category that wasn't growing in the US growing again.
We have been able to trade new consumers into a mature category trade them up grow with retailers and the supply chain.
You can see what we've done in Japan okay where we've grown significantly.
And you could say yeah it really does take 18 months to put up a brand new manufacturing plant and we are shipping okay in China.
And I could just go around the world.
Hair care we have totally redone the product and technology program and we've positioned ourselves to start shipping the first product.
So I mean I understand the point.
Just two more comments on the breakup and then impossible to manage.
We reverse engineered and analyzed in detail the last decade exit from the food and beverage business.
We did it internally and we did it with outside objective view.
And we concluded that we generated significantly more value for shareowners in our focused and deliberate step at a time withdrawal from segments of that industry.
And it was about the same size exit as the one we're going through now.
I can't remember the precise number Jon but it was probably $6 billion or $7 billion.
So we're all about optimizing value for shareowners but it's over a longer time horizon I think than you are.
And then I think the last question will always be a question and that is can the leadership and management team manage and deliver.
And we think we can.
It's a new team.
David and I are going to be side by side for the next several months year or more.
And we think we're to the point where a lot of this is operationalization which is incredibly important and just good execution consistent and excellent every day.
So I understand the point about patience and impatience.
I think as Jon said earlier we're in violent agreement.
We want to grow the top line as much as anybody on the call.
And we just think that one step at a time it's coming.
And oh by the way we've got two we got another several months of tough sweating ahead because the environment in developing markets and this whole FX thing isn't going to change.
We're just trying to be realists here.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Just one quick one in terms of the transition.
Obviously when you guys come out of this you're going to look a lot different.
You mentioned A.G.
you're going to be 40% to 50% less complex in theory at least on paper a faster growing more profitable company.
But can you talk about the capital intensity of Procter &amp; Gamble two or three years from now? Are you going to be a lot less capital intense given the new business or the new portfolio that you'll have at that point? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
No we won't okay.
I'd said Joe we're in a period where we're clearly investing okay and returning but replatforming of our Grooming business which has enabled us to introduce the Venus upgrade in like six months after the male upgrade the investments we're making in the new product innovation in fabric the major investments we're making in new product in baby.
And as Jon said putting up the six new mixing and distribution centers in North America.
And we're rolling we'll be rolling across Europe over the next several years finish the job in North America over the next several years and we'll move on to developing markets with getting our supply chain as effective and efficient as streamlined as possible.
So I don't think you're going to see an increase.
We would hope for it to level out in time but I would say for the next one two three years we're going to be investing at about the current rate in CapEx.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.