No further questions.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to management.
Great.
Thank you everybody for your time this morning.
We know you have a number of other calls to get on.
We will be around all day should you have any additional follow-up questions.
Thanks very much and we'll look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Chanel thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I want to thank you for participating in today's call to discuss PulteGroup's first quarter financial results.
On the call today are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Roger Cregg Executive Vice President and CFO; Mike Schweninger Vice President and Controller.
Before we -- excuse me -- before we begin copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that accompanies today's call have been posted on our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
Please note that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on the call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to the call's presentation slide deck.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Early in March we released an interim report on PulteGroup's sign-up results for the first 2 months of 2011.
I am pleased to report that we have seen a continuation of the positive signs suggested in that initial release and are encouraged by the business trends we have experienced so far this year.
Roger will provide a detailed review of PulteGroup's first quarter results but there are several key points that I would like to highlight first.
At 4 345 homes reported sign-ups for the quarter showed a slight increase from 2010 before adjusting last year's number higher by approximately 450 units associated with the change in our sign-up reporting process.
On an adjusted basis sign-ups were down roughly 9% on a 5% decrease in community count a result we are very pleased with given the competitive environment and the impact of last year's tax credit.
Within our Q1 sign-up numbers we saw a modest selling season begin to develop as customer traffic along with gross and net sign-ups increased from month-to-month throughout the quarter.
In our March press release we reported January sign-ups of 1 206 and February sign-ups of 1 468 homes.
We captured an additional 1 671 sign-ups in March for a total of 4 345 sign-ups in the quarter.
These sequential changes demonstrate a positive progression that we view as encouraging.
I would note that we realized this sign-up performance without having to increase incentives thus avoiding that source of potential future margin pressure.
We are also encouraged by the mix of business which shows stable demand among move-up buyers for our Pulte Homes brand and active adult buyers for our Del Webb brand.
Given the influence of last year's tax credit we weren't surprised to see some year-over-year weakness in demand among first-time buyers for our Centex Homes.
Q1 sign-ups were generated from an average active community count of 800 compared with 842 for the first quarter of last year.
However on a sequential basis our 800 communities were an increase from 786 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Although community count decreased on a year-over-year basis we have been successful in converting recently acquired distressed land assets into community openings.
During our last conference call we discussed how closings from distressed land transactions are expected to climb to 15% or even higher in 2011 up from less than 5% of closings in 2010.
Given our robust land pipeline and the depth of the land positions within our existing communities growing community count is not a requirement for expanding our business in the future.
We continue to drive sales within existing communities and capture the efficiencies and leverage inherent in this strategy.
That is particularly true of our Del Webb communities which have tremendous volume potential.
At their peak several of our larger Webb positions generated more than 750 closings annually.
Today none are close to that type of velocity.
So the leverage potential is significant.
As baby boomers get more and more comfortable with their overall financial position many are now choosing to make the move and execute on their decision to enjoy the Del Webb lifestyle.
Overall given the strong influence of last year's tax credit in pulling forward demand into the first 4 months of 2010 sign-ups being down only 9% for the quarter was ahead of our internal plan.
And while limping along at historically low levels we view current demand in 2011 as much more real and sustainable relative to Q1 2010.
With April 2010 marking the end of any tax-driven buying last year the industry is moving past the year-over-year comp challenge and can look forward to the opportunity to deliver better year-over-year comparisons.
As part of my business reviews during the past couple of months I toured a number of markets including PulteGroup operations in Florida parts of the Southeast and the Mid-Atlantic.
Anecdotal comments from our field operators support the position that demand feels better with customers looking to fill their housing needs provided they view the product offering as a solid value for their investment.
Through ongoing consumer research and design innovations we are working hard to ensure that our homes clearly offer such value to the different buyer segments we serve.
By effectively positioning and differentiating our homes with first-time move-up and active adult buyers we have been able to maintain overall pricing and avoid relying on incentives to sell homes.
A favorable mix of homes closed along with keeping our pricing and incentives steady allowed us to realize an adjusted gross margin of 16.9%.
This is an increase of approximately 60 basis points from Q1 of last year and a sequential gain of 30 basis points from Q4.
We are pleased with the margin gains realized in the quarter but see opportunities for further expansion in the back half of 2011.
With our initiatives to increase construction efficiencies along with lower spec sales and a greater number of closings from recently acquired land positions we expect to end the year with even higher gross margins.
With adjusted gross margins of 16.9% and expectations for further expansion we know there remains ample opportunity for PulteGroup to meaningfully improve this number going forward.
We have discussed our near-term tactics to lower direct construction costs and we continue to march along that path.
Initiatives under way are yielding benefits as we continue to alter specifications that consumers don't value to simplify our home designs to capture local purchasing opportunities and advance other related activities.
These tactics are part of an important long-term program to meaningfully expand margins which currently lag the group averages.
We know this will be a process that demands focus and discipline from the entire organization.
It is tough work but as an organization we are excited about the opportunities we see and the results that we believe are achievable.
With a low backlog heading into the first quarter and the resulting 17% decrease in year-over-year closing volumes we expected profitability would be challenged in the quarter.
We were successful in reducing consolidated SG&amp;A by $19 million compared with the prior year period but the lower volumes and revenues for the period resulted in us realizing a net loss of $40 million.
While slightly better than our internal plan low closing volumes hindered our ability to achieve profitability in the quarter and will likely keep us in a modest loss position in Q2 as well.
However we continue to implement actions that can drive further margin expansion and sustained overhead leverage.
We expect that gains in margin and leverage in combination with anticipated higher closing volumes later in the year will enable the company to achieve profitability in the back half of 2011.
Overall I'm very encouraged with how the year started and the potential for sustainable gains as the year progresses.
The U.S.
economy recovery appears to be gaining traction and is slowly creating more jobs which is critical to improving consumer confidence.
At the same time apartment rental rates are moving higher throughout the country making home ownership that much more compelling.
That being said we appreciate that overall industry conditions remain challenging as the supply of existing homes particularly distressed properties remains high while buyers are electing to stay on the sidelines until they're convinced that a true economic recovery is under way.
With that let me turn the call over to Roger for a review of our Q1 results.
Roger? Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
Revenues for the quarter from home settlements for the Homebuilding operations decreased approximately 20% from the prior year quarter to approximately $782 million.
Decreased revenues reflect lower unit closings that were below prior year by approximately 17%.
The average sales price decreased approximately 3% versus the prior year quarter to an average of $249 000.
This decrease is attributed to the geographical and product mix of homes closed during the quarter.
In the first quarter land sales generated approximately $1 million in total revenues which is a decrease of approximately $12 million versus the previous year's quarter.
The sales in the quarter mainly reflect the sale of lots to other builders.
Homebuilding gross profits from home settlements for the quarter including Homebuilding interest expense was approximately $97 million versus $127 million in the prior year quarter.
For those with access to the webcast slides I refer you to Slide #6 the adjusted margin analysis which outlines our gross margins.
Homebuilding gross margins from home settlements as a percentage of revenues was 12.5% compared to 13% in the first quarter of 2010.
Adjusting the current quarter's gross margins for land and community valuation charges interest expense and the acquisition accounting write-up for the Centex work in process resulted in conversion of 16.9% compared to an adjusted margin of 16.6% for the fourth quarter of 2010 and on a sequential basis an increase of approximately 30 basis points on an adjusted basis.
This increase is mainly attributed to geographical and product mix of homes closed during the quarter.
On a comparative basis versus the previous year's first quarter conversion of 16.3% the adjusted increase is approximately 60 basis points.
The improved margins on an adjusted basis versus the previous year's quarter are a direct result of the geographical and product mix of homes closed house cost improvements and relatively stable market pricing in most markets.
Homebuilding interest expense increased for the quarter to approximately $35 million versus approximately $27 million in the prior year.
Included in the interest expense of $35 million is an additional $62 000 of expense related to land and community valuation adjustments taken in the current quarter and $1 million in the same period last year.
Also included in gross margin for the quarter was a charge related to land and community valuation adjustments in the amount of approximately $41 000.
Consistent with prior quarters we have reviewed all our communities for impairment indicators.
Based on this review in the first quarter we identified and tested 11 communities for potential impairment and valuation adjustments.
We recorded valuation adjustments on one community for the quarter.
The total net gain from land sales posted for the quarter was approximately $400 000.
The gain is mainly attributed to the sale of lots to other builders in the quarter.
Homebuilding SG&amp;A expenses as a percentage of home sales for the quarter was approximately 17.4% or $136 million a decrease of approximately $15 million or 10% versus the prior year quarter.
As we discussed on last quarter's conference call during the fourth quarter we reorganized and consolidated several of our operating areas in a number of divisions in addition to corporate staffing to streamline our overhead expenses in 2011.
In addition the first quarter included approximately $2 million in severance-related expenses.
In the Homebuilding other income and expense category for the quarter the expense of approximately $4 million includes write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs resulting from the decision not to pursue certain land acquisitions in the amount of approximately $600 000.
The homebuilding pretax loss for the quarter of approximately $41 million is inclusive of the charges related to valuation adjustments in land inventory and investments severance and related charges and the Centex work in process adjustment for a total of approximately $3.4 million.
The pretax income for Pulte's financial services operations for the first quarter was approximately $1 million.
The quarter also includes severance and lease exit costs of approximately $500 000.
The decrease of approximately $4 million versus the previous year's quarter is primarily attributed to lower closing volume from the Homebuilding operations.
Total mortgage principal origination dollars were $378 million a decrease of 24% when compared to the same period last year.
The decrease is primarily related to the decrease in unit closing volumes.
Total agency originations were $355 million nonagency originations were approximately $3 million and brokered or non-funded loans were approximately $20 million.
Additionally within the funded agency originations FHA loans were approximately 32% of the loans funded for the quarter compared to approximately 33% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Pulte Mortgage's capture rate for the current quarter was approximately 77% and the average FICO score for the quarter was 750.
There was no adjustment recorded in the current quarter related to mortgage repurchase exposure.
We have included a trend slide as part of the webcast Slide #10 that depicts the gross put-backs from the first quarter.
And although the quarter shows an increase versus the prior quarter it continues to remain at a low level and we expect to see volatility from month-to-month given the individual and selective nature of the processes involved.
In the other nonoperating category pretax loss for the first quarter were approximately $6 million includes corporate expenses of approximately $7 million including a $1.3 million write-off of unamortized fees associated with the termination of the credit facility partially offset by net interest income of $1 million resulting from our invested cash balances.
For the first quarter the company's pretax loss was approximately $45 million.
The pretax loss for the quarter is inclusive of $5 million in charges related to valuation adjustments in land inventory and investments severance and lease exit and related costs the acquisition accounting write-up for the Centex work in process inventory and the write-off of unamortized fees associated with the termination of the credit facility.
Net loss for the first quarter was approximately $40 million or a loss of $0.10 per share as compared to a net loss of approximately $12 million or a loss of $0.03 per share for the same period last year.
The current quarter reflects a net benefit from income tax of approximately $6 million primarily due to the favorable resolution of certain federal and state income tax matters versus a $2 million benefit for the same period last year.
The number of shares used in the EPS calculation was approximately 379.5 million shares for the first quarter of 2011.
The total shares outstanding at March 31 were approximately 382.8 million shares.
On the balance sheet for the quarter we ended with a cash balance of approximately $1.4 billion including the restricted cash balance of   $133 million which now includes approximately  $110 million in the cash collateralization for the letter of credit facilities.
The use of cash in the first quarter was mainly for net working capital and a senior note at maturity.
House and land inventory ended the quarter at approximately $4.8 billion.
During the first quarter our investments in land were for new community purchases and rolling lot option takedowns of approximately $60 million and land development spending of approximately $154 million.
In addition house inventory decreased by approximately $37 million from the fourth quarter 2010.
Interest incurred amounted to approximately $56 million in the quarter compared to $69 million for the same period last year.
PulteGroup shareholder equity for the first quarter was approximately $2.1 billion.
With that I'll turn the call back to Richard for some additional comments on operations.
Richard? Thanks Roger.
Before opening the call for questions I'll finish our prepared remarks with a few additional comments on PulteGroup's first quarter.
Within the context of my earlier comments about sign-ups and general market conditions being challenging I would add that market-specific demand remains generally stable with signs of improvement in certain geographies.
The greater Washington D.C.
Northern Virginia market remains the strongest with demand being relatively good from the Mid-Atlantic through the Northeast and into New England.
Heading south the Carolinas have continued to see reasonable demand but the big surprise was Florida which saw a year-over-year increase in sign-ups in both the northern and southern parts of the state.
This may be more a commentary about us having good land positions rather than a general recovery in Florida but we're still very pleased with the results.
Our operations in Texas exceeded their plan for the first quarter.
Given our exposure to first-time buyers in these markets and last year's tax credit the year-over comps were challenging.
The locals -- the local economies excuse me continue to create jobs however so we expect jobs demand will get better as we move through the remainder of year.
Most of the Midwest markets continue to struggle although Michigan reported some great year-over-year increases understanding that this is off a relatively low base.
Still it's nice to see some life coming back into the area.
And finally the West remains challenging.
Arizona isn't getting materially worse but there are still a lot of homes on the market.
California lost some ground in the quarter as we closed out several communities.
We will be opening new stores later in 2011 which we expect will help improve performance in the back half of the year.
At quarter end we ended with just over 2 900 spec units in production within these 800 selling efforts which is down 16% from year end.
We have talked before about a segment of buyers who are waiting until their house is sold to buy their new home but then they're looking to move quickly.
We are willing to start a few additional spec units to meet this buyer demand but we are keeping very tight controls on the supply as demonstrated by the sequential decline.
We ended the quarter with 144 000 lots in our control of which roughly 30% were developed.
We remain actively involved in new land deals including roughly 30 that were at various stages of the review and/or approval process during the quarter.
We have to search a lot more and work a lot harder than just a year ago to find deals at pencil.
Banks appear to be under no real pressure to improve pricing or terms sufficiently to increase transaction flow beyond the select deals we have been able to uncover.
From trade articles to Wall Street research to industry comments I think more people are beginning to appreciate the potential for builders to face a shortage of lots when demand for new homes increase.
With a limited supply of finished lots on the ground and few land parcels in the development pipeline lot scarcity for the industry is a very real possibility.
In the U.S.
it still takes an average of 24 to 36 months and longer in many markets on the coast to push land through the entitlement process and that isn't changing.
Given pricing dynamics today for many land parcels it still doesn't pencil to entitle and develop the ground.
When buyer demand for new homes finally accelerates land availability could very quickly become an issue.
As demand rebounds our strategic decision to retain key land positions will be a source of competitive advantage that will enable PulteGroup to meet demand and ultimately expand our market share.
Relative to our plans PulteGroup has gotten off to a modestly better start for 2011 and I want to thank our employees for helping to make this happen.
Assuming market conditions remain stable we have put ourselves in a position to return to profitability in the back half of the year.
Now it's about effort and execution which are clearly within our control.
Before opening the call to questions I want to take just a minute to publicly thank Roger Cregg for his significant contributions to the success of PulteGroup during the past 13-plus years.
As you know in February Roger announced his plans to retire from the company.
Given the progress of our search and the expectations of an announcement on a new CFO in the coming weeks we anticipate this will be his last quarterly conference call.
Roger has developed and guided the company's accounting finance treasury and numerous other functions through our dramatic growth phase and then the subsequent industry collapse.
He has been instrumental in integrating two of the largest mergers in the history of homebuilding.
He is a respected leader in this company and the industry as well as a trusted adviser to me.
His contributions to the success of this company are too numerous to list here but I know I speak for our entire company and the Board of Directors in wishing him all the best.
So thank you Roger.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we will open the call for questions.
We know it's a busy day for earnings so that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call we ask that you limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up.
Chanel if you will explain the process we will get started.
My first question Richard you talked about not having to use incentives which I think is great that you guys are focusing on margin.
But I want to get an idea as we talk to other builders public and private it seems like they're certainly going [ph] to use more incentives as we move into April because volumes are underperforming.
So I'm just trying to get an idea of what you think the competitive environment looks like outside of kind of Pulte communities and how you're going to react if you are going to start seeing some more incentives in the market as we go forward.
Yes David good question.
Couple of comments on that.
First of all regarding commodity cost pressures and incentives that may be factored into margin expectations we factored that into our margin expectations for the year.
So we're quite pleased with how margins are holding up and as indicated we're forecasting growth in the back half of the year from here.
Relative to incentives I think what you're seeing is really a mix issue for us.
Clearly our Pulte brand and our Del Webb brand are performing best.
And I think some of the folks who've reported and a number of builders that have exposure to the first-time sector is probably causing some of the pressure that they're seeing.
Having said that I do think our land positions in certain areas particularly as an example in Florida give us a little advantage.
As I tour the markets there I think we're fairly well positioned.
I've been spending a lot of time with our operators.
We had all of our division presidents together last week and the topic of incentives and pressure there is just not coming up.
Great.
And then my follow-up question is kind of along those lines of the land and the competitive advantage from the land position.
It seems to me -- at least from your comments and tell me if I'm wrong but it seems to me like the -- some of the land that you picked up in the Centex acquisition is probably a little bit more expensive than what's getting done in the distressed market right now and maybe what you're able to acquire although maybe there's not that much of it.
And what I'm trying to get an idea of when you talk about land shortage and as we look forward how much do you think home prices have to go up before this legacy land that you have and I know it's kind of a generality but how much prices have to go up before your legacy land is suddenly giving you an advantage relatively to where people are buying land in the market today? It's very tough to put a number on that.
I think I might characterize it a couple of different ways David.
I mean I think prices and the industry environment do have to get better but it's not just a question of prices going up.
It's a question of lots running out for many people.
And with distressed opportunities effectively gone there's still a few as we mentioned that we're continuing to do what I think you're likely to see is us being able to hold serve and frankly grow margins modestly from here as we get a little better mix of spec or dirt homes -- excuse me dirt sales versus spec that type of thing.
So I think our advantage could be even more near term than even we're implying because as others are forced to buy to keep community count going we've seen some folks take impairments even on recently acquired deals as the markets stay challenging.
So even though kind of you're characterizing it as though prices have to lift in order for legacy land to be a benefit even at these margin levels we think we can grow them modestly from here just because we have them and they're going to stay in existence for another year or 2 or 3 whereas others are running out.
So I hope that provides some commentary.
I'm sorry I can't give you an exact number in terms of how far prices have to lift.
But that's the best intelligence I have.
Richard are you more optimistic today about the opportunities for gross margin expansion than you were say 3 or 6 months ago? Or is your level of optimism is it sort of unchanged? Much more optimistic Josh.
The work that we have had under way for approximately 9 to 12 months on improving our home cost is finally beginning to realize some benefits.
We're also frankly doing I think a pretty reasonable job with specs reducing them and our percentage of dirt sales in the last 6 months we like and that's got some margin benefit for us.
So no I'm more optimistic than I was.
Second question.
How would you compare the availability of mortgage credit for your first-time homebuyers versus your move-up and your active adult customers? I think it's challenged.
It's tight.
I don't see it having changed dramatically really in the last 6 months.
I think the difference is our exposure to that segment is not as pronounced as maybe others.
We analyze our quarter versus a year ago.
We saw pretty much a direct shift from Centex into Del Webb if you look at the actual shift in the percentage of sign-ups that we have in the quarter.
So I think that's probably why we're not feeling it as much.
And clearly as Roger indicated with a 750 FICO score our Pulte buyer our Del Webb buyer are very very credit-healthy and even our Centex buyer is pretty credit-healthy as well.
We're just not selling as many of those homes.
So I don't think it feels as great an impact.
I don't know Roger if you have anything to add to that.
No I think that's good.
Richard if you look at just sort of what's going on with your SG&amp;A you did a great job explaining where your gross margins how your gross margins are going to improve.
If you look at the SG&amp;A how do you improve that? Is this really just a function that most of your costs are fixed and you need some operating leverage? Or do you have some more cost take-outs? Is it more variable? Well a couple of things Stephen.
First of all the $100 million we said we'd get this year versus last year we're going to get I think we did indicate that it would be tougher in the first half of the year given lower volumes to convert it on a leverage basis.
But I know our actual costs came down approximately $20 million and you'll see likely that run rate get better particularly through the back half of the year as volumes grow but I would not say that there's never more that we can do.
We kind of indicated in our press release it's kind of a combination of improving margins and lower SG&amp;A that are helping our business.
And candidly that's one of the things that's helping our impairments.
I know in your notes specifically you talked a little bit about impairments and from our view the bigger gap that we drive between margins up and SG&amp;A down the less risk we have in impairments.
So our view is that while we wouldn't expect 0 from here we certainly think the risk is getting muted more and more each quarter as we improve the fundamentals.
Okay.
And then just the other issues that I've got.
One your pricing strategy and trends and how you look at that moving forward.
And then Roger if you could just sort of run through the charges that you did have you -- a testament to your speaking fast I couldn't get all of the different charges that you had in the different buckets.
Okay I'll answer the first piece.
On kind of pricing strategy and trends it's really a tale of markets.
I would say we've seen some modest pricing improvements in markets like the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast.
Other areas like Florida and the Southeast it's been holding serve.
And then we've had a couple of communities where we've had pressure but in general I'd say pricing has been pretty stable.
Almost all of the margin improvement you've seen is coming from a combination of improved house costs that frankly haven't -- areas that have not added value for the consumer; and then a better mix of closings Pulte and Del Webb versus Centex; and then thirdly spec versus pre-sale.
We're getting a little bit more benefit particularly as we look at backlog from dirt sales versus specs.
And then Roger on the other? Yes Stephen just on the charges we had impairment-related charges of about $100 000.
That was in cost of sales.
And the other category in Homebuilder was pretty accurate [ph] right of sort of about $600 000.
And also we had about less than $300 000 in WIP [work in process] adjustment for the Centex brand.
And then we had severance and lease termination-type expenses that cost about $3 million for the quarter.
About $500 000 of that was in the mortgage company.
And additionally we had about $1.3 million in the revolver amortization fees that we had written off in the quarter as well.
So roughly that's about $5 million.
First I guess just a -- I have a bunch of questions but I'm only limited to 2 so I'll have to get in the queue.
But Roger when you mentioned profit in the back half of the year is that -- and I know this might be parsing a little bit but as analysts we have to ask is that on a combined basis? Or do you expect it to be for each quarter? Yes.
We expect it to be in each quarter in the second half of the year.
Okay.
Great.
And in terms of the comments with regards to the different segments is it possible to kind of break out or give us a little better idea for the Del Webb you kind of said that move-up and active adult were stronger than first-time.
Can you give us an idea is Del Webb up for the quarter year-over-year on the adjusted basis as you compare it to the negative 9 for the overall? Yes Mike this is Richard.
So I'll give you some numbers if you can have a pen ready to jot this down.
A little bit complicated because of rebranding in certain communities through the year et cetera.
But all in here's how the numbers broke out.
For Centex for this quarter 37% of our sales came from Centex; Pulte was 35%; and Del Webb was 28%.
Okay.
So 37% for Centex 35% for Pulte and 28% for Del Webb.
If you look at 2010 the comparable quarter had 43% Centex 35% Pulte and 22% Del Webb.
So when I made my comment earlier that the shift from Centex into Del Webb that's effectively what the sign-ups broke out to be.
So hopefully that gives you a little sense.
We are holding serve on our move-up buyer.
Again there's a lot of movement in these numbers with different things but effectively we think Pulte and Del Webb are leading a little bit of the sign-up strength that we're seeing maybe relative to some of the group that is more dependent on that first-time category.
First question I wanted to ask was I guess a question on perception.
Roger if we read the newspaper or if we talk to most investors out there you would think that home prices are collapsing again that absolutely no one can get a mortgage and that volumes are going to go nowhere for a very long period of time.
And yet when we listen to your experience of what's been happening over the past few months it's very different.
I mean you talked about relative pricing stability you talked about the emergence of a slow but real improvement in demand relative stability in being able to get a mortgage.
So I was just wondering if you could give us your thoughts on reconciling those two.
I mean I know you're not saying that things are terrific out there.
Things are still very challenging.
But how is the disconnect at you see it? Yes Nishu this is Roger.
I think as we look around at different markets it's also by the segments as well.
Certainly from the mortgage perspective as Richard mentioned there are challenges on the first-time buyer.
Again benefit is from our perspective of having the move-up and the active adults who are -- got better credit from that standpoint as Richard had mentioned earlier.
So those type of things certainly have helped us from that perspective.
I think also we're certainly not trying to compete with the foreclosures from that standpoint.
We know they're out there so we're not trying to drive pricing down.
Again we've been there in a number of years where we continue to do that and you just erode your business and certainly profitability from that standpoint.
So those are the things we continue to focus on market-to-market.
There are communities across the country that are challenged from competitive situations like that.
We to try to position ourselves or reposition ourselves to be able to compete in that particular market or those markets with those communities.
So we're not totally immune from it but overall again generally we have seen some positive results in the first quarter from that.
Nishu this is Richard.
I'll just add too.
It's not lost on us that we've underperformed particularly in the area of margin.
So the benefits that we're seeing there some might interpret maybe appropriately so as just catch-up to where we should have been and we're working hard on that.
So from our standpoint it feels a hell of a lot better than it did.
But we recognize that there's room to grow and just to get where we should be.
Got it.
Okay.
And second question I wanted to ask was there were 2 metrics that I was just trying to reconcile with what the kind of qualitative statements you gave.
The average sales price falling when you had talked about the shift from Centex into the higher-priced Del Webb and Pulte.
And the other thing was the cancels falling despite the fact that you had changed the methodology.
So I was just wondering if you could kind of reconcile those for us as well.
Yes.
This is Roger Nishu.
I'd just tell you from the perspective of changing product from year-to-year we've done a lot of that.
So even though price mix has changed it's not really price decrease.
I mean we're not discounting more and driving from that perspective but certainly we've changed product which lowered price.
We've decontented as the year has gone by.
So that was the reason for more than -- of the decrease more than just you would see in a price reduction or more incentives and that type of thing.
So it is more mix-related than pure action to reduce costs that would be negative on the margin side.
This was things that we intentionally went towards as Richard mentioned in house costs and that type of thing and some of those were reductions in price as well but not price to the margin line.
And Nishu to give you an example our Active Adult business in Florida and in some of our other sunbelt markets we introduced some more affordable product lines.
So while the ASPs may have gone down say $20 000 the brand strength and the trend was still pretty good and that buyer was willing to pay us without threat of discounts there.
On the cancel piece Mike? Yes.
I think on the cancellations a couple of things you need to think about as we talked about with the shift and more relative basis to the Del Webb side our cancellation rates on Del Webb are lower than in the Pulte and Centex buyer.
So as you get a greater proportion of that buyer this quarter versus last year you're going to have an improvement in can rates from that.
Plus you had a lower backlog coming into the year this year so that ought to help in some respects as well.
First question.
Just wanted to get your thoughts on some of the comments you were making around the first-time buyer and the move-up market.
Realizing for you guys there's some rebranding going on and maybe it's not representative of the market but if you're seeing for the market that the first-time buyer is weak and the move-up market is strong typically that's not a dynamic that can hold.
And you need the entry level to be healthy for the move-up market.
So is that just a reflection of speaking about it on a year-over-year basis where the tax credit would helped the entry-level buyer more last year? Or are you seeing something different on a sequential basis where the move-up buyer is coming back? And if that's the case how do you kind of reconcile that if they're having trouble selling their homes to move-up buyers? Yes Dennis I think it's just a reflection of versus last year and the strength we saw in entry level.
We're not seeing any particularly pronounced weakness in the entry level.
It's just that we've gotten quite a few questions of late about particularly after we introduced our first 2-month sign-ups about "outperformance." I think it's just relative to how our position is -- our business excuse me is positioned with our mix versus the inflated entry-level business from last year that we saw.
So it's not a comment really on any weakness elsewhere.
Okay.
That helps.
And then the second part of it just with the data that you've given us on the monthly orders is very helpful to kind of see that progression through the quarter.
I was wondering if you could give 2 other data points that would kind of close that loop.
One would be where December orders were so we can kind of see the progression into January.
And then the second anything that you can help us with on April and maybe either put March or April in perspective on a year-over-year basis so we can kind of see where comps are kind of trending.
Yes Dennis I don't think any of us brought the December data.
Perhaps we could help you with that later if we have that time.
But with regard to April the month's still in process and we're not going to really provide any specific detail other than to say we're pleased with how things are developing in April.
Right now the numbers are running slightly below March's numbers but that's consistent with our expectations.
Year-over-year March is typically the strongest month that we see and so we're pleased with how April's holding up.
You outlined 300 to 500 basis points of gross margin expansion over the next number of years ultimately playing catch-up to where you guys lost some market share on gross margin.
Can you quantify what the opportunity is for this year given your increased optimism in this area? Josh we're not giving details on that.
I can tell you it's not 300 to 500 basis points this year.
We certainly see some margin expansion in backlog and particularly in Q3 and 4 as we look out coming from a better proportion of dirt sales versus specs that'll be closing then.
But we're going to -- we're not going to provide specifics on that just to tell you that at this point our expectations is for growth from here.
Understood.
My second question is on your SG&amp;A progression.
You started the year off at 135 expecting the year to be closer to 500.
Should we expect ultimately that the back half of the year to average something below 125 even in the face of revenue picking up sequentially? Yes.
Yes.
Go ahead Roger.
Sorry.
Josh if you recall in the last quarter we said again it would be candid [ph] from the standpoint of higher in the first quarter and then trailing off through the fourth quarter.
So definitely that's what we'll have is a progression like that as we go through the year quarter-by-quarter is seeing a higher amount and then going to a lower amount.
And again we used an average of just 125 to set the total amount that we had talked about.
I was wondering you talked about the mix shift to more for the Pulte and Del Webb business this year than last in helping margins.
How different would you say the margins are on those businesses?  And can you talk a bit more in terms of the cost where you talked about sort of taking out costs where people weren't paying for it?  Is that help coming mostly in the Centex side of the business so there's more to come on that?  If you can you just talk a little bit more on that it would be great.
Yes Dan this is Roger.
I'll start.
First in the gross margins for our current quarter the Centex was roughly about 15% in gross margins.
The Pulte was about 17% and Del Webb is roughly about 18%.
So and again each one of those moves around quarter-by-quarter based on the number of mix the geographies that the homes that are closed in but those have been in the relative pattern in the last 2 3 quarters that we've seen.
But again as we've talked about increases as Richard mentioned a lot of the activity is going on in all of the areas so it's on the construction side.
And so we expect to see margin improvements coming from each one of the segments not particularly one over another at this point from what we're doing.
First question is on gross margins.
Sort of 2-part question.
I know you're not going to give specifics around what you think the benefit from construction cost efficiencies would be for the balance of the year but maybe can you help ring fence what the year-over-year benefit was from cost efficiencies in the first quarter? And then separately on just looking at land and Richard your comments about opportunities in the distressed market.
I think you talked about a 300 basis point spread between newer land and legacy land.
Is that narrowing at all? Or should we still assume about a 300 basis point spread? Okay Jonathan on the first piece it's very difficult to parcel out exactly to the nickel where the margin benefit is coming from.
I would say that it's fairly equivalent between the house cost moves that were non-value added that we're taking out across the business along with a little better discipline on specs versus pre-sales.
We know pre-sales have a higher margin and we'd like to continue to accelerate that.
And then a little better mix.
As Roger indicated the mix is helping us.
With regard to the land side we still feel that 300 basis points on distressed land is relative to existing land is there.
Most of the benefit from that for us will be later in the year as we get more and more of those communities opened and we get higher toward that run rate of approximately 15% of closings for the year.
The only caveat there as we tried to point out in the script is that those deals are running out.
So we're continuing to emphasize our legacy positions in getting better and better business results out of those because we know we can't just live off those distressed assets forever.
That's helpful.
And then my second question is just you talked a little bit about community traffic and we you obviously give us the data on order progression.
Can you help us understand if there was any change in conversion rates through the quarter from January through March? And then secondly just as we think about going forward based on your comments on spec sales versus dirt should we expect to see the backlog conversion rate come down to be more consistent with where it's been historically? Yes this is Roger.
I think from the conversion standpoint the backlog certainly would be -- the level of the backlogs we're trying to turn that as fast as possible.
Certainly that helps inventory turns and that type of thing.
So that's been our focus.
As far as the spread on the spec and the dirt as Richard mentioned pushing more to the dirt side because the margins are anywhere between 300 to 600 basis points better across the system from that perspective.
So again I think you'd see conversions that may be relatively where they are.
At some point if the buying continues to grow there again I think you'd see that come back down to normal but I wouldn't expect that in the short run here.
LLC</strong> Just to get a little bit more clarity on your SG&amp;A for the full year.
You're definitely kind of committed to coming in around the $500 million mark just scaling lower sequentially in each quarter.
Is that correct? Yes Bob it is.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And I'm just trying to understand.
It sounds like some of the gross margin benefit you have is from the distressed land you've already acquired but it sounds like that's starting to run out as you monetize your backlog.
Is there a percentage of lots that you could tell us that has that higher or more attractive gross margin in your inventory? Yes Bob this is Richard.
I'll take the first part of that.
Your characterization's not exactly right.
We do expect the better gross margins from distressed land to have a bigger impact later in the year than this year.
When I say "we're running out " what I mean is we're running out of new opportunities which would likely be conversions into closing say in 2012 or beyond.
And the point we're trying to make there is you can't just live off the distressed land forever.
Clearly it's been a bigger source of some of our competitors' earnings than ours has been.
We'll be catching up a little bit this year with approximately 15% from that.
But it's going to be accelerating through the year.
And my point is that we don't think we can live on that forever.
So the margin benefit that we're seeing right now is a combination of really 3 things: Improved house cost improved mix between dirt and spec and then improvement expected from distressed land deals as they close later in the year.
And it's probably in that order right now in terms of what we see.
LLC</strong> Can you help me just so we have a little bit better chance of trying to get the orders better in my model can you help tell us what the impact from the change and how you classified orders last year was on the second third and fourth quarter if there was any in the fourth? Yes there won't be any impact for second and third quarter.
And as we discussed in the fourth quarter there was a 200-unit impact in the fourth quarter of 2010.
LLC</strong> 200 unit in the fourth quarter.
There's nothing in the second or third because your...
That's correct.
It will be comparable in second and third quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So it's just in the first and the fourth quarter of 2010? Correct.
And they go the opposite way if you recall 450 in the first quarter going the one way and then 200 going the opposite way in the fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> And then two other quick questions if I may.
One what was your owned versus option lot control? And then can you clarify when you talked about gross margin improvement through the year is that -- if you include your interest is that still -- would you still think gross margins are going to grow through the year? The owned lots is 129.5 -- 129 500 and our options are 14 800.
Yes Adam and then on the gross margins what we had talked about was that no overall that we saw margins being slightly down in 2011 versus '10 if we include the interest as we had talked about that.
The amortized interest expense coming through would be higher in '11 than it was in '10.
So that was going to drive the margins slightly below where we were in 2010.
I wanted to find out a little bit.
We track the community counts for each builder each quarter and we've kind of seen a progression where Centex communities seem to be dropping pretty significantly both this quarter and since the time of your acquisition we estimate at least 30% drop.
And I'm just kind of wondering if you guys are just behind on finding new deals to refill that brand type? Or is it more strategic than that? Yes Alex this is Roger.
Specifically when we talked last quarter about seeing our community counts drop between 5% and 10% for 2011 that was a big driver was the close-outs of the Centex brand.
Now we're certainly working on that but they're harder and harder to find for the Centex brand than the first-time buyer with the underwriting criteria that we're looking for in those.
So it's somewhat more market-driven today our inability to find those.
We're finding more certainly on the move-up side that pencil better than the ones in the first-time side it's not from our lack of effort or abandonment of the brand itself.
So we continue to push it back but just conditions today given underwriting criteria doesn't give us the opportunity to grow it as much as we'd like.
Yes Alex this is Richard.
I'll just add to that.
We want to be smart about where we place our investment so it's really a combination of a number of transactions at acquisition time that had very few lots left which has kind of been the primary driver combined with trying to make sure we make the best investment decisions going forward.
We certainly are working hard on our internal business model to make sure we're affordable as we can possibly be to serve that buyer category but the land market has to give us some help there as well.
And we certainly want to make sure that we make good investments.
My second question has to do with your gross margins this quarter.
It's kind of a 2-part question.
One is how come the interest expense isn't a little bit closer to the interest incurred? And second why are we not seeing a little bit more impairments since your gross margins are in the low double-digit range? Again Alex this is Roger.
When you look at the interest incurred versus the interest expensed again we amortize the interest expense based on the life of the communities.
So again that's no different than we've always done it.
The buildup there was because of the way the purchase accounting worked for Centex and the debt that we brought on how that built up and how it comes off.
So again I think we've explained that a number of quarters as we look at that and you're always going to have that slight difference until a period of time probably that we normal out with the amortization of the Centex portion got that added on.
And with regard to impairments Alex a couple of things.
We've used the same methodology all along for impairments so that hasn't changed.
So the same criteria is yielding that result.
The second thing is even though our margins are low I kind of spoke to this earlier they have improved fairly dramatically over the past 12 months something like a 35% or 40% improvement and we have expectations for when they get better.
So even though they're low as they get better and better in our view the risk gets lower and lower and that's what the models show.
But I want to make sure you understand we're using the same exact criteria we've always used for impairments.
But just because our margins are low you got to take that into account relative to where they have been.
So the impairments mathematically should be coming down based on SG&amp;A improving and margins improving.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Here's the first one.
Just wanted to get some more color on your views on the seasonal pattern that you've seen.
And so basically what you described is about a 13% increase in orders from February into March and you described that as sort of encouraging.
If I look back at normal seasonal patterns I mean that actually looks a little light to what we'd see.
If I look at broad industry data over a long period of years we'd expect something more probably in the 15% to 17% range.
And so I'm just wondering if you can comment on seasonally adjusted I mean are the patterns really encouraging?  Or is it kind of flattish? Mike I think your point's a good one.
You got to appreciate everything is so ultrasensitive relative to last year's tax credit.
And frankly I don't think we or anybody else in the industry knew what to expect from demand.
So what's encouraging is that demand is relatively speaking holding up.
There's nothing artificial driving demand this year.
The stock market's at 12 000.
That's helping the portfolio of dollars that our active-adult buyers look at.
They're concerned about having enough of an nest egg.
So even though they can't sell their home for what they wanted our home is still a value but their nest egg is better.
So they're feeling better.
The move-up buyer again that has money in the market's feeling a little bit better.
Jobs are slowly but surely being added very slowly across the economy.
All of that just leads us to believe that demand while it's not great to your point it's holding up reasonably well.
And given last year's pull-forward and then pullback tax credit pull-up and then the letdown we're encouraged by the fact that it's rolling out a little bit more normally.
Whether it's up 2 or 3 points versus seasonal trends up and down you're right we're not trying to say that March is just a blowout and April's a blowout.
We're trying to say that it feels a little more like a normal year admittedly a very low level year but seasonality I wouldn't be surprised if it holds up according to much more normal patterns this year versus something we saw last year which is clearly driven by the tax credit.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And just one quick follow-up I guess really on the last question.
Just speaking really big picture here and I don't want get into precise numbers but you talked about sort of the benefits of a long land supply and potentially a land squeeze down the road and I know there was a lot of questions about sort of the interest expense.
But If I run some really rough number I mean you guys pay roughly 6% give or take on your average senior debt and if I look at your overall senior debt relative to your pure landholdings once I back out inventory and process and all that sort of stuff.
I mean they're sitting at roughly equal levels in the $3.5 billion $3.8 billion range or thereabouts.
So I mean just conceptually I guess one easy way to think about it is the effect of carrying costs if your guys  holding land is about 6% a year.
And so if there's a big benefit here to having a large land supply and avoiding the land squeeze down the road seems like the minimum threshold is we need to see land prices appreciate by 6% a year just for you guys to kind of break even on those large landholdings.
So again just very conceptual level I mean can you tell me how you feel about that? And is that a reasonable way to think about the issue? I don't think it's a bad way to think about it.
What I think though you need to appreciate is the ability to have land to actually convert into margin dollars and ultimately into profitability versus the inability to have it.
And what we get concerned about is not forcing the investment criteria right now in a very weak time into deals that don't make sense.
And so I don't think anyone's here is portraying that our land has got enormous value for 2011 in terms of incredible margins.
What we're saying is that likely the industry is going to have a very slow and steady recovery and that land will have more and more value over time.
It's a lot less clear exactly what's going to happen on the land pricing front in the near term other than to say that it's going to go up.
Very little land is transacting and banks are under no pressure and we and our competitors talk to folks all the time and a lot of people are just holding their dirt with the expectation of selling it for 15% 20% 30% more at some point in the future.
So we're just trying to make that point.
I don't know Roger do you want to add anything to that? No I -- that was good.
Just wanted to see if you had mentioned community count or what it ended the quarter at.
We ended at 800 and then we said that was up from 786 in Q4 and down from 842 same quarter last year.
And did you have a breakdown between Centex Del Webb and Pulte? Yes about 38% of those are at Pulte 40% are Centex and 22% Del Webb.
LLC</strong> Richard just wanted to take your land commentary a step further about potential for reduced lots going forward.
If you look at it by the different segments for your business can you take that comment down to the segment level and give us an idea of which segments would be less affected or more affected? Well I can't give you specifics but anecdotally our Del Webb positions we have a long life in them.
We can enjoy I would estimate 4 or 5 years' worth of growth in those segments before we had to reload probably next on the Pulte and Centex side.
But I'd say Del Webb could be the outperformer there.
The typical Pulte community and Centex community are not that different in terms of their average life.
They typically are smaller.
So I just -- I think the main thing I'd say is that we've got many years' worth of runway with Del Webb inventory.
LLLP</strong> Thanks for taking the question.
Most have been asked and answered.
But is it -- would it be fair to assume that the Del Webb community mix increases through this year and next year from a community count perspective? And then I have a follow-up.
Jack I wouldn't go there on community count.
The Del Webb communities are very large typically and I think we've added one or 2 this year already and we may add one or 2 more but from a percentage change it'll probably be the least volatile of our segments.
Again one of the reasons community count particularly for PulteGroup is difficult is the Del Webb communities are  so different from the others in terms of their average life so the community count is not going to be a big driver of our Del Webb performance going -- for the next couple of years.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then on the mortgage put-back issue any update quarter-to-quarter on rescission rates Fannie-Freddie activity vintage loans coming out of individual vintages any color there from a -- just from a sort of sequential trend line? Yes this is Roger.
I would say no.
We're pretty much seeing consistency other than we saw a little bit higher amount in March.
But again as we've talked about we're going to see volatility from month-to-month based on what actually comes out of the different investors.
But nothing unusual that we hadn't seen in the last couple of quarters.
Most of my questions have been answered too but I just had a quick question for you Richard.
You talked some about the sort of scarcity of land out there.
Could you talk regionally and specific markets whatever color you can give us just on what markets are the toughest to find quality-lot potential for you guys and which ones are a little bit easier and if there's any regional or metro differentiation there? we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 PulteGroup Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kendall and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I will now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Jim Zeumer Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you Kendall and good morning.
I want to thank you for participating in today's call to discuss PulteGroup's second quarter financial results.
On the call today are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mike Schweninger Vice President and Controller.
Before we begin copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that accompany today's call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
Please note that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on the call are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to the call's presentation slide deck.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
With that let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
With the first 6 months of 2011 behind us I can say that the year is developing in line with many of the planning assumptions we used headed into 2011.
We continue to believe that the industry is moving along a cyclical bottom and is proving to be fairly stable.
Our Q2 results are consistent with this position as our net sign-ups of roughly 4 200 homes were comparable to both last year and the first quarter of 2011.
More than the often cited excess of supply of existing housing stock in the market we view the lack of demand as the bigger issue hurting the industry today.
Simply put we need more jobs and better consumer confidence before a meaningful recovery can occur.
Given this as a backdrop we'll take it as a positive that demand remains flat.
The less positive news is that the industry is operating at very little levels of production with single-family starts around 400 000 and new home sales of roughly 300 000.
At the risk of stating the obvious such low volume makes the business that much more challenging and demands that we reevaluate every facet of our operations.
From how we think about local market opportunity and related land acquisition to the homes we design and the materials we source we are working to deliver improving results in the face of today's highly competitive market conditions.
Many of you are familiar with the project work we had launched toward the end of 2010 to identify and address key issues that were hindering our business performance.
The ultimate goal of this work is to drive significant improvement in PulteGroup's operating and financial results and in turn long-term shareholder returns.
The project work helped to define potential strategies and tactics to meaningfully expand margins reduce overheads and increase asset turns.
The work also looked at opportunities within the company's capital allocation processes including how best and how much to invest in the business prioritizing individual markets and how to structure land investment to drive better returns.
PulteGroup's Q2 results show that we are starting to make some progress toward improving these key metrics and our overall business performance.
In a few minutes I'll ask Bob O'Shaughnessy to provide details on PulteGroup's second quarter results but there are a couple of points I want to highlight as representative of the progress we are making.
Reflecting the expiration of the homebuyer tax credit in April of last year closings on a year-over-year basis were down in the quarter but adjusted gross margins remained stable at 17.2% and were up sequentially 30 basis points from Q1 of this year.
Including these 30 points over the past 2 years we have recaptured about 800 basis points of gross margin but we appreciate there's still a lot of runway in front of us to continue the rebuilding process.
Accordingly we expect to deliver additional margin gains through the back half of this year and assuming overall operating conditions remain stable or improve in future quarters as well.
Among the opportunities we see to maintain and ultimately enhance margins are: first preliminary gains from our house cost construction initiatives.
Longer term we see the potential and the need to capture significantly more margin dollars from our core construction operations; second increase closings of higher margin presale homes with less reliance on potentially lower margin spec sales; third general stability around pricing and insurance selling incentives; and finally near-term gains associated with increasing closings from distressed land purchased in prior periods.
We won't kid you repositioning the business to capture more construction efficiency in margin thus allowing for lesser alliance on price appreciation involves a lot of hard work.
This is especially true for our company given the breadth of our geographic footprint the number of communities in production and a variety of product we build.
However the margin opportunity is well worth the effort required for success.
Using last year's company-wide deliveries and average selling prices even a 1% gain in margin would have added more than $40 million to our pretax earnings.
We are starting to recapture these dollars and are encouraged with the momentum we are building within the organization.
Along with margin we're working aggressively to further reduce SG&amp;A spend and improve resulting overhead leverage.
We continue to right-size our overheads in support of long-term goals as well as the more immediate task of getting back to profitability.
On previous quarterly conference calls we talked about actions taken last year to consolidate our organizational structure and on a year-over-year basis reduce 2011 SG&amp;A by approximately $100 million.
As some of you may have read the new stories we built on last year's actions and merged our West and Central areas during the second quarter of this year.
Through this reduction and a series-related steps we have targeted additional overhead savings in the range of $50 million on an annualized basis.
As with last year's reductions we have implemented the steps needed to capture our targeted savings.
Given higher overhead costs we are realizing in other areas however we now anticipate that net savings realized from our 2010 and 2011 actions will be closer to $125 million on an annualized basis.
While implementing staff reductions and other SG&amp;A savings is difficult I think the company continues to do a very good job of capturing meaningful savings while maintaining the critical resources needed for success today and tomorrow.
Within a challenging demand and competitive environment we are realizing success and improving our business results.
We are developing new product that's more efficient to build while offering design innovations to better meet consumer needs.
We're also laying the groundwork for future margin expansion by continuing to lower material and labor costs associated with our construction activities.
From developing entirely new house designs to value-engineering existing plans to altering our base house and option pricing strategies we're changing our business to capture meaningful and sustainable margin expansion.
And we are reviewing -- excuse me and we are continuously reviewing our structure and where appropriate taking actions to lower our overheads.
We are at a stage where meaningful savings require fundamental changes in how we are organized to manage the business but I think we demonstrated the determination to make any needed adjustments.
Given today's economic uncertainty there are reasons to be cautious about near-term market conditions but the reality is we can't control changes in the macro environment.
What we can do is continue advancing those initiatives which will improve our business results by driving revenue higher lowering our cost and making capital investment more effective.
Successfully implementing related programs is beginning to have a positive impact and has positioned PulteGroup to be profitable in the back half of 2011.
Now I'm pleased to introduce Bob O'Shaughnessy PulteGroup's new Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Bob joined us just after Memorial Day and has been busy getting up to speed on the company and the overall housing industry.
Bob brings strong technical skills as well as an analytical process that I've already come to appreciate.
We're excited to have Bob join the leadership team here at PulteGroup.
So let me say welcome and turn the call over to Bob for additional comments on our Q2 results.
Bob? Thank you Richard and thank you for that kind introduction.
I'm equally excited about joining PulteGroup and the opportunities I see for the company going forward.
Now let me provide some of the details relating to our second quarter results.
Homebuilding revenues for the quarter were $900 million a 29% decrease compared to last year the decreases driven by a 28% decline in unit closings to 3 622 homes combined with a 1% decrease in average selling price to $249 000.
The large decline in closings reflect the expiration of last year's tax credit.
During the quarter our reported Homebuilding gross profit margin was 12.2%.
Consistent with our historical practice we reviewed all of our communities for impairment indicators during the quarter.
Based on this review we recorded valuation adjustments of approximately $3 million related to 6 communities.
As highlighted on Page 6 of our webcast slides our adjusted gross margin which excludes the $3 million of land-related charges $41 million of capitalized interest expense and roughly $400 000 of merger cost related to CPX Webb was 17.2%.
This is consistent with last year and is up 30 basis points sequentially.
Looking at our expenses.
Homebuilding SG&amp;A totaled $132 million or 14.7% of home sales revenue for the quarter.
In total our Homebuilding SG&amp;A was down $15 million from last year and $4 million from the first quarter reflecting the progress the company has made on the cost savings initiatives we've discussed with you in the past.
Along those lines our second quarter SG&amp;A included $5 million of severance and related costs related to organizational changes we implemented during the quarter.
As Richard mentioned including these actions we have targeted additional overhead savings of approximately $50 million on an annualized basis.
Looking at our consolidated other income and expenses we recorded $6 million in lease exit and other costs related to the Q2 organizational changes; a $4 million charge related to the write-off of deposits to pre-acquisition costs on several projects that we exited because they no longer met our investment threshold; and a $3 million loss on the retirement of debt.
With respect to the write-off of deposits to pre-acquisition spend our decision to pay off on these projects is reflective of our desire to rethink our capital allocation process as we work to strengthen individual market conditions and improve overall return.
I'd now like to spend a moment on the results of our financial service operations which reported a pretax loss of approximately $17 million for the quarter.
Mortgage and related operations earned $3 million in the quarter which was more than offset by a $19 million charge related to our exposure associated with potential future mortgage repurchase.
In the past our reserves related to this issue assumed a significant reduction to request by the end of 2011.
As shown on Page 10 in our webcast slide such request have continued in a fairly tight range during 2011.
As a result we've adjusted our estimates to assume that the significant reduction will occur by the end of 2012.
In total the company recorded a net loss of $55 million or $0.15 per share for the quarter.
As noted the loss includes an aggregate $41 million or $0.11 per share of land mortgage restructuring and debt-related charges.
Prior net income of $76 million or $0.20 per share included approximately $48 million or $0.13 per share of land mortgage and restructuring charges offset by a net benefit from income taxes of $82 million or $0.22 per share.
We ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash included a restricted cash of $128 million.
The use of cash in the quarter was primarily to meet working capital needs along with the retirement of the $53 million of short-dated debt.
Beyond our financial statements we operated from 797 communities during the quarter which was consistent with the first quarter and down 5% from last year.
We opened 31 new communities in the second quarter with plans to open upward of 60 additional communities in the back half of the year.
We're still projecting a roughly 5% to 10% reduction in our year-end community count.
We have been and continue to be willing to acquire new land positions when the location and terms make sense.
In fact on a year-to-date basis we have added 3 100 lots under control bringing our total under control to 142 000 lots 30% of which are developed.
However we continue to see that the finished lots available in the marketplace are somewhat challenged.
In the future we'll continue to be opportunistic in our land acquisition strategy but we'll enhance our focus on increasing absorptions in open communities and developing our existing land position.
As Richard mentioned we're also trying to be more disciplined in our spec home investment.
We ended the quarter with approximately 7 000 homes under construction of which approximately 60% were sold and 40% were spec.
Of the spec units roughly 1 200 were finished which was a sequential decrease of 20% from the first quarter.
We continue to balance the desire to achieve the higher margin opportunity associated with pre-sales against having some level of units in production to meet demands of buyers who have a desire to close quickly.
In closing I'd like to highlight that I've been extremely impressed by the people here at Pulte.
Their level of dedication and engagement is high and they are focused on driving improvement in the company's operating and financial results.
We can see the progress being made as we strive to return to profitability in the back half of 2011.
More importantly I'm excited by the longer-term opportunities we have to deliver meaningful and a sustained improvement in the business.
I look forward to working with all of you and to meeting with you in the future.
I would encourage you to call if you have any question and to work with Jim Zeumer if you'd like set up a meeting with us.
Let me now turn the call back to Richard for some additional comments.
Richard? Thanks Bob.
As you would expect from our opening comments that demand remains relatively stable we haven't seen dramatic changes in business conditions on a local market level.
Again appreciating the context that overall volumes are low and markets competitive let me provide some additional comments about market conditions before opening the call to questions.
On a year-over-year basis sign-ups in our East area were up 3% with continued strength in the greater Washington D.C.
Northern Virginia market and continuing North into Pennsylvania Delaware Valley and New York New Jersey metro areas.
South into Tennessee the Carolinas and Georgia were down slightly to last year but the weakness was found primarily in April so this looks to be tax-credit related in comparing against 2010.
Our Gulf Coast operations recorded a 14% increase in sign-ups with good demand throughout Florida and Texas.
Through the first half of 2011 we have been pleasantly surprised by the overall strength in Florida relative to expectations although we still sense it may be more related to our company's specific land positions than a general market recovery.
Our newly configured West area continue to face difficult demand conditions with sign-ups down 12%.
Strong demand in smaller Midwest and Pacific Northwest markets couldn't offset ongoing weakness in California and Arizona.
Again much of the year-over-year decline was driven by April's results and last year's tax credit.
Beyond that dynamic demand across most of the markets was fairly stable through the quarter.
Having the business showing clear signs of stability is certainly a positive but I think we all recognize that the broader economy has to rally in order for demand to realize a meaningful recovery.
Until this happens we can continue to improve the fundamentals of our business to deliver better margins.
One example of our efforts in this area is the development of innovative new floor plans designed to better meet the needs of our first-time Centex homebuyers.
These plans which are being piloted in select communities have been redesigned from the ground up with an eye toward cutting per square foot cost by as much as 15% to 25% depending on the local market.
As important they have been consumer tested to help ensure acceptance by the buyer segment.
We believe the improved value these houses offer combined with new selling centers we're developing will enhance Centex's market position while improving our overall financial results.
Success with these new designs and all our efforts can only be realized through the sustained work of our employees.
I want to thank them for their efforts on our behalf.
Their work is directly responsible for keeping our customers delighted and for helping to rebuild the financial performance of this company.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we'll open the call for questions.
We know that it's a busy day for everyone.
So that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call we ask that you limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up call.
You're welcome to get back into the queue after that.
Operator if you'll explain the process we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JP Morgan.
First question I was wondering if you could get a little more granular on the SG&amp;A.
We appreciate the -- certainly the additional steps taken in the quarter.
But you said that on a net basis the cumulative $250 million would only show up as $125 million due to some higher cost and I guess cost of business.
I was wondering if you could kind of break down what those offsets were.
And I assume that also the $50 million we'd see half of that this year and half of that next year? Mike it's Bob.
I think the -- it's $150 million not $250 million.
And what we are seeing is that we've been able to capture the $100 million.
We believe that we'll capture the $50 million.
I don't think it's necessary to get into the pluses and minuses on the ongoing business suffice to say we think we've got a little bit of increase in costs relative to our expectations coming into it.
So that we think on a net basis we've got about $125 million net saved.
With respect to the spend that we had this year we think we'll earn back about what they've cost us to do the restructuring in the second quarter.
So you can expect to see that sort of -- and again was $12 million.
So you can expect that sort of to be paid back in fiscal '11 and then followed by full year $50 million saved in fiscal '12.
Great.
Second question just on the -- kind of how you're approaching investment as it relates to what you've seen so far this year.
And specifically I was wondering if you could kind of go into how you've seen pricing trends during 2Q number one.
And I guess as the second part of that question how that may or might not influence how you're going about investment in land and new deals because you said that you expect community count to be down 5% to 10% by fiscal year end.
And I was wondering if -- to the extent that you have seen pricing more or less stable during the quarter and I'd be interested if that's in fact the case how that might influence how you're thinking about community count growth potentially for 2012.
Mike this is Richard.
A couple of things.
Yes we have seen pricing relatively stable through the quarter and actually we've been pleased with that overall.
As it relates to how that plays into our overall land investment strategy I think what we're indicating is that land deals that pencil are getting harder and harder to find because while there's not a lot of decline in pricing there's also not a lot of upward movement in pricing.
So our focus is to be as capital efficient as possible.
And part of the work that we have ongoing right now is to drive better returns and that's indicating being more and more efficient with assets.
So as it relates to future land investment look for us to be cautious to ensure that we're meeting or exceeding our own hurdle rates and not to get too bullish anytime soon.
We'd certainly like to be able to do more with less.
And with that I don't know Bob if you want to add any color.
I think that's exactly right.
The goal would be to be efficient and not to overpay if we think the market is asking for that.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin with Citigroup.
So I have strategy question.
The one bright spot in the housing market is the rental market and multifamily construction is headed up.
Is the multifamily market something Pulte would ever think about entering? Or is that just outside of your bailiwick altogether? Yes Josh this is Richard.
That's outside the bailiwick.
I assume you mean to build rental housing.
I mean we certainly build a cash for-sale house as part of our portfolio but that's not part of what we're interested in.
Okay.
And the last point on Slide 10 the mortgage repurchase request slide it ends with the month of June.
Can you tell us the number of repurchase request in July? I'll be honest Josh I haven't had that conversation yet so I don't know.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
My first question I want to drill into the mortgage putback issue a little bit more and the change this quarter.
My understanding and please correct me if I'm wrong was that in the past you guys have done a pretty thorough analysis of the loan book and kind of figured out where you thought there might be issues and taken reserves against that accordingly.
So I'm not sure I understand how the timing between the request for putbacks between '11 or '12 or '13 reconciles with the concept that you felt like you have reserves against the loans that have problems essentially in the underwriting.
So can you help me understand that better? Yes David this is Bob.
I will preface this by saying I'm not exactly sure what you thought you heard.
I don't believe we ever expressed that we had looked at the whole loan portfolio to do this.
I think it was really a -- because there was not a lot of clarity into that.
What we did do is look at the level of loans coming back to us.
The dollar value the severity of each claim most of these are now make-whole provision requests.
So the home has actually already been foreclosed upon and sold by the bank.
So we're not taking the loan back again so there's an ongoing risk on that.
And just how many of the requests that come to us that we actually ultimately fund.
And so again I guess looking back at the accounting that was done the company made an estimate that you would see a reduction during 2011 such that this sort of unusual or outside return request that's been coming over the last 18 months or so would decline and start to slow down.
And what we're saying is that that hasn't happened.
Again we understand that the loan holders are going through their portfolio of loans looking for issues and it was the company's expectation then that that process would be coming to an end in 2011.
We just haven't seen that mitigate quite as quickly as we thought.
So our expectation is now to go another year.
Okay.
That's very thorough.
My second question was about -- I know you don't necessarily want to talk about current operating environment and kind of post quarter but I'm just trying to get an idea generally how the current situation in the economy the failure to raise the debt ceiling at this point how that's impacting the active adult business.
Are you finding buyers are hesitant to make decisions without a certainty around social security and the kind of future payments from the government? I'm just trying to get an idea of kind of what's going on in the government and how that's fully affecting the business in the current environment.
Yes David this is Richard.
I've been pleasantly surprised that it does not appear to have had much of an impact overall and candidly that's a little bit surprising to me.
But I've spoken to our operators this week and pretty current information would suggest it has not had a significant impact.
I suppose if they were to default it's possible that it could and certainly nobody could predict that.
It's been a little frustrating for everybody to watch what's going on but overall we feel reasonably good with where things are.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Given the actions you're taking to improve gross margins x interest expense I wonder if you could kind of talk about the interest expense line which obviously is having an impact on your gross margin.
I believe there's still some noise related to the Centex merger in there.
Can you give us a sense of how perhaps the -- just normal interest expense will vary as we go into 2012 relative to the decline in the burden from the Centex debt that's being accounted for? Sure I'll walk you through it.
We are seeing in the current year for example on our actual current gross margin the decline is primarily attributable to the impact of incremental interest expense flowing through the margin line.
It's about 170 basis points in this quarter.
What will happen is we think for the balance of this year you will see interest capitalized in excess of interest expense that flows through cost of sales.
We think that will normalize in 2012 such that -- in 2012 interest expense and actual interest expense and interest coming through gross margin will about equalize.
That is roughly a $40 million increment in our projected interest expense in 2012.
So again it will move our net margin.
Obviously we are focused on enhancing the margins as Richard walked through trying to make sure we can get the most out of the house.
Right.
And then I guess is there any update in terms of the large construction reserve you took last year? Is that still kind of $270 million? Or have you -- is there any potential for that to be coming back through the income statement? I don't -- we track that obviously month-by-month quarter-by-quarter.
We haven't seen anything in 2011 that would suggest that the estimates that were recorded last year need to be changed so we haven't adjusted that reserve up or down.
There is a process that we'll go through when we do a full actuarial analysis.
That will start Q3 finish in Q4.
What we're trying to do is make sure of two things: one is we do these new designs and just all of our construction is to make sure that we don't -- or to the best of our ability we minimize these sorts of things going forward.
And we're also working diligently to make sure that whatever issues we do have we fix in the most cost efficient manner we can.
But again no change in the accounting Q2 to more directly answer your question.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
My first question was on whether you have seen any impact at all yet from the upcoming loan limit reductions on the FHA and GSE loans obviously on your to-be built product to hit beyond October 1 closing deadline.
You might be seeing an impact now.
So I was just curious if you guys have done any analysis in your communities and what percentage of closings might be impacted and whether you are actually seeing any impact from that yet? Alan this is Richard.
Given the price points we operate at we have done some looks into that and the impact for us would appear to be negligible less than 1% or 2%.
It has not impacted the current demand nor do we expect it to if it were to change which we hope it doesn't.
Got you.
And just -- I was hoping you might be able to elaborate a little bit more on some of the things you're doing to drive gross margin higher.
I know you mentioned kind of retooling some of the construction and bringing down some of your costs on that front.
Any way for you to quantify the impact of that or where you think the upside for margins might be in the back half of the year? Yes this is Richard.
I can speak to that a little bit.
It really is a combination of several things.
I would say the most tangible and direct impact and we have a large effort that's been ongoing for several months and it will continue is around house costs big big focus on reducing house costs.
So that's a piece of it.
Another piece of it is a continued focus on presale versus spec and that's definitely helped our margins this year.
And we expect it to continue to help in the balance of this year and in the next year.
A third area is just looking on our overall pricing overall and then finally would be mix.
It's no surprise I don't think anyone at Del Webb and Pulte continue to have a little bit higher percentage of closings versus Centex given what we've seen in the overall markets.
But of those Alan it's very difficult to break down exactly the percentage coming from each of those.
But we've said we expect meaningful margin improvements through all of those over the next several years and this is an effort that you should think about being slow but steady sequential improvement barring any significant change in the macro environment.
And we know we're behind our peer group and we're determined to catch up.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
First question I wanted to ask was about the move-up buyer in your orders.
Now after your first quarter most investors took your order outperformance as some evidence of traction or rebound in the move-up market whereas the first-time buyer seems to still be lagging or suffering from the effects of the homebuyer tax credit.
So your order performance in the second quarter just looked at it from the outline.
How do we interpret that? Has there been some shift? Obviously you're also investing now as you mentioned in the Centex brand the first-time buyer.
So I was just wondering if you could give us some commentary about that.
Yes Nishu we continue to see relatively nice performance in Del Webb and Pulte and we're not disappointed with our Centex performance either.
It's been within expectations and kind of that's the watchword through Q2 is the market has been very stable our month-to-month trends have been very stable.
But perhaps Mike can provide a little more detail by brand for you.
I'll tell you if you take a look sequentially the mix of our sign-up between our brands has held constant as you look at Q1 to Q2.
So we're roughly 1/3 1/3 1/3 and that continues to track quarter-over-quarter.
Which is consistent with what we said in Q1 but that was a relatively significant change versus the early part of last year when we saw an outperformance in Centex.
So maybe for everybody listening I would suggest that it's not a case of weakness in the entry level.
It's more a case of normalization in the entry level versus the clear tax credit impact of last year.
Got it.
Great.
And second question Richard you mentioned in your view housing has more of a demand problem rather than a supply problem which is a point of view that we definitely agree with.
Now last year in the second half of the year one evidence that pointed to that was the pricing inelasticity.
It wasn't effective to lower prices to drive more sales.
I wanted to get an update from you on that.
Now that we're through the -- the spring selling season is behind us is it still pricing inelastic out there? Or are you -- has pricing become a tool again you're seeing in the market to use to drive volumes? Nishu on a relative basis it's still pretty inelastic.
That doesn't mean that on a few select particularly lower entry-level communities that you can't drive a little bit of pace with price.
But again with a company with 800 communities I would say our incentive levels have been very consistent our overall pricing trends have been very consistent.
And the way I look at it internally is for every community where we lower price slightly we have an offsetting community say in the D.C.
area or one of our other stronger market that we're increasing price slightly.
But it has been really very stable.
Like I mentioned a second ago order trends April May June very consistent.
So I don't think the market is getting worse.
I don't think the market is getting a little better and that would indicate price is not a big driver.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
My first question is on putbacks.
Should we assume no further increases until this time in 2012 when you'd have to reassess the probability of 2013 putback risk? Or should we be thinking about it a different way? I think the right way to look at this is again the variables that we see can identify our -- how much is coming out and how often can we refute it what's the severity.
Each of those things can and may change over time.
We haven't seen a substantive increase or decrease in any of those variables with the exception of time.
And so I would tell you we watch this every quarter.
And so if we saw a meaningful change in any one of those things it could drive some accounting.
But I think with respect to time that really what will tell us that answer.
So 6 months from now again if we see things trending up we may have to think about it one way.
If we see things trending down we may get to challenge some of the accounting we've done.
So again all the inputs is impacted.
So let me just dig a little deeper on that.
If you guys were to see an increase in sort of severities or you guys aren't able to refute as successfully as you have today should we make the assumption that the changes should be smaller than this sort of $10 million to $15 million charge that you guys hoped to institute an entire year's worth of additional charges? Joshua on a relative basis I think that's a fair thing to say.
If we saw a tripling of the amounts that we are responsible for.
It could drive up a number of an equal size.
I haven't done the math to say "Well if this changes by this much what happens to the accounting?" Because again those things have been very consistent.
I'm not saying they will be in the future.
Our hope would be actually that as the holders have gone through the majority of what we hope is their really troubled portfolio that we'll see -- again our expectation originally was that it would slow down now.
We hope it will soon.
Similarly we hope that maybe our ability to refute these will become more pronounced.
So again I think you can't tell what's going to happen but we haven't seen those numbers jumping around such that you'd get a big accounting answer.
Joshua this is Richard.
I just want to add one slight point to what Bob said.
Remember the vintage we're dealing with here has not really changed in terms of the troubled timeframe which is primarily '06 and '07.
So the further we get from that in time our expectations are that at some point in time it's going to slow down.
Unfortunately it hasn't slowed quite as quickly as we anticipated but that's still our expectations.
And exactly that what Richard said is a good point yes that we -- the reason we believe that they've gotten through a lot of their truly troubled portfolio.
The next question comes from the line of Steven East with Ticonderoga Securities.
Richard you've talked a lot about operationally what you're doing differently and how much you're changing.
You've done a great job explaining on the product side.
Could you talk a little bit -- is there something you're doing differently on the land acquisition side and then on centralized versus decentralized? I know you've talked in the past about pushing more responsibility out into the fields et cetera.
Yes Steve good question.
Let me answer them a little bit in reverse.
With regard to central versus decentralized what we have really keenly become focused on is that the business is very local and/or regional.
It's not very national.
And frankly it's important to be sizable in local markets in order to drive efficiencies.
So therefore continuing to push responsibility and ownership to the field is the direction we're headed.
Now that doesn't mean necessarily that each individual market has to be unique but with certainly within zones we're seeing a lot of similarities.
So -- but in general away from home office to the field environment whether that side of division or an area or region level if you will.
With regard to land we do have a pretty intense effort under way to understand capital and asset efficiency.
And candidly we are evaluating and rethinking some of the way we've invested in the past.
And I think we have been focused on a long land position for a long time and without a meaningful recovery in sight any time soon we're going to have to be more efficient with the current assets we have.
So a renewed focus and candidly increased focus on asset turn is something that we're really evaluating internally.
So Bob has been very helpful in that analysis as have all of our operators.
So we've got the prongs of -- and we mentioned earlier margin and SG&amp;A which are kind of operational and then asset turns which clearly are operational but also more strategic from the home office that we're looking at we'll have to see what the future brings with regards to that.
But you can count on us to want to be more capital-efficient than we've been in the past.
Okay.
That's great.
And along those lines I'm going to sneak 2 questions into this one.
First what do you think your cash needs and balances of land spend et cetera as we look at over the next year or so? And then two on the Del Webb I was surprised to hear you say there was sort of -- the mix was sort of steady between the 3 different units.
Could you just talk a little bit are you seeing any difference geographically in your Del Webb East versus West or Southwest that type of thing? Let me answer them in reverse and I'll ask Bob to take the cash flow land question.
On the Del Webb side and the mix component there to be clear we said it was consistent Q1 to Q2.
So that still implies a nice business in Del Webb and Pulte that we experienced in Q1 continuing in Q2 and that's been relatively consistent throughout the country.
We're seeing movement in Arizona we're seeing movement in Florida and some of our Southeast Webb positions and Pulte positions as well.
So again I don't want to imply that there's been a recent change in demand trends between our brands.
Bob I don't know if you want to tackle a little bit more land spend and cash expectations.
Sure.
The land spend -- obviously the spend for this year is already sort of in the books.
We've got projects under way we're developing we have forecast cash utilization for investment in land for 2012.
Our planning process here will happen over the next probably 8 to 10 weeks.
And what we are going to ask people to do is maybe be more stringent in how they expend capital not necessarily on new land but development dollars.
You have to remember though that there's a pretty big amount of money that we spend each year associated with HOAPs taxes just on the land position we've got.
So there's a limit to how much we can really do.
The goal would be let's look at what the business can generate based on what we think in terms of cash.
Let's make sure that our investment in land going forward is reflective of that generative capacity and then think about the capital structure.
Obviously we bought back some debt in June.
It was presented to us.
It is short-dated.
It was cash-accretive in terms of the investments.
So we took the opportunity to do that.
And so in my sort of windshield I've got the next 2 years of maturities which are $100 million in '12 and $200 million-ish  in '13.
Those are pieces of paper that we would think about.
And then obviously the outer years where we've got more significant maturities we think about capital market transactions at the same time as we're looking at how much cash we can generate for the business.
And again no capital market consideration.
I'm not trying to raise that.
I'm just saying as we look forward as part of the '12 planning process and look out '12 13 '14 we want to make sure that we're in a position to address everything in the most efficient way we can.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Bob this is a question for you.
I'm kind of putting you on the spot here but given Richard's kind introduction I think it seems fair.
You're 2 months into this business now and so I'm just curious what -- as you look at this coming from the outside industry what you've learned or what have been most surprising to you positively or negatively or what really the most interesting thing that you're taken away about the Homebuilding industry from an outsider perspective? Well I guess I'll answer it a little obliquely if that's okay.
We are -- I have been impressed by the people on a lot of levels.
This is an industry that certainly has a lot of headline issues with it.
The company has had a difficult 5 years and I am really impressed by the fact that people are engaged.
There is an active involvement and a desire to do better.
And on some level I was sort of expecting people to maybe have been beaten down a little bit by this I mean significant job loss.
And so I think it is -- I think that's a testament to the people working here.
I'm also intrigued by the opportunities.
Richard has laid them out in some fair level of detail the ability -- you never like to eliminate SG&amp;A as a way to get profitability but I -- but it is necessary in this case and I think we've done a lot.
The other positive is that all of this margin expansion is well within our control.
So if we design good houses build them well we can improve margin and so -- without necessarily the increase in pricing.
So again I'm intrigued by that.
Certainly the way capital is deployed in this business is a little different than I'm used to.
So it took a little while for me to kind of wrap my head around that.
And so I think there are opportunities there but you want to do things judiciously.
So I think as we go through the planning process we'll get our hands around collectively what we think is the best way to invest capital.
LLC</strong> Interesting.
You mentioned SG&amp;A and I just have one follow-up question on that.
I believe on the last conference call you guys expected that average through the year SG&amp;A plus corporate would be about $125 million a quarter.
And I know you've since today talked about a little some of those gains likely you aren't going to see.
But so far the way I see you spent about $280 million year-to-date.
So I was wondering what you think a fair number for the year now is given what you've spent so far and what your expectations are now.
Well where we see it for fiscal '11 is about $530-ish million and then again that includes the restructuring costs that we incurred so sort of normalized to $525 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Crdit Suisse.
This is for Richard and Bob.
One of the comments you mentioned to us about in terms of the ways to improve the margins and stuff in terms of costs and presales pricing and mix.
In terms of the presales you talked about having basically 40% of the homes that are in construction being specs which looks to equate to about 2/3 of the orders that you had for the quarter.
Where do you think that number should be as you think about sort of just being more efficient with capital and where margins are in the spec versus presales? I mean Dan a couple of things there.
First of all long-term goal would be to drive that number well below 20% maybe even lower than that if we could.
Of course you have the impact of cancellations during the quarter that generates specs you didn't intend.
So I think we can drive that number meaningfully lower.
We have gotten very very focused on the impact of margin growth SG&amp;A performance as 2 better frankly drivers of return than volume particularly at the margins that we've been at overall.
So you can expect to see a meaningful decline in those spec numbers through this year and hopefully beyond as well.
Okay.
And I guess in terms of just being more efficient with the assets that you have should we expect that could mean increased opening of communities that you have in terms of the land that's currently owned? How are you thinking about that in terms of just using the assets that you already own? That's an analysis that continues.
And candidly as we get very very focused on our overall capital it's possible to maybe open a few communities as well that we've had.
But it's a holistic view at capital.
It's looking at house inventory which we can bring down at our levels of house inventory we think by less reliance on spec and not hurt our volume.
We believe that we can be more efficient with land development spend and frankly be a little bit more rigorous with new land investment.
Bob beyond that any opportunities you see? No I think you've covered it.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
First of all on the back half of the year when we're thinking about deliveries it's hard to see a real clear pattern over the last couple of years given the environment and tax credit and things.
So how should we think about backlog conversion going into the back half of the year? Is it flattish? You could actually have closings growth next quarter but I don't want to assume too much.
And sort of seasonally you're expecting that to be down a little bit.
And also maybe further into 2012 should we start to see that start to creep down as you reduce your specs? Megan this is Richard.
I think you're likely to see a fairly seasonal typical seasonal increase in closings in Q3 and Q4.
I mean we intend to deliver our backlog and we've got a pretty big backlog now.
So that's definitely going to help.
And as we indicated we expect to be profitable in the back half of the year.
As it relates to 2012 that's going to completely be dependent on the sales environment for the second half of the year and we don't intend to put tremendous inventory in the market frankly regardless of what the demand environment bears.
But that doesn't scare us at all.
Frankly it excites us because we're getting to the point where margin and SG&amp;A moving in the correct directions which is opposite from each other is going to allow us to enjoy better results than we have had.
And we talk a lot about that but I don't know what our convergence is going to be in the 2012.
But you can expect us to deliver a good percentage of our backlog over the next couple of quarters.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up.
I'm sorry if you mentioned this and I missed it but if you could let us know what your cancellation rate was in the quarter.
And then we saw that sort of weird data point out of existing home sales that cancellations spiked in June.
It doesn't appear as if that happened for you guys but any -- did anything sort of happen throughout the quarter on cancellations or into July? In terms of the actual number for the quarter it's 19.1%.
And Megan I would say nothing unusual or weird in our cancellation trends that -- I think that's up slightly from what we had in Q1 but nothing that really concerns us.
We haven't really seen a real meaningful change in the environment one way or another.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall with RBC.
LLC</strong> It sounds like your run rate is $500 million in SG&amp;A spend for this year and I'm just trying to understand from your commentary a little bit better.
Are you expecting to get another $50 million in savings in '12? Or is the $50 million in incremental savings you identified factored into that $125 million run rate? Let me answer it with math.
We are projecting x the Q3 -- sorry Q2 charges $525 million in fiscal '11 we think we have $50 million in save.
So we would project $475 million for fiscal '12.
Did that help? LLC</strong> Yes that's a real big help.
That's terrific.
So -- and I'm just curious how are you guys finding these savings now? I'm just trying to understand a little bit better because I know you guys have been aggressive on the cost control front and I'm just saying -- I'm trying to get a better understanding from an operational standpoint.
I thought you guys have been pretty aggressive cutting to the bone already.
I think we thought we had as well Bob.
But without a sustained industry recovery we looked again.
And we consolidated what was 4 areas into 3 and then we had some associated division consolidations on top of that plus some changes at home office.
So it's a variety of things overall nothing no one thing stood out beyond the others.
But listen when business is this tough this long we decided last year and it's continued into this year to look at building it from the ground up what we absolutely have to have.
And that's a little different view versus justifying why we need what we have had.
So very difficult as Bob indicated to do this but it's been a responsible thing to do.
LLC</strong> All right.
And just one easy kind of question.
It sounds like you have a pretty defined line of sight strategy on the margin front on gross margins about -- regard to your comments about how you're looking at increasing or harvesting distressed land improving gross margin's stable pricing environment.
Are we looking about 50 or 100 basis points to gross margin from the 4 points you articulated next year? I mean can you give us something of a range? Unfortunately not at this time.
We do expect margin growth the balance of this year and barring some change in the economic environment that would be terrible from here further gains in 2012.
But we'll have more to say about that as we get closer to the year overall.
But unfortunately I don't have any color or detail for you now.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Smith with UBS.
Michael Smith with JMP.
So just a real quick question on your community count.
You said you were still on track to be down about 5% or 10% year-over-year at the end of this year at the end of '11.
And I'm just wondering obviously that's in a different direction than some of your competitors and I'm wondering if -- is that a strategic decision you guys are making given the environment? And I know obviously the decision hasn't just been made that made this quarter or last.
But I'm wondering is that more strategic? Or is that still kind of rightsizing the operations after the merger? Or what do you think is the discrepancy there between you and some of the guys that are growing? Mike a couple of things.
First of all we grew our community count rather dramatically in August of 2009 when we merged with Centex and we have a lot of work under way to monetize those assets appropriately and focus them aggressively.
So that's part of it.
The second part of it is when you have such a large community count the percentage delta from there is a little more difficult perhaps.
The third thing is we have not been focused on 5- or 10-lot transactions.
I know a few in the space have been which technically adds communities.
And for what it's worth I think this is one of the most misunderstood metrics in the entire industry.
A Del Webb committee as an example that has the opportunity today to deliver a couple of hundred units a year and in a good environment 500 or 600 units a year is not the same as a community of 20 or 30 lots.
So I personally do not buy the argument that it's necessary to have community count growth in order to drive incremental revenue or sign-ups.
Obviously it's helpful but anyway that's a little commentary.
One other thing land deals that pencil in today's environment are getting tougher to find.
And I think the distress harvest if you will was primarily a late '09 and 2010 event.
They're getting more difficult to find in '11 and we don't want to lower our underwriting criteria in a still murky environment.
We'd rather continue to focus on what's still a substantially very large base of business and drive our revenue from that primarily.
Doesn't mean we don't want to be opportunistic.
As you can see this year we still expect to deliver about 15% of our closings from distressed assets purchased in the last 18 or 24 months.
That compares to less than 5% last year.
So it's not like we're not paying attention but the community count metric itself is fraught with some differences candidly even into how builders report them.
So we're not overly focused on that.
LLC</strong> No I mean that's certainly true.
And just a follow-up on the land question.
What's your understanding of why distressed deals aren't coming to market as much? Are there just not as many pieces of land out there that you would consider distressed? Have a lot of them been snapped up? Or is it that banks and other holders aren't bringing them to market? Maybe they're waiting for a better market.
Or what exactly is it that means there's less stuff out there now than there was 1.5 years ago or so? Well I'll offer 2 reasons.
The most important is that over the last 3 or 4 years virtually no land has been entitled or processed in the country so that the easy pickings if you will of finished lot inventory are largely gone except for a few scattered deals available here and there.
So now you're into a raw land decision and a lot of the raw land has been controlled by folks who are a little more patient with their investment and frankly looking for a little better environment.
So one or two things have to happen either land prices have to fall or Homebuilding environment has to get better to allow you to pay more for the existing land.
And we haven't reached either one of those.
But the big picture issue which is going to be talked about a lot in this industry whenever we get a reasonable recovery is where is all the land.
And that's why we continue to have been pleased with our decision not to be short-term focused with regard to the way we focused on land.
We looked at it over a longer view.
So that's my view.
Your last question comes from the line of Mike Widner with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Actually most of my questions have been answered but I guess I was wondering if you could maybe elaborate a little bit on your comments.
It's more of a demand issue than a supply issue.
And when I asked I mean the data sort of suggest that existing home sales are running kind of along pretty close to a long-term average pace.
It's measured by sales divided by households.
I'm wondering if what we're seeing in new home sales and the all-time lows is kind of their -- is really directly just an artifact of excess supply in the existing home market.
And so does it really make sense if that's the context that's stated in the issue and that it can come back if we get any sort of jobs recovery? Or what it really need is a substantial burn-off of the excess inventory that really spent -- you guys spent mostly a decade I think overbuilding.
So I'm just wondering if -- how that fits into your comment that it's really demand as opposed to supply.
Yes Mike.
Clearly the 2 work together right? I think our view and the way we mean it when we say it like that is that we can have a meaningful recovery in our overall financial results with even 10% better demand overall from here.
And I don't think supply is going anywhere in the next couple of years.
Foreclosure inventory is going to stay high.
So what's going to happen in all likelihood is when there is a little better consumer confidence environment you'll see demand pick up.
Probably you'll see a supply decrease at the same time but we've got a real consumer confidence issue today.
And I guess pick your poison as to whether you think it's supply or whether you think it's demand.
We continue to believe that in the new home industry we have paired back construction so aggressively it's clearly not a problem today new home construction.
And we are not overbuilt today overall.
So our view is that if you get consumer confidence back a little bit it can meaningfully impact demand which I guess to your point will take supply down.
So I see your point.
That's just the way we're looking at it.
Well that's the time we have for the call today.
As I said earlier we know you have a busy schedule.
We're certainly available as time allows for any follow-up questions.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 PulteGroup Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tanya and I will be your conference moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand the presentation over to your host for today Mr.
James Zeumer Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
I want to thank everyone for participating in today's call to discuss PulteGroup's third quarter financial results.
On the call with me are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Robert Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mike Schweninger Vice President and Controller.
Before we begin copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that accompany today's call have been posted on our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
Please note that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call including references to gross margins and SG&amp;A expenses reflecting certain adjustments are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to the call's presentation slide deck.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I am very pleased to report that PulteGroup's homebuilding operations excluding any impact from the goodwill impairment and tax benefit recorded in the period returned to profitability for the third quarter.
The improvement in our operating performance reflects a combination of higher closings and significant gains in homebuilding gross margins and reduction to SG&amp;A cost.
The gains in margin and overhead are particularly important as they benefited from success in initiatives we have discussed previously.
More specifically adjusted gross margins increased by almost 2 full percentage points from last year and 130 basis points over Q2 from our work to lower construction costs increase presales and rebalance our base house versus option pricing model along with a better mix of closings.
Based on ongoing initiatives to drive greater operating efficiencies we are confident we can continue growing our margins over the long term.
Our third quarter results also shows significant overhead leverage as homebuilding SG&amp;A dropped to 10.6% of sales which compares with 14.1% as adjusted in the third quarter last year.
Over the past year we have taken action to reduce annual overhead spending by approximately $150 million the benefits of which are evident in our Q3 numbers.
Investors typically focus on homebuilding overheads but I would point out that on a year-over-year basis we also significantly reduced our corporate expenses.
For the quarter we maintained our sign-up pace compared with last year but it was realized on 4% fewer communities.
With quality land acquisitions being harder to find in today's market we know we have to squeeze out better performance from our existing asset base and be very focused on how we allocate capital going forward.
This will also help to improve our SG&amp;A leverage and cash position over time.
I appreciate that the accounting charge related to goodwill impairment means we showed a loss for the quarter but that does not discount the important progress we have made in our operations.
Given our expectation for business conditions to be relatively stable through the end of 2011 we remain well positioned to deliver operating profitability in the fourth quarter as well.
Looking beyond our 2011 results we are also completing our planning and budgeting work for 2012.
We don't provide guidance but I will highlight one important change that is influencing the process namely how we look at capital allocation in general and how we evaluate investing in the business specifically.
For us to deliver meaningful improvement in our returns we are reassessing some of our practices including how we allocate available capital across different investment opportunities how we evaluate and use our existing asset base to deliver its greatest value how we prioritize the individual markets and projects in which we invest and how we can more effectively risk adjust project investments given the potential for significant differences in estimated build-out times.
As we have talked about before the goal is to develop a more capital-efficient operating model with a greater emphasis on margins asset turns cash generation and higher overall returns.
As with our work on margins and overheads we will certainly be talking more about capital allocation and investments going forward as all are critical to -- excuse me.
As all are critical components to improving PulteGroup's long-term shareholder returns.
Now let me turn the call over to Bob Shaughnessy to provide more details on PulteGroup's third quarter results.
Bob? Thank you Richard.
I certainly share your view that the company continued to make meaningful progress in the quarter in a number of important areas most notably our improved financial performance.
Home sale revenues for the quarter were $1.1 billion an increase of 7% compared with last year.
The increase was driven by a 9% increase in unit closing to 4 198 homes partially offset by a 1% decrease in average selling price to $252 000.
For the quarter our reported homebuilding gross profit margin was 13.9%.
As highlighted on Slide 5 of our webcast slides our adjusted gross margin was 18.5% which represents a sequential improvement of 130 basis points over Q2 of this year and a gain of 180 basis points over last year's third quarter.
Adjusted gross margin for Q3 this year excludes $49 million of capitalized interest expense approximately $500 000 of land-related charges and $600 000 of merger costs related to CTX WIP.
In addition to the house cost and as Richard discussed our margin improvement over the second quarter reflects a favorable mix of presale versus spec homes closed during quarter as well as an increase in the percentage of move-up buyer sales in the period.
Homebuilding SG&amp;A for the quarter was $117 million or 10.6% of home sales revenue.
On a dollar basis SG&amp;A spending was down $15 million from Q2 and down $28 million from last year if you exclude the insurance reserve adjustment we reported last year.
Within other income and expenses the company recorded a charge of approximately $241 million for the impairment of goodwill.
As noted in our press release we were required to assess the carrying value of our goodwill due to the decrease in our stock price and associated market capitalization during the third quarter.
The assessment which takes into account the decrease in the market capitalization resulted in a determination that all of the company's goodwill needed to be written off.
It's important to note that our expectations about the prospects of our business including the opportunities we seek to improve our operating performance remain unchanged by this technical accounting exercise.
Also included in other income and expenses is a charge of approximately $16 million for the write-down of a note receivable related to a land position in the Northeast.
This charge was essentially offset in our income statement by $16 million in land sale gains realized during the period.
For the quarter our mortgage and title operations generated a profit of $9 million which compares with the profit of $3 million in the third quarter last year.
Through the third quarter our capture rate was 78% which is consistent with last year and during the quarter we originated $550 million of loans which is up 8% from last year and consistent with the increase in closings we saw in our homebuilding operations.
As noted in our release we also recorded a tax benefit of $73 million which resulted primarily from the favorable resolution of certain federal and state income tax-related matters.
We expect to receive a $50 million cash refund related to this before the end of this year.
In summary PulteGroup reported a net loss of $129 million for the quarter.
To help with the geography of the items that impacted our Q3 results I'll summarize where these items are included in the income statement.
Again the $241 million goodwill impairment charge and the $16 million note receivable write-down were recorded in other income and expenses.
We recorded $4 million of land-related charges including $2.3 million that was included in other income and expenses and $1.5 million that was included in home cost -- home sale cost of revenues.
We recorded approximately $16 million of income from land sales and the $73 million tax benefit is obviously recorded on the tax line.
While there are a lot of moving pieces it's clear that the business continued to make steady improvement in its operating and financial results.
Echoing Richard's earlier comments we are certainly encouraged by this quarter's numbers and pleased with having returned to profitability excluding the goodwill and tax items.
Looking at our liquidity.
We ended the quarter with $1.1 billion of unrestricted cash which is up $67 million from the end of June.
We also had $113 million of restricted cash at the end of the quarter.
Turning to sign-ups.
We generated 3 554 sign-ups from 751 communities which is consistent with our sign-up counts in the third quarter last year.
It's worth noting that our sign-ups per community were up approximately 4% in the quarter.
However as expected our community count was down slightly less than 5% from the prior quarter and the prior year.
This is consistent with our earlier estimates of a 5% to 10% year-over-year reduction in our year-end community count.
As of September 30 we had 5 143 homes in backlog valued at $1.4 billion which is down slightly from the 5 345 homes in backlog last year.
Looking at land activity.
Quality deals with acceptable returns grow increasingly scarce but we remain active in the market having completed transactions in the quarter securing approximately 2 600 lots.
Going forward as Richard discussed we have changed the criteria by which we will evaluate our land investments.
In particular we have amended the method by which we risk adjust the required rate of return for a project.
Each project is now rated against a consistent set of criteria that evaluate the risk associated with a proposed project.
Factors we consider include the proposed project's deal structure the time needed for development and build-out its location and execution risks including both entitlement and product characteristics.
Depending on the results of our assessment the required internal rate of return of a proposed transaction could range from 20% to in excess of 30%.
In connection with this we will continue to evaluate our existing assets and proposed investments with a view towards improving our returns.
Now I'll cover a few final homebuilder data points.
We ended the quarter with 6 763 homes under construction of which approximately 60% were sold and 40% were spec.
Of the spec units approximately 1 300 were finished which is down roughly 15% from last year.
Before I turn the call back to Richard I wanted to take a moment to provide some additional information relating to our mortgage subsidiaries.
Many people have asked us for additional information on this topic including the nature of the loans we've originated and what type of repurchase request activity we're experiencing.
Looking at Slide 9 of our webcast materials we have broken down our origination for the categories we're routinely asked about including prime subprime and miscellaneous other types of mortgages which includes all brokered government and bridge loans.
It's important to note that the values on the slide represent aggregate origination and do not reflect any repayment refinance or loan modification activity since the loans were originated.
Although we can't quantify how much of the principal has been reduced it's clear that the unpaid principal balance is likely significantly lower.
As you see highlighted more than 80% of our repurchase requests continue to relate to originations in 2006 and 2007 and we continue to cure or refute more than 60% of the repurchase requests we receive.
I would also point out that we have received an insignificant number of repurchase requests relating to the brokered government and bridge loans which represented $14.1 billion of the $39.5 billion of originations in '06 and '07.
This means that the pool of originations driving the significant majority of our repurchase requests is $25.4 billion.
Turning to Page 10 and looking at our recent repurchase requests.
You'll see that we continue to experience requests in the same consistent range.
Although the number of requests is modestly higher in September it's not clear to us today if this suggests an increase in incident rates or just seasonality given the historical volatility in requests.
We will continue to monitor this closely.
As we seek to expand the information we're making available related to our mortgage operations I would point out that CTX Mortgage issued indemnifications relating to certain loan included in a series of mortgage-backed securities transactions.
Under the terms of the indemnification CTX Mortgage may be required to indemnify the bank for losses incurred by investors in securities due to errors or omissions of information provided to the bank regarding the loans and the origination process.
Two lawsuits have been filed against the securitizing bank related to 2 transactions which included approximately $162 [ph] million of CTX Mortgage originations.
CTX Mortgage has not been made a defendant in the lawsuits but has been notified of the suits by the bank.
We are aware of 6 other transactions where CTX Mortgage made addition to [ph] indemnifications covering an additional $116 million of originations.
Given the limited dollars involved and CTX' position in this process we continue to believe these indemnifications will not have a material adverse effect on us.
Further as part of our management of the risks related to our mortgage operations we have engaged in a thorough assessment of ways to mitigate our risks including a bankruptcy in certain of our mortgage subsidiaries as a way to eliminate any exposures.
Looking forward we will continue to challenge each and every exposure item and we'll seek the best alternative resolution to each issue.
I'll now turn the call back over to Richard.
Thanks Bob.
Before opening the call to questions I'll provide a few comments about market conditions during the quarter.
On a year-over-year basis sign-ups in our East area were down about 3%.
We continue to see strength in the greater Washington D.C.
and Northern Virginia market particularly given strong demand for several newer communities we opened in the market earlier this year.
We did however experience some demand softness in the New England markets much of the summer.
We also saw a little softness in Raleigh and Tennessee which we continue to monitor.
In our Gulf Coast operations sign-ups were also down 3% for the quarter.
Both North and South Florida continue to perform quite well for us.
Texas or more specifically Dallas slowed a little as we moved through the quarter.
It appears to be a combination of first-time buyers taking a little longer to make a decision and struggling with the challenging mortgage environment.
Texas continues to have one of the stronger economies in the country so we expect this is only a pause but we'll continue to monitor conditions across all the Texas markets.
Our West area had a solid quarter posting an increase in sign-ups of 6% over the prior year.
In the Midwest stronger sales in Michigan Indianapolis and Cleveland offset some weakness in Minneapolis.
Further west the big positive was our Phoenix operations which saw a meaningful pickup in demand which is particularly important for us given our large presence in that market.
Much of the better resale housing data has been absorbed by investors operating in the Phoenix market so there's a shrinking supply of quality used homes available for traditional home buyers.
Our communities have been the beneficiary of this supply-demand dynamic.
Looking beyond PulteGroup I would say that overall U.S.
housing demand remains stable but at historically low levels.
Conditions have not changed very much with incredible values in home prices and historically low interest rates on one side balanced against the weak economy low consumer confidence and tight credit availability on the other.
Within this environment data continued to tell the story that homeownership remains a critical part of the American dream and that people are still very much interested in buying a home.
However with their investments up 3% one day and down 5% the next because of concerns over sovereign debt impacting expectations about European banks and creating concerns about global liquidity we can understand their anxiety.
Economic conditions will get better but in the interim what we can do is focus on running a better business.
And I'm extremely pleased to say that our Q3 results clearly show the success we're having in this regard.
Our focus now turns to finishing the year strong posting another good quarter and continuing to improve our market position heading into 2012.
As always I want to thank the employees of PulteGroup for their unmatched abilities to deliver quality homes and delighted customers.
Now let me tell the call back over to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
I've been made aware that we are having technical difficulties with our webcast.
We will post a copy of the transcript and a copy and link to a replay of this call as quickly as we can when they become available.
We apologize for the inconvenience.
Evidently our carrier our third-party organizers of these calls are having some technical difficulties.
We will -- as a consequence we've asked more people to dial into this call.
So I understand there have been some delays and we will do the best to get to everybody's questions as we can within the time remaining on this call.
So with that it is time to open the call for questions.
So that we can speak to as many of the participants as possible during the time of this call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
So with that operator we're prepared to open the call if you will explain what needs to get done.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question I think it's absolutely great to hear you guys talk about changing the land acquisition model and focusing more on a risk-based model.
What I wanted to get an idea about was -- and I appreciate all the detail about kind of what goes in the model.
What I didn't hear a lot about was city-specific or market-specific risks based on what's happening in the market based on what's driving demand based on the price depreciation.
Maybe you've already seen if we eventually get into an up cycle at some point.
And I was wondering if you can give us some more color about how that would actually work.
Would you factor in market-specific risks as opposed to just projects or community-specific risks? Yes David this is Richard.
I alluded to it very briefly in my remarks but didn't get into a lot of detail on that.
Very definitely we are changing our approach toward allocation to be very specific regarding individual markets and there's a whole host of factors that we're considering now: macroeconomic conditions in that market supply-demand dynamic in that market relative strength for us in that market vis-a-vis others et cetera et cetera.
So yes our allocation is frankly more targeted and more rigorous and specific than it has been in the past which was not as rigorous as that.
So you'll hear more about that in coming quarters as we begin to talk more about improving returns in general but you're exactly on target.
Research Division</strong> Well I think that's great and looking forward to hearing more about it.
My follow-up question Richard is if you get to a point where you're now getting better at identifying specific risks and you're better on the cash flow side and the efficiency of the business is helping you turn your cash better can you make the commitment to being able to return more cash to shareholders when we eventually get into an up cycle? Again I know it's difficult to see but I think that's a common criticism that we hear of homebuilding is there's never a cash really return to shareholders.
[Indiscernible] make the commitment? Yes David.
I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to cut you off.
It's a little early for us to talk exactly how we're going to be allocating capital in 2012 and beyond.
I would just say stay tuned in that regard.
It's not lost on us that we have consumed or put back most of the cash into the business and that investors might have a different expectation.
So I'll punt on that one for now but promise more clarity as becomes available.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on the gross margins.
You had some good success there on sequential and year-over-year improvement.
And Richard in your prepared remarks initial remarks I think you identified 4 drivers those being lower construction costs increased presale a rebalance of base versus options and also mix improvement I think with perhaps a little more move-up buyer.
I was hoping to get a little more granularity in terms of -- if you look at those 4 buckets and maybe this isn't an exact -- but if even at minimum just a rough idea of maybe order of magnitude.
Among those 4 buckets what was the biggest drivers of the sequential improvement and the year-over-year improvement? Mike it's fairly well-balanced and it's very difficult candidly to separate it given all the moving parts and different end markets that are strong like Phoenix versus others that were weaker.
I will say that our home construction activities are still in the infancy and we believe part of our expansion story going forward will be really helped by our focus on construction activities.
But beyond that it's tough to give a whole lot of detail on that.
I apologize but I will reiterate that we expect we can expand margins over the long term from here.
We know we've been behind.
We're very pleased that we're catching up and we've got a ways to go yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate it.
The second question I guess on the exposure with Centex in the prior originations.
You mentioned bankruptcy as an option and obviously a lot of this stuff is perhaps down the road.
But do you have a certain type of cap that you're not willing to go beyond in terms of exposure? And you mentioned a few different lawsuits with -- that were originally Centex originated I think a 261 number 116 number.
Can you give us an idea of what would trigger the bankruptcy and what type of overall limit you're trying to create in terms of ultimate gross putback exposure? Mike I don't know that we have an absolute dollar limit in mind.
There are a lot of things you have to consider in those relationships with other parties ongoing business requirements.
Obviously Pulte Mortgage is fully licensed and operating today.
We view it as an asset in the closing process especially in this challenging mortgage market.
So again I think it would be facts- and circumstances-specific.
And so if there were issues that affected a particular entity that we felt ultimately our best resolution from all those perspectives was that we would bankrupt it we would look at whether that made sense.
So again I don't -- the message wasn't hey we're looking to do this.
It's we are looking to minimize risk across the platform that is mortgage for us again given all the sensitivity that we sense in the market and obviously the exposure that's there.
So again fact- and circumstances-specific.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about mortgage availability.
Bank of America is leaving the correspondent lending business.
MetLife is leaving the correspondent lending business.
So in terms of being able to provide mortgages to your customers are you feeling any tightness or slowdown in the underwriting and origination process? And is this an issue of concern for you and really the industry going forward? Josh this is Richard.
I don't think it's any secret that mortgage availability has been tight for some time.
We kind of referenced on our prepared remarks that our Texas markets particularly for an entry-level buyer were running up against some headwinds there.
Having said that I don't sense that it's getting worse by the day or anything like that.
I think it's been tight for a while.
And I wish I could tell you what's going to ease that overall but it is of modest concern I would say and we just are doing the best we can within that environment overall.
We're not panicked about it.
There are still a lot of qualified buyers out there.
It's just that the pendulum has certainly swung to where underwriting criteria are very tight frankly in many cases potentially too tight.
We would never advocate irresponsible lending that got this whole industry into a lot of trouble but I would also say that the pendulum has swung perhaps a little too far.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question is about the graph on Slide 10 the gross loan repurchases request per month.
I appreciate what you're saying that the number is pretty low but when you look at the graph it is the highest point since '09.
It's been trending up.
I mean is your expectation this is just a bounce-around in a range? Or do you think you could actually -- the number is going to go up from here? I wish I knew the answer to that question.
I would suggest if look at over time you have seen volatility peaks and valleys.
Certainly we are seeing in the press just like you that there's a belief that the GSEs are accelerating their process.
What we don't know is is that sustained.
Is it just to get through their final book? And maybe more importantly to us is is it just putting more on the table to talk about as opposed to whether there's more that are problematic.
So it could be that there's a lot of paper coming at us and our -- we're able to refute more than we historically have because their perspective is let's take a shot at everything.
We'll put everything on the table in front of our counterparty.
So I think our view is that it is too soon to tell and so as we -- obviously as I mentioned we're watching this closely.
I don't know where this will go but we're paying attention.
But we have to see -- of that September activity we're working through it now trying to understand whether there's a consistent risk rate in that for us or if it's diminished by virtue of volume.
Our next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman with Zelman.
Research Division</strong> Richard maybe give the audience a little color on the recent trip that you participated in.
I believe 12 to 13 of the leading builders in America  visiting Bernanke and people within the administration and HUD several others at Treasury and sort of tell us what's on the plate.
I know that you guys as a group have been focused on some of the stringencies that are quite extended as it relates to appraisals also as it relates to credit overlays.
But it seems as if Washington's listening again.
Is that maybe too optimistic? I mean can you tell us a little bit about what you're hoping to achieve as a group.
Yes Ivy sure.
As some of our audience may not be aware of the large builders have an association that we formed called the Leading Builders of America.
It encompasses approximately 20 of the largest builders in the country and many of our member CEOs did make a trip to Washington a couple of weeks ago.
That's not unusual.
We've done that a couple of times a year.
And we specifically are focused on 4 things to help the overall housing market that we believe the administration and the government can help with.
The first is an expansion and relief of some of the bureaucracy and red tape with regard to the HART program.
Our belief is that if we can help underwater homeowners obviously these are resale homeowners that are paying on their mortgage but allow them to potentially refi without appraisals make the process a lot more streamlined et cetera that we can get a lot more of this foreclosure pipeline that could come at the industry stopped or stemmed dramatically and that would help.
That was item one we talked about.
Two was asking for a review of the independent appraisal process to frankly make it more fair.
We've learned that in many cases appraisals are done by people sitting at a desk and not even visiting a home so that's a problem.
Secondly we're asking that the process include like-type housing new housing compared to new or recently resale housing as opposed to as an example a foreclosed home that's had the cabinets ripped out which is maybe not a fair comp.
Third underwriting overlays and standards seem to as I was alluding to Josh's question seem to have swung too far.
So are there things that can be responsibly done in that regard? And then fourth would be a reinstatement of the loan limits that were left to expire on October 1.
And Ivy I would just say overall the administration and the government was extremely interested and frankly we detected a tone of -- a significantly changed tone in regard to their appetite to consider some of these areas.
No one's asking for any kind of a handout or direct stimulus like occurred a couple of years ago.
We don't think that's responsible.
We think these areas could be very helpful and you saw the president announce something in Nevada earlier this week around HART.
We hope that's the beginnings of good things.
Research Division</strong> Well it's to hear that they're open again.
Would you say that this conforming loan limit increase -- I know that in some cases you mentioned things were softening in some markets.
Have you been able to quantify with obviously orders having to be written with a lower loan limit back as early as September in order to close or even August? Can you quantify the impact for us on what the conforming loan limit's back to being at a normal levels you've had on your order activity? Ivy our order activity thus far in October is relatively consistent with September and frankly the dollar impact there for our company specifically is potentially lower than others who have a higher price point.
Having said that the concern we have overall is that it's another kind of weight on housing and particularly from a consumer standpoint sounds bad.
And there's a whole lot of consumer confidence that's kind of on edge here.
And it's almost like you got people that are ready to step into the market but boy they don't need to hear any additional bad news.
But no I'm sorry.
I can't give any granularity to the specific impact of that yet.
I just know it's not a positive unfortunately.
Research Division</strong> But not a substantial negative? I would say thus far that appears to be the case for us specifically.
I can't speak to any peers.
Our next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
Just wanted to get your longer-term view on normalized margins and how this has maybe changed with the new capital allocation policy whether it be you reach it more quickly or maybe it's increased.
Yes I just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
Yes Nishu this is -- or excuse me Rob this is Richard.
I would say a couple of things.
First of all we do not believe we're at normalized margins yet.
We know we have underperformed in that regard.
But we're very proud of the progress we've made and frankly there's more to come we believe in the future.
Having said that there's no doubt that our capital allocation policy should help that.
Frankly we think we're being more responsible with risk-adjusting projects going forward so that should help.
I will point out that it takes time to feather in new land acquisition into the overall closing mix of the company.
So it's -- I don't know that you'll see dramatic changes in one specific quarter.
But frankly if you look back this is the I don't know fourth or fifth sixth quarter maybe in a row we've had reasonably sustained margin growth and you're likely to see a modest trend but I don't know.
Bob would you like to add anything to that? Yes.
I think one of the things to keep in mind as well is that what we're trying to do is prevent the land from becoming a problem for us right? So instead of being in these long land positions where we don't get good returns so what we're trying to do is improve homebuilding margin.
So the objective -- the capital allocation doesn't -- it will I think lend itself to good margin performance.
It wouldn't necessarily be a driver of margin performance.
The efficiency of our manufacturing operations will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and I guess on the capital allocation policy longer term would we see any shifts in terms of market exposure getting out of markets or maybe even rebranding in certain markets? This is Richard Rob.
I kind of alluded to someone earlier I think it would be too early to comment on that.
What I would say is we're being more rigorous with where we're putting additional capital.
We're in the early stages of this re-evaluation to be more rigorous.
Probably the best way for you to think about it is we're not going to invest at nearly the same rate in markets going forward frankly because they don't offer the same opportunity.
But that also considers our existing position in that market.
We know that we frankly are a lot more efficient where we're large in a given market and not as efficient where we're not.
So we're going to take that along with a number of other factors into account for future acquisitions but that's as much as we want to say about that at this point.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one question.
I don't know if I missed it or not but what was your total spec count at the end of the third quarter and finished also? Sure.
Total spec count was 2 886 and of those 1 318 were finished on the spec side.
We said that finished was down from prior year 15% -- about 15% yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could explore -- you obviously had a lot of success I think in your SG&amp;A margin.
For us that was in part due to higher volumes that you had in the quarter.
So it seemed like you had a higher conversion whether you're looking at units under construction or backlog.
Could you look or talk about that A? And B it looks like your fixed G&amp;A expenses also dropped pretty solidly sequentially.
Is that a -- could you kind of talk about where you are in your fixed G&amp;A versus assuming your variable costs are around 5%? Ken I'll start and then throw it to Bob.
This is Richard.
Not only did our leverage improve because of volume but our total dollar spend went down pretty dramatically about $150 million over the past year.
So I'd just offer that.
And then Bob beyond that in terms of additional SG&amp;A color fixed versus variable.
No.
I think what you see in this quarter is I think entirely consistent with what we talked about last quarter.
So if you trend it out into fiscal '12 we think that we're running at or near where we thought we would after all the actions taken earlier this year and earlier the year before.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You'd mentioned for gross margins that you -- the move-up product had -- that was one of the contributors.
Could you talk to what you're seeing I guess entry versus the move-up in the case you cited as well as if you're improving your cycle time if that's what contributed to the higher conversion rate whether it be units under  construction or backlog in the quarter? Well we are seeing improvement in margin in the move-up sector.
We are also seeing that be a larger proportion of our business so that clearly is a driver of our margin improvement.
I hope that answers your question.
And maybe just to clarify it for you I mean our margins in the Pulte brand are historically higher than the Centex brand.
So anytime you get a change in that mix you'll get some benefit from that.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a couple -- one question about your new policy towards capital allocation and the other one about the -- unfortunately about this putback issue.
Regarding your new methodology by which you're going to be evaluating investments I think you also indicated that you were going to be taking a fresh look at existing assets.
And by that I assume you mean properties that you already own that you're in and so forth.
And I guess what it brings to my mind is is there any likelihood or possibility that as a direct result of what you're doing here that we may see something different in terms of your perceived impairments that will need to be taken? Or is there something about the way you're looking at things that would cause that to be sort of reassessed in a significant way? Well I think at the end of the day what we're trying to do is look through the balance sheet with the same lens that we're looking at future spend so I think it is -- in terms of impairment we have a community-specific process that we followed this quarter just like we followed the quarter before.
Impairment risk there is going to be if pace slows.
And I think as we've talked about in the past we wouldn't expect to see absent some structural change significant declines in volumes significant declines in average selling prices for there to be broad-based impairment.
So again for us what would happen is is as we look at particular assets if we changed our intent with respect to those we could see some impact in impairment activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to follow up regarding your putback slide.
Again you put out the slide and of course it brings up a lot of questions unfortunately.
But as we look at this not only do we see that it sort of moved up a little bit but it makes us wonder a little bit about whether the constitution of or the -- yes really the kinds of loans that you've seen put back to you if that's been changing at all.
So I was wondering if you could talk about that.
And then also in your answer to Josh's question I just want to make sure what are you assuming the rate of putbacks will do over the course of the next few years? Can you give us some sense of how you're looking for this rate to trend down in the reserves that you've taken thus far? Sure.
I think I'll answer the second question.
Because I think the answer is the same as what we talked about at the end of the second quarter.
The expectation is that there will be a decline in these types -- this level of request between now and the end of fiscal '12 so call it 15 months from now.
What we need to do is assess whether that will -- if that's still an appropriate assessment.
Again the way we had it planned out was through the back half of this year till the end of the year we would see continued activity consistent with what we see today.
So we haven't seen anything that changes our view on that but we'll have to assess it as we go forward do we see an increase in incident rate or severity in terms of the stuff that's coming at us and whether we think it has a longer tail than that.
To his first question in terms of the composition of what we're seeing.
No change in that just the overall volume increase correct? Right.
We haven't provided data on that.
But in broad terms no we haven't seen a change in the composition of what's coming to us.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen East with Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> If we can talk a little bit more about the putbacks.
You mentioned a variety of things: one potential bankruptcy et cetera.
I guess first could you talk a little bit about the mix between how much of this was coming from Centex and how much of it was coming from the Pulte financial services? Because I'm wondering could you really -- how hard would it be to pierce the corporate veil if you filed for bankruptcy if a lot of this was coming through the Pulte operations? Well again we haven't historically commented on that and I would suggest we'll continue to view this externally as a combined issue.
Piercing the veil again I think each and every circumstance is different.
And so as I mentioned to the question earlier if we get to a point where we think bankruptcy is the best answer for a particular entity we would look at it.
Again using Pulte as the example again it's our active captive mortgage company.
We are interested in continuing that relationship so we'd have a real hard time looking at that.
So again it's going to be circumstances driven.
So again piercing the veil or not piercing the veil is a legal question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then these are all originations.
Is there a way for you to get your hands on how much has already been either refi-ed or cured or et cetera so you have an idea of -- a better handle on what could be the potential gross exposure? And then the second thing is Lennar and a few others have looked at global settlements with some of the banks.
Was your business concentrated enough for you all to be able to go down that path as well? Yes.
I'm going to tell you -- again we've said we're looking at all avenues to mitigate risk.
Certainly settlement would be one and it may be the most expedient candidly.
So I think we will look at that.
Forgot the first part of your question.
Research Division</strong> Unpaid balance.
Oh unpaid balance yes.
It's hard for us to get that.
We've tried to get anecdotal data and clearly there has been fairly significant decline in a lot of this with the changing interest rate.
Since then many people have been able to and have refinanced their loans.
People have sold their homes and moved but again we don't have any hard data on that.
So we don't want to speculate for you.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask one more question on the capital allocation and you mentioned more than once the desire for quick returning assets.
And I'm curious what implications that has for the Del Webb business which tends to carry larger bigger pieces of land.
Yes Adam this Richard.
I think a couple of things.
First of all I think from an underwriting criteria of future acquisition in the Del Webb space we have a much higher return threshold required because of the long nature of the asset.
Bob indicated a previous policy where we had like a 21% IRR hurdle for everything.
Now it's spanning 20% to well north of 30% in total.
So I think the answer would -- we'd be more rigorous with regard to our assessment of a Del Webb project.
It doesn't mean we won't pursue a Del Webb project.
Frankly it's a very good performing part of our business but we'd just be very selective with regard to land regarding it.
I think the second component is it's likely that the majority of our projects going forward in that regard might be smaller.
We have a sizable number of 8 000- 9 000-lot projects today and I think those are going to be harder to come by with the new allocation process.
But the brand itself and the focus on active adult is very well served in many 1 000-lot communities 1 500-lot communities and that could well be more of a model for us going forward.
So we'll have to see how it plays out but that would be what I would say directionally.
Bob? Yes again obviously deal structure matters.
So as we look at some of the longer-term projects we have to work with developers or land sellers in a way that can make sure we have access to the property for that return and risk profile to make sense to us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Second question is just following up on one of the SG&amp;A questions earlier.
I wanted to ask it another way.
Just how much of the $125 million in targeted cost savings are completed? Are we seeing it in this quarter's SG&amp;A? That's substantially all of it but if you annualize what we saw this quarter it would come out to a rate consistent with what we had suggested you would see.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch on Richard's comments about incremental upside in gross margins from reducing construction cost.
I was hoping you could put a -- provide some guidance in terms of the time frame and how much can you think you can improve that.
Yes Bob a couple of things there.
When we started really aggressively talking about this I'd say 6 to 12 months ago.
We said it was a 3- or 4-year journey to get where we want to be and we still believe that.
So I have to still think we're in the early innings particularly of that component of margin expansion on the house cost side.
There's a lot of work that goes in when we attack costs in an individual set of floor plans.
It takes a while for the closings to actually occur from the work we did say 6 months ago overall.
So it's -- that's why I kind of described it as more of a slow steady march as opposed to a step change in any one quarter.
And then of course mix can impact margins in any one quarter specifically as well.
But I would say over the long term means over the next 2 3 years it's going to take to get us where we want to go.
Having said that we're pleased with having closed the gap with some of our peers to this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's pretty impressive.
On the new order trends you were flat against pretty easy comparisons last year and it looks like you have a very easy comp for new orders in 4Q.
Are you expecting to comp substantially positive in the fourth quarter?  Can you just give some guidance on what you're seeing traffic-wise since the end of the quarter? I'll say a couple of things about sign-ups.
First of all we're pleased with our sign-up performance actually very pleased.
When you -- if you can appreciate where this company is -- and I'm not -- and I'm specifically contrasting that versus some of our peers.
Margin improvement SG&amp;A leverage and frankly asset turns are a lot more important than volume growth for us at this point.
If we were sitting at 23% adjusted margins it might be a different story.
But where we are today we have the organization keenly focused on that so I would suspect that our year-over-year comps might not equal what you see from some of our peers who are growing community count.
But frankly as I think you also see from a couple of our peers just from the last week that doesn't necessarily translate into profitability without the other components and so we're very pleased with the trajectory we're on.
Community count will definitely play a part in that and as Bob indicated we had expected this year to be down 5% to 10%.
We're going to be down 5% to 10%.
So again that's as far as I'll go in terms of what we expect in Q4.
In terms of traffic levels like I indicated I think earlier to Ivy they're reasonably flat with what we saw in September and candidly we'd say that seems about right seasonally.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Widner with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Let me just -- quick follow-up.
Not sure how to answer this one from you guys.
But in all your conversations that you alluded to with the government and the administration I think you talked about a number of things that we've heard the government talk about some of what you're -- look to be getting put in place.
But some of the obvious things that have been holding back the market are just the pressures from the administration themselves.
I mean the FDIC suing the appraisers certainly isn't helping the appraisal situation and the just consistent regular demonizing suing and strongarm tactics with the banks isn't going to help the banks ease up on lending standards when nobody wants to be the guy showing the worst metrics on the street.
So everyone wants to cut off the bottom into the lending pool.
Any sense of that? Any conversation about that? Any sense that the government might recognize that it collectively has really been part of the problem thus far? Yes Mike this is Richard.
I can't comment specifically on that because frankly I didn't hear about any of that specifically and we didn't address that directly.
I will echo though that there was a notable desire on the part of the administration to be very interested in housing and concerned about housing and I think I would speak for my peers in saying it's about time.
And that sounds right.
So yes I mean 65% of people in this country roughly own a home.
We know that until home values stabilize and improve that the economy is going to be held back.
I think the administration realizes that and is -- seems to be receptive to working on it.
So I can't comment as to whether or not that'll impact the specifics you talked about though.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean hopefully they'll embrace it.
Sometimes do no harm is a more effective policy than trying to stick your fingers in everything.
I guess just one other follow-up question about the capital structure and capital allocation.
Obviously you guys are running with relative to peers and relative to history a bit higher net debt to total cap.
And as you think about the land supply and land investments and capital allocation going forward do you have any particular net debt to total cap or however you want to think of it capital structure in mind going forward and either directionally or a target that you're marching toward? I would say that we'd like to drive the net debt to cap more favorable from where it is.
We don't want to keep it this high.
Beyond that we'll have more to say in coming quarters about how we intend to get there.
I don't know Bob if you want to comment any further.
No.
I think the message is exactly right.
We would want our net cap rate going down from here.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay McCanless with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question on the mortgage putback provisions.
In the first quarter there was an increase in requests for information and then a quarter later we saw an increase in your provision.
With the spike that we're seeing in the third quarter should we expect a similar increase in the provision for the fourth quarter? I don't know that they're causal in that particular case.
Again what happened was the original accounting looked to an end date that we concluded wasn't appropriate.
It wasn't because of an increase in that time.
It's just that it hasn't declined like we thought it would.
And so I think if you were to extend this line out at the September rates again I think we would have to rethink when this would end but a lot of things would play into that.
What's the severity? How much can we actually refute? So a lot of things go into this.
We've summarized it on one slide with a line.
But there are different inputs and variables that influence the accounting.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question with the discussion about bankruptcy could you give a little more specificity around which entity you potentially could bankrupt? And would there be any cross default issues with the other portions of Pulte? And what do you think -- and have you had any discussions with the rating agencies? And what do they have to say about the potential for this action? Yes I want to close it down just a little bit.
We are not suggesting that we are going to bankrupt anything.
We're just saying that in the alternatives available to us it is one and it is the -- it has lots of consequences so we would want to weigh those very carefully.
So clearly we have not talked to the rating agencies.
In terms of the cross default again entity by entity we might have a different answer but generally we don't.
We do not have cross default provisions between the mortgage entities and the parent.
So on a technical level I don't think we would have an issue with that.
But again just trying to suggest we're focused on risk as opposed to we're going to bankrupt something.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Barron with Housing Research Center.
I guess it was good to see the impairment issue get behind you guys on the goodwill but I was wondering about the intangibles component.
How or why is that treated differently? And why wasn't that impaired as well? Yes the intangibles on our books remaining on our books are the value of the trade names that were acquired in the Centex and Del Webb acquisitions.
They do have -- we do have a requirement to assess those for impairment.
It is predicated on undiscounted cash flows and we think based on the modeling for the business that there are sufficient cash flows to do that with a fair amount of cover actually.
So just a little bit different standard in terms of how you actually apply the impairment assessment.
Following GAAP we think we've got cover on both those assets.
Got it.
And on your SG&amp;A nice job in cutting it there.
Was there any onetime or other factors that might turn the other way next quarter? Or is this a kind of a good run rate way to think about it? Alex it's a result of the work we did in '10 and earlier this year and as Bob indicated we kind of think this run rate is approximately where we're going to be on an annualized basis.
So I don't want to comment on what could happen 5 quarters from now or something like that.
We don't know what the business is going to bring but right now we're not forecasting any onetime increases.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Stelmach with FBR Capital Markets &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Not to belabor the bankruptcy talk but sounds like you guys are talking more about evaluating a legal implication.
But could you give us a little bit of color on how you guys are evaluating the implications for your cost of capital for the homebuilding business if that may be an avenue you guys would entertain? I'm sorry.
The question -- have we thought about what impact it would have on our cost of capital if we did or did not bankrupt the business? Research Division</strong> Yes and maybe you could give us a little bit of color on the approach you guys are thinking about in terms of how that may impact...
No not really.
Again we are in the short term not in the capital markets at all.
So I think it's a conversation.
I think our business results will drive the cost of capital more than that issue.
Our final question will come from the line of Susan Berliner with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just one question I guess on the land market.
I know you guys had said that it's a little bit harder to pencil the deals and I was wondering what was really driving that.
And also I know you guys don't give specific guidance on land acquisition or development.
Can you give any more color? Should we just expect more development going forward than land acquisitions? Or are there certain markets that are penciling out a little bit better than others? Yes Sue this is Richard.
I think frankly the land market's consistent with what we've talked about in the past.
I mean the finished lots that are very return friendly are largely picked over the A locations.
So that's why the total land market is tight.
And frankly until you get a little bit of a rebound in the business other assets that you're looking at are harder to pencil.
Having said that I do think we indicated that we did transactions in the quarter totaling about 2 600 lots overall.
So we're not out of the market and our new capital allocation criteria is weighing in with regard to those acquisitions so we're pleased with that.
So with regard to spend going forward clearly with the large land bank a good portion of our spend will be on developing our existing assets and driving better returns from those.
But having said that I don't know that there's any dramatic shift that you should look at for us with regard to mix anytime soon.
All we're trying to say is that the land market is not transacting a tremendous amount of volume right now and we're okay with that.
We have a large land bank.
It's much more important for us to drive margins and SG&amp;A than to be in the land market and we don't want to get too aggressive on acquisition only to have a problem.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one other question.
And sorry to belabor the point on the whole bankruptcy issue.
I guess within the Centex mortgage operation were there various subsidiaries like you have in Pulte in homebuilding Pulte that only one entity within that Centex mortgage could be filed for bankruptcy? Or can you just give us a little color on that structure? Well without getting into specifics every corporate structure typically has multiple entities addressing different things.
So that would be what we're looking at.
Due to the time restraints we will now conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to hand the presentation back over to management for closing remarks.
This is Jim Zeumer.
We will be available for questions throughout the day.
So certainly feel free to call.
Before we end the call I know Richard wanted to make a couple of other comments.
Yes.
Just one final remark I'd like to make.
Before we sign off I'd like to take a second to mention just how proud I am of our people for their hard work in returning the underlying operations to profitability in the third quarter for the first time for our company in about 5 years.
Slugging it out for this long a period makes this quarter's results all that much sweeter and we believe we're just getting started on a road for improvement.
Thanks to everyone for their time on the call today and have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 PulteGroup Incorporated Financial Results Conference Call.
My name is Katina and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Jim Zeumer Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you Katina and good morning.
I want to thank everyone for participating in today's call to discuss PulteGroup's Fourth Quarter Financial Results.
On the call today are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mike Schweninger Vice President and Controller.
Before we begin copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that accompany today's call have been posted on our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
Please note that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call including references to gross margins reflecting certain adjustments is reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to this call's presentation slide deck.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
With all that said let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
For the last couple of years we have been on the record as saying that we thought demand for new homes was stable.
And at roughly the 300 000 level the numbers support this position.
Looking ahead to 2012 our planning assumption is that we will experience a similar level of demand.
While there are signs this may prove conservative we are not relying on higher demand to improve our results.
Instead as we have discussed on prior calls in late 2010 we undertook a comprehensive review of our business to identify those areas offering the greatest opportunity for improvement.
Executing on the findings of this review we spent 2011 developing and implementing a series of actions to improve our fundamental operating and financial performance in key areas including margins overheads and inventory turns with a view to improving our return on invested capital over time.
The underlying initiatives range from value engineering and should costing to overhead reductions new pricing strategies and re-weighting some of our market positions.
Over the course of 2011 our efforts gained traction and have supported the steady improvement in the company's results.
That trend continued and in some areas accelerated in the fourth quarter.
In a minute Bob will review the details of the quarter but there are a couple of numbers I'd like to highlight which demonstrate the meaningful progress we have made.
On a year-over-year basis our Q4 adjusted gross margins expanded by 200 basis points to 18.6%.
Much of the gain in the quarter was driven by cycling through some older communities and bringing newer communities online plus an increase in the number of move-up homes closed in the period.
What makes our results even more compelling is that we expect benefits associated with our 2011 work on house cost reductions and operating efficiency to become visible in 2012 and beyond allowing us to build on the margin gains we have already realized.
While adjusted margins have been rising our overhead costs have been falling as SG&amp;A in the quarter dropped to 10% of revenues.
Through the combination of better gross margins and reduced overheads our operating results improved dramatically in the period.
And based on current expectations we see opportunities for further margin progress in 2012.
Along with our improved operating results we are making decisions that align with changes in how we want to allocate capital going forward.
As we discussed on our last call we have made changes in how we evaluate assets and prioritize markets and projects and how we can move more efficiently -- more effectively risk adjust project investments.
It takes time to meaningfully move the needle but we are making different decisions.
For example in the fourth quarter we completed $64 million in land sales representing about 3 500 lots.
Most of these transactions involve projects that weren't coming online for several years and required significant additional development dollars.
We made the decision to exit these assets with a view towards redirecting our investments and development spend on more immediate projects that we feel will generate higher returns.
At the same time we put approximately 2 800 lots under control with most being finished lots to be taken down in the near term.
We are committed to bringing our land supply into better balance.
Over time these types of transactions can help drive better returns while freeing up dollars for other uses.
Initially we plan to use excess cash principally to reduce leverage.
On this front we were able to repurchase almost $260 million of debt in the quarter.
For 2011 our total debt retirement was $324 million.
Within our organization we have been and will remain focused on effectively managing margins overheads inventory and capital investment with the goal of generating improved shareholder returns.
This focus is critical given the current state of housing demand.
Having said that I think it's fair to say that there's a growing sense of optimism about the U.S.
housing market.
We would agree that there are reasons to be positive about the potential for housing demand including the following big themes which are often raised: first after 6 years of decline new home sales are simply due to improve; second demographic drivers of population growth and household formations will begin to exert themselves; third home prices and interest rates make today's homes such a clear and compelling value that homebuyers will move off the fence.
There is also supporting data for optimism including the increased cost of renting versus homeownership the shrinking inventory of homes available for sale as well as survey data which demonstrate the belief among 2/3 of the population that now is a good time to buy a home.
Closer to home there is even our company-specific data which shows signs of better traffic coming to our communities and anecdotal comments from our field regarding the improving level of buyer interest.
When we put these and other data points together at a minimum we grow increasingly confident that market demand is and should remain stable.
However as stability turns into more meaningful year-over-year growth PulteGroup's land pipeline and access to capital help to put us in a strong competitive position.
It's still early so we have to wait and see how 2012 ultimately develops.
The good news for PulteGroup is that we have opportunities to further improve our results even without an uptick in demand.
We expect that continued margin expansion and overhead control will be the key drivers to PulteGroup achieving profitability for 2012.
Now let me turn the call over to Bob to provide more details on PulteGroup's fourth quarter results.
Bob? Thank you Richard.
First let me cover some specifics on the quarter.
Home sale revenues were $1.2 billion an increase of 1% compared with last year.
The increase was driven by a 3% increase in average selling price to $271 000 partially offset by a 2% decrease in closings to 4 303 homes.
As you can see on Page 7 of our webcast slide our adjusted gross margin was 18.6% an improvement of 200 basis points over the fourth quarter of last year and up 10 basis points over the third quarter of this year.
For the quarter our margin improvement over the prior year primarily reflects the closeout of some lower margin legacy land positions which are being replaced with higher margin land positions as well as a favorable mix of higher margin move-up homes closed in the period.
As noted in our press release we recorded $24 million of land-related charges in the fourth quarter.
These charges include: $11 million of impairments on existing communities $3 million of pre-acquisition costs on assets we have elected not to pursue and $10 million of impairments on properties we have approved for sale.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was $117 million or 10% of home sales revenue.
Our SG&amp;A for the period reflects the actions taken by the company to reduce operating expenses in Q2 of this year and last year as well as a $7 million benefit related to certain reserve adjustments.
Our SG&amp;A was down from $151 million or 13% of revenues last year and was consistent with the third quarter of this year if you exclude the Q4 benefit from the reserve adjustments.
We remain focused on our SG&amp;A spend and are properly sizing our operations in alignment with current business conditions.
At present we expect 2012 SG&amp;A spend to be consistent with our earlier guidance in the range of $475 million.
As Richard mentioned we sold 23 parcels which included approximately 3 500 lots during the quarter.
Those sales generated $64 million in cash proceeds and approximately $16 million in pretax profits.
We were also able to repurchase $257 million of our debt for $252 million during the quarter including $11 million -- including $80 million of bonds that mature in 2014 and $177 million that mature in 2015.
Based on the valuations recorded in the acquisition of Centex this resulted in a book loss of $2 million.
For the quarter our mortgage and title operations reported a pretax loss of $27 million.
This represents income from current operations of $13 million offset by a $40 million charge related to potential future loan repurchase obligations.
During the quarter we originated $622 million of loans and our capture rate increased to 82% reflecting the challenging marketplace homebuyers are facing when trying to secure mortgages from third-party lenders.
I'd like to address the mortgage repurchase reserve adjustment we recorded.
As we discussed on our prior earnings call and as you can see on Page 11 of our webcast slides we experienced a heightened level of repurchase request in Q3 which continued throughout the fourth quarter.
We believe this is consistent with the experience of others involved in the mortgage origination business.
Based on this we adjusted our current accounting to reflect an increase in the number of repurchase requests we expect to receive in the future as well as a 1-year extension of the period over which we expect to continue receiving such requests.
Our estimate now reflects that we'll continue to receive requests through the end of 2013.
We continue to aggressively challenge each of the exposures we face related to our historical loan origination operations.
We're in continual dialogue with our counter-parties and are working hard to refute or limit any exposure to repurchase requests we received.
We will also continue to seek a comprehensive resolution of these issues although this may take time for us to accomplish.
Our fourth quarter results also reflected income tax benefit of $23 million which resulted primarily from the favorable resolution of certain federal and state income tax matters.
In summary PulteGroup reported net income for the quarter of $14 million or $0.04 per share.
This compares with a net loss of $165 million or $0.44 per share last year.
In total our fourth quarter net income includes $27 million of significant net items.
Following is a summary of those items and where they're recorded in our income statement: land-related charges of $24 million of which $11 million is recorded in home sale cost of revenues $10 million is in land sale cost of sales and $3 million is other income and expenses.
Gains on land sales of $16 million is recorded in land cost of sales the $40 million increase in mortgage repurchase reserves are in the financial services expenses the $2 million loss related to Q4 debt repurchase activity is in other income and expenses and the $23 million income tax benefit is in income taxes.
Turning to our balance sheet we ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash which is consistent with September even after taking into account our Q4 debt repurchase activity.
Our house and land inventory decreased $145 million from December of last year in part reflecting the impact of our capital efficiency initiatives including land sales.
In total we have $3.1 billion in senior debt of which $96 million matures in 2012.
After the repurchase activity in the fourth quarter our revised maturity profile includes the $96 million in 2012 $182 million in 2013 $575 million in 2014 $492 million in 2015 and $1.8 billion in 2016 and beyond.
Looking at other activity in the quarter we generated 3 084 sign-ups from 700 communities.
This represents a 1% increase over the sign-ups we reported in Q4 last year.
However you may recall that we adjusted our processes for reporting sign-ups last year that resulted in a onetime cumulative catch-up of 200 sign-ups that related to earlier periods.
If you exclude those units our sign-ups increased 8%.
It's important to note that this increase was generated from 11% fewer communities.
As of December 31 we had 3 924 homes at backlog valued at $1.1 billion consistent with the 3 984 homes in backlog last year.
In the quarter we also roughly put 2 800 lots under control through 21 different transactions.
The majority of these lots are finished and are structured as option takedowns available to us in the near term.
We continue to review existing and potential new land transactions with an eye toward improving our long term risk-adjusted returns and we'll continue to evaluate opportunities to enter or exit land positions as they present themselves.
Now I'll cover a few final homebuilder data points.
We ended the quarter with 5 500 homes under construction.
The split between sold and spec is about 50-50.
Of the spec units roughly 1 500 were finished which is down 20% from the prior year.
Finally you'll note that in the supporting schedules in our press release that we've changed our reporting to reflect 6 segments which we hope will help in your analysis of PulteGroup's operations.
This will obviously be incorporated into our annual report and all future filings.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Bob.
Before opening the call to questions let me offer the following thoughts about market conditions.
In the east demand in our New England markets remained challenging but we have a number of well-positioned communities open and to be opened so we feel pretty comfortable heading into 2012.
Overall economic conditions in the Washington D.C.
Northern Virginia market have slowed but PulteGroup's business continued to benefit from a number of well-placed communities that experienced strong buyer demand and good pricing.
Heading south we continue to experience some demand softness in the Carolinas and Georgia but this was more than offset with continued strong performance by our Florida operations.
As we have talked about throughout the year Florida was a big upside surprise for us in 2011.
In the middle third of the country the Midwest continued to grind through tough economic conditions.
Consistent with most of the year Michigan continued to deliver much improved unit volumes while Chicago remained one of the more challenging markets in the country.
After a strong first half Texas slowed in the back half of the year including the fourth quarter.
Assuming the local energy-oriented economies of the state hold steady we would expect these markets to improve over time especially as these markets lead the country in job growth.
Out west we are pleased that our large investment in Arizona continued to outperform relative to expectations.
There is still supply in the market but the inventory of homes has dropped and remains the target of sophisticated investors so buyers are seeing quality and value within new home communities.
Our operations in the Pacific Northwest experienced improved demand although much smaller volumes driven by the land positions we acquired late in 2010.
In general California remains choppy.
Well-positioned communities with the right product offerings are doing okay but buyers can afford to be very selective which is slowing sales paces in some markets.
As for 2012 while we won't provide any specific data we will say that we were very pleased with business activity in January which was consistent with our expectations heading into the year.
I have been out in the markets extensively over the past several weeks and while it's still too early to get a read on the selling season I am pleased with what I saw and the comments I've heard from our operations.
As I said earlier demand for new homes has been relatively stable although at historically low levels for much of the past couple of years.
There are reasons to be optimistic about medium and long-term demand but it will be interesting to see how 2012 develops.
Over the near term our strategy is to focus on increasing absorption pace in existing communities as it is the most efficient way to grow earnings while demand sorts itself out.
We will continue to allocate capital appropriately and to invest selectively in high-returning projects.
Before opening the call to questions let me thank all of the employees of PulteGroup who have done a great job delivering a superior home buying experience to our customers and significant gains in the operating and financial performance of PulteGroup.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] So Katina if you'll explain the process we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut representing JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The first thing I was hoping to get a little bit more detail on is the mortgage put-back situation and in particular kind of I guess understand the addition to the reserve and the continued high request.
But I was hoping also to get an update on some of the Centex legacy-related lawsuits that you mentioned in the third quarter.
And also I think just more broadly why the higher level of put-back requests have persisted in your view in the last 3 to 6 months? Sure Mike it's Bob.
I'll deal with the losses issue first.
We have not had any update to that.
So again we were never named as a party to that suit.
We were made aware that it exists.
I'm not aware of any progress on it and so I would say we're in the same position we were 3 months ago.
With respect to the mortgage put-back requests I think it's hard to say.
I think you would see in the marketplace that everybody has said we are seeing an increase in these sorts of things.
I think we're not an outlier in that obviously.
As you can see on the chart they've spiked up sort of post-June of this year and they have been trending in a range a little bit above 100.
It trended down towards the end of the year.
We're not getting any feedback from the folks that are asking us for these to say a that they are close to the end.
It's just we've identified more and here you go.
We don't see a change in the pattern of them.
We've talked about before that the vast majority related to 2006 2007; that continues to be true.
We continue to be able to identify things that we can refute or cure these with at rates that are consistent.
We haven't seen a significant change in the severity so really it's just more of the same.
And so when you look at the accounting we did it really reflects 2 things.
One is because we've seen this continue on if you remember back in June when we talked about this we said "Look we've dialed it out another year because we don't see anything suggesting that it might stop in the terms that we thought it would." Six months later we're looking at it.
And again at a slightly higher level we don't see it slowing down so we thought it prudent to take it out another year.
And then again while we were doing that we adjusted for the different variables again incident rate our ability to refute it the severity of the claim.
So if you look at where we are today I think absent changes in the amount of requests that we get or the severity of them if we just went out another year we think it would be about $20 million to $25 million.
And that compares to an increase for a year back in June which we said we thought was about $19 million.
So again we're not seeing a huge change in the behavior just a little bit more of it and more time.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood representing Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the land strategy.
The changes to your land purchase methodology that you mentioned last quarter leading to some reshuffling of the land portfolio so a material difference here.
And I wanted to understand is this related to the basically a change in the financial framework you've been using? Or is it related to changes in expectations of how long you think the recovery is going to happen? The kind of trajectory so is it a change relative to a few years ago of your operating outlook? Or is it the financial metrics you're using? Nishu it doesn't have a lot to do with our change in the outlook for the market.
It has to do with us thinking we need to be more rigorous on how we manage the overall portfolio for the company.
Specifically as you I think are aware we used to have a 21% IRR hurdle for all land projects.
We've now adjusted that and made it risk based.
So a longer land project with more risk is going to have to meet a much higher return threshold and one that's a finished lot purchase that's significantly less risk would be closer to let's say 21% versus maybe 30% plus in threshold.
All of that is with a view toward driving better ROIC.
I don't think it's news to anyone that we have too much land given the market today so we're looking to enhance our portfolio by ensuring that future land takedowns are met with a more rigorous hurdle assessment like I just mentioned.
In addition to that we're taking some action on existing land parcels that we can't get to for 5 6 7 years and choosing to sell some of those and redeploy that capital into better areas.
So overall we want to bring our land supply into better balance and we're pleased with the progress we've made.
Bob I don't know if you'd like to add anything to that.
No agreed.
Okay.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up also on that topic.
If we consider the implications of this change in land strategy division by division which division is it having most impact on? So for example were land sales concentrated more in Centex or Del Webb let's say? Or the Pulte side of things? And so how is it -- how do you think it would shape the strategy in the divisions going forward? I don't think the strategy in terms of rebalancing would have a whole lot to do with the mix by brand which I think is what you're referring to.
It's more specific by geography Nishu.
So as an example if we have a very long land position in a given market such as Florida that might be an area where if we have projects that have a 10-year life we might be willing to sell off pieces that are in years 6 7 and 8 whereas in a market that we're fairly light on land and need investment such as say Charlotte we might be in the market to purchase.
So that's an example of kind of the rebalancing overall but it's not specific to one brand for our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman representing Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> I guess if we think about the gross margin improvement and recognize that you've been acquiring finished lots I think you said 2 800 for the quarter how should we think about the margins in the new acquired lots? Are they equal to or better than that? And then recognizing that your profitability has improved so much and your very impressive SG&amp;A leverage how should we be thinking about the deferred tax asset and direct expectations on when you might put that back on balance sheet? So Ivy I'll take the first piece and then throw it to Bob on the DTA.
On the margin side we are seeing better margins from new communities that are beginning to flow through.
And that's in the range I would say of a couple hundred basis points in general better than some of the legacy positions that we're closing out of.
It's also helpful frankly that some of the legacy positions we're closing out of were not our strongest performers.
In some cases the delta can be greater than that.
Also the excitement for us internally and I don't know if everybody caught this on the call is that we don't feel that a lot of the margin improvement we saw in 2011 was really a result of the operating efficiency things that we've been working on such as pricing strategies and value engineering and should costing but that should begin to flow through in 2012.
So we expect better margin performance from here not just as a result of mix or a new land portfolio which was primarily driving it in '11 but more from the things we've been working that take a little time to flow through.
So with that Bob maybe you can handle DTA.
Sure the DTA I think I'm right about this nobody has reversed any yet.
And some people are further along in the profit profile than we are.
We've had some dialogue and there are competing views can you record it when you've got 2 years of profitability and a view towards profitability? In the third year do you need profitability for 3 years? I think that will work itself out and I think as we mentioned in the past we won't be the first person online on that and typically on an issue this significant there'll be a cadence to get set up.
So I think we'll have to see how that plays out.
The other thing again just to make sure everybody remembers this the significance of our deferred tax asset puts us in a position that when we are able to reverse some of the reserves it is unlikely that we'll be able to reverse all of the reserves.
So we'll have to look forward and understand what view towards profitability in the future we have and how much of it can be it realized.
So I think for us rather than an all at one time we'll get the entire deferred tax asset reserve reversed it will be in pieces.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim representing Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering about your comments on Florida where you talked about there being big upside surprise.
Do you have any concerns about that being a bit more challenging as more supply comes to market given some of the delays and working through the distress there? Dan this is Richard.
Frankly no.
And I candidly think this primarily has to do with the strength of our land positions in Florida particularly as you look at our South Florida business which is pretty large.
We've got some terrific communities in particularly Southwest Florida and we're doing extremely well in that market.
We're also seeing some strength in Orlando couple of communities in Tampa as well.
But I don't get the sense in talking to our operators and I've been out quite a bit lately that that's a real concern.
I do think some of it has to do with company-specific position so as an example we don't seem to be competing a lot with the entry level market in Florida.
A lot of it's move-up and active adult which we're seeing strength today.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of the comments about looking for just improved results via the increased sales per community and also just what you want to do in terms of the IRRs and such.
It was just definitely moving to closer end communities.
We're definitely seeing the trends from other builders doing that.
When you look at land opportunities how do you see that right now given the desire from others to look at land? Well I guess I just want to be clear.
I think our margin improvement in 2011 was certainly benefited from an improving mix particularly toward move-up.
We benefited from new communities coming online things like that.
In '12 we think it's going to be more specifically the results that we've been working on so hard around new pricing strategies.
Frankly a lot of value engineering and should costing.
Were opening new communities or redoing existing communities with product that's more efficient.
It should be driving better margins et cetera.
As it relates to land purchases going forward we are being very disciplined and candidly not extending ourselves into land positions that we're concerned or could be concerned about.
They're A-plus positions.
They typically have low risk.
Since we instituted this new risk-adjusted profile back in the early to middle part of last year we've seen a shift in the way projects are coming in for approval.
And they're typically lighter takedowns.
They're typically higher returns with a little better adjustment frankly versus the longer land positions that we've had.
So as it relates to whether that's infill or not specifically I can't comment on that as much as I would say I believe we're buying A properties or A-plus properties or not going out to marginal areas.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg representing UBS.
Research Division</strong> This question was actually on the community count.
And I want to get an idea given the decline that you guys have seen kind of year-over-year at this point if you think that rate of change is kind of leveled off as we go forward.
And then what would you have to see from the macro environment from the broader housing market to think that it made sense to kind of go in and start accelerating community count growth as you look forward? David this is Richard.
Let me start on this and then I'll go to Bob.
I just want to be clear with everyone.
Right now at the state this company is in margin expansion is more important than pace than driving improved returns.
And we have been very very disciplined and continue to remain disciplined for the near term on that before we begin to expand dramatically.
So with that backdrop I just want to be clear about that.
Maybe Bob can speak a little more toward count.
Yes.
So we are at 700 for the end of the year.
Our expectation is that it will actually decline between 5% and 10% during 2012.
Again what we are focused on is operational efficiencies so we're trying to make sure that the initiatives we have underway -- we've talked about should costing value engineering running common plan management through the business.
We're trying to get that a foothold of that in the business rather than expanding footprint.
So again as Richard said margin versus pace but we are still obviously active in the market.
As we talked about 2 800 lots.
80% of those or thereabouts are finished lots as Richard mentioned predominantly light so they are option take so these are things we'll be able to get our hands on relatively quickly and then vertical pretty quickly after that.
So again we will be -- we are an acquirer of land but for 2012 again about a 5% to 10% decline in community count.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just as a follow-up I was wondering if you could talk about the different segments in terms of absorption rates and kind of overall margin performance.
How did active adults fare relative to the traditional homebuilding business? And with this pickup that you've seen recently and some of the more positive vibes you're getting from looking at traffic and looking at buyer comments and traffic from -- comments from traffic has it extended into the active adult business? Yes.
David Richard here.
The pickup in traffic and what we've seen to start the year is fairly across-the-board.
Most markets most segments across so I'd say kind of everybody seems to be benefiting a little bit from a little bit of optimism here as it relates to more specifics.
I don't know Bob if you have any detail.
Paces are up in our communities about 11% versus the third quarter.
They're up about 9% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
We are seeing pace increases really across the board in all the communities.
Our closings are relatively consistent in terms of relative contributions from brand.
We talked about the fact that other than the shift from first time to move up the first-time buyer has been a little bit challenged.
So our Centex community count is down a little bit.
Those are some of the older communities that are closing but I don't see a dramatic shift other than that.
Your next question comes as a follow-up from the line of Michael Rehaut representing JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to understand better in terms of 2012 and I recognize you're trying to not get too much into the weeds of granular guidance.
But with the community count expected to be down 5% to 10% I was just curious if you're expecting also a similar type of move for orders or if the shift to better absorbing communities would allow orders to still be up in 2012.
And I guess as a follow-on to that if you would expect SG&amp;A to hold current levels that you reached in 2011 or have further reductions? Yes Mike this is Richard.
One of the things as Bob commented on community count I was thinking we need to be careful everyone understands that community count is only one metric.
And we do have a large proportion of large communities particularly relative to many of our peers.
And I hope everybody recognizes adding a 5 or 10 lot community which is easy to do can increase your community count but not do a whole lot for your business.
So we are expecting better paces per community.
And I think Bob just indicated we saw some pretty healthy improvements in paces per community in Q4 versus Q3 and prior year.
So we're not going to give specific guidance on the numbers but we're expecting a profitable year and we believe that we have the right strategy in that regard.
Bob you want to add anything? And as to SG&amp;A again we had given guidance back after we had announced the restructures that we had done in the neighborhood of $475 million.
We continue to feel comfortable in that range.
So again we've talked about obviously people and marketing as a lot of our cost it's adjustable over time.
But we don't have any initiatives underway.
We are pretty comfortable.
If we saw a change in the business we would obviously rebalance the SG&amp;A expense to reflect that.
Your next question comes as a follow-up from the line of Ivy Zelman representing Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> With respect to your operations being focused both on entry level and move up there's been a lot of concern about underwriting and ability for people to get a mortgage.
And I know that it's more stringent than it's been historically but I wonder if you think that that has been or will be a limiting factor and you'll be able to grow as the cycle commences assuming no change? Or would you say it's been more a function of confidence and that's the mortgage liquidity although stringent assuming confidence improves that there's definitely an ample number of borrowers that can in fact purchase today under today's more stringent environment? And maybe you can break out for us I'm not sure if Jim Zeumer has the numbers but what percent of your borrowers are actually below 700 in FICA score? Because the general conventional wisdom is that you have to have a 750 or better FICA score as well as the perception that you have to put 20% down.
So maybe you can help understand the dynamics of the underwriting for us please.
Ivy this is Richard.
I'll start and then Bob's got some detail.
First of all you're right mortgage availability is tight.
Frankly it's been tight for a while and it doesn't appear to have had a significant change say over the last 6 months or so.
Having said that I would suggest there's significant opportunity for business to improve even without underwriting getting better as confidence comes back and buyers step into the market overall.
It would certainly help things if conditions weren't quite this tight in terms of underwriting standards but it does not appear that the efforts of the industry or others have made much of a dent in underwriting or appraisal standards yet.
So having said that our belief is that business could improve and should be able to improve with confidence coming back without underwriting getting better.
Bob's got some detail for you on FICOs.
Yes so the FICO scores as we've talked about in our mortgage operations FICO scores have been hovering right around 750 for the better part of 2 years.
Again our buyer's a little bit different maybe than the general population because with the active adult they typically have better credit scores but even with that in the last year our mortgage operation's roughly 20% that the people who have been approved for a mortgage are below 700; fully 40% are below the 750.
And interestingly if you think about the FHA market which is roughly 30% of our originations they don't have a requirement to increase their down payment above the 3.5% unless their credit score's actually below 580.
So there is obviously some availability and it's not that they have to write a much bigger equity check until they get a little bit lower on the credit profile.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim representing Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have a few questions regarding your land buying so I'd just -- maybe I'll just start with that.
I was wondering if you could comment on the fact that you were able to book a $16 million gain on a $64 million revenue on your land sales.
That was kind of interesting.
I was wondering if you could tell us do you think that's indicative in any way of what you see more broadly in terms of your land holdings? If there's -- if you were to put them out of the market that there are opportunities for you to record a profit on a lot of those land parcels.
And then secondly related to your land you said you bought 2 800 lots.
I was wondering what you spent in terms of land and land development costs in the quarter.
And then finally I guess if you could give us a sense for what your land profile looks like in terms of what you bought.
You talked about this new methodology for evaluating or doing feasibility analyses.
You said that 21% was sort of your historical hurdle.
What is your current blended IRR in terms of the 2 800 that you bought? What was the average IRR? Okay well there's a lot there.
So to your first question in terms of land and the profit I don't think that that's an indicator as to anything prospectively.
A couple of things to consider.
Again these are some properties that have been around for a while.
They are pretty far out in the future.
They may have been acquired in the Centex acquisition so there may have been some purchase accounting around them.
And so I would suggest that that's not indicative of future transactions.
The other thing is the process we follow is when we approve a transaction for sale if there's a loss we book it at the time of approval.
And so when we actually close transactions we're not going to book losses but if we have a gain on a transaction that we approve we have to defer that until we close.
So at the -- by the time we actually close a transaction we're actually going to only book gains.
So if you look at what happened in the fourth quarter we had $16 million on the transactions that closed but we mentioned that there were $10 million in losses on properties that we approved for sale.
So these things depending on when closings take place you get kind of lumpy income statements versus the cash that happens.
With respect to the 2 800 lots we put those -- we put 2 800 under control so we've approved those.
We haven't bought all of them yet.
And so in terms of the returns on those I would -- we don't give particulars on that but I would tell you they are north of the 21% threshold that we have used in the past.
I don't know Richard if you wanted to add anything.
No I just -- I also wanted to say that on the first question Steve regarding the land sales the primary reason for selling land is not necessarily to drive a gain overall.
It's to drive our land balance to a more appropriate mix particularly in a given market as we look to deploy any cash into better returning communities.
So we may have some gains we may have some losses.
As Bob indicated it kind of netted out to about a $6 million positive this quarter.
That's just that way the numbers fell.
The next question comes from the line of Joshua Pollard representing Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about the cadence of margins throughout the year? Typically you've seen margins go down in the first quarter and I want to understand if there's enough strength embedded from the 2011 actions that you've taken for that not to be the case and whether or not we should expect profit every quarter.
Is that what you're implying in your guidance? Joshua this is Richard.
It's going to be difficult for us to make money in Q1 given the seasonality of the business overall.
We certainly would expect to be profitable for the year.
And with regard to margins we're not going to give quarter-by-quarter guidance.
Just to reemphasize that for the year we would expect to see margin growth from 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could ask another question on your land.
I'm trying to understand what portion of your land falls on the fringe of your newer returns profile.
In other words what portion of your inventory would you sell if you could? I think it's a relatively small percentage.
Again this won't be a seismic shift in the land position in the short term.
Again $64 million in this quarter.
As I mentioned we have approved other transactions that will close over the next in some cases 18 months depending on development requirements so it's really -- I would call it pruning rather than chopping.
Yes Joshua just to add to that I think it's kind of summarized in a number of the comments we've heard from people.
The goal for us is better returns.
It's not kind of growth at all costs.
So that's our view with regard to all of these capital-related actions.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger representing Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could -- I was little confused on the gross margin and impairments in the back of the table in your release.
I think you have $8 million that's flowed through cost of goods.
And you highlighted I think $24 million in your earlier remarks.
Can you just detail where all of those charges were in the income statement? Yes so there's $24 million.
$11 million of that is recorded in home sale cost of revenues.
$10 million is in land sale cost of sales and $3 million is in other income and expenses.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So again in the table you have the back you have $7.885 million in impairments and home sales costs.
And you just said $11 million.
Is there -- am I missing something? It's the cap interest which -- so it's -- the $11 million that I ...
So there's $3 million of the cap interest in that $11 million number.
So if you just take a look at the non-cap interest that's the number you're seeing in the table.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on housekeeping if I missed it I apologize.
What was the cancellation rate? And what's the total lot count now? It's 19.8% was the cancellation rate and total lots under control was 131 000.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall representing RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could shed a little light on the 200 basis points gross margin improvement.
What -- if you want to break that down what is the contribution from more favorable mix towards the shift in your -- towards your buyer towards move-up product away from first time? And on the other side of that what percentage of the improvement or how many basis points is the shift towards more profitable communities newer land purchases as opposed to legacy closeout? We typically haven't broken it down.
Mix is a hard thing to really look at because -- and I know this is going to sound like a nonanswer.
But part of this is again we've talked about the fact that there's more move-up business so that's part of the margin equation.
We've talked about that fact that some of the older communities are closing out new ones coming on.
That's actually part of the shift from first time to move up.
So again we've not tried to narrow it down to say how much of it specifically is community-based versus how much is segment-based.
The one thing I'll mention maybe to help you a little bit is just to entertain what that mix shift means.
If you take a look at our mix this quarter about 40% of our closings were kind of move-up oriented.
That compared to 30% last year and that's just strictly coming from the Centex side.
So we had about 30% in this quarter versus 40% last year's quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's actually -- it's actually what I was looking for.
And I think Richard was talking earlier about the benefits of process engineering will start to show up this year.
Can we get a ballpark in terms of gross margin basis points? Is this 50 or 100 basis points of improvement to expect? Because it's difficult to understand how material this will be in the big picture.
You've obviously mentioned you're going to be profitable this year.
Obviously a lot of this will stem from the cost initiatives on the COGs line.
Can we just get a framework for thinking about this? Yes Bob I'm sorry we can't give you specifics on that at this point.
I would just suggest to go back to a point we made earlier that the gains you saw in '11 were primarily a result of kind of the capital decisions we had made in the way that mix and new investments flowed through.
Not a lot of that was driven by the value engineering should costing new pricing strategies et cetera.
So stay tuned on that.
We prefer to be a show-me world versus prediction at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay McCanless representing Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question I had it appears if I just back out impairments from 3Q to 4Q looks like gross margins went down about 90 bps sequentially.
Could you all discuss that and what you did with incentives sequentially? ] Incentives sequentially were consistent right around 6%.
Not sure what you've done with cap interest.
There was a pretty big increase on a relative basis Q3 versus Q4 this year in what ran through the income statement for CapEx so my guess is that's what you're seeing.
Yes that's why when we give you the adjusted gross margin number we were up sequentially from Q3 to Q4.
The 10 basis points but that takes out any cap interest impact.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll go double check that.
Just going strictly off of what looked like land and lot impairments and then adding that back to what you showed for gross profits so want to double check on that.
And then wanted to ask also with the talk out there about bulk REO and bulk foreclosure sales.
I believe the pilot program starting for that it's going to be ramping up.
What are you all thinking about the impact that those bulk sales could have either on appraisals or potentially on impairments down the road? Could you discuss that a little bit? Yes Jay we have not counted on a whole lot of that in terms of our thinking because candidly since it's out of our control.
And kind of the same thing goes for what the President is discussing right now including expanding the HART program et cetera.
So don't have a whole lot there.
My guess is while a number of those things are going to be nice attempts it appears that they are going to take a little bit of time to have an impact.
So we don't know at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Barrn representing Housing.
LLC</strong> I guess I wanted to ask you something I've been asking other builders which is it's been 6 years since the downturn began.
And I guess a number of people have gone through foreclosure and short sale.
And they've been locked out of the mortgage market.
I'm wondering if you're starting to see some of those people come back into your sales offices and whether they're starting to qualify to buy homes again.
Alex this is Richard.
It's hard to quantify specifically the impact of that because I think there's perhaps a little bit of that phenomenon but also you've got people who have not had qualification problems who have just chosen for quite a long time to rent or to live with a sibling or friend.
And with the preponderance of press out there now about how good a time it is to buy how low rates are the increasing cost to rent you're pushing people toward the ownership side of the equation a little more than you were.
So very difficult to give a specific answer to what you're saying.
I think it's a little bit of all of that that is beginning to show some seeds of improvement.
LLC</strong> My follow-up question was one of the things we do is we track all of your communities that you guys have on the website.
And we've noticed year-over-year the Centex community count has gone down pretty significantly.
And I guess the Pulte one has gone down as well a little bit.
So I'm just trying to understand on the Centex side what's happening there or what your future thoughts are on that segment.
Well we certainly built out a lot of smaller Centex communities frankly at a rate faster than the replacements have been coming online.
But we're very excited about the entry level brand.
As a matter fact one of the value engineering initiatives we have underway right now represents some new product alternatives for that first-time buyer that we're going to be opening up in a number of markets early this year overall.
So you're right.
The community count for Centex has fallen.
That's just as a result of kind of the runoff of a lot of smaller Centex communities faster than the replacement because the majority of our recent investments has been for the move-up brand.
But we're excited about the future for the entry level and we'll look forward to commenting on that in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Buck Horne representing Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on the balance sheet.
I just want to look at a quick line item here.
I just noticed that the residential mortgage loans that you have available for sale that line item on the balance sheet seemed to tick up quite substantially.
Just wondering if that's more of a timing issue in terms of just -- or seasonal issue related to the processing those in loans.
Or is there some issue in terms of more difficulty placing that paper back into the mortgage market that's occurring these days? No issues there.
That is actually seasonal and just the process that they're using.
We've actually seen that clear already.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And lastly on the interest expense.
I just noticed interest expense flowing through the cost of sales ticked up quite a bit.
I guess even on a per delivery basis.
Just wondering if that's kind of the sustainable run rate in terms of your delivery schedule.
Or interest amortized per delivery is that the numbers we should be looking for going forward? We've talked about this I think it was in Q2.
We are today expensing -- 2011 we expensed about $185 million against the cash spend of about $220 million.
Our expectation is that for 2012 that expense will move up to about $220 million.
And at the time we said that would be consistent with our cash spend.
Based on the repurchases of the debt that we got through in the fourth quarter our cash spend will be a little bit less now it's down about $16 million so closer to $200 million.
But again next year you'll see relative to 2011 about a $35 million $37 million increase through our cost of sale line for cap interest amortization.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener representing KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> The increase that you're having on what you just spoke about it's obviously -- I think a portion of that is related to the Centex debt.
Is that correct? It is related to the Centex accounting yes.
Research Division</strong> Now that increase that we're having this year is that -- in 2012 -- as you look out into '13 does that continue increasing? Are we going to finally start seeing that abate so you can get that interest expense? I think it will go down or stay even.
So it depends on our debt level at that point.
It's how much is actually being capitalized each year.
Again the $16-ish million decrease in cash spend next year some of it will benefit next year in the amortization off.
The rest of it would impact '13 and '14.
So again it will -- it's not linear so we don't get a dollar-for-dollar reduction if we reduce cash interest expense.
The income statement follows on a lagging basis.
But again based on where we are it should go down.
Research Division</strong> Okay good and that will obviously won't be a headwind in '13 then.
Now I find it interesting with your community count as it relates to G&amp;A when you said 5% to 10% for the year was that a yearend or was that an average community count for the year? Year-over-year.
That's to the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> So fourth quarter down 5% or 10%.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> And then the decline that you had how much of that would you actually tie over to the success you've been having in your fixed G&amp;A? Well I think that -- I don't -- I would say marginal at best.
Yes these are -- this community count I mean we're not talking large communities with significant amount of fixed cost related to them.
So most of our SG&amp;A is other -- for other reasons.
Yes the G&amp;A improvement is largely because I think Bob indicated in the script the result of some actions we took in Q2 of '11.
And we're getting the flow-through benefits of that now and expect it to continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko representing SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
I just wanted to touch on Florida for a minute.
It seems like most of the builders have been reporting pretty good order trends in Florida.
Active adult and trade-up in your space I think you had mentioned and better land position.
Can you talk about the composition maybe of the buyers you've seen maybe anecdotally? Are we getting snowbird or retirees off the fence because the window there is maybe narrower and they don't want to wait another year? Is there a Canadian component with the dollar exchange? Can you talk about the composition of Florida? Yes Jack for us a good a bit of it is active adult.
As an example our Southwest Florida business is largely active adult purchases and a lot of it is snowbird.
Some Canadian buyers some foreign buyers from Germany and other places.
And frankly it appears the seasonal trade if you will there the second-home purchases and the move down our retiree purchases really started last winter a year ago.
And it's continued through 2011 and we're seeing a pretty strong season so far there this year.
So that's the anecdotal comments I'll provide overall.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I don't want to overstate it I mean you got $1.2 billion of cash and 140 and change [ph] reserve on the rep and warranty side.
One of the things that our checks have been pretty clear about is I guess to be politically correct the technicality of some of these put-back issues moving from the individual GSEs to the FHFA you've seen that and you've also seen more technical put-backs if you will.
Can you talk about maybe your experience since August September and the tick up? And what that piece of the elevated volume maybe is behind that? Well again I think we commented on that.
We don't see a change necessarily in the types of things that are coming to us nor for the periods that they relate to.
So I wouldn't necessarily agree with that there's some technical aspect to this.
I think the counterparties are reviewing loan documents.
And if they believe there was an error or omission in the rep and warranty they ask us to repurchase or make whole.
Obviously we do everything we can to either cure what they think the issue is or refute it for a variety of reasons.
But I don't think that there's a change in sort of the way they're behaving.
Just to add on to it.
It's always really been a technical issue so this is a strict rep and warranty-type contractual item.
So it's -- I'm not sure what you mean by technical but I would tell you it's always been technical.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the time we have for questions.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2012 PulteGroup Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Catherine and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jim Zeumer Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed sir.
Okay.
Thank you operator and good morning to everyone.
I want to thank everyone for participating in today's call to discuss PulteGroup's 2012 first quarter financial results.
On the call today are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; Mike Schweninger Vice President and Controller.
Before we begin copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slide that accompanies today's call have been posted on our corporate website at www.pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
Please note that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on the call including references to gross margins reflecting certain adjustments is reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to this call's presentation slide deck.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to discuss PulteGroup's first quarter results which demonstrate a continuation of the positive operating trends we have been experiencing for a number of quarters.
Consistent with other signs of an overall improving demand environment for new homes PulteGroup's first quarter sign-ups grew to just under 5 000 homes as we realized the 15% increase in year-over-year volume generated from 6% fewer communities.
Lowering our community count is among the actions we are taking to help rightsize our balance sheet as we focus on improving our long-term returns on invested capital.
You've heard us say on more than one occasion that U.S.
housing demand has been relatively stable for the past couple of years albeit at reduced levels barely above 300 000 new home sales annually.
Conditions remain challenging but in Q1 2012 it was the first quarter in several years that fundamental demand came in stronger than expected allowing us to handily beat our internal forecast for the period.
It is important to remember that any improvement in activity is off an extremely low starting point.
Nevertheless we are very pleased with how the year has started off including a continuation of better sales activity thus far in April.
So with the understanding that we are still early in the year there does seem to be a positive change in buyer interest and willingness to sign a sales contract.
I don't think it's any single factor but the gradual buildup of multiple conditions that are finally pushing buyers past the tipping point.
First new home prices and mortgage rates being at or close to historically low levels is not new.
These factors combined with ever more expensive rental rates however are beginning to tip the scale toward homeownership being a compelling choice versus rental.
The cost of ownership figures are persuasive enough that current renters really have to consider their options carefully when the lease is ending and a new lease agreement carries another 5%-plus increase in the monthly rates.
Second for the first time in a while potential buyers seem to have a greater sense of urgency as they face limited supplies and in select situations higher prices.
Said another way potential buyers are experiencing an increasing fear of loss that a home not purchased today may not be there tomorrow or if it is the price could be higher.
Nowhere is this more evident than in Phoenix where monthly supply of new and resale inventory has dropped dramatically in the past 18 to 24 months.
This inventory reduction is leading to stronger new home sales results and the beginnings of pricing improvement in a market that just 18 months ago is oversupplied.
Third while foreclosed or other distressed inventory is certainly still a factor in the market every day it gets a little older and a little more rundown.
With investors often snapping up the best units available traditional homebuyers are likely seeing the remaining units as less of a compelling alternative.
And finally although they're still a very small percentage of overall demand we are starting to see individuals who struggled with foreclosure or bankruptcy much earlier in the downturn that can now be considered for a mortgage.
Anecdotal comments from our salespeople suggest that the desire for homeownership remains extremely high with these individuals.
It has to be noted that there have been prior years that started strong but the uptick in demand didn't last more than a few months.
What is different about our Q1 gains is that they appear more sustainable and more broad-based in terms of the number of communities and markets seeing better traffic and sales.
Also while we continue to modestly shift our business mix toward the move-up buyer to different degrees we are seeing better or at least stable conditions across all buyer groups first time move-up and active adult.
Only time will tell if the stronger demand in Q1 is truly the start of a cyclical upturn in U.S.
housing but we are encouraged by the overall volume of traffic along with the actions and comments from the potential buyers visiting our communities.
Our Q1 results demonstrate that when the market improves we will get our fair share.
And while we will be cautiously optimistic about macro demand going forward we remain heads down and focused on further advancing the operational gains we have been capturing for a number of quarters.
Consistent with this focus for the quarter we reported an adjusted gross margin of 18.7% which is 180 basis points higher than the prior year.
This is the fifth quarter in a row of sequential gains in adjusted gross margin and a continuation of trends we have been experiencing for several years.
Margin growth in the quarter was helped by ongoing shifts in community and product mix.
For the quarter deliveries under the Pulte Homes brand increased by approximately 6 percentage points to 39% of total closings.
Allocation of recent investment dollars back into the business suggests this relative re-weighting will continue for the foreseeable future as we are finding more projects offering better margins and return opportunities within this move-up buyer group.
Beyond benefiting from planned changes in our product mix as we discussed on our Q4 conference call look for us to drive additional margin gains in future quarters from initiatives underway to lower house construction cost and improve our revenue line through better pricing initiatives on options and lot premiums.
Just last week we met with our area and division presidents and discussed the great progress we are making on these initiatives including the development of a new more affordable product series specifically designed for our Centex brand.
As we move through the coming quarters and the number of closings from houses that have been reengineered re-contented re-costed and repriced increases we expect that our margins will be further enhanced.
Building on top of the gross margin gains in the quarter was a reduction in total SG&amp;A spending of approximately $19 million which reflects actions we took last year to more effectively match overheads to the current operating environment.
On a year-over-year basis the 180 basis point expansion of our adjusted gross margins and 300 basis point reduction in SG&amp;A expense as a percent of home sale revenues drove a dramatic improvement in our incremental profitability.
By focusing on driving greater operational efficiencies we continue to put the company in the position to be profitable in 2012 and successful in the future whether year-over-year housing demand continues to get stronger or not.
Overall we are pleased with the demand environment in the quarter and carrying through into April and even more excited about the progress we are making in repositioning PulteGroup's business and operating capabilities.
Now let me turn the call over to Bob to provide more details on PulteGroup's first quarter results.
Bob? Thank you Richard.
As Richard said we've gotten off to a good start in 2012 and there are certainly reasons to be optimistic about the year ahead as our operational initiatives continue to gain traction and we seek to drive additional improvement in our financial performance.
Our first quarter results reflect continued benefit from actions we have taken to expand margins increase our overhead leverage and improve our inventory turns through more efficient allocation of our capital.
For the quarter home sale revenues were $814 million an increase of 4% compared with last year.
The increase in our revenues was driven by a 5% increase in our average selling price to $261 000 partially offset by a 1% decrease in closings to 3 117 homes.
Breaking down the mix of our closings this quarter 35% were from Centex 39% from Pulte and 26% from Del Webb.
In the prior year the mix was 38% Centex 33% Pulte and 29% Del Webb.
The increase in our average selling price reflects a continued shift in our product mix as we delivered more Pulte Homes which carry a higher price relative to our Centex brand.
As noted on Slide 7 of our webcast material our adjusted gross margin for the first quarter was 18.7% an improvement of 180 basis points over the first quarter of last year and of 10 basis point over the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our increased margin reflects the higher mix of move-up homes improvement related to our strategy to deemphasize spec inventory as well as improved margin performance from newer communities.
Land charges during the quarter were minimal including just under $5 million of impairments on existing communities $700 000 of pre-acquisition costs on assets we have elected not to pursue and $600 000 of NRV charges on properties we have approved for sale.
Looking at our overhead SG&amp;A for the quarter was $123 million or 15.2% of home sale revenues.
This is down $19 million from $142 million or 18.2% of revenues last year.
Our lower overheads reflect the actions we took in the second quarter of last year.
Based on our current projections we expect the full year overhead to be in the range of $485 million to $495 million compared with $520 million in 2011.
In the quarter we continued to selectively sell certain land positions as we look to allocate more capital more effectively within our operation.
During the quarter we sold approximately $38 million of land assets which resulted in $6 million of pretax income.
We also approved the sale of certain additional parcels which drove the $600 000 of NRV adjustments I mentioned a moment ago.
For the quarter our Financial Services operations generated $7 million of pretax income compared with $1 million in the prior year.
The increase was driven by an 8% increase in our loan origination volumes as well as higher revenues per loan.
In total we originated 2 021 loans in the first quarter.
Our capture rate for the quarter was 78% compared with 76% for the same quarter last year.
As you can see on Slide 11 of our webcast material repurchase requests in the quarter were consistent with the fourth quarter which is consistent with the volumes we assumed in our reserve estimates.
In summary PulteGroup's reported net loss for the quarter was $12 million or $0.03 per share which includes the following items: aggregate land-related charges of approximately $6 million of which $4 million is recorded in home sale cost of revenues $1 million is in land sale cost of sales and $1 million is in other income and expenses; we also had $6 million of land sale gains recorded in land sales.
Turning to our balance sheet we ended the quarter with $1.3 billion of cash which is up $117 million from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our improved cash position resulted from a number of factors including the routine return of working capital from our mortgage operations reduced land spend for acquisitions and development the sale of land assets and a reduction in level of our spec home inventory.
Notably we reduced our total spec units under production from the end of 2011 by 800 homes to approximately 2 000 houses and importantly reduced our finished spec inventory by 30% to 1 039 homes.
In addition to freeing up cash limited spec production allows our communities to sell from a stronger market position which we believe will support margin growth going forward.
The company did not repurchase any debt during the quarter.
In other Q1 activity we generated 4 991 sign-ups in the period and ended the quarter with 753 active communities.
This represents a 15% increase over the sign-ups we reported in Q1 last year.
It's important to note that our sign-ups were generated from 47 or 6% fewer communities than last year.
As of March 31 we had homes in backlog valued at $1.6 billion.
On a year-over-year basis this represents a unit increase of 12% and in dollar terms a gain of 16%.
During the quarter we opened approximately 41 new communities.
We also put an incremental 1 600 lots under control.
Consistent with our goal of driving better long-term returns we remain judicious with our capital investments and are focused on identifying projects capable of generating acceptable risk-adjusted returns.
A few final data points.
We ended the first quarter with just shy of 5 500 homes under construction.
Given the reduction in spec inventory I discussed earlier the split between sold and spec is about 60% sold and 40% spec.
Overall we are very pleased with the results for the quarter and how our operations are positioned for the second quarter and the remainder of the year.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Bob.
Before opening the call to questions we wanted to provide some additional details on the market conditions we experienced during the first quarter.
In the Eastern third of the country we experienced better demand in our New England markets as we introduced several new communities into the greater Metro Boston area.
Demand for our communities in the Washington D.C.
and Northern Virginia area continued to be strong as we benefited from a number of well-placed communities.
Moving further South demand was improved across most of our markets with the most notable improvement in the Coastal Carolinas and South Florida.
In the middle third of the country we saw a modest pickup in business develop in Midwest although overall market conditions remain challenging.
But one clear exception is Michigan which is being positively impacted by a resurgence in the Detroit-based auto industry.
After a slower start in January business in Texas picked up nicely in the quarter led by strong demand in Dallas.
Out West demand was improved pretty much across the board.
As various Wall Street research reports have detailed and consistent with my earlier comments Phoenix continued to rebound strongly as excess inventories have been worked down which is supporting better demand for new homes.
This is particularly encouraging given our large investment in that market.
Beyond Arizona we experienced sign-up growth in California Nevada and the Pacific Northwest.
Consistent with comments at the beginning of this call we were pleased with the demand conditions we experienced in Q1 as they exceeded last year and our forecast headed into 2012.
We won't provide any details on Q2 other than to reiterate that the first few weeks of April have seen a continuation of the improved demand we experienced in Q1.
At the end of the fourth quarter earnings call I said there were reasons to be optimistic about medium and long-term demand but that it would be interesting to see how 2012 developed.
Given the additional data points we have thus far this year we are cautiously upbeat about current market conditions.
That said regardless of how macro demand plays out from here we are bullish about the operational gains PulteGroup continues to make and the opportunities for further improvements ahead.
Simply put we are running a better business than we were a few years back and are encouraged by the progress already realized and yet to come in 2012 and beyond.
[indiscernible] to thank the men and women of PulteGroup who have worked so hard to put this company on a positive path we now find ourselves.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Operator if you'll explain the process we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions] Please stand by for your first question which comes from the line of Mr.
David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question Richard you spent time talking about the efforts you guys are making on the cost and the efficiency side which I think is great.
What I'm trying to get an idea is if we're in an improving market and we're starting to see more players coming back into the market at some point and the competitive environment remaining very challenging what do you do to codify the changes that you make so as you introduce new product as you go back to growth you don't fall into the trap of getting -- I'm going to use the word sloppy.
It's probably not the right word but you don't lose the discipline that you've worked so hard to put in place now.
David great question.
I think the first part to that answer has to do with the fact that we are not emphasizing growth as much as we are improvement in margins SG&amp;A and turns.
Around the company for the past 12 to 18 months that's been the mantra so we are purposely kind of out-sizing our focus there.
Secondly I'll tell you through a deep dive analysis that we've done we realized that there's a lot of opportunity in the operational area and we've got a good fact base around how to improve it and that's widespread understood throughout the company today.
So I think for us going forward it's going to be more about continuing to emphasize that versus chasing units for unit's sake and I think you'll continue to see that reflected in our results.
And as we indicated we expect further operational gains from here based on what we can see in backlog.
Research Division</strong> Can we make the inference that if you're not chasing growth as much that almost -- it means you're going to be more shareholder-friendly when it comes to cash as conditions start to get better? Well I'll offer a couple of comments and then Bob can comment as well.
Clearly there is a shift in focus for us the past 12 to 18 months to return on invested capital being the metric that we are attempting to drive higher.
That means that we are being more judicious with land allocation.
We're doing our best to work down some of the outsized land positions where we don't need that because it's dragging returns.
And I think we've demonstrated over the past year that debt reduction is important to us.
So whether you call that shareholder-friendly or not I would overall but with that I guess I'll offer it to Bob to comment too.
I agree with everything Richard said.
The cash generation will in the near term be used for debt reduction.
I think when you get through that you have to think about what the market looks like what level of activity is out there because as we've talked about before to the extent that there is an actual increase beyond today's relatively low levels of homebuilding we're going to have to invest money in both land and house.
So we'll have to weigh those against the capital structure because I presume you're asking about dividends and stock repurchases.
So we would consider all those but we have to look at what the needs for the business are.
David I think if I could just offer one other final comment.
I think in the past we would have been rightly characterized as land-heavy.
We want to be much more balanced going forward.
It comes from the line of Mr.
Dennis McGill Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Richard I think in the third quarter was probably the first time that you had called out Phoenix for your own operations.
And I think at the time you kind of talked about some of the tightening of inventory and it seemed to maybe just be a onetime event to many at the time but we've seen acceleration since then.
So I'm just kind of curious from your perspective do you think Phoenix is the anomaly today or a leading indicator  for other markets? I would indicate a slightly leading indicator.
The biggest driver of what's happening in Phoenix Dennis which is somewhat amazing is reduced inventory.
Inventory levels in that market as we indicated a year ago were still high headed down.
Today I would say they're abnormally low.
Investors have clearly bought a tremendous amount of property and are renting them out which is providing our buyers limited choice.
I think you are going to continue to see that in other markets as well.
I saw a report that Denver is experiencing the same kind of thing as a couple of other markets.
So I do think Phoenix is ahead of the curve in that regard but by no means in my opinion is it the only market that you're likely to see that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just more big picture across the footprint.
You talked a little bit about where your homes under construction sit between spec and sold.
Is there a way to quantify within the quarter on the order side what the split would be between to-be-builts and spec and then just generally your sense of the willingness of consumers to purchase the yet to be built and take that forward view on the market? So I'll answer the second piece and then turn it over to Bob or Mike for maybe a more detail on the quarter.
We are not seeing a difference -- well we're not seeing a preference for buyers to buy spec if you will.
We are seeing a significant willingness for buyers to go to the pre-sale market.
I guess what I'm trying to say here Dennis is I don't think we're costing ourselves any sales by focusing this way.
What's really nice about the efforts to reduce finished spec is that it's enhancing our margin opportunities.
So not only is it working to generate cash which is one of our key drivers in the company it's also enhancing our margins.
And I would say that the results you see in Q1 are still from a relatively spec-heavy environment and that is headed lower from here.
So with that I don't know Bob if you have any details.
Yes Dennis I would suggest it's about 60-40 dirt [ph]versus spec.
You have to remember for attached product we're often going to build the building.
We'll start the building before we've sold all the units.
So as Richard said the goal is to become less reliant on spec but I think you'll always see it as part of the business model particularly in certain markets with attached.
The next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to ask you about price increases.
I recognize that this is a somewhat contentious issue for some builders and I recognize that the market is still tough.
But particularly when we visited your communities down in Phoenix and when we visited communities out in Denver we've been very impressed to see builders being pretty good about trying to put through price increases.
One of the builders that reported today actually called that out in their release.
You didn't mention it but I was curious if you could give some commentary on what you're able to achieve in terms of price increases across the country.
Yes Steve we are attempting to push price in a number of markets around the country.
I don't want to get ahead of ourselves to say that it's widespread yet but the beginnings of it are here.
We are facing some resistance with appraisals in a couple of markets but clearly there's been a pickup in say the last 3 or 4 months in terms of our ability to get price in some communities around the country vis-a-vis where we were 3 or 4 months ago.
So we're cautiously optimistic.
I'll also point out that in our case particular we're focused on premiums options reduced incentives all of the above to drive margin.
And candidly it's working for us.
We can see it in our backlog.
So we feel good about that but in terms of just base price increases beginnings of it are starting.
So I would kind of agree with you.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure the clarifying point that when I refer to price increases I include lot -- more aggressive lot premiums reduced incentives and the like into that phrase price increases.
If we were to use that broader definition would you say that -- would you hazard a guess maybe 1/3 of your communities the top half of your communities you've been able to achieve some form or one or all of the above in terms of price increases? I wouldn't want to quantify a specific number.
What I would say is we've been working for several quarters on premiums options and discounts and with some relative success.
What's a little more recent is pure base price increases to add to that mix.
So again without trying to peg a particular number the general trend is positive.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I was hoping if you could give a little bit more clarity around intra-quarter trends in terms of orders and off of that -- including in that rather how April faired relative to -- within the quarter how things fell out? Mike I would say generally things got better through the quarter overall and we've seen a continuation of positive trends into April.
So I don't want to provide any more specificity than that but the run rate got better as we got through the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question you mentioned you pointed to on Slide 11 the put-back requests kind of continuing at this somewhat of a higher level since the middle of last year.
At this point are you still comfortable with your reserves? And also if you could discuss -- there was a filing at the end of March with regards to the former check business the Centex home equity business I believe in the amount of $236 million.
How does that affect if any the outstanding $100 million liability cap on that former unit also in terms of just the accounting of it? I'll deal with [indiscernible] first.
We are aware of the filing.
It does not in our view impact us.
It hasn't resulted in any accounting.
So when we sold the business there was a $100 million indemnification but we haven't heard from anybody on that and candidly don't expect to.
As it relates to the accounting for the reserves generally we looked at when we did the accounting in the fourth quarter we looked at the activity in the back half of last year and projected that out.
So the activity we've seen in the first quarter is consistent with that so our accounting hasn't changed.
The next question comes from Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit more in terms of -- you're saying for the new product line for Centex a bit more affordable.
Is that an effort to really target those who are renting right now and looking at rental increases and bringing down that cost of ownership further? Dan it's Richard.
It is.
One of the things that we've targeted is a monthly payment that's equivalent to or even less than rental and this is a very affordable product line that we're piling in in a couple of markets along with some additional things that we've done from our retail environment on the Centex side.
We've got open in about 40 Centex communities around the country all designed to generate better returns in that business overall.
So yes it's targeted to compete with rental.
Research Division</strong> And I guess if you can still elaborate a bit more in terms of what you're doing on the content side there.
As you're taking some content down any risk that you're going to worry that as the consumer confidence is improving people are actually looking for more content rather than less at this point? No Dan.
This is a continuation of some of the thinking that we have found from frankly diving a little deeper into consumer sentiment where our base house was configured too high in many instances.
What I mean is we were offering too much standard in our home.
So part of our process here with this new product line is to have a lower level of specification for the base home and then allowing the consumer to option up where they would like to.
The benefits of that are twofold as we're finding.
Number one we're attracting more people to that lower entry-level price point.
And second we're making more money on the total sale because the buyers that are willing to option up we're getting a premium price for the options there.
And while that's nothing new I think we've indicated before we were probably behind in recognizing that and are catching up now.
The next question is from Joshua Pollard from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I think you said Richard reengineered re-contented re-cost and repriced.
I like that.
But I'd love to understand what portion of your business now falls into that category and I'd love if you could juxtapose that with what portion of your business you really can't change.
I know when you guys did the Centex merger you talked a lot about their being legacy property even in the Pulte suite of communities that it didn't make sense to make a lot of changes to just given either how large they were how deep you were in the process.
I'm trying to understand what portion of your business you have reengineered what portion of your business you can reengineer and what sort of -- you just have to wait until it burns off.
So Josh let's deal with them into 2 buckets.
The reengineered re-contented component has to do primarily with home construction home design specifications et cetera.
And then the repriced is bucket 2.
In bucket 1 it's been a relatively small percentage of homes that have flown through the income statement so far that have had that action because of the time it takes for us to go through that.
And we should start seeing more benefit from those actions as we get through the year here.
In terms of the repriced component that's a much quicker and easier area to attack and a larger percentage of our business there.
Again to Stephen Kim's question I don't have an exact number for you there but anecdotally we've accomplished more on the pricing side in the near-term with a lot of the benefits from reengineering redesign re-contenting yet to come for the company overall.
With regards to what percentage of our business we can apply this to I think what we're referring to earlier is that in many cases we were 2/3 or 3/4 of the way through the community so it didn't make sense to spend the time and expense to go through that process.
Aside from that as those communities finish up their life there's no reason we can't attack all of our product lines with this process which is certainly our intention over the coming years.
It's going to take time for all of that to roll through but I think like you've seen a slow and steady progress is our goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess the one thing I'd love to understand in addition to that is around your land purchases obviously a higher focus on returns on invested capital which I think makes a lot of sense.
Is that leading you towards more finished lots or is that leading you towards actually building out and developing land? I know the quick run at returns on invested capital may say finished lots but we've obviously heard a fair amount about competition there.
Where is that -- where is the return on invested capital metric leading you at this point on balance? Well initially when we got this focus started it did lead us to more finished lots.
Those have been snapped up in a lot of cases.
So we are on a limited basis investing in raw land.
I think what's a little bit unique even though about the raw land is we're getting more option deals through our focus on attempting to orient the business that way.
And Bob I don't know if you want to provide any more color on that? No I agree.
We have had over the last 18 months the opportunity to buy a lot more finished lots.
They are frequently on takes as opposed to buying the dirt.
So I think as we focus on return if we can get them priced appropriately a rolling option take is really attractive obviously.
But I think you've heard us and others talk about that there may be a shortage of those lots going forward.
We're going to have to build the portfolio over time where we will have to look at developing lots.
But even in the first quarter the lots we put under control more than 70% of those are option deals.
So we're still finding the opportunity to put those together.
The next question comes from the line of Stephen East ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Richard in your prepared remarks you talked about lowering the community count is a part of the way to rightsize your balance sheet.
And then you also mentioned the Pulte portion of your business growing in magnitude relative to Del Webb and Centex.
Could you just explain further what the thought process is on the community count lowering for the balance sheet where you think that goes and then what's driving on the Pulte versus the other 2 segments of the business? Sure.
So Del Webb is staying relatively consistent Steve in the large communities with lots of runway ahead of us there.
So not much movement in Del Webb.
What you're seeing now is a shift from Centex into Pulte purposeful shift in that regard over the past number of quarters as we found better return opportunities in land transactions for the move-up buyer which is served by the Pulte brand overall.
And that's what's driving it.
Obviously we want our operators to invest where they have the best return opportunities.
Having said that both the Centex and the Pulte brands the buyer categories are performing well in the marketplace in terms of absorption category.
So as mentioned we have a bit of a renewed vigor toward breathing better returns into the Centex business through some of these re-engineered  and redone value product that we're coming out with overall.
But that's what's driving the shift overall.
Research Division</strong> In lowering your community count to rightsize the balance sheet just the thought process on it? Yes so I'll give you a bit of a top line and then I'll ask Bob to comment.
We've got excess land to put it simply overall.
And our goal is to kind of reduce the bucket of land that is far out in the future that we're not going to get to for a long time and use some of those dollars if possible to either pay down debt or where we reinvest in land assets to ensure that those are on a return-friendly basis.
That means getting frankly more disciplined about the way we invest.
And I mentioned earlier we were long land and we're known for being long land.
We want to be more balanced going forward.
And so the result of that happens to be community count declines.
I will tell you we are not as driven as I think the outside world is by the pure metric of community count given the fact that community count is so variable and particularly for us with Del Webb not as meaningful.
As you've seen we were able to drive very nice top line growth and will get our fair share of revenue improvement with the macro environment improving.
So we are not "worried" about community count declines.
We're actually pleased with it because it's continuing to demonstrate the improvement I believe in returns as evidenced by cash flow and Q1 being positive where we typically would consume cash in Q1.
So a little bit long-winded there.
Sorry Bob.
I actually wouldn't add anything to that.
The next question comes from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on that thought about the community count.
In the first quarter your community count was up significantly.
I think year-over-year you were down 11%.
In the fourth quarter you're only down 6%.
And when you talked about community count after the fourth quarter you had even sort of guided us to this concept that you were just discussing that community counts would be down through the year.
So what happened in the first quarter? Did you -- it doesn't look like you -- it was through a lot of new investment.
Were those new communities that were opening were those on your balance sheet already and you are trying to bring them to market and monetize them? Or what drove the surprise against the kind of expectations? Well I think we had guided at 5% to 10% down for the year which we continue to believe will happen.
I think if you look at the historical cadence of our community counts we are stronger in the beginning of the year as we open communities to prepare for the selling season.
I think you saw that happen this year again we opened 40-plus communities.
So again our view is that through the end of the year we'll still see that 5% decline.
Research Division</strong> Got it great.
And the second question related.
You're mentioning Richard that you're not as focused on the community count metric as some in the investment community or some others in the industry might be.
And that seems like a very sensible stance given where demand has been in the last year or 2 and where it is currently even with the pickup we've seen so far this year.
But on a conservative basis just normalizing in the housing market implies a doubling of volumes from where we are here and there's no reason to think that as a leading builder you wouldn't participate in that fully.
So if I think about the decreased community count the focus on debt reduction what can we expect in terms of Pulte's volume growth through the recovery trajectory looking out over the next couple of years? Nishu it's a great question and we certainly have analyzed this in great detail.
Keep in mind we are a very long land company and when you look at our results kind of beneath the covers if you will in Q1 while we had 15% growth in sign-ups it was on a reduction in community count that kind of implies a 20-plus percent improvement in overall demand.
So we are participating in the recovery and I would argue that as the active adult buyer gets more and more comfortable that could provide even more leverage for us.
So while you're not directionally wrong and yes we would expect to participate fully in any kind of recovery in the sector overall the reality is we don't have to reinvest as much as many peers do in order to provide that which I think spells very good things for improvements in return overall.
Now if we continue to see the market look better you can expect us to invest in the business.
We definitely are not intending to starve the business by any way shape or form.
We're just becoming much more disciplined with how we allocate capital because frankly we were not as disciplined in the past as we needed to be.
The next question comes from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could -- if the comments you talked about about being more balanced in land and more focused on return on invested capital I was wondering what that meant if anything at all for the Del Webb business if that changes any approach to that? Yes Adam I certainly -- this is Richard.
I don't think it means anything for the next number of years.
We are shall I say fully invested in Del Webb.
We're actually in a good position because -- save 1 or 2 acquisition opportunities that we've taken advantage of in the last year.
So we have Del Webb communities open operational full amenities in lots on the ground in all of the major or almost all of the major metro markets we want them.
So it's a harvest mode for Del Webb for several years before we're faced with really significant reinvestment challenge.
Having said that we'll face that as we get to it.
I suspect you will see continued investment in Del Webb in the moderate-size communities like we've demonstrated real success in 1 000 1 500 lots with some select larger investments in the destination locations.
So probably not a great deal of change because if you step back big picture Adam we invested heavily in Del Webb through '06 '07 time frames and we're where we need to be now for quite a while.
For now it's more of a harvest and maintenance mode for a while.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is the SG&amp;A I think you said that you're expecting $485 million to $495 million this year and in previous guidance maybe around $475 million.
So it's not a huge dollar amount but that's changed.
I was just curious what were the drivers of that change and what you're seeing now what elevated costs.
I'd want you to take that up a little bit.
The preponderance of it candidly is compensation-related.
A couple of things influence that.
We've got some equities-related compensation.
The stock price is up so we think that the costs will be up.
Given the elevated sales environment our expectation is that earnings will be higher for the people under their compensation plan so we've reflected that.
We also made a conscious decision to reinstitute the 401(k) match that had been actually eliminated back in the heights of the downturn.
That's almost $8 million of incremental cost.
So again most of it is really compensation-related and business-related.
The next question comes from Joe Locker FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to check on -- you mentioned your increase of recent foreclosures or short sale buyers from a couple of years ago have increased.
Can you quantify that or just put a ballpark figure on that? Is that 20% of your buyers now or something along those lines? Joe I'm sorry we don't have great detail on that.
It's just an overall reflection that as inventory levels reduce the buyers are left with either choice for better resales or new homes and we're getting a little pickup from that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then what about any backlash from -- or any complications from some of the recent FHA increases on April 1 on the fee structures? I think too early to really tell if there's any significant change there.
We certainly don't expect it.
2/3 of our business is either active adult or move-up with a large percentage on the active adult side of cash.
So Joel we're not expecting a big impact from that but no detail on that yet.
The next question comes from Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the land acquisitions driving -- it sounds like you're talking about the land acquisitions driving the mix shift towards Pulte the trade-up buyer versus your Centex land.
So within that context could you comment on what percent of closings you've had this quarter in general from new lots and how that syncs with perhaps your past comments that in general you already have the land that you want? So I'm trying to see if the trade-up buyer is better.
It sounds like you're saying your land purchases are driving that mix shift.
Well I think we walked through the closing so it's 39% Pulte 35% Centex.
Last year that would have been 31% Pulte 40% Centex.
A couple of things driving that.
One there were smaller relatively Centex communities that came with the Centex acquisition.
A lot of those have closed out.
And over time what we have seen is that the investment we've been making has been more geared towards the move-up buyer because as Richard described our ability to drive return on those has been higher.
Oftentimes you need more volume through a community more pace in order to make that first-time buyer return well.
And so the good news is that we've actually seen pace increase across the Centex and Pulte brands this year relative to last year.
So again what we're seeing is -- in the current environment we just see returns higher on the move-up communities.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But is that being tied to the trade-up buyer being stronger excluding your lower lot cost? Because if that's the case are you saying that trade-up buyers are already selling their home or are you seeing the trend where they're buying a house in anticipation of selling their home which used to be more of a standard procedure? Or is it really just that you're deploying capital into new land which is giving you the better margin as opposed to a comment on your legacy lot position in that category? Ken it's less a comment on our legacy lot position except for the fact as Bob indicated that we had a lot of Centex properties that were smaller in duration.
So that's part of it.
But the big part of it is the land acquisition strategy of 12 and 6 months ago that's reflecting in a larger percentage of move-up sales today.
The next question is from the line of Mr.
Alex Barrn Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you I guess your thoughts or philosophy -- when you start to see the sales pace improve how are you guys thinking about at what time is the right time to kind of implement price increases or do you just prefer to take the volume right now because you're not too certain it's sustainable? And I guess along those lines what are your thoughts on selling to investors the new homes? Alex this is Richard.
I think we've indicated before given the depth of the downturn and the difficulties the whole industry has experienced we expect the pace to rise before price.
Having said that you're beginning to see both in select markets today.
So I think it's fair to say that the first few months of better activity in any city you let the pace run more which of course is excellent leverage for us.
Now you're getting to the point in a few cities and I don't want to imply it is all but in a few cities where you're actually able to do both.
You're able to work on some pricing as well as pace.
So I think pace before price but they do go together to some degree.
And we've seen this movie before in this industry.
I'm sorry in terms of your question about selling to investors we prefer not to do that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And my second question is in those markets where you're starting to see the ability to raise prices are you also seeing any pressures on the cost of labor or any pressures on what land sellers want for their land? Yes we are on the cost of labor.
We'll get to land in just a second.
Cost of labor we assumed some increase in our forecast for the year.
We're seeing that play out in a couple of categories.
I would say within expectations however for the vast majority of our markets.
A couple of markets that are beginning to really heat up a la Phoenix we are seeing more broad-based pressure.
Thus far we believe we've been able to outstrip that with what we're working on the pricing side.
In terms of cost of land overall not as big a factor yet.
We're being very disciplined as we indicated with regard to our capital allocation.
So I wouldn't have a whole lot of commentary there about increased land prices.
That certainly can and should be expected over time though.
The next question is from James McCanless from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the transformation of Centex kind of a two-pronged question.
First if the FHA concessions are reduced does that affect the Centex strategy? And then from a land perspective and a timing perspective how far along do think you are on that transformation? I would suggest the FHA changes we do not expect a huge impact from.
It's very difficult to figure it out exactly until we kind of see it in the marketplace.
So a little bit of an update to come on that going forward.
Can you ask the second part of your question again please? LLC Research Division</strong> Well just how far -- from a timing perspective how long should this transformation for Centex take and do you think you have the land onboard right now or will you need to go acquire land to make this transformation? We've got a new retail environment in place as I mentioned in 40 communities already with plans to expand it to all the Centex communities relatively soon all out this year.
With regard to the new product introduction we want to see the results of that for a few months before we're ready to kind of go widespread with that.
We have plenty of Centex land on our balance sheet to use those lots in.
And assuming that this plays out as we anticipate you can expect us to be acquiring more Centex-focused lots in the future for that buyer category.
Roughly today we've got about 250 Centex communities.
So that's an awful lot of communities to be able to enjoy the benefit from provided it works out the way we anticipate.
The next question is from Susan Berliner from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could go back to the put back and I guess just looking at Slide 11 it looks like it's been obviously coming down more recently but a little bit volatile since the end of the year.
Can you talk about why are those -- why is it volatile? I mean any color behind that and what you're seeing thus far in April? We haven't given any commentary on April.
The volatility I wish I could answer that more intelligently but it is just what we get.
I've heard anecdotal conversations where people say it's the banks and the GSEs getting through their book that they're trying to get things resolved to have better control over their processes and data.
I don't know.
It's not "We've got the following questions.
We'd like you to take a look at these loans." And that's been consistent since I've got here and I think everybody will tell you even before that.
The only thing I'd add on a volatility perspective you're talking about a relatively small population of put back in a month-to-month basis so a change of 10 can look volatile.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess switching topics I was wondering if you could comment on what your expectation is for the Las Vegas market? And I know inventory is finally coming down to close the normal range but what are you guys seeing there and what are you expecting going forward? Susan it's Richard.
If you asked the second question 6 months ago we have been relatively bleak with regard to our outlook.
Inventory levels are coming down however and it's kind of looking like the movie that we're seeing playing out in Arizona maybe 12 or 18 months behind.
So I don't have anything definitive to tell you other than that we're watching it closely.
We've made an awful lot of money in that market over the years.
We've lost an awful lot of money in that market in recent years as has everybody else.
So we're paying attention and one thing I do know is that supply and demand work together to make things attractive or unattractive in this industry.
And to your point inventory levels are coming down.
So we are hearing first few bits of a little bit better sales environment there certainly nowhere near like we're seeing in other markets but we'll see what happens.
So I don't have a better answer than that for you though.
The next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko from Susquehanna International.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Have you given the reserve on the put backs for the end of the first quarter? And then Bob I want to go back to Michael's question.
You'd said you didn't feel like there was liability on the new lawsuit.
Is that because it's a trustee lawsuit or is it because of the nature of the product? Or is it there something in the sale terms that gives you that confidence? We're not a party to that lawsuit.
And so the question would be would the folks that bought the check business think that we have liability with respect to that.
Time has passed and so we just don't expect that to be in their conclusion.
The reserve at the end of the quarter is about $123 million so it's just down due to the settlement during the quarter.
The next question comes with Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up question I was curious if you could provide a little bit of a greater breakdown in your inventory if you have the numbers.
In particular I was curious if you had a sticks and bricks figure for the first quarter and the homes under construction and land under development breakout? I'll just tell you from -- total units under construction is as Bob mentioned earlier is 5 466 and then in terms of land our total control is 128 228.
Of that finished is 37 773 on a control basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Those are in units right? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was wondering if you had particularly the inventory breakout.
So house at dollars $664 million.
Land $3.9 billion.
The next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the gross margins for a second.
Richard you said I believe that you see further operational gains based on the backlog.
We've seen now gross margins ex charges in the mid-18s drifting up 10 basis points each of the last couple of quarters.
I know you don't want to give guidance at this point but now with 3 quarters in this mid to high 18% range is it something that perhaps you'd expect to just drift up at the same type of more modest pace that we've seen or is there something perhaps a greater going on when you say further operational gains in the backlog? Mike we think we've got further opportunity over a period of time.
If you remember margins can be volatile quarter-to-quarter based on mix and what comes through the sold versus spec in the quarter.
So I would just leave it as we expect further gains from here.
Research Division</strong> Okay but in pointing specifically to the backlog itself does that give you confidence that the current gross margin that we've seen in the first quarter can be maintained at least? Or are you saying that there'll still be a little bit of volatility quarter to quarter? Yes Steve --  or excuse me Mike all I continue to say is we expect further gains from here.
And frankly mix in a given quarter cancellations in a given quarter can expect it.
So I would not expect kind of a perfectly linear climb in margins but our margins in backlog indicate that we can go higher from what we just reported.
I'll leave it at that.
The next question comes from Stephen East from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Bob just one follow-up on that.
Capitalized interest jumped up.
I guess what's going on there and what percentage of inventory is capitalized interest? Sort of what can we expect hitting the gross margin as we go through the quarters? We have $355 million or $360 million of cumulative capitalized interest and so what you're seeing is that we are expensing more than we're paying.
We had indicated last year that we thought we would go from roughly $185 million to about $220 million in expense.
Our cash paid for this year is about $205 million we think.
So going forward I think you'll see that the bleed off of the amortization it will take a while for the reduction in cash paid to catch up to the income statement.
I wouldn't want to give predictions on the future only because the capital structure may change.
There are a lot of things that influence that.
But again through the balance of this year you'll see expense outweigh cash cost.
Obviously that will turn over time.
And the other thing I'll add to that I mean Bob is talking about per year.
You are going to see some volatility on a quarter-to-quarter basis just given some of the anomalies with the way model works as we get to this normalized cap interest number.
So part of what you're seeing is just a little bit of that over time.
But as Bob mentioned we're trying to give you guys the guidance on a total year basis if you will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you sell land is there -- can you assign more or less or is just a prorated amount that goes over to it? There's a specific amount of capitalized interest to each parcel of land.
And to Mike's point how that sells out lot by lot if we're producing can influence the flow of the expense on a quarterly basis but for the land that we're selling there's a discrete amount of capitalized interest that we write off when we sell the land.
Thank you for your questions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jim Zeumer for closing remarks.
Thank you.
I want to thank everybody for your time and attention to call.
We will be available later on if you have any additional questions.
We want you to have a good day and the call will end now.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 PulteGroup Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Zeumer.
You may proceed.
Thanks Frances.
This is Jim Zeumer Vice President Investor Relations for PulteGroup and I want to thank everyone for participating in today's call to discuss our second quarter 2012 financial results.
On the call today are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mike Schweninger Vice President and Controller.
Before we begin copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that accompany today's call have been posted on our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
Also please note that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call including references to gross margins reflecting certain adjustments are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to the calls' presentation deck.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me call -- turn the call over to Richard Dugas for a few opening comments.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that PulteGroup's second quarter financial results demonstrates significant year-over-year gains across a number of critical areas of our operations including sign-ups gross and operating margins and most importantly earnings.
Maybe equally compelling our second quarter numbers also point to the opportunities for additional increases in the future.
After a tremendous amount of hard work our second quarter earnings mark a clear milestone in PulteGroup's effort to deliver consistent operating earnings and a much improved fundamental homebuilding performance.
You've heard us discuss that a comprehensive analysis of our operations identified fundamental improvements we needed to make to deliver better operating results and in turn higher returns on invested capital and higher returns for our shareholders.
Known internally as our value creation work the underlying initiatives have been focused on expanding margins realizing greater overhead leverage accelerating inventory turns and allocating capital more effectively.
Along with the market tailwind the industry has enjoyed this year our second quarter earnings of $0.11 per share also reflect progress we are making in implementing various value creation initiatives.
While still in the early stages we are starting to see an impact from programs designed to enhance revenue realization as well as those focused on lowering construction costs.
Although it can be tough to isolate our second quarter adjusted margin of 20.3% shows the positive impact from initiatives we continue to advance and which include the following: first a strategic pricing program we have been rolling out where we are moving to more of a base house offering enhanced by an expanded list of options and upgrades that enable buyers to select the features they most value.
Along with new pricing practices to capture higher lot premiums our expanded option strategy is more consumer-friendly while providing greater margins than our previous practices a win-win.
Second benefits for our value engineering and/or should cost activity to lower construction costs are gaining traction.
Given the timeline to build and close homes we estimate that fewer than 10% of second quarter closings benefited from this work but we are very encouraged about the progress we're making.
Going forward the unit volumes that will have profited from this work will certainly increase and become an ongoing source of opportunities to lower construction costs and/or enhance margins.
And finally I would note that continued re-weighting of our operations toward more pre-sales with tighter controls around spec production in general and finished specs in particular.
At quarter end finished specs totaled only 600 homes which is a drop of 50% from last year and equates to less than 1 finished spec unit per community.
We have discussed that the discounting which is often required to sell a finished spec can lower margins by several hundred basis points which is magnifying when there are more specs on the ground.
Along with positive margin and cash flow implications limited spec production can help our community sell from a position of strength rather than a let's-make-a-deal mindset.
Limited spec inventory also takes us closer to matching production with actual demand rather than trying to force volume through the system at any margin.
In addition to second quarter success we realized in growing margins we're also able to improve our performance through increase overhead leverage as SG&amp;A in the period fell to 12.1% of home sale revenues.
The combination of gains resulted in an operating margin increase of more than 600 basis points for the quarter.
Our focus on driving better long-term returns is also evident within this quarter's strong 32% increase in year-over-year sign-ups as these were generated from 7% fewer communities.
With 125 000 lots under control we do not have to chase land deals in the market which is allowing us to be disciplined in our land investment.
We can and clearly did get our fair share of buyer demand in the quarter but did so while being disciplined in our allocation of capital and investment back into the business.
In the short-term this capital discipline enabled us to be cash flow positive for both Q1 and Q2.
And over the long term such discipline is critical to generating higher overall returns on invested capital.
As we have discussed we entered 2012 operating under the assumption that new home sales in the U.S.
would be flat with 2011.
We have been pleasantly surprised as demand throughout the selling season and extending into these initial weeks of July has exceeded our expectations.
In some areas demand may even be a little overheated as start dates are getting pushed out too far.
So in select communities we are purposely constraining sales.
Again such actions are not widespread but it is a dramatic change from just a year ago.
Although demand for new homes has accelerated in 2012 I think it's worth noting that many of the macro drivers of demand really haven't changed all that much.
Unemployment remains above 8% and many experts place the real number much higher.
The most recent consumer sentiment number showed meaningful weakness with most of the overall decline being in how consumers view future prospects for the national economy.
Interest rates have been low for a long time and while they continue to drift lower you have to wonder how much of an incremental impact this really has and there are growing concerns over singular events ranging from the European meltdown to fiscal cliffs.
Given this backdrop you might well ask "Why is the new housing market stronger?" Along with low interest rates higher rental lease cost and several years of pent-up demand we believe that the most significant driver of the industry's success in 2012 is the low level of home inventory available to prospective buyers.
Consumers do not have a lot of choices as many of the newer existing homes are often in the wrong location while older homes are not always in great condition.
A check of the month's supply of homes in many of today's stronger markets shows a large drop in available new and resale inventory over the past several quarters.
With large investors continuing to acquire homes for conversion into rental properties traditional homebuyers grow increasingly enticed by the advantages of buying in the new home market.
As we have discussed in our first quarter investor call this is causing potential buyers to have a greater sense of urgency and an increasing fear of loss that a home not purchased today may not be there tomorrow.
While urgency and fear of loss are important over the long term sustaining the recovery in housing will require an improving economy and greater job creation.
Given all the market positives ranging from mortgage rates at historic lows and homes priced at compelling values to the innovative new floor plans we are offering we are very optimistic about housing demand.
That being said we're keeping a watchful eye on the macro trends which ultimately need to turn more positive for the recovery to expand further.
Now let me turn the call over to Bob who will offer additional insights and details on our second quarter.
Bob? Thank you Richard.
PulteGroup reported significantly improved operating and financial results in the quarter which combined with our first quarter results leave us well-positioned for the rest of the year and on-track to report full year profitability.
While the market has helped we are particularly pleased with the operational improvements that are being driven in the areas of focus and by the key business initiatives we've been discussing for the past year.
Total sign-ups in the period were 5 578 homes which represents an increase of 32% over last year.
As Richard mentioned this strong increase in Q2 sign-ups was realized from 7% fewer communities.
Looking further at our sign-ups we generated higher year-over-year sign-ups in each brand but continue to see a shift in mix to our move-up or Pulte brand.
During the quarter sign-ups by brand were 27% for Centex; 48% Pulte; and 25% Del Webb which compares to 33% for Centex 41% for Pulte and 26% for Del Webb in the first quarter of this year.
Looking at our first quarter results home sale revenues were just over $1 billion an increase of 14% compared with last year.
The increase in revenue is driven by an 8% increase in average selling price to $268 000 combined with a 5% increase in closings to 3 816 homes.
During the first quarter our mix of closings included 33% from Centex 42% from Pulte and 25% from Del Webb.
In the prior year the closing mix was 39% Centex; 34% Pulte; and 27% Del Webb.
The increase in our average selling price reflects the continued shift in our product mix from the first-time buyer towards the move-up buyer.
I would also point out that we continue to strategically prove [ph] our land portfolio.
In the second quarter we generated land proceeds of $9 million.
We recorded a net gain of $1 million in connection with those sales.
In the last 4 quarters we've generated land sales proceeds of approximately $125 million.
Turning to our margins slide 6 of our webcast slide shows that our adjusted gross margin for the second quarter was 20.3%.
This represents an increase of 320 basis points over the second quarter of 2011.
Importantly our Q2 adjusted margins were also up 160 basis points from the first quarter of this year.
As Richard mentioned we believe that our value creation initiatives contributed to our strong margin performance and our second quarter margins also benefited from an increase in closings from newer communities.
Land-related impairments during the quarter were approximately $3 million.
Looking at our overhead total SG&amp;A for the quarter was $124 million or 12.1% of home sale revenues.
This represents a $14 million decrease from the second quarter of last year when SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 15.4%.
As you can see in this morning's earnings release our Financial Services operations continued to perform at a high level generating pretax income of $16 million in the quarter.
This quarter's performance is driven primarily by a 17% increase in loan origination volumes due to the increased activity in our homebuilding operations coupled with the continuing favorable interest rate environment.
Financial Services generated a $17 million loss in the second quarter of 2011 which included a $19 million charge related to our mortgage repurchase exposure.
As noted on Slide 11 of our webcast slides gross repurchase requests for the most recent quarter continued to move between 100 and 150 requests per month which is consistent with the volumes we have been seeing for the past 3 quarters.
I'd like to provide a couple of other data points related to Financial Services before we move on.
In the quarter we originated 2 603 loans which compares to 2 217 loans last year.
The increase in originations in the period reflects the increased volume from homebuilding as well as an increase in our capture rate to 82% which compares to 77% in 2011.
On a consolidated basis our reported net income was $42 million or $0.11 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $1.4 billion of cash which is up $96 million from the first quarter of 2012.
Our improved cash position resulted from a number of factors including the more efficient use of our capital by our homebuilding operations for land acquisition and development our land asset sales as well as the reduction in the level of our spec home inventory.
We've been talking about our desire to reduce our investment in spec homes inventory.
Such reduced investment improves our working capital and protects our margins.
As Richard noted we reduced our finished spec inventory by approximately 50% from last year.
That's only part of the story.
We've been able to reduce our total spec unit count by 46% from last year.
As a result we have freed up approximately $120 million from investment in house inventory.
On top of the benefits we've talked about we were able to use this cash to fund investment in-house we are making related to the increasing level of to-be-built sales.
In addition we're extremely pleased with how our capital allocation process and related disciplines are developing.
We believe they are putting the company in a position to invest in land and related development so that we can continue to enhance our position in the market while at the same time enabling us to generate enough cash to reduce our aggregate debt levels.
I would now like to cover a couple of other second quarter data points.
We ended the quarter with 744 active communities down 7% from last year and consistent with the first quarter of 2012.
At quarter end we have a total of 7 560 homes in backlog valued at $2.2 billion representing increases of 31% and 37% respectively compared to last June.
We ended the quarter with 6 400 homes under construction of which 75% were sold and only 25% were spec.
And we have previously indicated that we expected to invest approximately $800 million in land and land development spend this year.
Based on our sales activity we now expect to accelerate certain land purchases and development spend.
As a result we now expect to spend slightly in excess of $900 million on land and land development.
Beyond this incremental investment in the business we continue to evaluate the use of cash with a strategic focus on reducing our overall debt levels and shrinking the size of our balance sheet.
In conclusion we're extremely pleased with our second quarter profitability and the overall strong operating and financial results we've reported for the period.
Our strategies and tactics are enabling us to meet near-term operational goals and to position the company for long-term success.
Before turning the call over to Richard I want to take a moment to address recent questions we've gotten about our mortgage repurchase reserves.
As you may be aware a number of regional banks recently recorded increased repurchase reserves indicating that the increases are prompted in part by information provided to them through conversations with one or both of the GSEs.
Given the questions being asked we thought it would make sense to review again the information we've provided related to our mortgage repurchase exposure.
Looking at Slide 10 of our webcast materials we've included the origination data we originally included in our webcast materials in Q3 of 2011 for reference.
You may recall that we indicated last year that more than 80% of our repurchase requests related to originations in 2006 and 2007 and that we cure or refute more than 60% of the repurchase requests we receive.
We also noted last year that we had received an insignificant number of repurchase requests related to the brokered government and bridge loans.
As a result we indicated that the majority of our repurchase requests are driven by approximately $25 billion of originations in '06 and '07.
We also noted that the origination values did reflect any repayment refinance or loan modification activity.
In the last 9 months the unpaid principal balance will have been further reduced.
We have had dialogue with each of the investors that bought the vast majority of the originations in question.
As of today we have not received any information which has caused us to amend our reserve estimates.
Now let me turn the call back over to Richard.
Thanks Bob.
As is our practice before opening the call to questions let me provide some additional color on the market conditions we experienced during the second quarter.
With a 32% increase in sign-ups it won't come as much of a surprise when I say that most of our markets showed solid improvement during the quarter.
Demand up and down the East Coast remains strong in the period.
We continue to experience exceptional demand in our New England market which we think reflects gains driven by new communities we've opened in the Greater Metro Boston area for the past few quarters.
In other markets demand through Northern Virginia Georgia the Carolinas and into Florida also remain strong.
Moving toward the middle of the country the modest pickup in midwest demand that we noted in the first quarter continued and even accelerated into the second quarter.
Michigan continues to be an amazing story as the local economy has once again rallied in response to the much improved auto industry.
Only Chicago continues to struggle but even that market seems to have bottomed.
That isn't to say a Chicago recovery is in sight but the market seems to be moving sideways rather than down.
We also saw noticeable gains for our Texas operations in the quarter as those economies remain a bright spot for the country.
And finally out west demand remains strong across the markets with sustained high rates of demand in Arizona Nevada and both Southern and Northern California.
A number of the communities in these markets are where we have been seeing the highest rates of demand and have been taking action to ensure that we don't get too far out on our start dates.
Given the demand trends through the first couple of quarters I would say that we are seeing an expanded opportunity to raise price in a growing number of markets.
Pricing may not be available in every community in each market but in our well-located communities our operators are looking to move prices higher.
Just to wrap-up before questions there are a lot of positives within today's earnings announcement: profitability for the quarter which we expect will continue for the year; growth in orders exceeding 30%; meaningful margin expansion at both the gross and operating lines; and positive cash flow for the quarter which will ultimately support our ability to invest in the business while still delevering our balance sheet going forward.
To paraphrase the old expression the harder we work the luckier we get.
We are indeed benefiting from improved market conditions but our employees have worked hard to adopt new processes and implement new practices which will enable future gains gains which can be accelerated through a broader market recovery.
In closing I would like to thank our entire organization for their hard work.
I would also like to take a minute to recognize our Georgia operations and our trade partners in that market who have donated their time and materials for a very special project called Aimee's Wing.
We are very proud of your efforts.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Frances if you'll explain the process we'll get started with Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Great quarter on the reduced -- great orders on the great -- on the reduced community count by the way.
On that I was hoping to get a little bit of color on the drivers of the North as well as the Southeast and Florida in terms of leading the kind of the range of results.
In Florida as we've heard a lot of strength there I know you've kind of paired some of your assets and you have a -- the Tampa asset and maybe just kind of review your positioning in Florida but color on these 3 regions.
Yes Mike it's Richard.
Thanks for your comments.
Here's what I would say in the first quarter the strength was primarily Florida mid-Atlantic Arizona et cetera.
I think in Q2 it accelerated to more of the rest of the country.
Our North areas we've been putting some additional investment in place which has helped Michigan as an example.
Believe it or not even though we don't have a huge investment in Michigan it's really been a source of strength for us so that helped in that market.
The Southeast gosh all I can say is steady as she goes with continued improvement in most markets.
Florida continues to be excellent and you didn't mention the Southwest which is probably our strongest market in terms of overall demand level.
So we're very pleased with what we've seen through the quarter handily beating our expectations.
Research Division</strong> And second just on pricing you mentioned expanded opportunity to raise price in many markets.
I was hoping to get a sense of number one how you felt pricing progressed let's say company average across the company across all of your communities? We've heard pricing may be up let's say on an effective basis up 1% to 2% year-to-date for most builders and I'm talking about orders here.
Is that kind of what you've been seeing greater or lesser and thoughts as we go into the back half of the year? Yes Mike I don't think I'll comment on a specific number.
But here's what I will tell you with regard to pricing we have had a pricing initiative in place for some time that's helped us on options as well as lot premiums to capture frankly more price if you will in a different sense through those areas.
We have seen that but we've also seen an acceleration in our ability to raise base price in more markets than we certainly were earlier in the year.
You may have noted in the commentary we purposely slowed sales in some of our markets and frankly when doing that we're partly doing that with price and still pleased with the results we're getting.
So I wouldn't put a specific number on it but I would say it varied across the company depending on which market you're in but the general trend is very positive for pricing.
Your next question is from the line of Stephen East from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Bob you talked about the put back that was a helpful explanation.
Could you do 2 things? Could you explain what that $27 billion is that you're not really seeing any put backs on and then what type of loss rate you are seeing on the other part of your business? Well the things -- so what we -- brokered loans for instance where we didn't keep the rep and warrant is a good example and on government originations we're not seeing much exposure if any.
So that's the piece of the portfolio that we're saying we don't see much risk in.
And in terms of the others where we do see some risk again what I would point you to is yes we see a fairly consistent stream of requests.
It varies in terms of where the originations were in terms of how much money per loan and again we haven't given a whole lot of color on that over time.
But for the repurchase requests that we're receiving currently we're not seeing a change in the content of them really.
The drivers of our exposure haven't changed much it seems.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if we look at what you all have been seeing on getting back to the homebuilding in the first half of the year construction costs I know you don't really have land purchase costs but construction costs and the value engineering where you talked about only 10% of your volume is going through that now what type of margin differential you have on that? And then the other thing is cash flow being positive typical in the first and second quarters of the year.
Yes I'll start Steven it's Richard and then throw it to Bob for some commentary maybe on cost.
In terms of the value engineering work that we're doing the 10% commentary was to try to get everyone sensitized to the fact that as we redo our floor plans it takes some time.
Obviously you have to get that done and you have to get those homes sold.
We typically have homes in backlog anywhere from 3 to 8 or 9 months.
So by the time the closings come through the 10% number is only going to go up from here.
So our point there was we got more good news where that's coming from.
The differential in terms of margins from that can be substantial and that's part of what we're seeing in terms of our margin growth and even though it's a small percentage today of that stream of work.
A comment on cash flow we typically are not cash flow positive in Q1 and Q2 but that was before we got a lot more disciplined with regard to our capital allocation.
And I'll just point to everyone on the call that not only do we feel great about our cash flow we also feel good about the business environment and we're going to invest a little over $100 million incrementally in the business this year versus what we're planning as a result of what we're seeing in the business while still maintaining positive cash flow and our ability to delever.
So we feel extremely good about that.
Bob he had a question I think on cost a little bit.
Sure the construction cost we've seen consistent I think with what we said at the end of the first quarter.
We are seeing a little bit of pressure on things like lumber not outside what we expected.
In some of the hotter markets we're starting to see some material cost increase so for example concrete but again not huge differentials.
What we are experiencing I think is a shortage of labor in certain markets and that's going to start to pressure pricing we think.
So in certain markets we've granted some price increases on labor and so again that's in the markets that are relatively hot right now.
So again for base commodity type costs consistent with what we saw coming into the year.
We have seen drywall stay where it -- is at higher level than last year but again not a huge cost component of the house.
So overall not meaningful increases.
But again the watch out is as labor tightens we could see some price pressure there.
Your next question is from the line of Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can just elaborate a bit more and talk about the shift in terms of to more options aways from standard and such how -- what are you learning in terms of a better sense of what customers want in the homes and what they're willing to pay for and how significantly do you think that could be in terms of the impact on the margins there? Yes Dan this is Richard.
Frankly we've done a tremendous amount of research recently and I would tell you our insight into consumer wants is significantly enhanced from where it was even just a year ago.
What we're finding is that the buyer wants the ability to personalize their home and our previous practices of a few years ago where we're loading up a home with a lot of things was not necessarily what the buyers want.
Some people want a base home and maybe 4 or 5 options.
Others want to personalize their home with a lot more.
We now also internally have visibility to the actual drivers of gross margin.
As an example we can break out for ourselves what we're selling in options what we're doing in discounts to a much greater degree than we did before and we are seeing substantial pickups in many markets from that.
It's hard to isolate a given number and give you a particular number but I can tell you it was a mover of margins in the quarter and I would tell you it will continue to be as people select these options.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess in terms of the mortgage conversations because you talked about conversations and dialogue with the investors just want to clarify and understand it.
Were you talking about recent conversations? Is there anything in terms of something more recent that were just more in general you've been having this conversations.
I was trying to understand if that's something that we should be expecting more resolution on going forward or if it's just more ongoing dialogue there.
Well we obviously have dialogue with these folks all the time.
We do business with them.
In terms of resolutions of these I don't think there's anything for us to report at this time.
Your next audio question is from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two sets of questions.
First questions relate to your comment about certain markets getting a little overheated.
The reason why I wanted to ask you about this is because as good as your results have been and as dramatic as the improvement has been probably what's most interesting or captivating for investors is the potential for this to continue to grow at extremely strong rates for quite some time because you're still at a very depressed level.
And so one of the things that I would love to hear you talk about is your ability to maintain very strong like 30% 40% type growth top line going forward let's say over the next 2 years.
So in that vain you made this comment that certain of your communities are overheated and you were intentionally slowing things down.
So putting those 2 things together I'm trying to understand can you give us a sense for what you think your company's maximum growth rate that you're prepared to allow your communities to experience is? Are we talking 50% on a compounded annual basis for the next 2 to 3 years? Or is that level really not reasonable for a bunch of practical reasons that -- within your operations? Steve there's a lot loaded in that question.
Let me try to break it down a little bit.
I think you have to look at the individual communities and the individual markets.
As an example everybody knows we have a lot of inventory on the ground in terms of lots in our Del Webb communities.
We would probably be willing to let our Del Webb communities run quite a bit and potentially a very substantial number of incremental units could be sold there purposely.
On the other hand we have lots of communities say for the Pulte brand and even for the Centex brand where we have limited lot supply.
And given our desire to generate cash and delever and selectively reinvest we would feel on a community like that it would be a lot smarter to drive price which is of course what we're doing in some of these overheated situations that I mentioned.
I would also point out that the market over all I would say is likely to be a little bit labor-constrained as the demand comes back.
So from kind of running a smart business in our opinion it might not be smart to let your backlog run out a year ahead or 15 months ahead.
And frankly in a few markets we could have done that in Q2 and we decided not to.
We'd rather take the price.
We'd rather take the margin.
We're at a 75% presale versus spec mix.
We're extremely proud of that and frankly we think that provides us not only cash flow benefits but also margin benefits et cetera.
So I'm not trying to dodge your question.
It's hard to answer.
Do we think business can accelerate and revenue can improve from here? Absolutely.
Is that our key goal? No.
Our key goal is to drive higher returns and kind of run each community smartly so I hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
But let me follow-up on that.
For example I understand what you're saying at a community level but there are certain communities where the land is -- you have a certain constraint within that community.
On the other hand my guess would be that in -- when have a community like that you probably have some near neighbor communities that maybe are not yet open.
And so while you may not want to burn through a very successful community today it would seem that one possibility would be that you would in that market open up more communities some which are maybe not quite so well-positioned but at least you have excess lots in that market.
But your commentary about the ability to get subcontractors onto the job site that suggests that maybe that solution is not really a solution and so therefore in these markets slowing things down really is the best option that you have.
Can you help me understand in situations where you have a very successful community you don't want to blow through it.
Is there the ability to open up more communities? Are you aggressively trying to do that so that the net result from a corporate perspective is that you are able to actually continue to grow at a very accelerated rate? Yes Steve we certainly put our fair share in new lots under control and our desire is to take advantage of those market opportunity by investing.
And I would tell you I guess the general answer to your question is we want to drive the highest ROIC that we can.
That's our goal is return on invested capital.
So we've got to analyze it community by community.
In some situations it's going to be opening up a new community like you suggested and driving volume.
In other situations it's going to be a real focus on margin.
And we've been so so pleased with our efforts to drive higher margin.
We think we have more where that's coming from.
I would say our company's bias is going to be more in that direction.
I'll just again point you back to the spec comment.
We don't have a lot of excess inventory anymore in a given quarter to capture.
We're matching production to demand.
We like where our backlog is headed overall.
So for us perhaps not as much of a focus on volume as you might be suggesting but we're quite confident that we'll continue to drive better results than we have in the past by being more disciplined about how we're running the business versus just the push on volume which I know was our focus years ago.
And your next question is from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So Richard looking at the first half of the year obviously you've put together terrific results.
If you look at demand in the first quarter better than fourth quarter of last year.
Second quarter further acceleration in demand and even some pricing power.
Obviously you've talked about your internal initiatives as well.
Now if I listen to what concerns investors at this stage so looking into the second half of the year how can housings momentum continue given risks of a recession or I think you called them some discrete event elsewhere coming and spilling onto our shores and maybe affecting job growth.
If I judge from your comments your comments on the macro as well as your -- increasing your land spend from the $800 million it sounds as though you have some confidence that the pace of housing recoveries momentum can continue.
So I just wanted to dig in to that a little bit.
What gives you that confidence that housing recoveries momentum can be sustained in light of all the challenges that face us? Nishu part of the confidence is the fact that we're still in a country selling a preposterously low number of loans relative to historical trends.
I don't believe for a second people really want to rent the rest of their life.
I think they want to own.
And so you've got a certain amount of momentum from people that want to get off the fence and there's a growing sense that pricing has bottomed and that I better get in while the getting's good.
I do think that can carry us quite a ways but our commentary was designed to help say that in order for housing to really take a big leg up from here we are going to need job growth at some point and we were kind of pointed in our script commentary around the fact that we believe low levels of inventory is driving the majority of the good results we're seeing.
We certainly think that can continue from here.
Can housing double or triple from these levels just on the backs of low inventory? My guess is no.
It probably needs a stronger economy to come along.
So we're just trying to be balanced in our overall outlook there.
Having said that I want to be very clear.
We are optimistic about the balance of this year and into next year if for no other reason then there's a whole bunch of people that have been sitting on the sidelines that want to get in.
I think we can take housing higher from here.
The question is how high and gosh I don't know.
I would tell you this we're more focused on running a good business internally and are very confident that no matter what the housing market brings that our operational act is together now.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Now that's very helpful.
Second question just shifting gears a bit to the Centex brand.
So since the acquisition obviously at the outset there were some shifting of communities between brands repositioning them.
But since then even it seems as though the Centex share of your communities has continued to decline the Centex branded share of communities.
So I was wondering what is the future for Centex? I mean it seems as though there's been more success in the midrange or the move-up buyer.
So should we expect the share of Centex communities to continue to decline or at some stage is there going to be a turnaround maybe some more reinvestment in the Centex-branded type communities? Yes Nishu it's Richard again.
It is true that most of our recent investment has been into the Pulte brand and the Centex brand has accounted for a smaller piece.
Having said that we are hard at work at a new product line we're calling the Independent series of homes which is a very value-based proposition for that entry-level buyer.
I can't predict exactly what the percentage is going to be in the future but it is not our intention to not reinvest in the Centex brand.
Said a different a way we're very bullish on the entry-level buyer over the long run and we've learned a great deal in the last couple of years about that entry-level consumer.
And we continue to rollout new communities and new different service offerings as an example in our mortgage advisor product as well as a new retail center concept that we're offering for that buyer category that are very exciting over time.
It's just going to take a little bit of time for that to show up in results.
So over the near term I think you're going to continue to see a weighting toward the Pulte brand primarily but we intend to continue to invest in Centex.
The next question is from the line of Joshua Pollard from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Would love for you guys to walk through the normal seasonality of your particular business.
Many understand how the market moves but can you manage -- but you guys can manage the business in deliveries by quarter and by months so can you tell us what normal seasonality on an orders per community looks like in the third and fourth quarter of a standard year? And then dig in a little bit into July order growth in comparison to that? Yes Joshua this is Richard.
A couple of things.
First of all I would say that the second quarter we saw a fairly typical pattern as volumes were slightly lower as we moved through the period and the selling season wound down.
In terms of the balance of the year of course I have no idea exactly what's going to happen.
But typically we would sell in the range of 60% to 65% of our overall volume in the first half of the year and the balance in the second half.
I see no reason why that normal seasonality will not continue to play out this year.
So I would expect overall volumes through the balance of the year to trail down from what we've seen as I indicated in our comments earlier.
However the first few weeks of July are still above our expectations which is a positive thing.
So I think the overall level of demand for new housing this year is clearly up fairly dramatically from last year but I do think it will follow a fairly typical seasonal pattern.
[Technical Difficulty] Your next question is from the line of Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Exploring the land and gross margin dynamic versus other builders so other builders have pitched that they have been purchasing have a higher share of newer communities that's driving certainly some of their growth.
I think for you and you can certainly highlight how many closings came from new communities but it's far below others given Richard in the past you've talked about liking your land which is going to be my second question.
But what do you think is really driving -- you talked about the price the incentives but within the absence of gross margins coming from new communities you're still getting better gross margin trends which are -- do include commissions.
So it's kind of surprising.
I mean is it just the fact that your construction side is better because you're seeing such a huge piece from new communities which other builders really are focusing on.
Ken I very much appreciate you pointing that out.
We thought for quite a long time that the reality of our performance the next number of years was going to largely be driven by the large land bank that we already have and whatever we're able to reinvest certainly will be good and new investment will help and Mike can give you some community countdown on that in just a moment.
But the lion's share of our performance is going to be driven by our existing business and frankly we're not surprised at what we're seeing because we've been hard at work.
Late 2010 we underwent a real deep dive into how to drive value in this business and we felt like we were leaving a lot of margin on the table.
So yes our construction practices what we call value engineering our focus on something we call should costing and don't discount these strategic pricing initiatives I mentioned.
We're being much smarter frankly with how we're handling options and lot premiums in addition to whatever we can get from the market momentum in lift of base price.
So I -- if I sound bullish for the future that's why I am it's because it's driven off of what we already have.
So with that maybe Mike can give some color in terms of the new communities.
Ken it's Mike.
In the quarter about 20% of the closings were what we call from new communities and that's consistent with our expectations.
It will trend up slightly for the year at around 25%.
Research Division</strong> Now I have a -- my follow-up question is about that new community as well as the -- your view on land finish supply et cetera.
The new communities is that newly opened up from your legacy or from land that you purchased first? If you could highlight the amount of commissions you have in gross margin I know some builders have been restating that so it would make it a little clearer for everybody to understand.
And then what's your view on land? I know you're buying some but do you think you're -- given the long legacy land position do you think in the gross margins you're seeing -- I mean could stuff be coming in better than you might have marked it to? So maybe Mike can give you a little commentary on the definition of new communities and then I can help with the back piece.
When we define a new community a community that we have purchased after the Centex merger.
So it would be anything that's specifically after that.
Just real quick on the commission question it's around 350 to 400 basis points commissions in total.
And so Ken on your second piece if I'm hearing it correctly you're asking about our legacy positions in our -- how we market.
In terms of our impairments over the past we feel like we used the appropriate methodology for that overall.
But we've been hard at work outside of what the land is marked to to improve our results from sticks and bricks and operational side and that's beginning to come through.
I don't know Bob if you want to add anything there.
Yes the only thing I'd say is that the model that we used to book impairments would put the post-impairment margins at actually a lower level low- to mid-teens whereas we're underwriting transactions today with a higher margin requirement than that.
So in terms of what we're seeing today it's not being driven by prior impairments.
And your next question is a follow-up from the line of Joshua Pollard from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about the $100 million that you're investing in your business more than your original plan.
Can you talk about what year you're building that for? I think one of the larger investor concerns is that you guys are buying land that inherently has lower margins than what you're currently reporting.
Well I think what we've seen is actually -- and because of the increase in sales we're actually closing on transactions sooner so the next take on an option transaction and development to put homes into production for '13 and '14.
So it's actually the increased demand that we're seeing.
And in terms of the recent vintage of acquisitions I would say we are not expecting a decline in margins as a result of that at all.
Our underwriting standards are at least the size what we're generating today but focused on returns as opposed to margin.
And you next question is from the line of David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question Richard getting to your comments on how the macro economy maybe isn't as cooperative we're not really seeing a good -- a strong turn in the macro and so do you think a lot of the benefits that we've seen in the new home market are being driven by inventory levels? I wanted to get an idea that -- considering you guys have more of -- you've moved more towards a risk-based pricing model when you think about buying land how you think about risk associated with potentially pent-up inventory if that make sense especially in a market where you might be seeing home price appreciation how can you factor that into your models? David we do our best not to factor in price appreciation in our models and frankly we've been criticized some in the past for being "conservative" with our land-buying practices maybe relative to some of our peers.
We're okay with that to not get out ahead of ourselves.
I mean as I was answering an earlier question the vast majority of our success or failure in the future is going to be from our legacy position.
So I would tell you I think we're being smart about how we're buying land.
Bob feel free to comment there.
The only thing I would add to that is we've talked about that we've got several criteria that we look at in terms of risk management.
One of the things that actually factors into our consideration of land transactions today is what's the exit cost? So to your point if there was excess supply that freed up whether it's the shadow inventory we would have expectations of what our exit would be in terms of leaving the transaction if the market got soft on us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just as a follow-up question obviously very good profitability in the Financial Services business some of which I know you talked about coming from leverage.
What's the sustainability of that level of profitability? I mean in our models you're back kind of where you were when you were doing a lot more units effectively in terms of the margins you're able to achieve.
Is that pretty sustainable as we move forward and can you kind of talk about how that was achieved? A lot of it is the interest rate environment and it's a very select market.
There is not a lot of competition.
Pricing is favorable for us today.
I don't know if that's sustainable over the long-term as -- if and when capital returns to that business I think you would see margins contract.
But until that happens I think you'll continue to see this kind of performance.
Your next question is from the line of Dennis McGill from Zelman and Associates.
Research Division</strong> So just one on the capacity Richard it sounds like you're along with other builders running up against being able to start these homes as quickly as you would otherwise like.
In an industry where it's down 60% 70% in volumes it's sounds kind of crazy that capacity is going to be a constraint.
But how do you think that plays out over the next couple of quarters and into '13 as far as your ability to get back to what you had deemed to be a normal construction cycle? Yes Dennis just to be clear most of that is in the labor side so I don't think there's much capacity trouble on the material side.
But labor is an issue particularly for some of the unskilled trades where they're just not as many people in the industry perform in that as in the past.
I actually think it's a good thing.
I think it will keep the market from getting too far out ahead of itself and frankly plays in our hands cause we're so focused on margin improvement and higher returns today.
Listen work will find its way and money will find its way to where the opportunity is.
So I don't expect it to be a big limiting factor over the long run.
If business continues like we've seen at the first half of the year for much longer you'll see other people coming back in.
So could it put a temporary lid on how many homes could get built perhaps but I do think it would be temporary Dennis.
I don't see that lasting forever.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another question you mentioned I think it was under 10 that you had done the internal study and sort of changed some of the metrics that you guys manage the business around.
Now you had some time since that how would you describe sort of the internal morale around these decisions and the change in strategy? Are the people that are in place today fully bought in or that's still a process? I would say people are fully bought in today and it has taken some time overall but nothing like results to get everybody excited.
Frankly the whole company's excited.
This is our best financial performance in years and we're doing a few high-fives internally and that generates momentum.
So if anything I think if anything I'd say Dennis people are excited and pleased that the opportunity is as big as we thought it was and are excited to help drive it from here.
And your question is from the line of Will Randow from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just running some quick numbers.
It seems like you might be not fully replenishing lands but the $100 million increase.
I could be wrong but let me know.
And I'm just curious what areas are you focusing in terms of that land spend and where do you think that lot supply is constrained? Yes Will just as a general commentary I don't know if Bob might have any more details he wants to add.
But in terms of not kind of fully replenishing land candidly that's the whole point.
We have too much dirt and we're doing our best.
As we look at our balance sheet not 100% of our balance sheet is driving our revenue today.
We have a whole bunch of lots that are sitting that are not doing a lot for us.
So our goal is to continue to pare down our land while still being able to grow appropriately in the market overall.
So yes I think that's fair.
I think we'd like to bring the size of our balance sheet down.
I'd just like to point out for everyone that is looking at the numbers we don't need this size balance sheet to drive this size business and that's obviously going to be a big driver of improved returns over the long haul.
Bob I don't know if you have anything else you want to add? No I agree.
Again if you look at the year we've changed our controlled lots.
It's come down by about 6 000 lots.
We have delivered 7 000 lots.
So we're still in the game.
We're still buying lots but the goal is to try and drive that investment in land down.
Research Division</strong> It makes sense and I was just thinking regarding constraining certain communities just because you don't want them to overheat can you discuss how we should think about conversion rates and cancellation rates as well as demand in the second half? Yes this is Richard.
In terms of conversion rates it's just for what it's worth with a 75% pre-sale business and 25% spec we don't have as much inventory on the ground as we did to kind of have an outsized conversion rate in any given quarter.
Our backlog is pretty robust right now for Q3 and Q4 frankly.
So we're happy about that.
In terms of cancellation rates obviously that's going to be a factor of what happens in the broader economy.
We're very happy with where can rates are.
They continue to be below the historical norms and no way to kind of predict that going forward.
I don't know Bob if you have anything else or...
So I think that's our view Will.
And next question is from the line of Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to circle back on some previous questions about the multi-year outlook and I wanted to tie that in into some of the details you provided on your orders by segment.
If you adjusted those orders by segment like for your community count by segment I was curious how that would look.
I'm really asking the question in the context of what the strength is of the entry-level buyer right now and how important Richard you think that entry-level buyer is in terms of getting us back to a normal level of production in the context of elevated unemployment and difficult mortgage qualifying? Yes.
Listen one of the reasons we like the multi-branded model is we don't have excess risk weighted into any one category.
I will tell you that all 3 of our brands saw sign-up growth in the quarter and we do feel the entry-level category is an important segment.
Having said that I don't think it will come as a shock that if and when rates rise that business is probably not going to perform as well as say the active adult buyer which approximately half of pay cash.
So from a long-term perspective I think you can continue to expect a dominant weighting toward Pulte.
The Del Webb business did pick-up nicely for us in Q2 which we think is a positive but the Centex business was also good.
We just didn't have as much investment in that category.
So I didn't know Adam if I'm getting to the essence of your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> The essence of the question really is that you guys have the best view of the full spectrum of buyers and it seems to suggest from your results that the better results are coming from the move-up luxury and the active adult and I'm just curious if there's this group of buyers right now that consist of those -- that group that is driving the demand and if we don't see a real improvement in the macro economic fundamentals we're going to exhaust those supply of buyers.
I'm just curious what you think about the entry-level buyers coming back and what they need to come back and if they don't come back because of whatever issues then how sustainable the recovery is? I would suggest our results right now are more driven by our investment choices.
In the past year to 18 months we've been investing more in the Pulte brand and of course on the Del Webb side we haven't had to invest because we have a ton of lots there.
So I would say that's the biggest driver is kind of how we've weighted it.
And then secondarily there does seem to be nice some strength in the Pulte side but I'm not trying to suggest lack of strength in the entry-level.
That's been more driven by the investment side.
Yes the only thing I'd add is again our community count makes the numbers a little bit confusing.
If you look at just sales per community what you would see is that sales per community on the first-time buyer are actually up over 30% for us versus the second quarter of last year which isn't as quick an increase in pace to Richards point as the move-up buyer.
But again a fairly robust market so they're out shopping.
They still have the same issues in terms of can they put a down payment together are they credit challenged but they are a significant portion of what we're seeing today.
And at this time we have time for one question and that comes from the line of Megan McGrath from MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up just what -- sorry if I missed it but what was your cancellation rate in the quarter? 14%.
Research Division</strong> 14%.
And then just as a follow-up to beat this dead horse in terms of your constrained demand.
I guess for those of us who have been following the industry for a while I'm getting some flashbacks from years past where a builder would say "Well we're concentrating on price or margin".
And then the next quarter you get a big mix in orders or you get -- you end up with a lot of spec.
So I guess if you could kind of walk us through maybe processes you have in place or lesson learned post tax credit about how to manage this process where you're trying to raise price a little and not end up with too much spec or not end up with demand maybe coming in lower than you thought? Yes Megan first of all I don't think you have to worry too much about us having too much spec unless we have a huge spike in can rate which we do not forecast.
We have a lot of discipline in the company around spec.
For us right now it's about simple calculation around ROIC.
And as much as I hate to admit this in the past it was more driven around volume.
And so whatever provides the greatest return for us in a given community and a given division is what we're going to continue to focus on.
So I don't want everyone to get carried away with this idea of constraining demand.
It is in select markets that are very very strong candidly Arizona parts of Southern California places like that.
It's not everywhere we're constraining demand.
We're just trying to run a smart business.
And frankly I would see here in '04 and '05 for the heyday we're not talking about a market like that.
What we're talking about is I think running a smarter business given what we see on the ground today and just part of the equation candidly is our backlog.
I personally am not comfortable carrying a backlog out for a year as an example.
A 6 to 9 month backlog is very appropriate and if we can continue to manage that versus how hand to mouth we were a few years ago as an industry where we were dying for sales every single quarter that's about right.
We typically can project and protect our construction cost roughly out 6 months that type of thing.
So that's our view is to try to be balanced in that regard.
So I hope that helps.
And I will now turn the call over to Jim Zeumer for your closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for joining us on the call today.
We're certainly around for the remainder of the day.
If you have any follow-up questions we'll be happy to take them and we look forward to talking to you on the next quarter.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2012 PulteGroup Inc.'s Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carolyn and I'm your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Zeumer.
Please go ahead sir.
Carolyn thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I want to thank you for participating in today's call to discuss PulteGroup's 2012 third quarter financial results.
On the call today are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mike Schweninger Vice President and Controller.
Before we begin copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slide that accompanies today's call have been posted on our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will be available on the site later today.
Please note that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call including references to gross margins reflecting certain adjustments are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to the call's presentation slide deck.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
We're very pleased to report today on PulteGroup's third quarter results which show a continuation of the positive trends we have been experiencing throughout 2012.
As reported in this morning's earnings release key business metrics including orders revenue margins and of course earnings all showed meaningful year-over-year gains and in certain instances represent performance numbers not seen since 2006.
More specifically PulteGroup's third quarter earnings of $0.30 per share are up from a reported loss of $0.34 per share last year and are the highest quarterly earnings we have posted since the third quarter of 2006.
The improvement in our overall operating performance was driven by a number of factors but the ongoing expansion of PulteGroup's gross margin was clearly an important driver of the results.
At 21.6% our adjusted third quarter gross margin showed an increase of 320 basis points over the prior year and a sequential gain of 130 basis points from the second quarter of 2012.
In addition to the 320 basis point increase in adjusted gross margin we also realized an 80 basis point improvement in our overhead leverage as SG&amp;A fell to 10.2% of home sale revenues.
Taken in combination it is clear that in just the past 12 to 18 months PulteGroup's absolute and relative operating margins have improved dramatically.
We recognize the hard work of our employees that went into delivering these gains and are very proud of their efforts.
Another important quarterly metric is the 27% increase in year-over-year net new orders and corresponding 43% increase in order dollars which has driven our backlog to a much stronger position.
Our third quarter results and related 25% growth in PulteGroup's 9-month orders offer very encouraging signs about the healthier state of housing demand.
As has been the case throughout the year third quarter order growth of 27% was realized from 7% fewer communities.
Over the short run growing absorption pace in existing communities rather than expanding our footprint is allowing us to appropriately work through our land pipeline in support of delivering better long-term returns on invested capital.
I want to stress this point on returns as it is clearly influencing the business decisions we are making today and will make tomorrow.
I know some of you have heard this before but I think it warrants repeating that we are focused on delivering better returns as we believe this is critical to creating greater shareholder value for our investors.
The keys to our success in this effort are well known: better margins better overhead leverage improved inventory turns and more effective allocation of capital.
Margins both gross and operating are clearly improving and benefiting from better pricing a better mix of community and house closings overhead leverage and better control of our house cost as approximately 15% of our third quarter closings up from 10% of second quarter closings have been value engineered or undergone related should-cost analysis.
Actions we have implemented to help support these results can be as obvious as the projects we invest in and the houses we build to more subtle tactics around strategic pricing and reducing the amount of spec inventory we build.
I would note that our third quarter finished spec number is 566 homes and is down 57% from last year and 5% from the prior quarter.
Margin gains have been dramatic but we know that moving the needle on inventory turns will take time given our land bank.
We are however implementing the needed actions which include monetizing the existing assets while remaining disciplined in terms of adding new land positions.
Although our net lot position and associated turns are improving slowly the more immediate impact has been on our cash flow which was positive in each of the first 3 quarters of 2012 a result that is certainly uncharacteristic for our company and generally the industry.
Overall we are extremely pleased with the third quarter results both in terms of absolute performance and how they position us for success over the remainder of 2012 and beyond.
Looking to broader industry trends I will tell you that we entered this year with a conservative planning assumption that new home demand in 2012 would be comparable with 2011 at approximately 300 000 new home sales.
Obviously demand has been and through the third quarter continued to be much more robust with industry-wide sales tracking roughly 25% above prior year levels.
The list of factors supporting this recovery is well known and spans from higher rents lower home prices and low interest rates to the rapid reduction of existing home inventory and a limited supply of new homes on the market.
The corresponding change in other market dynamics compared with the prior year has been equally dramatic.
As little as 12 to 18 months ago industry conversations often included discussions about incentives price discounts and acquisition of distressed land parcels.
Today we have upwards of 70% of our markets reporting that they have raised selling prices during the quarter and that price increases were implemented in a widening number of communities relative to the beginning of the year.
Clearly demand conditions have changed for the better.
We don't operate in a vacuum however so as you would expect the stronger demand is beginning to stretch available labor resources.
In the second quarter we talked about how labor constraints in certain markets were resulting in longer build times higher costs or both.
In select communities we have actually been constraining sales both to maximize price but also to avoid having our start dates get out too far.
With new home demand having accelerated quickly and having remained strong throughout the year the number of markets feeling some degree of labor pressure is growing.
In fact almost all of our markets have now reached a point where labor pressures are being experienced to some degree.
Certainly this is not anything different than past cycles so we feel comfortable with our ability to operate successfully in such an environment.
Not taking anything for granted however our operations continue to move forward on our value creation initiatives related to lowering overall house costs shifting to more of a base house model with consumers selecting their choice of options increasing plan throughput and sharing common plans.
In fact during the quarter we committed to implementing what we call common plan management zones.
We have been piloting the process in which we share and build common floor plans over multiple markets in Texas and the Southeast for the past 12 to 18 months.
Based on the success of our initial pilots we have decided to implement a series of these zones throughout the country in 2013.
All these actions are geared toward making PulteGroup a more efficient producer of homes and towards supporting our efforts of driving higher long-term returns.
Now let me turn over the call to Bob O'Shaughnessy for additional comments on our third quarter financial results.
Bob? Thank you Richard.
PulteGroup's third quarter results demonstrate that we're making excellent progress in our efforts to improve the company's operating and financial performance.
As Richard highlighted our Q3 numbers indicate that our internal initiatives are allowing us to capitalize more effectively on the improved demand environment.
Specifically our net orders in the period totaled 4 544 homes representing an increase of over 27% versus last year.
Consistent with the second quarter and our guidance for the year this increase was generated from 7% fewer communities as we realized better absorption paces within our existing projects.
Looking a little deeper into our orders each brand generated increases compared to the third quarter last year.
On a year-over-year basis our recorded orders increased 53% in our Pulte communities; 3% in our Centex communities despite a 24% community count decline; and 23% in our Del Webb communities.
It's worth noting that sales within our Webb communities appear to be picking up as the 23% year-over-year increase compares with increases of 6% in Q1 and 17% in Q2.
Hopefully this momentum can carry throughout in the coming quarters.
The mix of our orders was consistent with the second quarter of this year and break down 46% in Pulte 28% Centex and 26% Del Webb.
Looking at our third quarter financial results home sale revenues were $1.2 billion an increase of 12% compared with last year.
The increase in revenue was driven by a 6% increase in average selling price to $279 000 combined with a 5% increase in closings to 4 418 homes.
The increase in our average selling price reflect the continued shift in our product mix from the first-time buyer towards the move-up buyer as well as price increases realized within our markets.
Our mix of closings in the third quarter was consistent with the second quarter of this year and break down 42% from Pulte 33% from Centex and 25% from Del Webb.
In the third quarter of 2011 the closing mix was 36% Pulte 37% Centex and 27% Del Webb.
I want to take a moment to address questions we've gotten recently related to our conversion rate which represents the total number of our quarterly closing divided by our backlog at the end of the preceding quarter.
You will note that our conversion rate this quarter was 58% which compares to 73% in the third quarter of last year.
This lower percentage is due in large part to our decision 18 months ago to emphasize presale and minimize spec construction which will naturally cause this ratio to be lower than a spec-heavy model.
We are confident this strategic shift benefits us in terms of the metrics we use to evaluate our business performance including revenues margins inventory turns and cash flows.
Going forward we would expect our conversion rates to be lower than it was in previous years as we focus on higher-margin presale homes and a larger backlog allowing more efficient and consistent delivery flow.
Looking at land sale revenues we continue to execute on our strategy to evaluate and where appropriate to sell non-core land assets.
During the third quarter we generated land sale proceeds of $23 million resulting in a net gain of $2 million.
Land sales can be difficult to forecast but we plan to remain opportunistic with regard to selling additional land assets in the future.
As outlined on Page 7 of our webcast slides the company recorded an adjusted gross margin for the third quarter of 21.6%.
This represents an increase of 320 basis points over the third quarter of 2011 and a sequential gain of 130 basis points from the second quarter of this year.
Similar to prior quarters gross margin benefited from company-specific and industry-wide factors including the improved demand and pricing environment further expansion of our move-up buyer business our strategic pricing initiatives and our ongoing efforts to lower house construction cost.
In the third quarter we continued to remain disciplined in our overhead spend and benefited from the leverage of our increased revenue base.
As a result SG&amp;A fell 80 basis points to 10.2% of revenues in the quarter.
In total our SG&amp;A for the quarter was $125 million which represents a $4 million increase over the third quarter of 2011.
The increase relates primarily to higher incentive compensation resulting from the company's improved operating and financial results.
Turning to Financial Services.
We experienced another outstanding quarter as we continue to benefit from our strong home sales activities and the favorable interest rate environment.
For the quarter Financial Services produced $27 million of pretax income which compares to $9 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Our current year results reflect a 19% increase in loan origination volume and continued higher gains on mortgage sales.
In total third quarter originations amount to 3 073 loans.
Our increased originations reflect the increased volume from our homebuilding operation as well as an increase in our capture rate to 83% up from 78% in 2011.
As you can see on Slide 10 of our webcast presentation gross repurchase requests in the most recent quarter showed an increase in activity to the range of 150 to 200 up from the 50 to 150 request per month we've experienced in prior quarters.
Based on our review to date the composition of -- overall profile of the underlying repurchase request has not changed materially.
As we have indicated previously we evaluate the reserves we have recorded related to repurchase requests every quarter.
We have not adjusted our reserves in the current quarter as our current estimate of liability is consistent with our reserves.
As we have also indicated our liability estimates are based primarily on the number of requests we receive including the length of time we believe such request will continue; our ability to refute or cure those requests; and the significance of the loss we will incur on each request.
We will continue to evaluate the impact of these elevated levels including their impact on our assessment of the length of time requests may continue on our reserve estimates.
We've previously indicated that assuming all factors impacting our reserve estimates remain unchanged an extension of repurchase request beyond 2013 would result in additional reserves of approximately $25 million for each incremental year of activity we assume beyond 2013.
If the factors we consider on our reserve estimates change the impact of each additional annual period may also change.
For perspective if the level of requests we have received in recent quarters was assumed to continue and again all other factors being held constant the additional reserve required for each incremental year of activity would increase from the previous estimate of $25 million to approximately $40 million to $45 million per year.
We continue to focus on this issue and are seeking to resolve our outstanding exposures as efficiently and economically as possible.
Closing out my income statement comments our consolidated net income was $117 million or $0.30 per share.
Net income for the quarter included $11 million of tax benefits associated with the favorable resolution of certain federal and state income tax matters.
Turning to our balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $1.6 billion of cash.
This represents an increase of $243 million from the second quarter of this year despite an outflow of $96 million in August to fund the maturity of certain of our notes.
Our approved cash position results from a number of factors including the more efficient use of capital by our homebuilding operations for land acquisition and development; the reduction in the level of our spec house inventory; our non-core land asset strategy; and the return of $88 million from our mortgage operation following the establishment of a new third-party line of credit to support its operation.
The combination of our more disciplined investment practices improved operating performance and resulting positive cash flows has helped to lower PulteGroup's Q3 net debt to cash -- net debt to total capital to 39%.
This compares to the net debt to cap of 50% at the end of 2011.
As you have likely seen the company's announced a tender for up to $1 billion face amount of certain outstanding senior notes.
The tender offer details of which are available in last night's release reflects our strong liquidity profile and is consistent with our previous comments highlighting our desire to reduce our leverage.
It's important to note that us undertaking the tender is not restricting our ability to invest in the business.
In fact we increased our planned land investment during the quarter by $90 million to a full year total of $1 billion.
This includes new lands as well as the acceleration of certain land developments due to the strong sales environment.
Our liquidity remains strong and we'll continue to evaluate the uses of such liquidity with an eye towards improving our financial returns.
I also want to take a moment to address questions we get about the accounting for our deferred tax assets especially in light of the progress we continue to make in delivering sustained profitability.
As of September 30 2012 we had a net deferred tax asset of $2.5 billion which was fully reserved.
Assuming the company remains profitable and the current business trends continue including continuing improvements in the homebuilding industry we believe that there may be sufficient evidence to support reducing a large portion of our valuation allowance during 2013.
With respect to potential Section 382 limitation related to the Centex transaction we do not believe such limitations will significantly limit our ability to use future deductions.
It's important to note that there's still a lot of work to be done between now and any potential change with regard to the deferred tax assets and we'll provide updates to this as we progress.
Before turning the call back to Richard let me review a few final data points.
We ended the quarter with 707 active communities down 7% from last year and consistent with our guidance range for the year.
At quarter end we had a total of 7 686 homes in backlog valued at $2.2 billion the highest dollar value since the second quarter of 2008.
And we ended the quarter with 6 800 homes under construction of which 78% were sold and only 22% were spec.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Bob.
Before opening the call to questions I'll provide some additional comments on the market conditions we experienced across different geographies during the third quarter.
Broadly speaking it's no surprise when I tell you that demand conditions remain positive.
Generally demand from New England down through Florida was strong with notable levels of strength in the Northeast Georgia and the Carolinas and both North and South Florida.
Demand here in the Midwest continue to pose significant increases over the prior year and in certain markets is even showing meaningful gains from the second quarter.
We have previously highlighted the strength in Michigan but I would tell you that demand across all of our Midwest markets improved in the quarter.
The second quarter pickup in demand that we noted in our Texas operations continued into the third quarter as we realized solid year-over-year increases in all 4 major markets in Texas.
Demand out West was strong throughout the quarter with high order rates ranging from the Pacific Northwest down through Northern and Southern California and across into Nevada.
I would add that demand in Arizona remains exceptional.
As we discussed last quarter however we have taken direct action to meaningfully slow our sales pace to avoid getting too far out of production in the Arizona -- ahead of production in the Arizona market.
With net new orders up 27% in units and 43% in dollars clearly we are capitalizing on the improved demand conditions and finding opportunities to raise prices in a growing percentage of our markets.
There were a number of very positive points in this morning's release so just to summarize over $100 million in after-tax earnings for the quarter significant year-over-year and sequential expansion in gross and operating margins and strong cash flows enabling us to lower our net debt to cap to below 40% and support a tender for as much as $1 billion of outstanding debt.
Let me thank our entire organization for their sustained commitment to the success of PulteGroup.
Your hard work and implementation of key initiatives has been critical to the dramatic operating and financial gains we continue to deliver.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we'll open the call for questions so that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call.
We ask that you be concise in your comments and limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up.
With that operator if you'll explain the process we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start and talk about the capital structure and Bob your comments about the tender not affecting the growth rate or the ability to grow.
I'm kind of wondering if you can give us an idea if that's kind of a short-term near-term year 12- to 18-month comment or kind of a longer-term question.
And I totally understand buying back the debt.
You have excess cash in the balance sheet makes a lot of sense.
But as you look forward and as you kind of envision where you think the recoveries' going to go does capital become more of a constraining issue? Or you can -- or can you support the growth that you see effectively through the cash that you're going to generate in the business? Sure.
We -- obviously we put the tender out.
We're excited to see where that goes.
We have $1.6 billion  on the balance sheet today.
Obviously the fourth quarter is always going to be one of our best cash flow generating periods.
We are fortunate I guess in one regard that we won't be a taxpayer so our earnings become purely cash accretive.
So as we looked at our liquidity profile although the leverage that we're taking back is fairly expensive there is yield there.
So we are comfortable with the decision to buy that back.
We're giving a lot of the economics back to the holders but still positive yield for us.
In terms of your longer-term question I think as we look at the market we feel pretty good and have said consistently that our land position will give us the opportunity to grow with the market.
And as we look at capital allocation for future growth obviously we committed another almost $100 million to land acquisition and development during the fourth quarter.
So I think we feel like we have the ability to do both with the given cash flow and cash position that we have today.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
And then just a follow-up question.
Richard you talked about the ability to successfully navigate the market given the labor constraints that you're seeing.
And I wonder if you can give some color on how you're seeing the subcontract or trades adjust to the improvement in demand that we've seen.
We've gotten some color in our channel checks that some of the subs are concerned about bringing on additional labor just because they're not sure the pace of improvement that we've seen so far and this upturn is going to continue.
Are you seeing that trend? Or are you seeing the subs kind of being willing to try to grow with you guys and even though there are shortages they try to adjust to what's happened in the market? Yes David it's a great question.
I would say that earlier in the year I was hearing more about subs not necessarily wanting to add personnel because of the concerns as to how sustained the recovery was.
I'm hearing as the year progresses that more and more people are coming back to this space as you might imagine overall.
I would also point out that I believe we have -- we being the big builders have an advantage given our land supply.
Obviously our subcontractors want to keep their folks employed.
And based on what they see out in front of them while we're clearly facing some price pressure I believe we're going to be very successful at being able to get our homes built and that's what our teams continue to report.
So as I outlined in the prepared remarks we've seen this movie before.
We've operated successfully within it.
And it's not a long-term concern it's just something to be aware of.
The next question we have comes from the line of Ivy Zelman from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Richard you've spoken about the margin improvement.
The 21.6% gross margin was pretty impressive.
And recognizing this you've made some significant changes in the cost structure of your company.
Can you talk -- 2-part question.
First part how much of that is permanent versus how much of it do you think is just the benefit of the improving environment with respect to less incentives and certainly some of the benefits from market absorptions? But can you talk maybe about permanent versus what would be industry growth rate normally? And then also 21.6% do you feel that with incentives decreasing pricing improving that you can go well beyond that and you're feeling pretty comfortable with the pretty sizable upside with pricing assuming staying very positive? Thanks Ivy.
With regard to how permanent we feel kind of the environment is I would suggest that a number of the things that we are doing internally we believe can be long-held gains for us.
With regard to some of the structural changes we made I mentioned on the prepared remarks our common plan management and focus on zones.
We believe that's a structural change that's going to benefit us going forward.
I also would point out that I mentioned that only 15% of the homes that we closed during Q3 have benefited from value engineering and should costing and we fully expect that number to go up in the coming years.
Having said that certainly some of the margin improvement that we've seen was from pricing.
But as I indicated we raised price in the quarter and upwards of 70% of our communities and that's up fairly dramatically from where it was just a quarter or 2 ago.
So we feel pretty good about that.
I can't promise that forever and ever we can enjoy this kind of margin performance given not knowing where the business is going to be going forward.
I would also say that there is pressure on commodities.
There's no question about that.
And so we're not realizing every dollar or price increases to the bottom line.
But we continue to feel confident in our ability to get more in pricing than we're getting in cost pressure.
Moving to the question about where we go from here I would say as we said before margins quarter-to-quarter are going to be choppy.
And clearly there won't be a straight line continued sequential improvement every single quarter.
But as we look into our backlog we do see opportunity to move margins higher from here.
So we feel good about that and expect that candidly in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Great.
My second question is related to your buyer the profile.
Your -- certainly across all price points and spectrums can you talk a little bit about the traffic and people that are coming in the door and we're seeing such improved environment? What are people telling you? And how is the quality of the buyer in terms of credit? And the stringency in mortgage is still pretty much at the high levels but it seems as if it's not an impediment.
So maybe kind of a busy question but if you can address those I'd appreciate it.
Yes thank you.
Listen with regard to the last part first.
With regard to mortgage availability it still continues to be tight.
It's been tight for the better part of a couple of years.
We're not seeing a big change there.
So we're pleased with our ability to still get buyers not only to the sales table that closed today.
And Mike can speak maybe later to our FICO scores if you'd like that but they continue to stay strong.
With regard to the buyer profile the move-up buyer continues to be very strong for us the Pulte buyer.
I would point out so does Centex.
On a same-store sales basis we feel good about it.
The notable shift this quarter that we're beginning to see and Bob alluded to this in his remarks is the Del Webb buyer.
It appears that the Del Webb buyer is slowly but surely coming back into the business.
We kind of predicted that they would lag the other categories in terms of coming back.
But as existing home stock falls as that buyer gets more and more comfortable that kind of housing is here to stay in terms of more of a sustained recovery we're seeing some additional action.
So we're going to watch through the traditionally stronger selling season for us in our Southern markets for Del Webb in the coming couple of quarters to see if that's going to continue.
But that's probably the one shift that I would mention vis--vis the rest of the year in category.
The next question we have comes from the line of Michael Rehaut.
Research Division</strong> You've made great progress in terms of getting your order growth back on track despite the community  count growth you're streamlining.
I was wondering given the better-than-expected or increased amount of land spend and obviously you guys continue to see opportunities in the market combined with already a very good land bank community count growth plans is that something that would shift to a positive in '13? And how do you see that coming about? And perhaps even by segment as you highlighted the Centex the community count down above average.
Yes Mike this is Richard.
I can help a little bit.
We're not going to comment on community count.
As we go forward we'll have maybe more to say about that on the next quarterly call regarding 2013.
I will tell you that the land evaluation process in terms of incremental spend is an evergreen process for us.
We're very very focused on staying attuned to what's happening in the market.
And I think we demonstrated a couple times here in 2012 that we're going to be flexible and appropriate with regard to the spend where we need it.
The fact is we have a lot of leverage available from existing assets particularly in Del Webb in many of our markets.
Other markets we need to invest and that's exactly what we're doing.
So we feel very comfortable with the progress we're making.
Our focus is clearly on ROIC which we believe directly correlates to shareholder returns and that's where it's going to stay.
Having said that we're continuing to monitor our land position and are investing appropriately.
But more to say about community count on our future call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess the second question on the Financial Services side you had a nice improvement in income versus 2Q and certainly you had some better revenues to help with that.
But were there any other drivers in terms of the market improvement and profitability? And I guess secondly if I could just more broadly on the financial and mortgage area appreciate very much the comments and scenario analysis on the put-backs.
I know it might be sensitive or difficult to talk about but is there any additional color you can give in terms of where you might be in terms of talks with the other side or the different counter-parties? We've seen another -- one of your peers be able to settle some of those -- some of that activity in a more conclusive fashion.
To the first question the profitability is primarily as we talked about volume from the builder.
So our increased volume helps.
And it is the interest rate environment.
We are experiencing very healthy gains on sale and that's really the driver.
To your second question we have expressed the desire to try and resolve these.
We are obviously in constant dialogue with investors.
We don't have anything more to say about any progress on that.
The next question we have comes from the line of Ken Zener from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Richard so you're not going to talk about community count.
I understand that and the sooner the better.
But I think you guys are in a very unique position as you've already highlighted to actually grow and delever.
And that's because you're over capitalized on land that you already have which there's only a few builders in that position.
So thinking about that can you talk about the factors that will drive your thinking to bring out more communities as it relates to higher absorptions that you're seeing? Is there kind of a litmus test there realizing all communities are different? And second your desire to utilize your existing land bank that is available to you.
Yes.
Ken that's a great question.
And let me be perfectly clear.
Our decisions are motivated by what generates the highest ROIC for us.
And as you might appreciate with 707 active communities we're monitoring it community by community.
As an example we have many many Del Webb communities that could reasonably expect meaningful increases in same-store sales growth with only putting additional development dollars into those and not reinvesting in anything beyond that.
And that would be a very very nice scenario.
For us that would be very beneficial.
So those communities we're not looking to add community count and that's why we think the community count metric is a little bit overplayed.
For us it's more about what happens to the total revenue total leverage obviously earnings and therefore the corresponding impact on return given the size of our balance sheet.
So as we speak we continue to monitor every single community.
And where we think we have an opportunity to invest appropriately in return-friendly transactions we are doing that.
So I think if you look at what's happened to us this year our order growth rates being very healthy despite a community count decline in fact what we have predicted is continuing to come true which is that same-store sales growth is going to lead the way initially.
And we find ourselves candidly in a very flexible position.
We have the ability.
We're generating so much cash to pay down our debt and continue to reinvest in the business.
So I guess without getting into too much granular detail you and everybody else should feel very comfortable that we're paying attention to every one of those levers.
And our goal is to drive a better return in coming years and we are this year.
And this year we think we've demonstrated a better return than we've had previously.
So we've been caught in the past before with focusing too much on growth candidly.
We have a lot of discipline within the company right now around expanding all the other levers that drive return most notably margin and SG&amp;A.
So we continue to be pleased with our progress there.
And we're not going to let an investment opportunity pass us by that we feel like we should take.
And we're looking at it each and every day.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I guess if I could just take it to the next level there.
In '06 -- excuse me '05 you had roughly 6 absorptions per month.
And I think common how much Del Webb would play into that given the large community base where you can drive a lot of volume to it.
And this is -- the main question now is have you roughly $700 million mothballed in active land inventory? Could you help us frame out how many lots that is A? B how many of your total loan lots are finished? And this gets to the fact you can delever during your growth which is actually a very attractive risk-adjusted framework for you guys versus other people and it starts with a double with all that mothballed stuff really being brought back online.
But main piece inactive how many lots that is and finished lots.
Yes Ken there's a lot in that so I'll take the first part and then turn it over to Bob and maybe Mike for a little bit of additional commentary.
First of all with regard to Del Webb I think we've commented before publicly that at our peak in '05 we had Del Webb communities generating anywhere from 750 to 1 000 units per single community.
While nobody's predicting that I will tell you we don't have any -- doing more than like 250 today.
So that business has the ability to ramp up and ramp up nicely.
And candidly we've talked about the ability to reduce our overall land bank and reinvest in other land.
That would be a great scenario for us if Del Webb continues on a positive trend than we've seen.
With regard to mothballed assets I believe recently that we've been able to bring on about 15 mothballed communities.
Beyond that Bob if you have any more color? Yes we haven't Ken given a mothballed asset lot count or value candidly.
So I think what we do is actually look at it.
And if mothballed means different things to different builders certainly we've got a longer land base since Richard talked it in the Webb communities.
But we are focused on wherever it's appropriate taking assets either that are non-core and selling them if it's appropriate or opening up communities.
Just to finish it maybe give some data points on finished lots in total not for mothballed but just our total portfolio.
We do have 30 035 finished  lots we own.
We control 35 754 in total of which 7 900 are related to house.
The next question we have comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a housekeeping issue.
I just assume that you all have somewhere in the order of about 1 200 model homes and I just was hoping you could update us on that number.
But more broadly and more strategically I was curious about your gross margin commentary.
Last quarter I believe you made the comment that you thought that normalized gross margins in the business could get 20% 25% -- 20% to 22% on your basis when you calculate it.
But then it would "take a couple of years" I think is what you said.
Was curious as to -- since you just put up a 21.6% how you're thinking maybe evolving there.
Yes Steve.
This is Richard.
Listen things have panned out pretty nicely for us perhaps even better than we anticipated.
We've got a nice benefit from mix in the quarter.
We clearly got some pricing in the quarter.
We clearly got some house cost.
But just to be clear our 20% to 22% was a non-adjusted number.
So there's still several hundred basis points to go there when you take out the effective interest.
Yes from a model perspective we're at 1 120 models at the end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then let's switch to the put-back.
I mean that was really great the disclosure you just gave.
But one question that I had relates to sort of from our perspective trying to figure out how long it might be that these elevated level of put-backs may occur.
And in that regard can you tell us what the current vintages are of the put-backs? Is there any way to characterize it particularly on a relative basis to maybe what you're experiencing a year ago? Yes.
We haven't seen a dramatic change in any of the elements that we look at and one of them is the year of origination.
Today we had talked about that it was primarily 6 and 7.
That is still true.
The severity of loss hasn't changed much.
So again what we're seeing is a continuation of the same.
Obviously we continue to research them but we haven't seen a change.
The next question we have comes from the line of Stephen East from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Bob if I could just follow on just a couple more questions on the put-back.
The volume went up this quarter.
One is there -- what do you think the reason is for that? What's going on there? And then two when you say in future years your reserve through '13 does that mean -- at what level do put-backs need to drop to that you wouldn't have to reserve for '14 or '15? And then I just wanted to make sure I was clear in the last -- in your prepared remarks.
You said if history holds another $25 million a year if it goes beyond '13 but if the more recent quarter holds that goes up to $40 million to $45 million.
Is that accurate? Yes what we've -- sorry the last one was -- the $40 million to $45 million is based on a recent activity not necessarily the fourth -- the third quarter.
We tend to look at these things over time.
2 months or 3 months we don't think necessarily makes a trend so we have to see what that really evolves into.
The question on why volume is up it is at least as best we can tell just normal process from investors.
And then for '13 extending out beyond that again put-backs have always been part of the business.
They were around but just much less pronounced than they are today.
And so we would have to see a return to that for there not to be any impact in '14 and '15.
Again we're evaluating that as we go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you look at your debt tender your cash level ignoring what you had generate in the fourth quarter and I would be interested in how much you think you can generate there.
But you dropped down to $500 million to $600 million or so if all $1 billion is tendered.
I guess what level are you comfortable taking that down to? Do you envision putting revolver in place to compensate for some of the cash going out the door? Or would you all look at convert and deal or future debt deal? And then also in the past you all had said it was very expensive to take this debt out.
I guess what's changed in your thought process there? Well certainly to the extent that we were able to take in $1 billion we expect to be cash flow positive in the fourth quarter.
We haven't given any guidance on that.
But we did generate $240 million plus of cash in the third quarter.
In terms of credit facility we've looked at that and our view is we want to be able to put the best credit package in front of people.
So the more positive earnings performance we can do the better we're going to do in terms of the facility we can put in place.
If we were in a position 3 months from today or soon as the tender were over where we felt we needed to go raise capital we think we could do it in the capital markets pretty inexpensively and efficiently whether that would be senior subordinated notes or convertible.
We'd evaluate based on economics at the time.
So we think -- then Richard used the word earlier it's about flexibility.
We have the opportunity to make decisions and from relatively -- we have choices.
The other question you asked is why are we doing this now? It is expensive.
We've said that from the start.
Unfortunately it is what the market is telling us the bonds are worth.
And as we look at it we get a positive yield versus the cash sitting on the books.
So elected to do this today again trying to drive down the leverage we've talked about wanting to do that.
The next question we have comes from Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit more about Del Webb.
You talked about pricing overall of 7% communities during the quarter.
I guess -- wondering if we -- if you were to look at Del Webb the order trend's improving now.
Are you seeing any pricing power at Del Webb? Or are we still several quarters from that? Just a little clarity there.
Yes Dan.
I think Del Webb would be a segment that we'd want to drive a lot more volume before we got real aggressive on the price side.
I don't have detailed specifics by community for you.
I'm certain that each of our Del Webb communities offers 3 or 4 different lines of product.
And probably in some communities we've got lot positions and product that's in high demand where we are getting some price.
But generally speaking we're going to look to drive much better returns by a lot more volume in Webb before we drive prices up there aggressively because that would be the best ROIC decision.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And next in terms of the land development you talked about increasing that based on stronger sales of this.
How much of that is additional phases of existing communities versus bringing on new communities here? Sorry of the current year spend? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm guess just wondering as you increase that just how much are you looking forward in really trying to bring on more community sort of developing raw land that you have in communities that aren't currently operating versus just other phases of existing communities here.
Well again we're going to commit about $1 billion in 2012.
Roughly 1/3 of it is going to be buying land.
The rest is land and land development.
And Dan the incremental $90 million is a mix of both that we just talked about.
The next question we have comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
Of the land and land development spend that you're going to do this year how much of that is already working for you? Meaning how many of those -- how much of that money is -- have communities tied to it that are already open? And how much are going to be opened for next year? Well I don't have the granularity on that Rob.
It's fair to say it's a combination.
I would suggest that the majority of it is likely already working for us as newer phases and new lots from existing communities come on.
But there's not an insignificant amount of new projects.
Exactly when those come on it's a continual revolving door as we close some and open others.
So sorry I -- we don't have that level of detail.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to see if you could talk a little about -- a little bit more about your common plan management zones and how large are these zones and what percent of markets was this -- that have this in 2012 and how much -- what are you going to ramp that up to in 2013.
Yes.
So basically the idea here is to drive our throughput for floor plan up much higher than it is today.
And what that means is the number of closings that we can get from an individual plan that has been consumer validated and design with the consumer in mind upfront and value engineered it before it ever goes into production and contrast that with an existing set of floor plans where we may go in and attempt to take cost out.
It's a lot easier to do it on the upfront.
So we've been piloting a process starting in Texas and we've expanded it to the Southeast where several cities all of the major cities in Texas and now all of the major cities in the Southeast are operating under the mindset based on consumer research that buyers in those 2 geographies will accept and be happy with product that can be shared among those geographies.
So instead of value engineering a floor plan in Dallas for an example and getting 30 or 50 closings to benefit from it maybe we can get 300 closings benefit from it because all the cities in Texas are now using it.
So the idea is that over 2013 we will expand that concept to the rest of the country and implement additional geographic product zones.
Now I also gave a statistic in Q2 that about 10% of our closings that actually came through in Q2 and that went up to 15% in Q3 benefited from value engineering and should costing in the actual closing volume.
So even though we have a zone implemented already in Texas and one in the Southeast it's going to take a while to get all of the floor plans through that commonly managed product.
So we see this as a 2- or 3-year effort before we can drive that 10% or 15% number much higher but our candid expectations are to go much much higher with that.
And that's one of the sources of ongoing margin expansion that we believe we have.
We have the next question from the line of Megan McGrath from MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit on your commentary about restricting yourself based on a couple of geographies.
Is labor the only real bottleneck you're seeing? Or are you experiencing any other bottlenecks in the system like permitting or leaner land development or anything like that? I would suggest labor is only a small part of it.
A lot of it has to do with how far do you want to carry your backlog.
I mean we saw sales explode in Arizona earlier this year and made a very conscious decision to slow it down because we didn't want a backlog.
Keep in mind like in Q2 of this year extending out a year or more.
So Megan it's based on in some cases things like labor constraints or permit delays of the given municipality.
But the far more broad reason is how far do you want to let the sales run out and how far do you actually want your backlog out.
We generally as an example feel like that we can protect our cost for roughly 6 months.
And so we may let a backlog in a given community go out to say 9 months or something like that.
But generally speaking 2 to 3 quarters worth of backlog in a given community is in our opinion at PulteGroup about where you want to have it to maintain relatively consistent ability to start et cetera.
Now I would suggest if the market ramps up further from here both permitting and entitlement issues and labor issues to some degree may limit your ability to get out and deliver those units in a quick fashion.
But I don't want to overplay the labor issue.
It's more a conscious decision on our part on -- frankly we want to hold back some dry powder for the potentially improved pricing environment and our ability to protect our cost out in the future.
And just wanted to comment on that.
We are seeing that in more than just Arizona.
We've got communities in Florida D.C.
Northern California and other places where we're purposely restricting sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess that was -- you partially answered my question but I think that's sort of what I was getting at.
If there were no restrictions in terms of labor or supplies is this sort of the maximum amount of growth that you're comfortable with at this point of the cycle given where pricing is? Because expectations are fairly lofty for 2013 I think on a national basis but I don't know if builders are really comfortable pushing units beyond a certain point.
And so it sounds like even if there weren't labor constraints or other physical constraints that you are -- you wouldn't -- you are sort of limiting construction a little bit to maximize price in the long term.
Is that fair? Megan it's fair to some degree but let me be clear about this.
You said that if we didn't have labor constraints or other constraints in some cases those constraints are lot availability as an example so you've got real strong performance in a given community.
You thought you were going to sell 50 in a given year and all of a sudden you're at 100 you can only ramp up a lot production so quickly.
So we are solving for the highest possible ROIC.
And in many cases we're finding at least in the short term that's through price versus additional pace.
So I don't want to give you the impression we'd rather not drive volume but we do have to live within the environment of a combination of factors of lot availability labor availability our ability to get permits.
In some municipalities they're limiting us on the number of permits we can pull.
So it's not so much what the builder wants to do it's what we believe is the smartest business decision given the environment we're in.
We have no further questions at the time.
So now I'd like to hand the call back over to Jim for closing remark.
Thank you operator.
I want to thank everybody for their time this morning.
We will certainly be available as the day continues to answer any additional questions and we'll look forward to speaking with you on the next call.
Thank you Jim.
Thank you for your participation today ladies and gentlemen.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good morning.
My name is Jody and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce today's speakers Jim Zeumer Vice President of Investor Relations for PulteGroup.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jody and good morning everyone.
I want to thank you all for participating in today's call to discuss PulteGroup's 2012 fourth quarter financial results.
On the call today are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mike Schweninger Vice President and Controller.
And also joining us today is Jim Ossowski.
Jim will be assuming the title of Vice President Finance and Controller.
Jim will be replacing Mike who is heading to Florida and assuming a new position as Area Vice President of Finance for our Southeast Area.
Before we begin copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slide that accompanies today's call had been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will be available on the site later today.
Also please note that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call including references to gross margins reflecting certain adjustments are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to this call's presentation slide deck.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
With that let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to be with you this morning to have the opportunity to discuss PulteGroup's very positive fourth quarter and full-year results.
2012 was a year of important accomplishments for the company both in terms of the financial results we delivered and the progress we made against the business initiatives we have been pursuing.
As many of you know 24 months ago we launched our value creation program which has served to dramatically reorient our organization our strategies and our operating processes as we seek to improve our business performance and drive higher returns on invested capital.
At the offset our activities were tactical as we deployed new processes and tools to support the value engineering should [ph] costing and strategic pricing initiatives we have discussed across the organization.
Building on these early efforts we are now partway through implementing broader initiatives relating to common plan management and product and purchasing zones.
All these activities relate directly to our stated goals of expanding gross margins leveraging overheads accelerating inventory turns and driving improved capital efficiency.
By improving PulteGroup's performance in each of these key metrics we aim to deliver superior returns on invested capital which we believe will drive greater returns for our shareholders.
While the U.S.
housing market is clearly getting better the differentiating -- and differentiating market improvement from our own internal initiatives can be challenging we feel the relative gains we have delivered in operating margins these past several quarters point to the real company-specific progress we are making.
At this stage we are extremely pleased with the results we have delivered and I remain excited about the opportunities we continue to identify for additional gains in the future.
I look back on the year and the overall progress we have made with a sense of satisfaction.
That is not to say we are satisfied but certainly encouraged by the successes we realized in delivering better financial and operating results throughout the year.
In terms of financial performance we reported net income of $206 million for the year ended December 31 2012 compared with a net loss of $210 million in 2011.
As detailed in our press releases reported results for 2012 and 2011 included certain net charges of $70 million and $236 million respectively.
Whether you assess the year-over-year gains with or without charges it is clear that we are driving a lot more of each revenue dollar to the bottom line.
All the more encouraging to us is that the net income gain was the result of improvements in the fundamental business drivers on which we have been focused.
More specifically PulteGroup's full-year 2012 adjusted gross margins increased by 300 basis points over last year.
Our progress has been steady and we have been able to deliver 8 quarters in a row of sequential margin gains.
We can't assure an uninterrupted string of quarter-to-quarter increases every year but we do expect margins to move higher for 2013 assuming housing demand doesn't experience a dramatic change for the worse.
Layering on top of the expansion and adjusted gross margin in 2012 we were also able to realize a substantial improvement in overhead leverage as SG&amp;A as a percent of home sale revenues fell almost 200 basis points from 2011.
As we have discussed on prior calls our goal is to improve returns by expanding margins controlling costs and accelerating inventory turns.
We've also explained that over the near-term we could best achieve our goals by focusing on growth within our existing communities.
Our results speak to our success as we realized a 25% increase in full-year net new orders from 4% fewer communities.
Said another way in 2012 we generated almost 4 000 more sign-ups and an additional $1.5 billion in sign-up value from approximately 30 fewer communities.
I'm not sure such jumps in absorption pace for a community are repeatable every year but the obvious benefits we were able to drive in terms of cash flow and returns were dramatic.
This is best exemplified by the fact that we were able to generate sufficient cash flow during the year to fund our operations pay down almost $600 million of our senior notes and still increase our cash position by $292 million.
Our focus on running a more efficient operation also led to a substantial increase in the company's return on invested capital.
We still have a lot to accomplish as we work toward achieving acceptable returns but I am confident that we are on the right track.
Looking ahead to 2013 we have every reason to expect that housing has indeed turned the corner and that industry sales in 2013 can continue to move higher as pent-up demand is released.
That being said we will keep a cautious eye toward any potential negative impact from the government budget debates GSE reform discussions and a host of other government policy issues that could development in the coming quarters.
Despite these potential disruptions for the current momentum we are bullish on macro housing demand for 2013 and beyond.
The combination of incredibly low mortgage rates continued increases in rental rates and especially rising home prices and very low and likely to stay low inventory levels for housing lead us to believe that 2013 will be a better year for U.S.
housing than 2012.
Given this improved outlook on the macro market and our confidence in our ability to generate better returns on new capital deployed during our planning process we authorized an additional $250 million of investment in land and related development per year in both 2013 and 2014.
This incremental capital raises our planned land spend to an estimated $1.2 billion for each of the next 2 years compared with $925 million in 2012.
Given our improving construction efficiencies stronger balance sheet and expectations for improving demand we are comfortable putting incremental dollars into the business.
We will however do so in a prudent fashion and continue to use our risk-weighted return-based criteria when evaluating any new projects.
We are not going to chase volume but intend to invest intelligently with a focus on improving overall returns and ultimately shareholder value.
For all the progress we've made in the quarter and over the past 2 years we still see opportunities to improve our fundamental operating and in turn financial results.
The gains we have made to date however confirm we are focused on the right strategy.
Let me now turn the call over to Bob for more details on our quarterly results.
Bob? Thank you Richard and good morning everyone.
As Richard discussed we are continuing to pursue the initiatives that are driving today's improved operating performance which we believe have established a foundation for sustained gains over time.
Looking at our income statement we're pleased to report that we generated fourth quarter earnings of $59 million or $0.15 per share which includes net charges of approximately $73 million or $0.19 per share.
The net charges include $81 million of mortgage and debt repurchase charges which were partially offset by $8 million of tax benefits associated with the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.
In the fourth quarter net new orders totaled 3 926 homes which represents an increase of 27% over last year.
Our increased sign ups for the period were generated from fewer communities as we realized better absorption paces within our existing project.
Consistent with the first 3 quarters of the year we saw improved demand for each of our brands in the fourth quarter.
On a year-over-year basis the 27% aggregate increase in net new orders included increases of 41% at our Pulte communities 2% at our Centex communities and 38% at our Del Webb communities.
We're particularly pleased by the increase in sales paces at our Del Webb communities.
As we have discussed the Del Webb buyer has been slower to return to the market given the discretionary nature of their purchase their need to sell an existing property and their fiscal conservatism.
Over the course of 2012 we saw a very positive trend developing in the demand for Del Webb homes.
On a year-over-year basis Webb sign-ups increased 6% in Q1; 17% in Q2; 23% in Q3; and 38% in the most recent quarter.
The demand trend we saw in 2012 is encouraging given how much volume these communities can generate in a year.
The mix of our orders did not change materially in the quarter as Pulte represented 45% of sign-up volumes Centex was 27% and Del Webb increased slightly to 28%.
Orders for the quarter were generated from 670 communities which is down 4% from last year slightly better than the guidance we provided at the start of 2012.
We currently project that our community count will decline by 10% to 15% in 2013 before turning up in 2014 as we invest the incremental capital Richard mentioned.
As we have demonstrated this year multiple factors influence sales volumes including absorption pace per community and the underlying size of the given community.
The latter point is especially relevant to us given that we often maintain larger communities particularly within our Del Webb brand.
Walking down the income statement for the fourth quarter home sale revenues were $1.5 billion an increase of 27% compared with last year.
The increase in revenue was driven by a 20% increase in closing to 5 154 homes in combination with a 6% increase in average selling price to $287 000.
The mix of closings for the quarter is consistent with the sign up trends we saw throughout 2012 which resulted in the higher sales from Pulte Homes branded communities.
Closings in the fourth quarter breakdown as follows: 47% from Pulte 27% from Centex and 26% from Del Webb.
The increase in our average selling price reflects the continued shift in our product mix from the first-time buyer towards the move-up buyer as well as price increases realized within our market.
Land sale revenues were $37 million in the quarter as we continued to opportunistically divest non-core land assets.
For the full year we disposed of $107 million of non-core land assets.
It's difficult to forecast land sales but we'll continue to pursue such transactions when appropriate.
In the fourth quarter we reported an adjusted gross margin of 21.8% which is an increase of 320 basis points over their comparable prior-year period.
On a sequential basis margins grew 20 basis points.
Similar to prior quarters gross margin benefited from company-specific and industry-wide factors including the improved demand in pricing environment further expansion of our move-up buyer business our strategic pricing initiatives and our ongoing efforts to lower house construction cost.
We typically focus on adjusted gross margins but I want to call your attention to the capitalized interest component of our homebuilder cost of sales.
For the year we amortized $224 million of previously capitalized interest costs.
Looking at 2013 we expect capitalized interest expense amortization for the full-year to increase to approximately $260 million.
Our continued focus on improving our capital efficiency and inventory turns means that interest will be relieved from the balance sheet more quickly.
It's important to note that we expect our decrease in leverage and resulting reduction in cash interest cost will result in lower capitalized interest amortization in 2014 and beyond.
In the fourth quarter we realized further leverage on overheads as SG&amp;A dropped 40 basis points to 9.6% of revenues.
In absolute dollars SG&amp;A for the period increased 21% to $142 million with the biggest contributor to the increase being incentive compensation resulting from the companies improved financial results.
We have made meaningful progress on gross margin and SG&amp;A which have been key focus areas for the company.
We will continue to pursue opportunities to drive gross margins higher while we maintain discipline in controlling our SG&amp;A spend.
Looking further down the income statement we reported other expenses of $42 million which includes $32 million of charges relating to the company's repurchase of $496 million of senior notes during the quarter.
Turning to Financial Services.
We originated 3 625 loans with a principal amount of $829 million in the quarter.
Higher loan originations for the period reflect the increase closing volumes from our homebuilding operations as well as 120-basis-point increase in our capture rate to 83%.
While our underlying mortgage operations continue to operate in a favorable interest rate environment we recorded a mortgage repurchase reserve adjustment of $49 million which resulted in our Financial Services reporting a fourth quarter pretax loss of $24 million.
As we have discussed previously our reserve estimate was based on the assumption that mortgage repurchase requests would continue through 2013.
Based on the trends we experienced in 2012 we have now changed this assumption and extended it by 1 year.
As a result our estimated repurchase obligations now reflects the company's expectation that repurchase requests will continue through 2014.
You will also recall that on last quarter's call we highlighted that monthly repurchase requests in 2012 were elevated relative to the assumptions of our reserve estimates.
As you can see on Page 11 of our webcast slide we experienced a reduction in repurchase requests during the fourth quarter.
However the average number of request in 2012 was still in excess of levels assumed in our previous estimates.
As you can see monthly put back volumes remain volatile but the composition in overall profile of the underlying repurchase request has not changed materially.
We continue to look for a comprehensive resolution of these issues but do not have anything to update at this time.
Before we leave Financial Services I want to highlight some full-year achievements from that business.
Looking at the full-year loan origination volume increased 19% to 11 322 loans while capture rate increased 340 basis points to 81.9% helping to drive pretax income of $26 million despite the $49 million repurchase reserve increase in the fourth quarter.
The increase in capture rate reflects the fact that our consumers in homebuilding operations value the outstanding customer service afforded by our mortgage operation.
Turning to our balance sheet we've talked a lot about our desire to be more efficient with our capital.
During 2012 we made significant headway on this front including a more capital-efficient land acquisition and development process a 56% decrease in our spec unit count including a 66% decrease in our finished spec unit count the reestablishment of a warehouse line for our mortgage operations and the ongoing sale of non-core land assets.
These actions helped to improve our operating performance and freed up a considerable amount of working capital.
As a result we ended the year with $1.5 billion in cash after paying down $496 million in senior notes during the quarter.
As Richard mentioned we were able to generate sufficient cash flow during the year to fund our operations pay down almost $600 million of debt and still increase our cash position by $292 million compared to the end of last year.
Our improved operating results and significant debt paydown during the year helped to further reduce the company's debt and net debt-to-capital ratio to 53% and 32% respectively.
These numbers represent a significant improvement from just 1 year ago when our reported debt-to-capital was 61% and our net debt-to-capital was 50%.
Richard also mentioned that we have authorized an additional $250 million per year of land and related improvement development spend bringing our planned investment to approximately $1.2 billion in both 2013 and 2014.
This increase is obviously substantial but we believe it's appropriate given the improving market demand and the progress we've already made in repositioning our business.
I would note that even without the increased investment we expect to be cash flow positive from operations in both years.
We certainly won't force investment into the system and all spending will be subject to the underwriting criteria we introduced 18 months ago.
It's pleasing to note that our operators have embraced investing under our risk-weighted scoring system and understand the need to deliver required returns.
This investment discipline is now being employed in  a land market that grows increasingly more competitive.
In fact we recently surveyed our division presidents and embedded in 90% of our markets we are seeing increased land acquisition activity among private builders in addition to the ongoing demand for major public competitors.
And then a 1/3 of our market the increase was considered significant by the local team.
What makes it even more challenging is that in almost 100% of our markets finished lots and better submarkets are considered scarce for at least the next year or longer.
With the run up in competition and land cost it will be interesting to see the page at which we will be able to invest the incremental capital against our return of criteria.
The good news is that we have the resources to invest.
The better news is that I believe we also have the discipline to invest wisely.
As Richard said we aren't chasing volume so we can afford to be patient and disciplined.
Before turning the call back to Richard let me review a few final data points.
We ended the year with a total of 6 458 homes in backlog valued at $1.9 billion.
We ended the fourth quarter with 5 418 homes under construction of which 77% were sold and only 23% were spec.
And finally we ended the year with only 503 finished specs on the ground which as I've mentioned represent the drop of 56% from the end of 2011.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for his -- some final comments.
Thanks Bob.
As is our practice before opening the call to questions I'll provide some additional comments on the demand environment we experienced during the quarter.
Broadly speaking we realized improved demand in just about every market which drove the 27% increase in the year-over-year sign-ups we reported for the quarter.
More specifically demand up and down the East Coast remains strong with double-digit percentage increases in almost every market.
We continue to see notable gains reported by our operations in the New England area the Carolinas and Florida.
In fact exceptional demand in our Florida markets is forcing us to take similar action to that in Phoenix where we are purposefully slowing our rate of sales as we focus on maximizing margin over driving volume.
Market conditions in the middle third of the country also showed continuous strength in the quarter.
Demand in the Midwest was generally strong with limited lot supply often being as big an influence of our reported sign-ups as buyer demand.
All of our Texas markets posted double-digit gains with Houston delivering the biggest year-over-year increase in sign-ups during the quarter.
It likely -- It'd likely -- excuse me won't be new news when I say that our operations out West continue to experience strong demand from Seattle through California and into the Southwest.
Consistent with comments we had made earlier while demand in Arizona remains exceptional we are continuing to moderate sales to maximize price and to avoid getting too far out ahead of production.
Consistent with the positive demand environment we experienced in the fourth quarter all of our markets indicated that they were able to raise prices in at least one or more communities during the period.
In addition 70% of our markets reported that they were able to raise prices in at least 50% or more of their existing communities.
Given the demand strength we saw in the quarter and for all of 2012 you can understand our desire to put additional capital to work in our markets.
We are now 2 years into our value creation work and the supporting initiatives focused on improving margins leveraging overheads accelerating inventory turns and utilizing capital more efficiently.
Our annual financial results mark the progress that we are making on each of these metrics.
We still have a lot of opportunity and work ahead of us but we remain focused on improving our fundamental operations everyday.
I want to thank each of our employees for their work in delivering a great buying experience for our customers while implementing new processes to drive a more efficient homebuilding operation.
It is only through your efforts that we have been able to realize such meaningful gains in PulteGroup's performance.
And finally this will be Mike Schweninger's last earnings call as he is taking on a new challenge as Area Vice President of Finance for the recently expanded Southeast Area.
Mike has done an outstanding job over the past 4 years as VP and Controller and we know he will be equally successful in his new role.
We are fortunate to have a deep bench of talent in our organization and -- as we have expanded Jim Ossowski's responsibilities in naming him Vice President Finance and Controller.
Jim has held a number of corporate and field positions during his 11 years with the company and we look forward to his continued contributions in his new role.
Now let me turn the call back over to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we will open the call for questions so that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining of time of this call we ask you to limit yourselves to one question and to one follow-up.
We know there's some calls following this so we're going to move to our Q&amp;A as promptly -- as quickly as possible so that we can get to as many questions as possible.
Jody if you'll explain the process we'll get started with Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you'd provide some color into the composition of the big move in gross margin.
You picked up 320 basis points.
If you could give us some color on what came from mix and what came from home size that would be helpful.
It's difficult to break that down by square foot.
We don't have that but what we can say is that the mix shift in closings to the move-up buyer certainly helped.
That's our richest margin business.
Obviously market influences that.
The good news is that we think we've been able to take advantage of the market improvement with our pricing initiatives.
So obviously option margin per house is up or option revenue per house is up about $4 000 which is almost a 12% increase.
Lot premium is up per house by about $1 400 which is about 20% increase quarter-over-quarter.
Again richer margin business all at the same time while incentive dropped 200 basis points from 6.1% last year to 4.1% this year.
So all those market factors we're able to take advantage of to the new processes we've put in place.
And obviously the should cost and value engineering efforts that we're undertaking 17% of our volume has gone through that.
And we're excited about the zone concept and our ability to build more consistently and efficiently in our floor plans.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
Your dollar value of ASP's went from about $260 000 in the first quarter to $287 000.
So you had a nice $25 000 $26 000 pickup.
Could you give us some guidance in terms of your expectations for '13 in ASP performance? Obviously Richard's commentary about tight inventory supplies would suggest you have a lot of upward pricing power.
Can we get a magnitude directionally for what you're thinking? Well I think yes we did certainly see increases.
If you look quarter-over-quarter we're up 6% to $287 000 on average.
If you look at that by brand Pulte was up about 8% to about $342 000.
Centex and Del Webb were about flat year-over-year.
But if you look in the backlog the average selling prices is $299 000 which is up about 11% over the prior year.
So obviously mix is part of that but pricing is up.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Good quarter.
Exciting for you.
Question first on Del Webb.
Given that you've got community count  that's actually shrinking can you help us understand where absorptions are specifically for Del Webb? And how does that compare to historical absorption and maybe prospective pre-boom and where it's been on a longer-term basis? Yes Ivy this is Richard.
One of the things we're excited about is the momentum we saw in the Del Webb business for the quarter.
To give you a perspective we were up 6% in Q1 Del Webb year-over-year and that grew every quarter to where in Q4 we were up 38% over prior year.
So we really like the trend in that business.
And it's following a very typical Del Webb pattern where that category tends to lag the broader housing market because of the buyer's general conservatism and need to sell a home.
So as you know resale inventory is very low in many markets now and it's really gotten better and better in that regard over the back half of the year.
So we're not surprised to see the Del Webb buyer coming back.
And that does give us reason for optimism as we head into '13.
Relative to historical trends however we are still well below what we may have generated from a typical Del Webb community historically.
I think we've quoted before some of our larger Del Webb communities in the past we were able to do 700 800 900 units a year.
We're still nowhere near that level in any of them.
I would say we're still less than half of that.
So depending on how the housing market continues to unfold from here we think we have a lot of runway there and one of the real kind of x-factors for PulteGroup group we believe.
Ivy it's -- the pace in the fourth quarter of sales is 2.2 a month.
So clearly some room to run there.
LLC</strong> That's very helpful.
And then the second question relates to your comments Richard on the gross margin going forward.
You've spoken in the past about structural changes that you've made.
How much of your gross margin improvement going forward is going to be contingent on home price inflation as opposed to the structural improvements and other factors that are driving it whether it be mix or the move-up lower-cost land basis you're longer land than a lot of your competitors? And so I want to understand how much of your margin expansion is contingent on HPA.
Yes so Ivy a couple of comments here.
First of all the biggest drivers in 2012 are good margin expansion a combination of a strong reduction in spec inventory.
We're seeing much better margins in presale.
We're very proud of that because it also helped returns and cash flow mix shift as well as the pricing initiatives we mentioned.
With regard to the other structural elements Bob gave a comment just now I don't know if everybody caught it but we only had about 17% of our closings in the quarter that had the benefit of what we would call our big structural changes which relate to value engineering should costing and more specifically this notion of common plan management where we're trying to drive a much higher percentage of our total closings through those efforts.
These will be homes that are consumer-designed upfront value-engineered upfront if you will.
We know they're going to be successful before we put them into sales and to production.
And only 17% of our volumes do that.
So I would suggest we have a lot of runway to go with regard to margin improvement from those initiatives.
As it relates to how much are we counting on.
Obviously as much as we can drive there.
But we're not going to get into the habit of running the business banking on improved demand environment.
We want to be cautious.
We want to continue to buy A-plus properties.
And we think we're demonstrating that we're getting a lot out of our existing assets and we still have a lot to go there.
You're next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question has to do with the land spend and your current land inventory with the I guess gap in community growth.
Certainly having the long land that you possess is viewed as an asset but maybe you could walk us through where you are in terms of unlocking some of that value and how much of it is -- why you're not working through some more of what's on the balance sheet at this point? Certainly it would suggest that perhaps it's not a margin accretive move at this point.
And give us thoughts around how much is "mothballed" and when do you expect to unlock that value? Because certainly community count growth down 10% to 15% is kind of atypical in terms of the peer group right now.
Mike this is Richard.
I'll start and then turn it to Bob for a little more comment on mothballed.
I would suggest we are unlocking a large amount of opportunity in our existing business.
I mean our sign-up growth last year was predicated almost exclusively on existing store -- existing stores improving better which was our thesis coming in all along.
We tend to have a much longer lived community portfolio than many of our peers do.
So it stands to reason we have room to run within those existing communities kind of like Ivy's question on Del Webb where we still have a lot of runway out in front of us given the number of lots we have on the ground.
And we don't need to invest in that business specifically.
We feel we're executing our strategy exactly as outlined for the past couple of years.
We're focused on improving returns.
And as long as we can continue to drive acceptable paces in our existing communities we feel like it's the right move.
Having said that we're comfortable in implementing this additional investment now that we've outlined but we're going to do so smartly.
We are not going to chase unit volume and I would suggest the quality of the earnings that we want to deliver going forward is going to be focused primarily from margin growth SG&amp;A leverage and some growth from exist -- or from additional assets over time as we bring them online.
But that's our focus and ROIC is the name of the game.
We think we're doing a good job there.
In terms of how much is left for mothballed Bob you might want to answer that.
Yes.
We've never really answered that question.
We have helped people to find mothballed in some of our longer-phase Webb development make it a little confusing.
The only thing I'd add to what Richard said is we opened 15 communities that were truly mothballed in fiscal '12.
We think we'll open another 10 in fiscal '13.
There aren't that many more that we see that would be obvious to open today.
Research Division</strong> All right I appreciate that.
And I guess the second question on the margins.
I guess going back to the comment of 17% of closings from the value engineering should costing common plan management I think it'll be helpful to understand what type of margin differential those closings currently generate versus the corporate average to get a sense of as this increases what the upside from these initiatives are.
And if I could just sneak in another one any thoughts around moving the commissions out of COGS into SG&amp;A? I think something like 3/4 of your competitors do it that way.
I think it might be helpful from an apples-to-apples.
So sorry to sneak 2 in there but if you could.
Mike I'll handle the first one.
All I'll say regarding the common plan management work is that we do have better margins coming from those efforts than businesses that are -- excuse me plans that are not commonly plan managed.
So I'm not going to give a lot of specific detail but we'd like the upside that that ramping volume will give us as a percentage in terms of our margin.
Bob you want to handle the commission question? Yes.
We're comfortable with our presentation.
We can think about it certainly Mike.
You're next question comes from the line of Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Your guidance of $260 million I believe in the interest that's obviously going to -- on a higher sales revenue volume result in some margin benefit probably in the order of 100 basis points.
What other -- for the gross margin excluding that what would be some of the other puts and takes that you're thinking? What's your fixed cost in gross margin that you're going to get volume leveraged? And how do you think about the price? Because obviously the labor and material inflation given that your land cost has been largely fixed and not inflating? Ken it's Bob.
I just want to be clear that that incremental interest expense will be a detriment to reported gross margins.
Right.
Research Division</strong> On a dollar basis.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But on a percentage with higher revenue it's going to be...
Well again that's not a volume-based comment from us.
It's just that it's where our expectation for -- based on our expectation of turns our interest expense will be.
And to your second point the margin impact that we see of substance is commodity we've planned in our 2013 and it's reflected in our view of margin about a $2 000 to $2 500 increase in house cost.
So maybe call it 1.5% or 1.6% of our actual house costs which may be 80 basis points of margins.
And just to add on to that.
I mean your question on fixed versus variable.
For our composition of our margins everything's variable.
We don't have -- some people may have certain overheads that run through their margins for the [indiscernible] we do not.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
And then given your comments on community count and the trend down there can you give us a feel for at least in the fifth -- fourth quarter to understand the fixed versus variable mix in SG&amp;A which would give us the fixed G&amp;A piece? And with the community counts going where they are do you expect lower fixed G&amp;A in 2013 on a dollar basis? I apologize.
There was a lot in there.
The majority -- I think to Mike's point our SG&amp;A is largely dependent on our cost base; not on commission because that's up in cost of goods sold.
So I apologize Ken I don't understand the question.
And Ken maybe just as we've mentioned in previous calls from an SG&amp;A perspective it's all somewhat variable but we keep it fixed given where we expect the business to be.
But to Bob's point commissions don't impact in the like.
So depending upon where we see the business going we adjust our overhead structure accordingly because most of it is kind of people and other type cost.
And just to follow that we went through a fairly lengthy and painful in some ways restructuring of the business last piece of that 18 months or so ago.
We feel very comfortable with the structure that's in place today.
And what we said is that doesn't flex dramatically based on whether volume ramps up and 2012 was a good example of that.
So we got leverage with the increased volume and so we think certainly if you have lower community count you may have a one less salesperson one less construction manager but don't think it moves the needle very much on our SG&amp;A spend.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question was about the comments on private builders and privates getting more active in the land market and I thought that was very interesting.
Most of your peers are probably saying that although the privates want to be there they're not getting financing.
So I'm wondering if you kind of heard about how privates are getting financing and probably getting more aggressive in the land market given that the ADC lending is still relatively tight for most privates at this point.
David this is Richard.
There's been a lot couple of larger privates that have been notably quite active in the land market overall.
So I don't really have a lot of detail and color on where they're getting financing but there's no question land market has gotten heated of late.
And our comments are just to help everybody understand.
We don't want to chase volume we want to chase good returns.
And we're very comfortable with a prudent what we believe is intelligent investment strategy going forward.
Our thinking all along was we needed to repair our balance sheet and now that we feel like we can generate really good returns we're comfortable putting more into the business.
But we're just trying to reference the fact that that in some markets it's a real challenge to get land deals to pencil and we want to be careful.
Research Division</strong> Yes that makes sense.
Just a quick follow up can you help us kind of frame the additional $250 million what that would do in terms of either the potential for growth or community count? I mean I know it's difficult to average or generalize but just give us an idea if you're able to put the $250 million to work what kind of growth that would support or community count growth that would support? Yes David the only thing we'll say and Bob gave the community count guidance for '13 it's not going to impact '13 in a community count way.
But we do believe that'll impact '14 start moving the needle back up then.
We'll have more to say about that as we get through the year.
But we've got to see how much of this capital we can actually put the work what changes we may have to that capital assumption over the year as the market unfolds.
It's an evergreen process within the company.
And it's actually a very good process that -- thanks to some help that Bob has given us and the way we think about this over the last 18 months we reevaluated every single quarter.
So I could just tell you that directionally that incremental capital is not getting any impact on 2013 community count in a positive direction but we do believe it'll start moving the needle in '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Richard you talked a bit about not chasing volume talked about focusing on quality earnings and returns.
I was wondering what that says about the longer term thoughts on maybe 2014 or '15 when in a normal environment your thoughts on what that means for cash flow and how you'll balance future cash flow and how that relates to returning to cash to shareholders how that differs from what Pulte was 10 years ago.
Yes Adam it's a great question.
And actually we have some continued work to do to think about that over time.
And I think it's fair to say that we were definitely super bullish on land for a long time.
We saw some pain some significant pain as a result of that.
And we want to be more balanced going forward.
Our goal is to generate long-term returns on invested capital because we think over the long run that's going to benefit our shareholders the best.
So what I would tell you is that in the past it may have been heavy-weighting toward land.
I think you've seen us take some aggressive moves with debt.
We think we're investing in land appropriately but the other uses of cash including dividend and potential buybacks are on the table.
And we'll have more to say about that as we make decisions.
So nothing firm right now but over time we're likely to be I would suggest more balanced in our overall approach than perhaps we have been in the past.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just want to follow up on one of the other questions that I wasn't -- maybe I missed or wasn't clear to me.
But you said -- the interest the higher interest amortized next year or this year on a GAAP basis are you expecting that to have a negative impact on your reported GAAP gross margin or are you just talking about dollar amounts? Well it is -- you've got an increase of reported interest expense that will flow through our gross margin so it'll be deleterious to income compared to year-over-year.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can just talk about the land and the community count really impacting '14 and not '13.
I guess you also talked then about the intentionally slowing sales in some of the markets.
So if we're thinking about that and presumably the impact in committee count is probably worst as we go through the first half of this year in terms of year-over-year basis is that correct? And should we be thinking about orders that way in terms of more of a focus on margin but essentially hurting the orders here during -- more during the first half than the second? Yes Dan we're not going to provide any commentary on orders.
Our community count is going to be down this year as we mentioned.
But we're not going to give a lot of guidance on exactly how it's down through the year.
I will just go back to though some of the things that Bob mentioned when he was talking about community count.
Everybody's very focused on it in the outside world.
But given our community count composition and things like same-store sales in existing communities things like the overall balanced approach that we feel that we have to running the business the Del Webb component a lot of things impact volume.
So again we're not providing volume guidance and I'm not going to provide any more specifics on community count but I guess I would leave it in that.
It's not only about community count in terms of your volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about the Centex orders being up 2%.
And I guess wondering in terms of just land investment you talked about more in terms of the higher-end but how is land investment focused in terms of the sort of Pulte Del Webb and Centex? Yes we've seen the vast majority of our land investment recently going to the Pulte brand with not as much into Centex or Del Webb.
We have 1 or 2 Del Webb communities that we're going to be opening this year and some Centex communities as well.
But the lion share of the investment has gone into Pulte because that's where we're seeing the best returns right now.
We are excited about the Centex brand over the long run.
We have new product that's focused there that's driving some we believe higher margins in that category and better profitability for us in that category which will help the land transactions pencil more easily in the future.
But to date most of the investment's gone into Pulte.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question on the balance sheet.
Your $1 billion tender brought in about 1/2 that amount in this last quarter.
And even with that just coming in in 1/2 your debt-to-capital dropping to 32% is pretty impressive now.
Looking forward I mean you said you're going to -- you don't want to chase volume for volume's sake but you are increasing the amount of capital spend.
So at what stage I mean what -- how are you looking at leverage going forward normalized -- a lot of people would consider to be a 40% to 45% some builders might even run a little bit hotter than that in a recovery.
So how far do you want that to go down? And how are you thinking about that going forward? Nishu again it's Bob.
Interestingly the tender we offered for $1 billion we actually got $222 million.
We then called our '13 paper which was another $170 million.
And then we had open market repurchases which were targeted in the $14s to $15s of $104 million.
So looking at the maturity profile now we have nothing to do in '13.
And then the maturities stack when we get out to '14 is just about $400 million.
And in terms of your question on how we view the investment I think Richard covered that.
We are looking at the ways to utilize the cash balance at we have.
We've talked about wanting to be at 40% debt-to-cap.
That would be a gross number not net.
So we've got to some room to improve there.
Again the economics don't make a lot of sense to us to go out and buy our debt today because it is very richly priced particularly as you get into those outer maturity years.
So again we think we accomplished a great deal this year.
We're proud of the fact that net debt-to-cap is in the 30s.
We think we've got some room to run there.
Obviously we increased the investments that we're making in land $250 million this year shows that we're positive on the market and willing to put our money to work obviously the overall goal to increase our returns.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the second question on the charge in the Financial Services division.
The $49 million I believe it was.
The extra year of repurchase request you're assuming here and the delta that you increased in '12 being higher than you'd originally forecast what time period does that relate to? And what sorts of originations does that relate to? It really has little to no change from what we've reported in the past.
Again 6 and 7 originations by far the majority of what we're seeing severity on these hasn't changed materially.
So it's really just -- we got more of them in 2012.
Now it's interesting you can see from the chart that the volume went down in the fourth quarter after having spiked in the third quarter.
And what I would suggest is the same thing we said then 2 or 3 months doesn't make a trend at that really elevated level that we saw in the third quarter.
We're not sure that what we saw in the fourth quarter is completely consistent with what we're going to see going forward.
So we -- when we -- yes there's lots of estimates.
There's lots of process that goes into the estimates for the reserve.
But as we look at it over the balance of 2012 the heightened level resulted in a higher cost to us and then adding 1 year obviously drives the big change in the reserve.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Randow from Citi Group.
Research Division</strong> In terms of your active lots maybe that's a different way of looking at it or total lots could you give a breakdown between Del Webb Pulte and legacy Centex? Yes.
I can do that.
From a -- about 38% of our controlled lots are Pulte; 23% is Centex; and 39% are Del Webb.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have that -- is that on an active basis or total basis? Well it's -- we don't explain -- we don't list out active versus unactive so those will be in our total controlled lot.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I really appreciate the studies you guys put out on housing demographics.
I guess Richard how do you think about the echo boomers in the context of basically the sub 35-year-olds today are underemployed hopefully not chronically due to baby boomers not leaving the workforce or retiring.
How do you think about that from a big picture perspective? And how do you think that'll hit your business? Well I think we're going to need to be very value focused in order to capture demand in that environment.
And I do believe that mortgage availability for that category is something that we need to pay attention to.
Hopefully underwriting over time will ease a little bit from pretty severe restrictions today in order to allow us to capture that business.
But listen we are focused on investment today where we think we have the best opportunity which is primarily in the move-up category and in the active-adult category for a lot of the reasons that you're kind of alluding to there.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So basically a couple of housekeeping questions first.
I guess can you give us a sense for what your sticks-and-bricks level is looking like in dollars right now and the number of finished lots that you own? Sure.
I can give you that.
Our house inventory balance is $580 million at 12/31.
Our finished lots owned is 27 828 of which 6 537 relate to house.
And just in addition to that we control an additional 5 732 finished lots to be optioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And I guess just the last question regarding your margins going forward.
Can you give us a sense for your expectation of your ability to control specifically your hard costs not addressing the labor here.
But obviously we're starting to see some significant price increases coming through from the part of the manufacturer.
And I was curious as to if you could share in your view something  -- or not even in your view -- some things that you've actually -- some success stories perhaps in terms of your ability to be able to keep those costs down on a relative basis to your competitors particularly your smaller peers.
Do you any data supporting that that is actually happening? Steve a couple of things from Richard.
And Bob feel free to add anything.
A couple of things.
We added as Bob indicated some money in our forecasting processes this year assuming pressure from both materials and labor.
So that was kind of factored into our assumptions overall.
Despite that we're confident in our ability to grow margins through the structural efforts that we have underway including pricing that we see on the market our value engineering work et cetera.
So yes while we are seeing the pressure that everyone else is seeing overall we still are eclipsing that in our mind with the overall market environment allowing us to take margins higher overall.
I don't have any great data for you relative to the smaller peers.
I don't know Bob do you have anything else there you want to add? Yes.
Stephen I think the simple answer is as a big buyer of service and commodity we believe we absolutely have price competitive advantage over to your question smaller peers.
We buy things in bulk.
We have a team of people who are focused on national purchase contracts and/or significant contracted market.
And so we think we have preferred provider status with many of our suppliers.
It would range anywhere from how we purchase appliances to how we purchase lumber paint.
Again so relative to a  small private builder we think we have a competitive advantage.
Stephen I might just add one other item.
I think as big an advantage in pricing as Bob alluded to is the ability to get our homes built.
As one of the bigger builders in the country and I know a couple of our peers have talked about this.
It's tough out there particularly to find labor and we can command more folks on our job sites than smaller guys.
So I think as big an advantage we may have in dollar and cents we have in terms of being able to meet production quotas over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Barron from Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I guess I just kind of want to get your thoughts on the longer-term view of Centex.
I mean I know you said you got some stuff coming up but we've seen kind of a community count going down.
When do you guys think that's going to turn around? Yes.
It's very tough to forecast that overall.
Centex unlike say Del Webb has a lot smaller communities typically for us overall.
And listen the best thing we can tell you there is we like the buyer category.
We're very committed to the buyer category.
We are continuing to invest in that category not at the same rate but that we're going to put our money where we can get the best returns.
And if we're not seeing as good of returns in that category today for a variety of reasons we're not going to just push investment into that category just to push investment there.
So we're very comfortable with our approach.
I can't answer the question in terms of when community count will start improving for Centex overall but let's leave it with the fact that we want to continue investing in that category but doing so to generate the best returns for our shareholders.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And so how would you foresee I guess the percentage of the mix that Centex will play maybe a couple of years down the road? And also just kind of a separate question are you guys starting to see or what percentage of your buyers would you say your are people coming out of foreclosure rentals and starting to buy again? Alex with regard to the percentage it's extremely hard to estimate out a couple of years.
I wouldn't hesitate to want to guess that.
I will say on your second part of your question we are starting to see people who have gone through the foreclosure process enter back.
Anecdotally over the past 6 months or so I've heard more and more of that as people work through their 3-year period and reestablish credit to be able to buy.
I think that's a good sign.
It's an indication that people want to buy housing.
And look they're being squeezed really hard with rental rate increases.
We've talked about that repeatedly.
So that is a source of business for us in the future and we're continuing to be focused there.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back over to Mr.
Zeumer for closing remarks.
Jody thank you.
I want to thank everybody for their time this morning.
We will be available for the remainder of the day if you have any follow-up questions and we look forward to speaking with you on our next call.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jessica and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Zeumer Vice President of Investor Relations for PulteGroup.
Please go ahead.
Okay thank you Jessica.
I want to thank everyone for participating in today's call to discuss PulteGroup's first quarter financial results for the period ended March 31 2013.
On the call today to discuss our numbers: Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; Jim Ossowski Vice President Finance and Controller.
Before we begin copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slides that accompany today's call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will be available on the site later today.
Before we get started please note that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call including references to gross margins reflecting certain adjustments are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to the call's presentation slide deck.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
With all that said let me now turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
We are very pleased to speak with you this morning about PulteGroup's first quarter operating and financial results.
As we said in this morning's press release the company has gotten off to an exceptional start in 2013 with solid improvement in just about every facet of our business.
Our much-improved Q1 earnings reflect a sustained rebound in overall housing demand combined with our progress toward driving better fundamental business results.
At this time a year ago the industry was cautiously optimistic that the then budding recovery in housing was not another false start.
Now with 5 quarters of generally improving market conditions in the rearview mirror I think it's safe to say that a sustained recovery in demand for housing is indeed underway.
Given the breadth of our geographic footprint and the diversity of buyers served through our Centex Pulte Homes and Del Webb brands it stands to reason that our business trend should mirror many of those seen in the broader industry.
As such it will come as no surprise that we experienced increased buyer traffic visiting our communities as consumers have grown increasingly excited about the idea of purchasing a new home.
You may have read in a recent press release that our own PulteGroup homebuyer index survey showed that even first-time buyers who many thought would be lifelong renters remain desirous of owning a new home.
According to our most recent millennial survey 65% indicated that their intention of buying a new home has significantly or somewhat increased in the past year.
The drivers of overall housing demand have remained consistent as favorable demographics are aided by low interest rates ever-increasing rental prices and the perceived value of owning a new home.
These are certainly positive and important factors but we continue to believe the primary driver of the recovery in housing demand has been the rapid reduction in the supply of homes available in many markets.
A limited supply of homes is creating a greater sense of urgency among potential buyers as they have fewer choices and are facing ongoing appreciation in selling prices.
Regardless of the pricing index you analyzed you will likely show a positive trend in the price of new and existing homes.
Faced with these market dynamics consumers are anxious to sign a purchase agreement once they have found that perfect home that meets their needs.
A recent survey of our division president suggests that we raise prices in upwards of 75% of our communities with many divisions indicating price increases were taken across the entire market.
As we have talked about in earlier calls in a number of communities across the country demand has been so strong that we have taken action to slow the overall pace of sales.
While I would expect that everyone listening to the call today is aware of builders taking such action in Phoenix Tampa and Washington D.C.
we are now seeing this in cities as diverse as Austin Cleveland and Seattle.
In fact while it's tough to get precise data a recent survey of our division president suggests that we have taken steps to purposefully slow sales to varying degrees in 25% or more of our communities.
I am sure that most of you know the answer but why would we limit sales? Given the lack of land development during the 6 years of housing market downturn finished lots in the better submarkets are scarce.
Accelerating sales pace means that we sellout a neighborhood sooner and have to look to the next community which may not have been developed yet.
Although less of an influence labor constraints in certain markets can also make it prudent to meter the sales pace to help ensure build times are not extended too far into the future.
Given these factors at present we believe we can best enhance overall returns on invested capital by focusing on maximizing margin potential while maintaining an appropriate sales pace.
Based on the first quarter earnings that we reported this morning I think our strategy is proving to be the right one for PulteGroup.
As shown in this morning's release in just 12 months we have been able to improve our quarterly operating performance significantly as we posted earnings of $0.21 per share compared to a loss of $0.03 a share last year.
These results demonstrate that the momentum which has been building inside the company during 2012 has continued into 2013.
Consistent with our current market strategy and the value creation initiatives we have been pursuing for the past 24 months we are seeing real gains in our fundamental operating results in the areas of margin overhead leverage inventory turns and return to invested capital.
In fact compared to last year we have been able to increase our adjusted gross margin by 420 basis points while lowering our SG&amp;A by 340 basis points.
The combination has driven a significant increase in our homebuilding operating margin and in turn the company's profitability and returns.
We fully appreciate the market tailwind but our value creation focus on expanding margins driving greater overhead leverage increasing inventory turns and generating higher returns on invested capital are allowing us to more effectively capitalize on any broader market gain.
And while we are having to manage rising costs for land labor and materials we continue to see opportunities for further operational gains going forward.
Our focus on maximizing our homebuilding operations also benefits our balance sheet.
A strong cash flow in the quarter helped drive Pulte's cash balance to $1.7 billion.
Our liquidity affords us a great deal of flexibility including our election to again increase our authorized land and development spend in 2013 and 2014 as well as our decision to accelerate our debt paydown with the early redemption of $399 million of 2014 bond maturities.
PulteGroup's first quarter numbers clearly demonstrate the dramatic strides our company is making toward driving better business performance and delivering improved long-term returns on invested capital.
Knowing all of the hard work our employees have invested over the past couple of years implementing our underlying value creation initiatives we are all gratified with today's results.
Let me now turn the call to Bob for more details on our quarterly results.
Bob? Thank you Richard and good morning.
As you've heard many times over the last 2 years we're advancing a number of key initiatives which are focused on improving the company's fundamental operating performance and enabling us to become a more efficient homebuilder.
Our first quarter results demonstrate the progress we are making towards running that more efficient and more profitable business.
During the quarter home sale revenues increased 35% over the prior year to $1.1 billion.
The increase in revenue was driven by a 23% increase in closings to 3 833 homes combined with a 10% increase in average selling price of $287 000.
Consistent with our recent results the mix of closings in Q1 remained weighted toward our Pulte or move-up communities.
The actual mix of closings in the first quarter included 46% for Pulte 28% for Del Webb and 26% for Centex.
While the closing mix is consistent with the fourth quarter the percentage of Pulte closings in the first quarter increased by approximately 700 basis points compared to the first quarter of last year while Centex's closings were lower by a comparable amount.
The $26 000 increase in our average selling price realized in Q1 reflects this continued shift in our product mix from the first-time buyer towards the move-up buyer as well as price increase that's realized within each of our underlying brand.
Land sale revenues in the quarter totaled $26 million as we continue to opportunistically divest non-core land assets.
As always the uncertain timing of any resulting transactions means that land sale revenues will vary from period to period.
In the first quarter we reported an adjusted gross margin of 22.9% which represents an increase of 420 basis points over Q1 of last year and 110 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2012.
Gains in the company's adjusted gross margin continue to reflect company-specific and industry-wide factors including the improved demand in pricing environment further expansion of our higher-margin move-up buyer business our strategic pricing initiatives and our ongoing efforts to lower house construction costs.
To the last point we've been talking to you recently about our efforts to manage our design and purchasing processes differently as we create what we call commonly managed floor plans and work to increase our throughput per plan.
As a result in the future we'll highlight for you the percentage of our closings from commonly managed floor plans and lose the metric we provided in recent quarters.
We believe this metric is more reflective of what we're trying to achieve as our commonly managed plans have benefited from the work we've done related to our design costing and purchasing initiatives.
In the first quarter approximately 12% of our closings were from such commonly managed plans which is up from 6% in the fourth quarter of last year.
Turning to our overheads we realized further leverage in the quarter as we controlled our spending despite the increase in our closing volume.
As a result SG&amp;A dropped 340 basis points to 11.8% of revenues compared with 15.2% in the first quarter last year.
In absolute dollars SG&amp;A for the period increased 5% to $130 million driven primarily by incentive compensation.
We've spoken in the past about our expectation that we can manage meaningfully higher construction volumes with only modest changes in employee count.
Our first quarter results continue to demonstrate our success in that regard.
As Richard highlighted ongoing initiatives to expand margins in combination with our focus on driving greater overhead leverage helped the company to realize a significant increase in our year-over-year operating margin.
We continue to advance our underlying initiatives and are optimistic that we can realize additional gains in the coming quarters.
Moving to financial services the business generated $14 million of pretax income compared with $7 million in the prior year.
The biggest driver of the improvement in pretax was a 35% increase in mortgage originations which totaled 2 722 for the quarter.
The growth in originations was due to the increased closing volume in our homebuilding operations coupled with a 400 basis point increase in our mortgage capture rate to 82%.
The significant gains in our homebuilding volumes and margins along with higher pretax income for financial services enabled the company to return to first quarter profitability.
In total we reported a net profit of $82 million or $0.21 per share compared with a net loss of $12 million or $0.03 per share in the prior year.
This is our highest first quarter earnings since 2006 and is a reflection of the hard work by PulteGroup employees throughout the organization.
Moving on to our balance sheet we continue to strengthen our financial foundation as we capitalize on improving market demand and benefit from initiatives to be more efficient within our operations and with our capital.
I'd like to highlight that our cash balance increased by $183 million in the first quarter a period during which we typically experienced a cash outflow to fund our operations.
As a result we ended the quarter with a cash balance of $1.7 billion.
The strong cash flow in the period benefited from the higher closing volumes improved profitability and to a smaller degree further reductions in our spec inventory.
To that last point we finished the first quarter with less than 400 finished specs on the ground and with only 1 060 total spec units in production.
This is down from more than 1 000 finished specs and more than 2 000 total specs at the end of last year's first quarter.
With almost 5 700 homes currently under construction this means spec production is now below 20%.
In addition to the resulting capital efficiency this generates we continue to see better price and margins when spec inventory is limited.
On our fourth quarter call we talked about how our improved operating and financial performance gave us the flexibility to increase our authorized land spend in 2013 and '14.
Given the additional gains realized in the first quarter we've made the decision to use cash on hand to opportunistically redeem all of our 2014 senior notes.
The transactions which are expected to be completed in the second quarter will redeem all $399 million in aggregate principal value of our January and May 2014 maturities.
This earlier redemption is expected to lower our debt-to-capital ratio which was 52% at quarter end by approximately 400 basis points.
It's important to note that as Richard mentioned in addition to the debt redemption we have further increased our authorization for land and related development spend for this year and next.
As I mentioned during our fourth quarter conference call given our return requirements and the escalating land prices being seen in most markets it will be interesting to see how much of this increased authorization is put to work this year.
In the first quarter we invested $206 million in land development and acquisitions including putting approximately 3 200 lots under control.
I would also note that our emphasis on efficient use of land assets including the sale of nonstrategic land assets has enabled us to decrease our annual spend on soft costs such as taxes and HOA dues by approximately $50 million annually which represents a decrease of 20% of our soft costs compared to 2 years ago.
In other words $50 million more of our investment is going to land development rather than simply into carrying costs of our land inventory.
Let me now cover several data points before handing the call back to Richard.
For the first quarter net new orders totaled 5 200 homes which represents an increase of 4% over last year.
Higher sign-ups for the period were generated from 14% fewer communities as we ended the quarter at 650 communities compared with 753 communities at the end of the first quarter last year.
The decline in community count is consistent with the outlook we provided at the end of 2012.
Breaking down the sign-up numbers a little further on a year-over-year basis sign-ups increased 17% and 15% respectively at our Pulte and Del Webb communities while Centex' sign-ups decreased by slightly more than 20%.
It's important to note that absorption pace has increased across all 3 of our brands including an 11% increase in our Centex communities.
We're pleased with the overall level of consumer demand we experienced in the first quarter including the solid gains in absorption paces which is in direct alignment with our goals of improving our inventory turns and return on invested capital.
Based on the strong customer activity we've experienced we realized a 290 basis point decrease in our year-over-year sales discounts to go along with the increase in sales prices we're able to achieve.
For the quarter our discounts were 3.4%.
As Richard mentioned we are focused on raising prices and driving margins of most communities rather than maximizing unit volume sales.
The common exception to this is in our larger Del Webb communities where we will allow volumes to run given the depth of their land position.
And finally we ended the first quarter with a total of 7 825 homes in backlog valued at $2.4 billion representing increases of 35% and 52% respectively.
These represent the highest backlog numbers we've carried since the 2007-'08 time frame.
At the end of Q1 we had 5 693 homes under construction.
As indicated earlier only 19% of those units were spec with the remaining 81% of production already under contract.
In conclusion let me say there are many positives we've taken out of the quarter from closing and sign-up volumes to margins cash flow and profitability.
Our Q1 results were important for what they've delivered in the period and how they position us to achieve very strong full year results.
Our operations grow increasingly efficient which is driving improved performance along with providing us the flexibility to take advantage of opportunities when and where they develop.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for some final comments.
Thanks Bob.
Before we open the call for questions let me take some time to provide a few high-level comments on the operating conditions we experienced in the first quarter.
As you would expect given the much improved numbers demand in the quarter remained strong across the majority of our markets.
Generally we experienced higher traffic and better absorption paces as well as opportunities to realize higher pricing.
By geography demand for our business in the eastern third of the country was strong from New England right down through Florida.
Sales in the Greater Boston Area were particularly robust as was the sales pace in the Carolinas down and through Tennessee and into Georgia.
Demand in Florida continue to rebound as inventory levels remain low and buyers continue returning to the market.
Market conditions in the middle third of the country also showed continued strength in the quarter.
Demand in the Midwest was generally strong with limited lot supply and the need to meter our sales often being as big an influence on our sign-up pace as outright buyer demand.
Demand across Texas remains strong although reported sign-ups were little changed as we opted to slow pace and focus on price while we work to get new communities online throughout the state.
In the western third of the country we continue to experience strong buyer interest throughout our operations from the Pacific Northwest down through California and into Arizona and Nevada.
We have however meaningfully limited sales pace in most communities throughout this region of the country as we managed the land pipeline and labor availability.
Echoing some of Bob's comments we are pleased and very encouraged by our first quarter results as they demonstrate the continued recovery in both the company and the overall U.S.
housing market.
Every day we hear questions about the parameters of a housing recovery and whether it is sustainable or what the slope of demand is and how quickly can the industry get back to normal volumes.
While these are important questions they remain out of our control.
So we are focusing on PulteGroup and on running a better business.
Don't get me wrong we certainly keep a close eye on demand within our local markets and specific communities but we see significant opportunities to drive better performance from within our operations consistent with the value creation work we have been pursuing for the past 2 years.
I would like to recognize each of our employees for their contributions to the strong results PulteGroup reported today.
While there is work left to be done you have a lot to be proud of.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Jessica if you'll explain the process we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Richard I think one of the things you taught me about analyzing your business is that really it's difficult to focus on community count as it's a very different business especially in Del Webb.
So maybe if you could just help us going forward how we should be thinking about trying to model order activity because it sounds like you were pleased across the board with your overall performance and yet the orders on even a per community basis were a little bit lighter than we'd expected even when you're trying to push price.
So if you can help us going forward in maybe what community count should look like by year end I think that would be very helpful for everyone.
Sure Ivy.
We're still comfortable with our community count guidance in the range of 10% to 15% down for the year although it's likely going to be toward the higher end of that range.
What I would tell you is that in addition to the community count being a little difficult to analyze for us given our longer positions in some communities we are really focused on driving price and margin as opposed to pace and we tried in our prepared comments to really emphasize the degree to which we feel like we're taking price and limiting sales.
So while we're not going to provide sign-up guidance I will tell you that we're very pleased with the overall level of activity in the market and candidly we feel like we're executing our playbook exactly as we anticipated.
LLC</strong> And with that playbook in mind when we think about the superb margin performance in the quarter I think everyone can see the opportunity.
Would you expect that the performance -- because you've mentioned that you've done things structurally that have allowed for some of that margin expansion above and beyond just pricing can you talk about your outlook as it relates to further margin improvement and is there a governor on margin improvement on a go-forward basis? Or could we be happy to see if pricing continues and some of the benefits from the structural changes you've made will continue to reap benefits to shareholders? Yes Ivy from a margin standpoint a couple of things.
We feel like we're benefiting from a multiple effect from not only our construction efficiencies and a common plan in management work that Bob referenced.
Clearly the mix shift is helping us.
Also our pricing discipline is evident in a whole number of arenas outside of just what is typically thought of as base price things like premiums and options lower discounts.
And then land value is appreciating over time as well.
So we do see further margin expansion from here.
It's not going to be in a straight line.
As we've said before it can be choppy depending on mix deliveries quarter-over-quarter.
But we're confident we've got more in this gas tank.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is about traffic and sales pace at Del Webb and really just about how that's kind of faring if the pickup that you're seeing is kind of been universal into the Del Webb product and your expectations kind of on a go-forward basis for where demand is going to be in the Del Webb products the next few quarters? Yes David Richard here.
As Bob indicated Del Webb was up about 16% year-over-year.
We're pleased with that performance.
And it's following the script that we kind of envisioned where that buyer continues to get more and more comfortable with the housing market continues to have more opportunities to sell existing homes and are feeling better about their overall financial position as clearly the stock market has continued to perform.
So I would say slow and steady from here is our expectation for Del Webb.
It's unfolding about as we expected.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question was on the 2014 land spend guidance.
And really the question is obviously bringing that up is a positive sign but the question is do you think you're going to have to bring it up more as you kind of look forward? Just given the sales pace is obviously strong the market's improving things are getting better do you need to spend more than $1.4 billion on land as you kind of look forward? And maybe can you talk about the parameters on what would make you raise the guidance further? So David Richard here.
I'll start and then turn it to Bob for a second.
I think the thing that we realized is that we have a real disciplined process in place today around how we're going to look at land spend.
And if you can think of it this way our current homebuilding operation is getting better and better and we really like that.
So we're getting more and more comfortable putting more money into a more efficient machine if you will.
Having said that the discipline with which we are looking at land is not changing and land's not on sale right now.
It's expensive.
So with that maybe Bob can give a little more character on how we're looking at it and what might make us change our assumptions going forward.
Yes I think as Richard said we're looking at it with a consistent lens as we go forward.
And one of the things that we're actually thinking about I think to your question on sales basis is what is happening to us for market share in each individual market.
So we're looking at the overall business and say what cash are we generating and how much do we want to invest? And then saying where do we best invest it? Where are the opportunities to invest based on our view of forward business opportunities? And also where do we need to invest to maintain critical relative market share or market share in general? So I think it's a 2-step process that looks at how do we feel about the business and then specifically in markets make sure that we're keeping the leverage there that we think is appropriate.
David Richard.
One more follow-up comment to Bob's.
We feel we're much better off to stick to A-plus properties and the discipline we have to really evaluate this continually on an evergreen basis we believe is better than plopping a huge amount of money into the market in one shot and then kind of seeing what happens over the year.
So as an example if we were going to invest $100 over the year we think it's more prudent to do it in $25 increments giving us the flexibility to see how much further we're driving the current operations as well as targeting A-plus locations versus the natural tendency if you allocated that $100 all at once to maybe buy some B and C properties.
We made that mistake in the past with a lot of investment in one time and we don't want to do that again.
It's all about ROIC now.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
My first question is I was wondering if you could comment on some of the recent trends in raw material costs and labor and in terms of how much your overall construction costs have increased over the last year and how that might have impacted your margins during the quarter.
And also which markets are you seeing the most in terms of labor issues? Sure we have provided I think coming into the year that we were planning for $2 000 to $2 500 in known increases in costs and a lot of that is labor.
What we've seen is that -- if we were to update that number today it's probably $1 000 or $1 200 higher and the primary driver of the difference is lumber obviously I think everybody is aware that lumber prices have risen pretty significantly and labor.
I think where you're seeing labor pressure the most is in the markets that have had the most rapid increase in production over the last year or 2 so think markets like Phoenix.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my next question is I was wondering if you'd be able to provide any color on the order growth by month.
And also if you could comment on what -- maybe what you're seeing in April so far.
Yes Jason this is Richard.
We saw consistent growth through the quarter although we purposely tamped down sales activity and drove price even more through the quarter.
So that influenced our trends a little bit.
And we're pleased with the resulting sales pace we've seen so far in April.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen East with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up a little bit on the cost and pricing.
If you look at your ASPs right now how much of that was mix versus true pricing power? And then how much are you getting -- how much is that over your cost that you're seeing right now? And then within that pricing power that you're actually receiving how much of that is lot premium versus options spend versus your base price? Yes it gets a little bit complicated because there's a whole lot of mix involved in all that.
But what I can tell you is if you look at the $287 000 average ASP that breaks down 342 for Pulte 193 for Centex and 285 for Del Webb.
And those are -- so Pulte was up 8% over first quarter last year Centex was up 2% over first quarter last year and Del Webb was up 4% over last year.
So none of those are over 8% yet our average price is up 10% that's the mix differential.
But again we're seeing price increases across all 3 brands.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you look at lot premium and options spend I know you all are putting a big focus on that and...
Yes.
What you'd also find is that in the quarter quarter-over-quarter average -- so we've told you that we raised prices in a significant number of communities that discount was down 210 basis points versus last year.
And so despite those 2 things what you would find is that our option revenue was up about 18% per unit which is about $6 000.
And our lot premium revenues is up about $2 000 a unit which is about 40% of lot premium.
So we're seeing that we're able to drive increases across all elements of price.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And then Richard just going back to the land spend in the community count I appreciate what you all are trying to do.
And you all -- you are spending a lot of money in -- over the last 18 months or so you said "Hey we've got the land bank et cetera." Are you at a point now where you talked about buying the A+-type stuff? Are you at the point now where the land that you own is with the increased demand is now in a good-enough position that as we start moving into the back half of the year and into 2014 your community growth actually starts to improve? Steven we had indicated that we thought community count wouldn't turn until '14 given the allocation that we authorized last quarter.
And the incremental allocation this quarter isn't going to move the needle on '13.
It takes a while to kind of do that.
So I wouldn't look for community count to turnaround until sometime in '14.
Having said that I hope you can appreciate it's a substantial increase in our overall land investment vis-a-vis what we were in '11 or '12 where we are.
And you're on the order of roughly 40% increases in overall land investment which is substantial.
So we feel like we're doing a really good job of monitoring our land spend and doing it appropriately.
And community count is going to fall in the interim period.
That's okay and as we think we demonstrate this quarter there's more than one way to get to an earnings number and to the extent that we continue focusing on our operations those are good dollars to bring to the bottom line.
I know some folks are anxious for more growth but we're pretty happy with the way things are playing out.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Richard given the focus that you've been talking about on margins and returns when we try to think about Pulte a couple of years out or Pulte through the cycle is there an ideal or a targeted size of the company you're focusing on? Not sure what the best metric to ask is.
Is it revenues inventory closings community count? Can you just share what you think about that? Adam as Bob indicated we do concern ourselves with a relevant market share in markets.
So we're very focused on staying to be a large enough player in the key markets we're in to be able to leverage our trade base to be able to have good land positions et cetera.
Having said that volume is not the focus for the company these days.
We think we've been very consistent about that.
It's driving better returns.
We certainly are going to remain a very large if not the largest builder by revenue.
And it's all about return on invested capital for us going forward.
So I don't know what to tell you regarding a specific size of the organization other than to tell you we feel like we're running a very smart business.
We're delevering; at the same time we're adding incremental investment.
We're driving better business from our current assets.
It's a really nice combination overall.
So we're pleased and we think shareholders are going to really benefit over the long run from this focus on return.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going to spec -- the Centex.
What happened with community count in Centex? And what are you finding in terms of the land opportunities there? And how do you expect that mix to -- do you expect it to continue to decline as an overall contributor? Yes this has been a consistent fact for us over the last couple of years.
You have seen community count dropping.
It did drop in the current quarter.
And I would tell you it is likely to continue to drop because the majority of the investment that we've made -- and this isn't just in the last 3 months but over the last 2 years has been in the move-up category.
And we've talked about it a lot.
Not that we don't like the business it's just that given the economics and the velocity that we see the returns work better on the move-up business.
So we're seeing pace is increasing faster there.
We see higher returns and so our investment has been substantially towards that part of the segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mike Dahl on for Dan.
Just a quick follow-up on that last Centex point.
I guess if you just think about your company longer term and the broader housing market you would expect that the entry level does have to play a much bigger role as we look out over the next few years.
So is that something that you will plan to reinvest in the future? Or is this a more permanent shift? This is Richard Mike.
We definitely plan to invest in this segment in the future.
And we are investing in the segment today.
It's just being outstripped by our investment in particularly the move-up category today.
As Bob indicated it's all about driving the best returns for shareholders.
And right now that seems to be in the move-up category and that doesn't mean that the intra-level category is not a big player in the future.
We continue to invest in that brand and are working hard to find transactions that make sense for it.
Research Division</strong> And I guess along the same lines appreciating that return focus.
How do you think about your spec strategy not just today where you're having to actually manage sales lower in a lot of areas.
But just on a go-forward basis do you plan to increase specs as you look out and you have more communities online or what should we expect there? I really appreciate that question because it gives me the opportunity to really complement our team for driving specs to their lowest level in years.
We currently -- we got less than 400 finished specs about 1/3 of what they were at this time in 2012.
And Mike to the go forward strategy we love the very limited spec strategy.
It's really about limiting finished spec inventory.
We're happy to put specs into production but our teams are keenly focused on selling them at full margin before they final where we can do that.
We're happy to put specs in but don't look for us to revert to the ways we had a few years ago where we put a lot of spec in the ground.
I think Bob indicated about 19% of our business was in spec and 81% presale.
I like that percentage and we'd like to drive it as far as we can because it provides very consistent visibility for our sold backlog.
It supports our overall pricing and margin focus.
It helps with inventory turns because we're not carrying a lot of finished inventory on spec.
And it helps our SG&amp;A because we're not having to cut the grass and heat these homes that don't have buyers in them.
So I'd call that a win-win-win-win-win.
I have a couple -- I have one more for you.
If you look year-over-year we've taken $75 million out of house.
And that's despite the fact that we've got in total 5% more units under construction.
So the ability to drive down final specs and final sold units has allowed us to take all that money out of working capital.
We've reinvested it in homes that are sold and despite that driven a $75 million increase.
It decreased our investment in-house.
Your next question comes from Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> The success you've had on your fixed G&amp;A cost is obviously evident.
Would you expect your fixed G&amp;A cost to still be trending down in line with I guess your incremental community declines this year? Yes certainly if communities close we do have a relative savings.
You don't have the cost of maintaining the model.
You may have 1 or 2 less people on staff.
But I would suggest that that doesn't change the landscape very much.
Just like we've said if we scale up on production we don't have to go hire a bunch of people invest a lot in SG&amp;A.
It doesn't go away immediately either because we're pretty efficient on how we're structured.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the community count that you'll have at the end of the year given your 10% to 15% decline can you talk about how much of that is I guess legacy as opposed to stuff that you bought in the last 2 years? Just to get a sense of mix what's closing and perhaps where we'll be entering '14 from a mix basis? I don't have that data in front of me Ken.
We can probably get back to you with it.
I think in most recent quarters we had talked about somewhere in the neighborhood of 20% but I'm not exactly sure.
Jim do you know? It's about 30% right now.
Roughly 30%.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> You talked a little bit about some of the headwinds in terms of labor and purposely slowing on the order growth side.
Can you just talk us through a little bit? If those things we should think about modeling them in terms of your ability or your timing in terms of closing backlog and backlog conversion going forward.
Megan if I understand the question correctly I think with our focus on presales and lack of specs we have pretty good visibility into our backlog quarter-by-quarter at this stage.
We did indicate on our Q4 call though that conversion rates for the backlog are going to be limited because we're carrying a larger backlog.
And without a lot of spec inventory to add "upside " in the current quarter you're not going to see that.
But I guess the best way that I would think about it is to expect us to have a relatively consistent business going forward.
I don't know if I'm answering your question or maybe I didn't understand it right.
Research Division</strong> No I think you did.
I was just trying to think about going forward if -- backlog conversion was a little choppy last year so it's hard to get a sense of seasonal patterns there.
If we should expect it to continue to slow and then have sort of a ramp-up in the fourth quarter which is relatively consistent industry-wide of if there's anything else going on there we should think about? Well I think you're going to have some of that just the way the natural pace of the business flows.
You generally sell more homes in the front half of the year than the back half so I don't think anything is going to change the trend of Q4 being the biggest closing quarter.
Having said that we're doing our best to not get too far out with our backlog in order to be able to control the next quarter or 2.
And we purposely told our operators even if you have the ability to sell a year out we prefer 6 7 months of backlog to protect ourselves against price increases as well as our cost increases as well as ability to take price.
So we're really happy with how that's going.
I would love for us to get to 25% each quarter.
I don't think that's realistic but we're going to push more in that direction if that can help you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Curious on if you were thinking of expanding in any markets in the next year? If you had your eye on any specific markets.
Joel this is Richard.
We definitely have expansion plans in many markets.
It's all based on our current capital position in the market our relative market share in the market.
And in some cases we're really happy with our overall position and are not adding a lot of capital.
In others we're aggressively growing the business but when you got a business as big as ours it's across the board that authorized incremental land spend is going to play out over time.
But yes definitely there are markets where we're adding additional capital at a rapid rate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I'm saying specifically on any new markets that you had that you entered...
I'm sorry I apologize.
No we're not looking at any new markets that I can think of now.
As Bob indicated we're really focused on driving relative market share within the markets we're in which last time I checked we were in the vast majority of all the permits in the country with the MSAs we had covered.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right and one last one on the tax valuation allowance.
Do you see that coming back on in 2014? We actually will be filing our Q today.
And what we'll say in there is that consistent with I think we said at the end of the year it's our expectation that if business conditions continue the way they have that we would likely be able to reverse a large part of it sometime in the back half of this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question.
You had mentioned migrating towards a common floor plan and that 12% of your deliveries now are using that.
What's the difference from a gross margin standpoint between using a standardized floor plan versus a customized floor plan? Bob this Richard.
We definitely see better margins in commonized floor plans.
It's hard to give you a specific number but it is part of the margin improvement story that we've had now for 9 consecutive quarters.
And the best news there for us is at 12% you can see that it's kind of in its early innings.
We have 6 specific product and purchasing zones around the company.
And we're rolling this process out to all of them this year.
Some like Texas are much further along we'll have much higher percentage of closings there.
But as we roll into other parts of the country it will go up.
So to answer your question better margins.
Wouldn't want to give you a specific number on how much better.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay it's helpful.
Your average order price ASP was up 13.3% which just a test of much better price discipline and favorable mix trends.
how do you see that working out during the balance of the year given your big emphasis on driving ROIC? Well I would continue to expect it to get a lot of attention vis-a-vis letting our operators sell a bunch more homes.
To be crystal clear we could sell a lot more homes in the given quarter than we are right now.
But we don't think it will drive the most favorable ROIC effort for us.
So the thing to think about with pricing as Bob indicates is it's not just base price.
It's options it's lot premiums it's base price it's managing discounts.
It's managing all the factors.
And best way if I were you to think about it is we're really doing a good job at disaggregating the pieces of price.
We have very good visibility into that today.
And we're focused on driving each one of them as far as we can.
We've been real pleased with what that increased visibility has done to all components of price.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Obviously you guys are talking about a lot of things that are very favorable particularly as it relates to metering sales for price.
This is something obviously we're also hearing from a lot of other builders.
But I particularly wanted to understand how the extremely strong demand environment of late has -- what effect that's having on your strategic repositioning strategy.
I would think that the very strong demand should allow you to accelerate the process of restructuring your operations.
And so in that vein it would seem also by extension that in 2014 when you are ready to begin expanding your community count that perhaps we might be able to see you expand that more aggressively than your peers.
Can you just comment on that thought process and what it means for 2014 in light of the extremely strong demand that probably is greater than you had originally envisioned? Yes Steven.
I would say this first of all when you talk about strategic repositioning I assumed you mean with regard to our land investment strategy.
And we feel like we've done an excellent job of ensuring that we have a better operating platform before we plow a lot of additional funds in and particularly given our long land position as a company.
And you've certainly seen the benefits and our quarterly earnings from that strategy.
It's important to note that our decisions today are not going to manifest themselves for 18 to 24 months from capital authorized today before they come online.
So we feel like we're making those decisions today.
And with all due respect we feel like 40% plus or minus incremental increase in capital is a big one.
It may not match those of a couple of our peers but we're doing our very best to stay disciplined on the A+ properties where we can continue to drive great results and not get caught up in let's grow because the market is really strong.
It doesn't do us a lot of good to grow if we're not going to grow extremely profitably and driving a lot of that to the bottom line so...
Research Division</strong> Right.
Richard but I guess what I'm asking is that when 2014 comes in light of the very significant ramp in investment that you've been making can we see that manifest itself in a greater subdivision count growth next year relative to a relatively more depressed 2013 compared to your peers? I think if I understand our ability to open communities doesn't get impacted by the work we're doing around commonly managed floor plans and trying to be efficient.
At the end of the day you still have to go through -- and actually if the land is raw you have to go through the entitlement process.
You actually have to spend development dollars.
All that is -- are things that are outside of the purview of we're going build houses more efficiently.
So its a 2-step process: one is to get the land ready; 2 is to then build on it.
And at the end of the day interestingly what we're seeing today is more raw land opportunities.
Finished lots you've heard many people talk about it are very scarce and so we're taking bigger land positions.
We're going to have to take -- put development dollars to work.
So it's not as simple as Okay you've spent a lot more money.
We're going to see community count because it depends on how you spend the money.
And the market dictates that to some degree.
Your next question comes from the line of James McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> What was the can rate in the quarter? The cancellation rate was 13%.
Research Division</strong> Okay could you break that out by segment? Yes we've got that.
We're trying to find it Jay hang on just 1 second.
Research Division</strong> And the second question I had while you're looking for that is could you discuss the thought process of maybe buying some private competitors to accelerate the neighborhood count or accelerate the lock count rather than increasing the spending up to $1.4 billion and doing it yourself? Yes so on that comment overall that's always been part of the land strategy overall.
It's just a question of whether the economics work.
So that's definitely part of what we would and always do consider candidly.
So Jim I think you have the other number? Yes the cancellation rates it's 11% for Pulte for the quarter; 20% for Centex for the quarter; and 9% for Del Webb.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko with Susquehanna International Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A follow-up I think on Megan's question on backlog conversion.
Just to maybe ask it a different way.
59% this quarter net down from I think 79% last quarter.
Is 59% the right kind of number? Does it go below 59% I guess to the balance of the year is the question? Jack it's not a number candidly that we focus a lot on internally.
So we're a little off the cuff trying to answer this but I wouldn't say it's a bad number.
We're pretty pleased with the rate at which we metered out sales this quarter are very limited to drive margins.
The only thing I'd add is and Richard highlighted this before the sales environment is seasonal.
So you're going to see more activity in the front half of the year for sales.
And just based on construction cycles that means you're going to see more construction deliveries in the back half of the year.
And so I don't know that you want to look at it on a steady state.
It's not going to be the same quarter by quarter but year-over-year you shouldn't see significant fluctuations.
So if we're 59% in this quarter first quarter next year likely should be 59% absent some significant change in the business environment.
So sales accelerated or sales decelerated for some reason.
But what we're trying to do is get production flow more even.
So again we've got roughly 6 months of production in backlog at maximum so you wouldn't see that change over time.
LLLP Research Division</strong> That's perfect.
That's absent seasonality the numbers are probably where they're at okay.
And on the note redemption side obviously there's going to be a lift to margin there.
Do you have other redemption opportunities there? And how do you think about going out -- you've got the cash build you've got profit over volume.
Land price is going up.
I mean are there other notes we can potentially see this happen with? And is there a point where it's just a better return outlook to do more of this type of transaction versus lands? How are you guys thinking about that? Yes I think we look at capital in the aggregate obviously.
And so yes we have a lot of cash available today.
We were looking at the '14 because under the make-whole provisions we actually can invest the money at more accretive rates than we could invest in the money markets right now.
In terms of the impact on margins that's more of a prospective thing so that will benefit margins not in '13 but '14 '15 '16 kind of a timeframe.
And that's true of all the reductions that we've had over time.
And as we look at our total capital picture we look at the entire debt structure we look at whether we're -- we've got opportunities to either take things out or refinance them more attractively.
And obviously we'll always think about if we've got excess liquidity how might its dividend or share repurchase fit into that.
Again we look at it in total.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to circle back to the increase in the land spend to $1.4 billion annually.
Richard if I listen to a couple of the other things you're saying obviously land prices have risen a lot.
It's tough to find deals that pencil.
You folks have developed this discipline in terms of capital allocation and you intend to stick to it.
You're not going to chase volumes obviously.
The pace of land spend if I heard you correctly I think you mentioned it was just over $200 million in the first quarter.
So not at quite a pace of $1.4 million.
So it sounds like if things remain as they are right now you may have difficulty reaching that $1.4 billion.
So is the right way to think about this $1.4 billion as more just how much your balance sheet allows as opposed to just how much money you're going to force into the system? It's Bob sorry.
That's exactly right.
So we've got visibility obviously into most of our spend for '13 already.
As Richard highlighted anything we're doing today is really going to be for future production.
So we have pretty good visibility into what our spend will be right now for the balance of the year.
Obviously we have folks spending a lot of time looking for transactions that some may fund this year some may fund next year.
It depends on structure.
So if we go out and buy a lot of raw land with 100% purchase that burns money this year.
We're asking people to try and find terms.
So even on raw do we get it on option takes? You've got some spend this year you've got some spend in the future.
How does the development dollar spend fit into that? So again we've highlighted the fact that we've authorized them to commit us to $1.4 billion in spend.
But that we weren't sure they all get spent this year.
And it's either because we can't find return accretive things or because we'll tie up land this year and actually make some of the spend next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I remember that must be the base figure that we've been talking about the $950 million or $1 billion.
I wanted to make sure to get my second question in but if you can just clarify that.
And my second question was on SG&amp;A.
Terrific job on SG&amp;A.
It only went up 5% mostly as you mentioned incentive comp.
Your homebuilding revenues went up more than 1/3.
So if I think about the variable components of SG&amp;A the commissions and the co-broke that implies that on a level SG&amp;A base against the 35% increase in the home building revenues that there were parts of your SG&amp;A that were contracting meaningfully.
Now you obviously mentioned that the decline in community count is something that helps there.
But I just wanted to understand what is declining so substantially and what have you been so successful in in actually reducing outright so significantly? Nishu one thing you have to remember is we've actually got commissions up in cost of sales so that big variable piece that you're looking for is actually going through margin not through SG&amp;A.
So I would suggest there's -- I mean there's lots and lots of moving pieces.
But really the primary driver of the change in SG&amp;A was compensation related to the improved performance of the business.
Nishu to add to that we have said pretty consistently we felt like we could ramp the business 30% 40% plus or minus without adding a lot of SG&amp;A.
And I think that's what we're demonstrating here very pointedly in this quarter.
We've got significant ramp up in revenue and total business without much change in SG&amp;A so we feel good about that.
And the leverage from here we feel good about.
I think you had had a follow-up question with regard to the land piece.
The $950 million to $1 billion was kind of our previous level of spend in '11 and '12.
And we had increased that last quarter to the kind of $1.2 billion level and a little more in '14.
To be clear that's now at the $1.4 billion authorized level for '13 and '14.
And just to note and highlight something Bob said a good portion of that's development spend right? So every single incremental dollar is not into a new land transaction per se.
It's development spend in communities that are running faster that type of thing.
So we feel good about that.
And then to your question about whether or not that's the maximum that the balance sheet will allow I would suggest the balance sheet would allow more than that.
But we are being very disciplined around how we're thinking about it.
And candidly you're seeing us redeem some notes.
Bob mentioned we're looking at all uses of capital.
So gone are the days where every available free dollar's going to go back into development in land for the company.
We want to drive the best returns.
Your next question comes from the line of Buck Horne with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you could provide the mix of financing that your buyers use? If you have that data the splits between FHA mortgages or conforming mortgages? And also if you -- have you seen an uptick in the number of cash buyers recently? I would tell you that the mix of business is about the same.
It's about 1/3 government spec.
And in terms of cash buyers I haven't heard anything substantial around that.
And if you think about it if you look at our mortgage origination they're up 35% year-over-year.
That's -- the builder was only up 23% year-over-year.
Again we had capture rate so we're getting more of the business which tells me that there's probably less -- or not less but not a significant change in cash buyers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you have the number of finished lots you had on balance sheet? And also roughly how many mothballed lots are still on the balance sheet? The finished lots are about 1/3.
It's pretty consistent with where we were last year.
And we've struggled with the mothball concept over time again because of our Del Webb position.
So we haven't provided a mothball number.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Jim Zeumer for closing remarks.
Thank you Jessica.
I want to thank everybody for their time this morning.
We will be around all day if you've got any follow-up questions.
Beyond that we'll look forward to talking to you at the end of next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning everyone.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome you all to the PulteGroup Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call over to our host Mr.
Jim Zeumer.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I want to welcome you to PulteGroup's earnings call to discuss our second quarter financial results for the 3 months ended June 30 2013.
On the call to discuss Pulte's results are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Ossowski Vice President Finance and Controller.
Before we begin I want to remind everyone that copies of this morning's earnings release and the related release on our dividend and expanded share repurchase program along with the presentation slides that accompanies today's call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
I also want to alert participants that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call including references to gross margins reflecting certain adjustments are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release and as an appendix to the call's presentation slide deck.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested on our -- by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and thank you everyone for joining today's call as we discuss the strong second quarter operating and financial performance that PulteGroup reported earlier this morning.
As you are aware we also issued a press release yesterday afternoon announcing the declaration of a quarterly dividend and the expansion of our share repurchase plan.
Bob will provide more information on these announcements later in the call.
Taken in combination our solid second quarter financial results; the allocation of capital to fund the dividend our first in more than 4 years; and the expansion of our share repurchase plan reflect continued progress in our efforts to drive higher shareholder returns through greater operational and capital efficiency.
We are very pleased with the strides our organization continues to make.
While it is minimally 90 days since our last earnings call questions and comments about the industry suggest that many believe the operating environment has been significantly impacted by the recent uptick in mortgage rates.
Obviously rates are important but our internal data suggest that not much has changed so far in the macro housing market.
We have been consistent in saying that the recovery in housing has been more about lack of supply than a dramatic increase in fundamental buyer demand.
The significant drawdown of foreclosed and other distress inventory combined with the extremely tight supply of existing and new homes has done 2 things.
First it provided an environment where selling prices could stabilize and then ultimately begin to recover.
Second these supply and pricing dynamics helped to create a sustained sense of urgency among prospective buyers who are now more anxious to purchase a home.
We have also said that measured rate increases in concert with healthy macroeconomic performance would be another factor that could increase that sense of urgency among buyers.
Recent analyst reports also suggest that demand conditions have not changed materially and that house inventory remains extremely tight in most markets.
At the risk of stating the obvious I would remind everyone that while home prices and rates are higher they started from such a low base that consumers can still find value in buying a new home today.
This is especially true given that apartment rental rates continue to march higher in many markets.
Just as market conditions remain on track so do our business strategies and the tactics as we continue to implement the plan we articulated over 24 months ago.
While there are many components to our work the goals remain to deliver higher returns on investment capital over the housing cycle by focusing on expanding gross margins driving greater overhead leverage improving inventory turns and buy more efficiently and effectively using capital.
Successful execution of these key initiatives is enabling PulteGroup to drive meaningful and we believe sustainable earnings growth which is critical to the company delivering higher returns on invested capital.
We believe that over time our focus on running a better homebuilding operation will allow us to grow the quantity as well as the quality of our earnings that we generate while supporting better long-term returns.
The improvements in our second quarter earnings results show that these continue to be the right areas of focus as we reported earnings of $0.09 per share including $0.17 per share of charges which Bob will discuss.
Adjusting for the charges earnings would be more than double last year's second quarter earnings of $0.11 a share.
Among the key drivers of our improved earnings performance is our focus on driving price and margin rather than simply pushing unit volume an approach we would have likely employed in the past.
Consistent with this focus our average selling price was up $25 000 to $294 000.
Benefiting from the increased selling prices along with our efforts to lower house construction costs our adjusted gross margin for the second quarter expanded by 360 basis points over the prior year to 23.9%.
This marks the 10th quarter in a row of improvement in our adjusted gross margin.
We don't provide formal guidance but given the strong pricing environment coupled with trends in material costs and our initiatives to drive construction efficiency we see opportunities for margins to continue expanding in the future.
Certainly an ongoing shift in product mix to move-up homes is helping reported prices in margins where we have realized higher selling prices across each of our brands.
Further in the past 90 days I will tell you that our markets have raised prices in at least 50% of open communities while many of our divisions are reporting that they actually raised prices in all of their communities during the quarter.
The price increases during the quarter which will benefit future closings were generally in the range of 1% to 5%.
Consistent with this focus on price over pace we have continued to be very measured in our selling efforts.
As we have talked about on prior calls we continue to purposely meter sales across a number of communities in key markets throughout the country.
Based on feedback from our operations in about 2/3 of our markets we have purposely constrained sales to some degree in 10% or more of the available communities.
In fact in some of the hotter markets out west including Arizona Nevada and Southern California we have controlled sales in more than 50% of the open communities.
In a nutshell we are effectively maximizing the value of our land assets by selling houses for more money and better margins while using the resulting strong cash flow to invest in the business pay down debt and as demonstrated by our action on dividends and share repurchases returning funds to shareholders.
Some of you have heard us say that along with being a more efficient operator we want to be more balanced with regard to the capital allocation decisions we make in our business.
I think the decisions implemented in the second quarter demonstrate that we are committed to this model.
Before handling -- handing the call over to Bob I want to provide a few comments related to the impact of higher interest rates on housing demand.
As I said earlier we view the initial recovery in U.S.
housing as being more about changes in supply than demand.
Further we have said that in light of today's tight mortgage lending environment it is generally the more qualified move-up buyer who is the most active in the market today.
Given this combination over the near term we continue to believe that the recent rise in rates is likely to have only a limited impact on demand especially if the higher rates reflect the strengthening economy.
Specific to PulteGroup we can tell you that traffic to our communities remain consistent over the quarter while cancellation rates were a little changed in the period.
We did a quick check on our operations and about 85% of our divisions believe that the rise in rates has had little impact so far or may have actually worked to increase buyer activity.
As I mentioned with rates rising from such low levels and uptick can spur more buyers that it eliminates over the short term although we have to see how this plays out going forward.
We are in the camp that if higher rates reflect improving economic conditions we would expect the housing recovery to remain on track.
As an industry we can sell more houses if more people have jobs even with modestly higher rates.
Let me now turn the call over to Bob for more details on our quarterly results.
Bob? Thank you Richard and good morning.
Building on Richard's comments I would agree to the gains realized in our Q2 financial results and the capital positions we announced yesterday reflect the successful execution of our value creation program launched in 2011.
It's rewarding to see that the hard work by our employees is beginning to payoff.
Now let me review some of the numbers.
For the second quarter home sale revenues increased 19% over the prior year to $1.2 billion.
The increase in revenue reflects a 9% increase in closing to 4 152 homes in combination with the $25 000 or 9% increase in average selling price to $294 000.
The higher selling price was driven by price increases as well as the ongoing shift in our closings towards move-up and active adult homes.
Specifically we realized higher selling prices within each of our brands including increases of 8% in Pulte 1% in Centex and 10% in Del Webb.
And our closing mix included 46% from Pulte 27% from Del Webb and 27% from Centex which is consistent with the first quarter of this year.
You may recall in the second quarter of last year our closing mix was 42% from Pulte 25% from Del Webb and 33% from Centex.
Consistent with recent quarters the contribution of closings from Centex communities has seen a significant decrease.
Land sale revenues in the quarter were $20 million.
We will continue to opportunistically divest noncore land assets although timing of any resulting transactions can vary greatly from period-to-period.
In the second quarter we reported an adjusted gross margin of 23.9% which is 360 basis points higher than Q2 of last year and 100 basis points higher than Q1 of this year.
Consistent with prior quarters our adjusted gross margin continued to benefit from company-specific and industry-wide factors including better pricing an increase in the volume of home closings from our Pulte and Del Webb branded communities and our ongoing efforts to lower home construction costs.
Gross margins are also benefiting from our strategic pricing initiatives pursuant to which we are fine tuning pricing and more accurately identifying those items that consumers truly value.
Consistent with recent quarters margin contributions from lot premiums and option revenues increased and sales discounts dropped 290 basis points to 2.6%.
During our last earnings call we introduced the metric of closings from commonly managed floor plan.
As we've discussed these are homes that have been constructed under the more efficient design cost and build processes that we are implementing throughout the country.
You may recall that in Q1 the percentage of closings from such commonly managed plans was 12%.
On a unit basis the number of closings from commonly managed plans increased from Q1 of this year by roughly 25% to almost 600 homes.
As a percent of total Q2 closings commonly managed plans now account for 13%.
We expect this percentage will grow in future quarters as we roll out our processes across the country.
Our total overhead spend for the second quarter this year was $151 million or 12.3% of home sale revenues.
This includes $13 million or 110 basis points of costs associated with our relocation to Atlanta.
This compares to SG&amp;A of $124 million or 12.1% of revenues in Q2 of last year.
The current year relocation charges include estimates for severance retention award and relocation costs.
Other than the office relocation charges the year-over-year increase in SG&amp;A was due primarily to higher variable comp resulting from the company's improved financial results as well as volume-sensitive costs.
We're pleased to see that after adjusting for the office relocation charges the company continued to realize leverage on its overhead spend as costs increased by only $13 million against the top line revenue increase of $195 million.
Our financial services operations generated pretax income of $16 million in the quarter which was consistent with the prior year.
Total mortgage origination volumes for the quarter increased 8% to 2 812 due to the increase in closing volumes from our homebuilding operations partially offset by a 200 basis point decrease in our capture rate to 80%.
Moving down the income statement.
The company reported other expenses net of $57 million for the quarter.
This was driven primarily by 2 items.
In the quarter we retired $434 million of senior notes.
This includes $399 million in connection with the previously announced redemption of all of our 2014 notes as well as $35 million acquired note for the market transaction.
We recorded an aggregate $23 million loss in connection with these transactions including the write-off of unamortized discounts premiums and transaction fees.
We also recorded a $30 million charge resulting from a contractual dispute at a previously completed luxury community in a market the company had since exited.
This dispute has progressed through various stages of arbitration but is not yet fully resolved.
The charge reflects our best estimate of cost resulting from arbitration ruling and ongoing settlement discussions but the ultimate resolution of these may -- these claims may be different and could result in additional costs of as much as $40 million.
We currently anticipate the majority of these claims will be received -- resolved in 2013.
In summary PulteGroup reported second quarter net income of $36 million or $0.09 per share which included $67 million or $0.17 per share in charges.
For the second quarter of 2012 the company recorded net income of $42 million or $0.11 per share.
Overall our homebuilding operations continued to demonstrate meaningful improvement across all the key metrics we have been focusing on including price margins and overhead leverage.
Let me now highlight some of the significant strides we've made in our balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $1.3 billion of cash despite paying down the $434 million of debt during the period as we continued to generate cash flow from operations during a period when we would typically experience a cash outflow to fund our business.
The strong cash flow reflects our higher closing volumes improved profitability and to a smaller degree further reductions in our spec inventory.
At quarter end we had only 271 finished specs on the ground which represents a decrease of 55% compared to the second quarter of last year.
In total we ended the quarter with fewer than 900 specs in production or less than 1.5 specs per community.
This is down 45% from last year.
And at the end of the second quarter we had 6 539 homes under construction which means that spec building has dropped to 13% of production.
This is roughly half of what it was a year ago and only 25% of what it was at the end of 2011.
As we've discussed on prior calls we typically see better pricing and higher margins on dirt sales than we do on spec units.
I would also point out that in addition to supporting better margins and freeing up working capital reducing our spec production has the added benefit of aiding our house inventory turn which continued to improve in the period.
Looking at land activity.
We've put approximately 10 100 lots under control during the quarter and invested a total of $332 million in land acquisition and development.
This is up from $206 million in the first quarter of this year and is consistent with our previously announced plans to raise our land investment authorization by roughly 40% this year.
As we've discussed our improving operational capability has given us significant great -- significantly greater financial flexibility.
In recent years we've used this as an opportunity to reduce our leverage including the debt that we retired this quarter.
As a result our debt-to-cap ratio has declined to 47% from 61% at this time last year.
Net of cash on hand our debt-to-cap has dropped to 26%.
I'm pleased to say that our improving flexibility allows us to extend our capital allocation options to include the dividend as well as potential share repurchases.
As we have discussed we would like to be more balanced with our capital and believe the return of capital to shareholders should be part of our capital decision model.
To that end I'm pleased to report that our board has declared a quarterly cash dividend our first since the end of 2008.
The $0.05 per share dividend will be payable August 12 to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 5.
The board also approved the share repurchase authorization for an additional $250 million raising the company's total repurchase authorization to $352 million.
As noted in the release announcing these actions we believe they illustrate our confidence in the long-term prospects for the company and are consistent with our focus on increasing shareholder value and returning capital to our shareholders.
Considering the dividend and repurchase authorizations our current capital decisions reflect the broader and more balanced approach we have been talking about over the last year.
Before handing the call back to Richard let me cover a few more data points.
In the second quarter net new orders totaled 4 885 homes which is a decrease of 12% from last year.
Given the price increases we've realized the dollar value of sign-ups is $1.5 billion which is down only 5% from the prior year.
Sign-ups for the period were impacted by a 16% decrease in community count as well as by the company's decision to purposely close sales in a number of communities particularly in Arizona Nevada and Southern California where we've sold too fast at the start of the recovery in 2012.
We sold 400 fewer units in these 3 markets in the second quarter this year which was a major contributor to the year over decline -- year-over-year decline in total sign-ups.
Breaking down the sign-up numbers a little further on a year-over-year basis sign-ups decreased 20% at Pulte and 18% at Centex while increasing 8% at Del Webb.
Absorption paces per community were up 14% at Centex and 15% at Del Webb and slowed 8% at Pulte which was impacted by our efforts to maximize the profit opportunity of each house.
And finally we ended the quarter with 8 558 homes in backlog valued at $2.7 billion.
Backlog units and dollars are up 13% and 25% respectively over the prior year.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for some final comments.
Thanks Bob.
Before we open the call for questions I will spend just a couple of minutes offering comments on market conditions we experienced during the second quarter.
As you would anticipate based on our comments on this call we view overall market conditions to be very favorable.
By geography I would offer the following views.
Buyer demand on the East Coast was generally strong from the Northeast down to Florida with notable strength in the Greater Boston area as well as Raleigh and Atlanta.
The strength in Atlanta is a positive development and that it was one of the last markets to participate in the recovery.
Given the volume and profit potential this city can generate we're excited to see this turnaround turn into a meaningful and sustained upcycle.
Further south demand in Florida remained strong in the quarter as inventory levels are contained and pricing continues to move higher.
Demand conditions in our Midwest markets continued to be robust.
We are even seeing an upturn in demand in Chicago which like Atlanta was one of the last markets to participate in the housing recovery.
Chicago was another city that can generate substantial pretax income so we're encouraged to see a revival in this key Midwest market.
Continuing the trend from the start of the year demand on the ground in Texas is strong although we are opting to focus on price and margin rather than just driving units.
And finally as you read in just about every report consumer demand out west remains one of the strongest in the entire country.
From Seattle to California and the Southwest demand far outpaces supply.
As I mentioned earlier in hindsight we likely let sales get out too far in Arizona Nevada and Southern California in 2012 so this year's strategy is to have a more measured and consistent sales pace in general but particularly in these 3 markets.
I want to thank everyone for your time on this morning's call.
Also I want to thank the entire PulteGroup organization for their hard work and commitment which is really at the heart of our improved financial results.
The U.S.
housing market continues to recover and history would suggest that there's a long way to go before the industry gets back to normal volumes.
We will continue to monitor what the impending impact of recent uptick in mortgage rates has in demand.
Although as I said earlier the industry can handle higher rates assuming they are accompanied by more jobs better consumer confidence and generally stronger economic conditions.
Again thanks for your time.
I'll now turn the call back over to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Operator to explain the process let's get started with Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Really appreciate all the color and commentary around your efforts on pace versus price and your comments -- really nice granular comments in terms of feedback from the field in terms of the recent impact of rates.
I guess the only other thing I'd be interested in is during the quarter did you see a change in sales pace? Certainly the description by brand was also very helpful in some of the more intentional efforts in Pulte and so it might be hard to parse out seasonality out of these effects.
But you said that traffic was consistent during the quarter.
Can rates changed little? But any inter- quarter trends by region or by brand I think might also be helpful in understanding the recent movement in rates.
Yes Mike this is Richard thanks for the question.
Generally we saw consistent results throughout the quarter and I'll offer that we're pleased with the way July is unfolding as well.
So no real change in traffic levels sign-up patterns in general.
You will note from our comments we're pleased that our Del Webb performance is up.
That's an area that we want to see continue to move forward but pretty consistent throughout the quarter and so far in July.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess kind of bigger picture with regards to your comments and announcement on the share repurchase.
Is this something that you expect to implement over the next couple of quarters on a shorter-term basis? And longer term in the past cycle there were only a couple of builders really that bought back shares on a consistent basis really part of their cash flow strategy or free cash flow strategy.
And those 2 companies that did that actually had very strong performance.
Is that something that you expect to really inculcate into your cash flow approach on a real consistent basis? Or do you kind of see it more opportunistic at different points when -- just more of a -- again an opportunistic approach? Yes Mike Richard again.
I'll start and then throw it to Bob.
We're really pleased that we're able to reintroduce the dividend and talk about a share repurchase plan.
This is extremely consistent with what we signaled for the last 24 months.
We intend to be more balanced with our overall approach to capital.
And frankly part of that includes our overall position on land acquisition.
We're pleased that we're able to increase our spend this quarter in land acquisitions substantially from Q1 that's in keeping with what we told everyone.
But the watch word here is balance.
I wouldn't want to get into any specifics with regard to share repurchase plans.
We wouldn't want to signal any trading patterns or anything like that.
But we do intend to be more balanced with our overall capital approach and part of that is returning shares -- or capital to shareholders.
So with that Bob? The only thing I would add to that is Mike we think of it sort of 4 elements right? We've got investment in the land -- in the business; we've got dividend payments; we've got share repurchases; and we've got leverage that we need to manage against all of those things.
So I think -- if you -- against that balance comments that Richard just made obviously the dividend that we've just announced is roughly $20 million a quarter so it would be $80 million a year.
We have authorized up to 40% more spend.
That would be the first 2 things that we would look at in terms of how we allocate available cash and cash generation.
And then you would look at the others.
So I don't know that I would say it's opportunistic or not.
It would be how much cash do we have available and what are the other uses that we've used for it and what's the underlying intrinsic value of the equity.
So it's a -- something that we'll be looking at continually honestly.
Your question comes from Stephen East of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> If we could just follow on that a little bit.
When you look at your allocation into land et cetera do you expect to see community count growth? When will that start to turn positive? What do you think it will be like in 2014? Yes Steve we had indicated nothing new on that front.
We expect it to be down this year before bottoming some point into '14.
We haven't given any further guidance.
We intend to on our fourth quarter call as we start to ramp up projections for '14.
We're certainly pleased that we're able to increase our land spend from $206 million in Q1 to $332 million in Q2 and you saw the lot count that we put under control in Q2 was a little over 10 000 lots.
So a step up in activity.
We'll have to see what that does to community count in the future but no further guidance now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you look at -- right now when you look at sort of the best use of cash and you go through -- in this early in the cycle I would assume reinvestment is is the highest use of cash and yet you all are already taking a pretty balanced approach.
I guess I'm wondering what type of growth in the underlying business should we expect.
Or is this going to be a fairly run flat type of business for the next year or so? Steve it's Bob.
Following on Richard we're not providing forward guidance but we have been I think clear over time that we think today is the best investment dollar option for us in the business.
Again 40% increase for fiscal '13.
And what we do is we actually invest in markets where we think we've got opportunities to enhance our relative market share or maintain it.
So I think no change from us in that regard.
The only thing I would add to Richard's commentary a moment ago was while we are increasing our investment we are finding that we are buying more raw land than finished lots.
And so there's a little bit further delay obviously in terms of when communities come online because of that.
And Stephen Richard.
One other thing I'd like to add our real focus is on growing earnings and growing returns.
And we think we've demonstrated nicely that we can grow earnings without relying strictly on unit growth if you will.
And we've done a nice job with that with margins.
And as I indicated we think there's more in that tank to go.
Your next question comes from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Why don't you talk about the absorption pace at Del Webb specifically and it's great to see pricing up.
Get a little bit of an idea of kind of how much of that was -- if there was any shift either on product that's being purchased or even geography for Del Webb? And also kind of how you think about the pace versus price at Del Webb given the kind of higher capital costs in the communities and the longer lives? Yes David this is Richard.
Our pace is -- we're up about 15% in Del Webb overall and we're really happy with that.
It is of the 3 brands the 1 brand where we are not limiting sales pace if you will because we have such an investment.
So again under the mantra of ROIC our goal is to drive more pace there.
At the same time our margins expanded nicely in that sector as did pricing come up as well.
So we are seeing what we expected that as the longer this recovery unfolds the more and more Del Webb buyers come back into the overall sector.
Our average selling price is up 10% in Webb with sales pace absorption paces being up 15% so a nice combination.
In terms of geography we're seeing strength in a lot of markets and I'm pleased to say that some of the Midwest markets for Del Webb also saw some strength in the quarter with a notable outside strength in northern California.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just my second question was on cycle times and if you're seeing any extension in cycle times or if you're able to kind of curb [ph] any potential extensions just through all the efforts you guys have been through on efficiency and trying to drive some process efficiencies? And David youre asking about house construction cycle times or...
Research Division</strong> Exactly exactly.
Yes.
So we are experiencing some minor delays in cycle times as trade availability is difficult.
Having said that we have a huge effort internally on overall efficiency and we're real pleased with regards to that.
Some of the extension with regard to our cycle times is a result of our option focus on substantial margin that we're driving from options which is a change in the last 24 months for us as we've talked about.
And Bob indicated in his prepared remarks our option revenue is up.
So we'll take that tradeoff.
We think from an overall return blend the incremental margin we're generating even if it's a couple of extra days and cycle times more than pays off.
Your next question comes from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Richard I guess on the overall kind of balance between growth and units or top line and margin expansion you guys have obviously done a great job driving the margin improvement and net-net sort of winning on the ROIC side there.
But at what point do you see an inflection point where you can do both sort of a balanced top line growth that may be matches the market or is closer to the market? And also seeing the benefits of the cost improvements that are in place to drive the margin side? And what do you sort of look for as the key metric that can drive that inflection point? Because I think as you've talked about in the past community count is a driver but not necessarily the best driver as you guys think about it? Yes Dennis that's a great question.
And frankly we feel like we needed to get our balance sheet in line and we needed to improve our overall capability in the homebuilding side before we got much more comfortable adding a lot more volume.
We're at that point and as you've seen the 40% increase in authorization Bob indicated is beginning to get into the business the $332 million versus $206 million in total land and development spend in Q2 will have an impact in future quarters.
There's no question about that.
So I would tell you if you think about the business sort of separately how much do you invest in land to kind of take advantage of the market versus how much do you focus on sort of your core homebuilding operation.
We felt for a long time that we have a lot more efficiencies to gain out of our homebuilding operation and we really really work hard on that and feel really good about that now.
So we certainly are not afraid to incrementally invest in the business and we've made that decision several quarters ago and we're beginning to kind of put that to work.
Having said that we are committed to a balanced approach.
Don't look for us to go back to the days where Pulte was grow grow grow at all cost.
We want to be balanced.
We think our indication of a dividend and share repurchase authorization is good indications of that.
We paid down more debt in the quarter.
We really like our position.
We're very financially flexible and we're running a better business.
So Bob do want to add anything to that? Nothing no.
LLC</strong> So as you think about the absolute pace and this is a -- maybe you can add more color by markets.
Do you feel like your absolute pace is in a sweet spot that you prefer between pace and price? Or would you be surprised to see pace slow even further and price accelerate further? That's a tough question to answer because you got to go by community.
I would say this.
I feel extremely good about how we ran the business in Q2.
I think we did a really nice job squeezing everything we could out of the Pulte brand which have seen a lot of strength.
And we let the Centex and the Webb brand run a little bit more especially the Webb brand.
So it's hard to exactly say.
I guess we'll have to look at supply conditions by community overall.
If we continue to see incredibly tight supplies in northern California Seattle some of these other markets I suspect price is going to continue to go up.
I mean you heard us say that we took price from 1% to 5% pretty much across the board and that's going to benefit the future quarters so really pleased with the blend.
I felt like last year as Bob indicated in his remarks we'd let it get away from us a little bit in the early part of the year in some markets.
We don't feel that way this year.
I think we're doing a nice job by asset of maximizing our opportunity? Your next question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The land acquisition that you all talked about could you give us a sense for what kind of buyer mix is assumed as you're going out into the market? And the background for the question is essentially that you and most of the other builders talk about a mix shift that they've been seeing whether because of tight credit partially -- and also just where the demand is.
They're able to sell to a more of a move-up buyer than they historically done.
And I'm curious as to whether your land purchases assume that that mix continues into the next few years? Or if it assumes a reversion back to a more typical type of buyer in a more open credit situation? Stephen it's Bob.
It's interesting.
We don't actually ask our -- we're agnostic as to buyer group.
So what we ask our land acquisition teams to do is focus on return.
So which land parcels are they looking at that can generate the best return? And what we have seen for 24 months now is that the opportunities that we are seeing are largely in the move-up space because that's where credit is more available.
So that -- we've talked about that in the first time space you can't get enough volume through to make the returns work.
So most of our investments has been on the Pulte or move-up states.
We also actually find that we're in certain markets looking at Webb transactions.
We opened a new Webb in Raleigh which has done very well since it opened.
So I think it's really return focus for us rather than demographics when we're looking at land.
I don't know if that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Well it does.
But if I could push back on that a little bit more.
I mean that would seem to imply that -- an assumption that the move that we've seen the mix shift that we've seen is not a cyclical phenomenon or is not a phenomenon that will reverse at some point when credit availability improves.
But my suspicion would be that most folks including yourselves would assume -- would believe that credit availability will at some point improve which would almost de facto mean that you would have more entry-level buyers entering the market.
And therefore all of those return metrics that you use for land investment would then change and make the entry-level look more appealing than it does today.
So I just was curious as to why you don't feel it's prudent to maybe introduce an element of that kind of adjustment to the analysis.
And then one last question if I could is the lumber.
I know lumber prices have declined earlier this year.
Have you seen the benefit of that yet or is that going to be more of a 3Q event? On the lumber it will be -- actually probably later than Q3.
It's actually out beyond that because as pricing comes down now it will be closing to see probably first quarter of next year.
And then on first time -- to your commentary I think we believe that yes that in an environment where we're getting back to more normal volumes the first-time buyer will have to be a more important part than they have been over the last 2 years.
And so I think as we see return capability coming we would invest in that land portfolio.
And it might come as if prices continue to escalate closer to the job core you might see people moving out just for affordability and that's more of your first-time buyer.
Your next question comes from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Without giving forward guidance and I guess this is addressed to Richard.
How much upside do you see in gross margin going forward? Is it marginal or is it meaningful? Yes Bob we'll stick with the similar commentary we have each quarter.
We see upside from here and I'm pretty pleased with the upside that we see in our backlog and that kind of gives us visibility for roughly 6 months or a couple of quarters.
So we continue to execute against our common plan management strategy.
We continue to drive a bigger percentage of our closings.
Bob indicated only about 30% of our closings in Q2 had benefited from that process.
I expect that to ramp up on a consistent basis quarter-after-quarter.
So I would suggest that the margin opportunity we have in front of us is not insignificant.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
You're increasing your land spend sequentially which is terrific.
Community count continues to go down.
New order growth turned negative.
Do you expect kind of given the reinvestment in the land and your efforts which I applied to manage price versus pace do you see that turning back to the positive territory? Yes.
We wouldn't want to comment on exactly kind of what comps will do over time.
I will tell you this.
We're extremely focused on earnings growth and return growth and unit metrics got us in trouble in the last cycle by paying too much attention to that and trying to chase volume.
We weren't making as good a land decision.
So I feel very good about our ability to grow earnings and grow returns from here.
But don't have a lot to say about what sign-up trends may do.
It's going to obviously be reflective of what the broader market does and how quickly we can get communities online which we don't have any update on at this point.
But it's about driving earnings and return on invested capital.
Your next question comes from Ken Zener of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Gentlemen obviously Bernanke in the last month or so builders not necessarily reporting surging candidates or slowing of orders.
But if investors are focused on the volume side and the builders the industry is focusing on price and pace comments at least for most builders what's happening is the out-year volumes are getting pushed farther out.
Why wouldn't this imply lower overall cyclical volume or kind of a mid cycle slowdown despite the fact we're below 1 million starts right now? Especially given that the builders have taken share in serve markets it seems as though the pace and price comments can go so far.
I mean obviously there's a lot of price.
But I mean why doesn't it just imply lower volume? I mean is it the labor side is it -- this isn't what builders historically have done slow the pace.
I think it's a great change Ken.
Frankly I think the industry we've talked about before has some systemic issues right not much land has been entitled over 4 or 5 years of downturn.
I think we all gobbled up the opportunistic finished A locations a couple of years ago.
Bob just indicated that most of our spend now is going into raw which extends time frames out a little bit.
I don't think anybody here is suggesting that the industry volumes don't come back to normal.
The question is what's the capacity of the industry to actually get us there? And I would suggest land is more of a constraint than anything.
I think the labor will continue to come back into the space.
It might be a quarter or 2 hiccup here and there for builders.
But I think it's an extremely healthy change.
I think builders have learned their lesson by focusing too much on volume volume volume and certainly this company has.
Your next question comes from Dan Oppenheim of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit more about July.
So the trend was very good but wondering if there's any color you can give by segment or just overall where -- especially in the Centex segment in terms of the first time where looking at some of the backlogs that was closing in July or is going to close for August.
Any issues encountered on the mortgage side of the buyers who hadn't locked in? Just how you're viewing the environments overall there? Yes Dan we're not providing any granular guidance.
We're just saying that we've seen a continuation of good trends in traffic and sign-ups through the first 3 weeks of July so don't have any more detail on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess secondly in terms of the capital allocation you talked about having a much more balanced approach to it at this time.
But then certainly at this point the best option is continued investment in the business.
Assuming [indiscernible] wanting to have the flexibility there I think in prior cycle we've seen companies where there's more a structure around it where it ends up being disciplined.
The question is this as you look at the opportunities as the cycle progresses how do you sort of shift and say "Okay we had thought that this was the best option for reinvestments but now we should focus more in terms of the share repurchase or dividends here." How is it that you're going to think about that shift? Certainly it's a good thing to have this flexibility but how do you look differently about -- at the allocation? Yes hopefully we won't look differently at it over time.
It is again first and foremost we think the best return we can generate on our cash are in the business.
We've got a criteria that we're using to approve land acquisition.
And so I think you can expect to see us continue to invest in the business doing that.
And obviously we've introduced the dividend.
And so I think on balance over time if we have available cash beyond that we would consider whether it made sense to put more in the business pay down debt or repurchase shares or increase the dividend over time.
So we have lots of -- Richard said earlier we have flexibility so I don't think there's anything concrete that we're going to say "If this then that." It will be more of an evaluation as time goes by.
And Dan just to add to that to give you an example just within the land acquisition space if you're going to appreciate this.
If we're looking at 5 transactions in a given market we are being disciplined to only purchase 2 or 3 of those.
And we really like what that's doing to our overall portfolio.
We continue to approve high returning transactions with less risk with more upside to the company.
And we're just having a conversation internally over the last couple of weeks about how the land that we have put under contract in the past 12 to 18 months it's really going to benefit the company we believe in the future.
Whereas if we had not had the discipline that we have had maybe we would have bought all 5 things we were looking at.
So it extends beyond just the choices of what to do with our capital but even within each segment particularly on the land side being smart about it.
Your next question comes from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
You mentioned some of the order trends by product line and I think the pricing that was up 10% for Del Webb.
I wanted to see if you could comment on absorption levels and what's that's been trending kind of on by product line and also the pricing for the other 2 product lines? Sure ASPs quarter-over-quarter up 9% to $294 million.
That's what we talked about in the call.
That was up 8% in Pulte to $350 000.
It was up 2% to $197 million for Centex.
It was up 10% to just under $300 000 for the Del Webb segment.
Sign-up -- gross sign-ups were down 20% as we've talked about for Pulte 18% -- down 18% for Centex up 8% for Del Webb.
On pace it was down 8% at Pulte and again that's reflective I think largely of what happened out with Southwest.
Paces were up 14% for Centex as we've talked about up 15% this absorption basis for Del Webb so an aggregate 4%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the metering of sales comments you mentioned I think 2/3 of your markets you're metering sales in 10% of those communities.
So if you were to look at that kind of on an overall basis as a percentage of your communities what percentage are you metering sales? And then what's the kind of average differential in margin on those communities where you're metering versus not metering? Rob we haven't gotten into that much detail.
I will remind you that we said that in several markets we're metering sales in 50% or more so we don't have an exact number for you there.
And then average margin differential is going to be very asset specific.
So even in a market where we're metering sales in greater than 50% of the communities we could have one asset there that was not well positioned that had low margin.
So it's very difficult to answer that.
But it's fair to say that we like the way that this is playing out for us.
We think we're maximizing return.
Your next question comes from Mike Roxland of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> As we've had hiring and given all the various markets who participated are there any particular markets that you think can best cope with rising rates? And are there any markets that you would consider pulling back from as you perceive there that they're more susceptible to a rising rate environment.
Yes Mike I would first go to which segment can most deal with the rising rates and that's the Del Webb buyer.
Approximately 1/3 of our investment and our assets positioned in that business.
There tend to be 40% or greater of those buyers who pay cash and those that do take a mortgage take a very conservative mortgage.
So rather than isolate a given geography I would first lead you to that segment.
Then I think certainly the Pulte category the move-up category can probably weather the rate increases next best if you will.
And then I think the category that would get hurt the most would be the entry-level category overall.
In terms of geography you just have to -- look excuse me at where our assets were positioned.
So we have a pretty good balance with the vast majority being in Pulte and in Del Webb.
So I wouldn't single out any one particular market that I think would be impacted the most.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Then if I recall a couple of quarters ago maybe 1.5 or 2 years ago you were talking about something like independent series product.
Given the rising rate environment is that a product that you're still pushing? Or are you still more heavily targeting 2 potentially let's say first-time home buyers? Yes it is.
We continue to invest in the Centex brand and the entry-level category in total with our goal being to ensure that the product is very affordable.
Having said that as Bob indicated we're not finding a lot of land transactions at this point that return exceptionally well in that category.
So our future investment has not been geared as much.
But it doesn't mean we're not trying to monetize the existing assets that we have and maximize our profitability in those and part of that is a more efficient home construction process due to the independent series.
And your last question comes from Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you elaborate a little bit on what the charge from the contractual dispute is? I mean that seems like a pretty big charge if you consider the potential for the additional $40 million? Yes.
So this is a luxury community that was built again in a market where we're not doing business anymore.
And it's a contractual dispute with homeowners that essentially it relates to the amenity package that was built their access to that amenity package.
Again we've had arbitrations ongoing discussions for settlements.
So the $30 million that we've provided is what we actually think this is going to cost.
The reason we highlighted the incremental $40 million is it will be in our 10-Q.
We are required to say is it possible that there will be some bigger number and what's the range of that.
Obviously the range is 0 meaning the $30 million estimate is correct.
But depending on how the negotiations go in theory there could be more.
That $40 million would be a in our view an absolute worst-case scenario.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay can you -- what is it surrounding in terms of the amenity package.
I don't quite understand what the dispute would be.
It is an amenity package that is owned by a third-party and the access rights of the owners of the units within the community was in question and essentially contractually they thought they had more access than ultimately they were provided and so have challenged us on the basis of how the units were sold to them.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you operator.
I just want to thank everybody for their time this morning.
I know it's a busy day for a lot of you.
But we certainly will be available for any follow-up questions that you may have and we look forward to talking in our next conference call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the PulteGroup Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
My name is Sarah and I'll be facilitating the audio portion of today's interactive broadcast.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn to show over to Mr.
Jim Zeumer.
You may begin your conference sir.
Thank you Sarah.
This is Jim Zeumer Vice President of Investor Relations for Pulte Homes.
And I want to thank everybody for joining us this morning to hear PulteGroup's earnings third quarter financial results for the 3 months ended September 30 2013.
On the call today to discuss Pulte's results are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Ossowski Vice President Finance and Controller.
Before we begin I want to remind everyone that copies of this morning's earnings release along with the presentation slides that accompanies today's call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
I also want to alert participants that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call including references to gross margins and earnings per share after certain adjustments are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of the press release.
Finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect these future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
In preparing for today's discussion I reread our comments from prior earnings calls.
I take some satisfaction in knowing that we will make many of the same claims [ph] today that we have been making for much of the past 2 years.
First we are extremely pleased with our third quarter earnings results both the absolute numbers and the demonstrated progress we continue to make operating against our value creation strategy.
Once again our quarterly financials show the benefits of initiatives targeted at driving higher returns on invested capital through increased margins better overhead leverage and accelerated inventory turns.
Our Q3 financials show improvement in each of these metrics.
On a year-over-year basis our adjusted gross margin in the quarter increased by 390 basis points to 25.5%.
This makes the 11th quarter in a row of margin expansion.
In addition to better gross margin we captured an incremental 90 basis points of overhead leverage.
If our income statement showed our traditional operating margin it would've expanded by almost 500 basis points over last year as a result of the combined improvements in gross margin and overhead leverage.
And although less dramatic in its gain inventory turns continued to make steady progress and is now approaching 1x for the trailing 12 months.
The number can be better appreciated when you put into context of turns being around 0.6x when we started this work just 2 years ago.
The significant improvements we realized in our homebuilding operations for the quarter drove a 65% or $69 million increase in our consolidated income before taxes.
And this is after having to overcome a $16 million decrease in pretax income from financial services caused by changes in the competitive landscape for mortgage originations resulting from higher interest rates.
I purposely highlighted our pretax income to avoid any distortions created by the DTA reversal taken in the quarter.
While the benefits of the DTA are many I wanted to make sure that the gains our operating teams are delivering were clearly visible.
The dramatic progress in PulteGroup's income statement metrics are equally matched by the improvements we have realized on our balance sheet.
With this quarter's DTA reversal our reported debt-to-cap dropped to 31% on a gross basis and 12% on a net basis adjusted for cash which is less than half of what these ratios showed just 3 years ago.
The much-improved strength of PulteGroup's balance sheet is allowing us to implement our stated plans to be more balanced in our allocation of capital.
As noted in this morning's earnings release through the first 9 months of the year we have invested $918 million in land and development retired $461 million of debt repurchased $83 million of stock and declared $38 million in dividends.
Our improved financial position and operating performance are also allowing us to systematically increase investment into the business with our announced plans to authorize $1.6 billion of land development and acquisition spend in 2014 up almost 70% from our full year spend in 2012.
With $1.4 billion of cash and leverage down to 31% we clearly have the capacity to invest much more into the business but we have committed to being disciplined in our approach and will not chase volume.
Land prices have gotten extended in some markets and we are willing to be patient and focus on investing only in the smartest deals when putting incremental capital to work.
To that last point let me close out my remarks with a few comments about the overall operating environment we find ourselves in today.
I expect it will come as no surprise when we say that conditions in the housing industry changed during the past few months as some consumers shows to step back from the market.
Is this recent change among potential buyers the result of higher selling prices or higher mortgage rates or the relentless commentary of political turmoil and economic uncertainty? We would say yes.
It is likely that all these changes have resulted in consumers taking longer to make their purchase decision.
We have been consistent in our position that housing's recovery off the lows of 2011 was driven more by the reduction in supply than a dramatic rally in demand.
Buyer demand since 2011 has slowly but steadily improved and we expect that the recent slowdown in demand will prove to be a modest pullback in an ongoing multiyear recovery in housing.
It is this expectation which gives us confidence in our decision to increase planned land investment in 2014.
We also remain in the camp that a return to a significantly stronger historical level of housing production will require an ongoing recovery in the broader U.S.
economy that is slowly developing a recovery that can produce more and higher-paying jobs.
Achieving substantially higher volumes will also require more participation from first-time buyers.
This buyer category has historically represented over 40% of housing buyer demand but continued tight underwriting standards and weak personal balance sheets are holding entry-level buyer participation to below 30% of current activity.
All that being said we expect buyer activity will improve and we are optimistic that the overall recovery in housing will continue.
In fact over the past few weeks we have modestly adjusted incentives in a few select communities.
This action has helped to generate stronger buyer interest in the back half of September and the first half of October than we had experienced in the weeks prior to these actions.
While market conditions may be subject to change what I can tell you that won't change is our commitment to the company's value-creation strategy and more effective capital allocation.
I am pleased to say that PulteGroup's third quarter financial results continue to demonstrate the success this strategy and underlying initiatives are having on PulteGroup's profitability and returns.
Now let me turn over the call to Bob for a more in-depth glimpse on PulteGroup's third quarter financial results.
Bob? Thank you Richard and good morning.
As Richard outlined our Q3 results demonstrate clear and meaningful progress against the number of the operating and financial goals we established with the company.
I'm pleased to provide some additional details related to our performance this quarter and to highlight some of the important financial improvements we've achieved.
In the third quarter home sale revenues increased 21% over the prior year to $1.5 billion.
The increase in revenues for the period was driven by an 11% increase in average selling price to $310 000 and a 9% increase in closings to 4 817 homes.
Consistent with trends we have seen for a number of quarters the higher average selling prices in the quarter were driven by price increases and the continuing shift in our closings to move-up and active adult homes.
For the third quarter our closings break down as follows: 46% from Pulte 30% from Del Webb and 24% from Centex.
In the third quarter of last year our closing mix was 42% from Pulte 25% from Del Webb and 33% from Centex.
The relative percentage of closings from our Centex brand continues to decrease as older Centex communities close out and our current land investment is more concentrated in the move-up space.
On average we realized a $31 000 increase in our year-over-year selling price from home closings.
In fact we realized higher sales price among each of our brands including increases of 7% in Pulte 5% in Centex and 10% in Del Webb.
As noted the shift in mix also contributed to the increase in our overall average selling price.
Land sale revenues in the third quarter totaled $56 million and generated pretax income of $5.8 million.
In the prior year land sale revenues and related income were $23 million and $1.6 million respectively.
Consistent with our efforts to improve returns we continue to look for opportunities to dispose of non-core land assets.
In the third quarter our adjusted gross margin was 25.5% which represents a 390 basis point increase over the third quarter last year and a 160 basis point increase over Q2 of this year.
Our gross margins continued to benefit from company-specific and industry-wide factors including better pricing an increase in the volume of home closings from our Pulte- and Del Webb-branded communities our ongoing efforts to lower house construction costs and our strategic pricing initiatives.
Continuing the trend from recent quarters we realized an increase in margin contributions associated with higher lot premiums and option revenues per closing compared to the prior year.
I would also point out that incentives were 2% this quarter which represents a 270 basis point decrease from Q3 of last year.
It's important to highlight that our actual gross margin which includes the amortization of capitalized interest expense was 20.9% in the quarter.
This represents an increase of 390 basis points over Q3 last year and 210 basis points over Q2 of this year.
In fact it's the highest reported gross margin we've had since the second quarter of 2006 and reflects the significant improvements we've made to our operational performance and our financial position.
At the start of 2013 we began discussing the percentage of closings generated from commonly managed plans.
This represent homes that have been under -- that have been constructed under the more efficient design cost and build processes we're implementing throughout the company.
During the third quarter commonly managed plans accounted for 16% of our closings which is up from 13% in the second quarter.
On a unit basis the number of closings from commonly managed plans increased to almost 800 homes as we continue to make steady progress in expanding the program.
I want to highlight that closings from commonly managed plans are generating improved margins and importantly higher paces than closings from comparable non-commonly managed plans.
Over time we expect to increase the percentage of closings from commonly managed plans to approximately 70% of our total closings.
Looking at overheads our SG&amp;A for the quarter was $139 million or 9.3% of home sale revenues.
This compares to the overhead cost of $125 million or 10.2% of revenues in Q3 of last year.
The company continued to realize leverage on its SG&amp;A spend as overhead cost increased by only $13 million against a top line revenue increase of $259 million.
Turning to Financial Services.
Our Q3 profit was $11 million which is down $16 million from the prior year.
The decrease relates primarily to the rapid increase in interest rates over the past several months which together with competition from lenders shifting their focus from refinanced business to new money originations has served to compress margins.
The increase in competition also contributed to a 310 basis point decrease in our capture rate to approximately 80%.
Total mortgage origination volumes for the quarter increased 2% to 3 126 loans.
The increase reflects higher homebuilding closing volumes partially offset by the decrease in capture rate.
Moving on to income taxes.
Let me address the reversal of the valuation reserve related to our deferred tax assets.
As we've indicated previously we expected that we would likely reverse a significant percentage of the valuation reserve in the second half of this year.
During the third quarter we concluded that it was more likely than not that we would generate sufficient income in future periods to realize the substantial majority of those deferred tax assets.
Accordingly we reversed $2.1 billion in the valuation allowance.
The valuation allowance remaining after that reversal is approximately $230 million a portion of which relates to the income we expect to earn in the fourth quarter and the balance of which relates to certain state loss carryforwards we may not be able to realize.
Including this benefit PulteGroup reported earnings of $5.87 per share in the quarter.
Excluding the impact of the reversal of the valuation reserve the company would have earned $0.45 per share compared to $0.30 per share in the prior year.
Our basic and diluted share counts are as follows: For the quarter basic shares 383 million; diluted 386 million.
For the year basic was 384 million and diluted was 388 million.
These share counts include the impact of our share repurchase activities.
It's worth noting that when we calculate diluted earnings per share we are required to adjust the numerator in the calculation by allocating a portion of the earnings to unvested restricted stock and performance shares.
Typically this is a small adjustment but was more impactful this quarter due to the significance of our earnings of the reversal of the deferred tax valuation allowance.
For the quarter this earnings allocation adjusted -- reduced our diluted EPS by $0.04 per share.
In future quarters we expect the impact of these earnings allocation adjustments to be immaterial.
It's clear that we're continuing to realize significant progress in improving the key metrics we're focused on within our homebuilding operation.
The company's better margin improved operating leverage and faster inventory turns are driving better financial performance.
Along with performance -- along with improvements in our operating performance we continue to improve the strength and flexibility of our financial profile.
Let me provide highlights relating to our cash flows and balance sheet.
During the quarter we generated $220 million of cash flow from operations and reported $1.4 billion of cash at the end of the quarter.
I want to highlight that our cash position increased $140 million from June despite the fact that we repurchased $83 million of stock paid down $27 million of debt and paid $19 million of dividends during the quarter.
In total we acquired 5.3 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $15.79 per share and we have $259 million [ph] of capacity remaining under our existing share repurchase authorization.
I would also point out that we recorded a loss of $3.9 million during the quarter in connection with our debt repurchase.
We've spoken over the last couple of years about our desire to improve our leverage ratios.
I'm pleased to report that our improved operating results coupled with the significant equity impact related to the reversal of our deferred tax valuation allowance has allowed the company to achieve -- and in certain instances exceed -- the objectives we set with regards to restructuring our balance sheet.
In fact at the end of the quarter as Richard mentioned our actual debt-to-cap ratio was only 31%.
Looking at other balance sheet metrics we finished the quarter with 269 finished specs.
This is flat with the prior quarter but represents a decrease of 52% compared with the third quarter of last year.
We ended the quarter with just over 900 specs in production which is comparable to the prior quarter but down 37% from last year.
As we've discussed at different times we are likely reaching the lower limit in reducing our spec production but we remain committed to minimizing specs going forward.
At the end of Q3 we had 6 312 homes under construction so the spec count remains well contained at 15% of production.
We're very comfortable maintaining a low spec count as we typically see better pricing and higher margins on dirt sales.
This is especially true when it comes to moving finished spec units which can require a higher level of incentives.
On the land side we put 9 050 lots under control during the quarter and invested a total of $380 million in land acquisition and development.
This is up from $332 million in the second quarter of this year and puts us on a run rate toward the $1.4 billion of land investment we are forecasting for 2013.
We ended the quarter with just over 126 000 lots under control of which 23% are under option.
This compares to the 13% of our lots being optioned one year ago.
I'm pleased to say we've realized some success in optioning lots although it's getting more challenging.
At present about 1/4 of our lots are finished.
As noted in our release we have increased our authorized investment of land acquisition and development in 2014 to $1.6 billion which is up $200 million over the $1.4 billion we're forecasting to spend this year.
It's worth noting that most of the land deals we've accrued lately are raw and require development.
And many of the option deals require entitlement of work before a purchase is completed.
As a result our land investment at this stage will impact our activities in 2015 and beyond.
In summary we're extremely pleased with the progress we've made improving our financial position.
As you know we've also talked about wanting to be more balanced with our capital allocation.
It's rewarding to see much of that hard work and planning come to life in the third quarter.
We increased our investment authorization for land and we returned over $100 million to shareholders through our dividend and repurchase programs.
We believe these uses of capital are appropriate given our goal of consistent strong returns for our shareholders.
Before handing the call back to Richard let me cover a few more data points.
In the third quarter net new orders totaled 3 781 homes which is a decrease of 17% from last year.
Given the price increases we have realized the dollar value of sign-ups was $1.2 billion which is down only 8% from the prior year.
On a year-over-year basis sign-ups decreased 25% at Pulte and 26% at Centex but were up 9% at Del Webb.
Absorption paces were down 13% at Pulte flat at Centex and up 10% at Del Webb.
The slowdown in our Pulte brand is not surprising given the price appreciation we've realized over the past 12 months.
And the relative strength at Del Webb is encouraging.
Sign-ups for the period were impacted by a 15% decrease in community count as well as the slowdown in overall buyer demand experience by the industry over the past several months.
The lower community count for the period is consistent with our previous guidance that our 2013 year-end community count would be down approximately 15% from the end of 2012.
While we don't view community count as a great measure of future activity given the tremendous variation that can exist in the size pace and profitability from community to community we appreciate investor interest in this metric.
As such we wanted to provide a view as to what we expect in 2014.
We have previously indicated that our community counts decline in the past couple of years would bottom in 2014 and our latest forecast reaffirms this guidance as our increased land investment is working its way through the pipeline.
Based on our current estimates we expect to operate from an approximate range of 560 to 580 communities during all 4 quarters of 2014.
This includes the opening of approximately 175 exciting new communities next year.
Of course the pace at which existing communities close out or delays in opening new neighborhoods could impact that range.
And finally we ended the quarter with 7 522 homes in backlog valued at $2.4 billion.
Backlog dollars are up 8% while units are down 2% from the prior year.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for some final comments.
Thanks Bob.
Before we open the call for questions I'll provide some color on the market conditions we experienced during the third quarter; but recognize it's within the context of changes in industry-wide demand that we worked through during the period.
By geography I offer the following views: Generally buyer demand held up reasonably well on the East Coast with more strength in the Northeast the Carolinas Georgia and South Florida.
Washington D.C.
was a little slower as was North Florida.
But I will tell you that those 2 areas are where we have been very focused on maximizing our pricing opportunities.
The D.C.
area was also likely impacted by the uncertainties leading into the government shutdown.
Overall we are very pleased with our business performance in the East.
On a relative basis demand in our Midwest markets held up although paces were lower than earlier in the year.
Our Texas markets displayed similar patterns with modestly slower demand reflecting a combination of consumer pullback seasonality and fewer communities.
Texas also has a higher percentage of Centex buyers relative to the rest of our markets so higher mortgage rates can have a bigger impact within this buyer category.
While generally limited supplies remain the norm out west we have seen buyers step back to reassess given the rapid price appreciation which has been common over the past year.
That said overall activity is still very reasonable.
Demand has held up better in the Southwest while California and the Pacific Northwest were a little softer.
Again markets with higher prices that have been realized -- that have realized above-average pricing for several quarters tended to see a bigger impact from buyer uncertainty which makes sense.
In conclusion we would tell you that the housing market continues to recover but just like the stock market it never moves in a straight line.
For all the reasons we touched on earlier buyers took a step back during the quarter.
But as I mentioned a moment ago small and appropriate increased incentives in a few select communities since mid-September are already helping to stabilize recent sales activity.
Since we can't influence national demand or the broader U.S.
economy we are focused on continuously improving our fundamental homebuilding operations with the goal of delivering better returns over the housing cycle.
I believe our Q3 results demonstrate further progress in our efforts and show that we are extremely well positioned to take advantage of opportunity that can develop in any market condition.
I want to thank the employees of PulteGroup who continue to do an outstanding job in improving our results while never losing focus on delivering a great buying experience to our consumers.
Again thank you for your time.
And I'll now turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Sarah if you'll explain the process we'll get started with Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Stephen East of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> If we can talk about margins first.
You've got a lot of interesting stuff going on and you're one of the few builders that sort of can control their destiny a little bit in the current market.
And that -- a lot of that's through your commonly managed floor plans.
So what I'm -- I guess what I would like to understand is you're 16% into it.
You want to take it to about 70%.
How long do you think it takes you to get there? And what type of differential -- you talked about both margin and pace.
What type of differential to you see in those floor plans versus the non-commonly managed? And along with that then you've been pretty aggressive on pricing.
How much of that is price versus mix? And how does that change as you move forward? Yes.
Steve this is Richard.
A couple of things.
To give you a perspective on the timing in the Texas zone which we're furthest along we could be upwards of 80% or 90% through there by the end of '14.
But our Northeast zone which is our last one just got started a month or 2 ago.
So probably a 2- to 3-year timeframe for us to get to that 70% number commonly managed.
We're going as quickly as we can but it takes a while to kind of reposition the plans.
In terms of the differential we do see better margins on those products.
Depending on the plan it can be a couple of hundred basis points.
But I will also tell you that some of the benefits we're trying to get as early as we can through value engineering should cost-ing some of the work that we started a couple of years ago.
And then probably one of the things we've been most pleased with in the process is that we're getting better sales pace from the product.
The product is actually consumer validated and it's frankly better floor plans.
A good example would be our active adult Del Webb floor plans where we are completely implemented in our Texas and Southeast zones.
And now we're in the middle of converting all our Del Webb product in the Midwest which we call our central zones in that product.
So we're excited about that.
And I think the last part of your question was related to pricing.
Yes.
Pricing has certainly been a good thing for us this year.
We continue to get price in some communities.
Although as indicated in some we've had to put a few select incentives in places.
Regarding pricing on the commonly managed plans overall we've been real pleased with the results we've had there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you do look at that incentives I'm interested in -- I assume that's pushed a bit more toward your Centex brand.
But what type of incentives are you doing? What's it associated with? Are you seeing buyers take incentives associated with mortgage financing whether a rate buydown or a closing cost et cetera? Yes.
It's mostly with regard to option packages that we've been offering.
And it's a very limited number of communities.
And frankly not we don't believe significantly material to our overall margin results overall.
We've been pleased and we've been very targeted.
Your next question comes from Will Randow of Citi.
Research Division</strong> In terms of community count often you guys speak of your communities are much larger in terms of scale and size.
How should we think about the size of communities in 2014 as opposed to 2013? Yes.
Will it's going to be a mix.
As Bob indicated we've got 175 new communities approximately we're going to open next year and they are in all flavors and sizes.
Generally a little bit smaller with regard to sort of our legacy book if you will.
But we still have a large portion of Del Webb communities that have a long legacy book out in front of them.
And as Bob indicated we're seeing better results from the Del Webb category.
So probably not materially different than this year relative to the overall mix of communities and size which is one of the reasons we continue to highlight that that's not the best metric to drive our business.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up as you bring on those communities given their vintage might be a bit newer so to speak how do you think about gross margins relative to your very strong number today going forward? Well when we buy we focus on returns.
So as we acquire land we're somewhat agnostic to margin.
We're thinking about what's the return capability.
So some of those communities may have a -- I'll make up a number a 20% margin but a 30% return.
And similarly you could have a transaction that has a 27% return with 25% margin.
So yes the mix will matter.
Again what we're really trying to work through is how to get the highest return out of each land asset Will.
Your next question comes from Ivy Zelman of Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> It's actually Alan on for Ivy.
Bob just on that last comment then on the return threshold for underwriting.
So based on your comments earlier that seems like a lot of the land that you're buying now or targeting now is more raw in nature and maybe is more geared for 2015 and beyond.
Should we expect then that given that return focus that maybe the margins on those assets should kind of come in line with where you're at today as opposed to maybe more finished lots if you were buying those which could be lower margins? Well it's hard to answer that intelligently because the market moves.
The price -- market has improved in the last 2 years.
So the assets that we bought then even if they were finished lot option deals that we didn't expect great margins on and we're getting them -- so again as we look at this I would tell you we're finding transactions and approving transactions that meet our return requirement.
Some of them are going to be higher margins than others.
It really varies on how we're buying land.
Alan this is Richard.
I'll add one thing.
We generally have seen higher margins on the deals that we've acquired over the last 2 or 3 years than from our legacy book.
So we're pleased with what we've been able to find.
I think it's partly a result of the fact that we've been what I would say is very selective with our land acquisition strategy.
And then just lastly it's not directly related to your question though we do see opportunity for margin improvement from here in the next few quarters that we have visibility into.
LLC</strong> Great that's helpful.
And then the second question is Richard I was hoping you might just be able to expand a little bit on the comments you had in the press release regarding the fact that you see this slowdown as ultimately being short lived.
And it sounds like you're encouraged by some of the trends you're seeing in response to the select incentives you're offering.
But just curious if you can expand upon that a little bit and what gives you that confidence that this is more of a short-term issue? Listen we believe that the economy is continuing to show slow and steady progress.
We're not in the camp that it's going to get euphoric anytime soon.
But we still have very limited supply of housing out there.
That's a key driver.
We still have on a relative basis low interest rates.
In hindsight I think the speed at which rates went up was as big a factor in the pause that we've seen as much as the actual rate increases themselves.
And then when you combine that with the fact that entitlements are taking longer in general I think all builders are commenting on that I don't see a huge influx of supply coming on the market anytime soon.
So with slowly but steadily improving demand and supply being held in check we're optimistic as we get into next year.
I think the pause that we've kind of recently seen is not necessarily a bad thing over the long run.
So we're in the camp that it's likely temporary.
Your next question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on sales trends.
The commentary around some of the more recent turn I guess or some of the improvement in September-October was helpful.
I was hoping to get a sense of how order trends progressed throughout the quarter and if -- we had another builder report yesterday that August was in fact the strongest month that they had in the third quarter if that was something that you saw as well or might have seen that perhaps there might have been a more steady or even slowing cadence throughout the quarter if you felt the need to do some of the modest incentive changes to drive a little bit more sales in September-October.
So I was wondering if that's the case for you guys and maybe if you could give any type of quantifiable granularity in terms of what type of improvement you actually saw in the last 4 to 6 weeks.
Yes.
Mike this is Richard.
Our trends were generally stable through the quarter.
We saw things modestly slow through the quarter although as noted when we added a few and I want to emphasize a few very select community incentives kind of in the mid-September range we did see that help our absorptions at the end of September and into October.
When you kind of look at it overall it was a reasonably flat performance over the quarter with kind of a slight trend down through the quarter until we got to the last couple of weeks of September.
And I think it's reflective of pricing that was quite high in some communities along with buyer concern over rates.
And some of those things appear to begin to ebb as we got to the end of the quarter into early October.
But I don't have any specifics in terms of numbers for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the second question just on maybe a little bit more technical but interest expense amortization was about flattish.
It's been roughly flattish year-over-year as a percent of revenue for the last couple of quarters.
How do you expect that to trend? I guess maybe more a question for Bob.
And would that be affected at all by the increase in land spend as a percent of revenue as you go forward? And I think just if I could sneak another one in on this topic of -- more technical but on the sales commissions including in -- included in COGS you guys are only 1 of 3 builders out of 15 that we follow that put that in that line item.
And without it if you had it in SG&amp;A I think it would not only make your gross margins more comparable in a positive sense to your competitors but also allow the SG&amp;A to be more comparable as well.
So just any thoughts on making that adjustment? Another builder in the last few -- a year or 2 ago made that change and we found it pretty helpful.
Okay.
Mike I will answer the second one first if that's okay.
We -- you had raised this I think it was a call or 2 ago and we said we'd look at it.
And we did actually.
And what we found was that although you see some people doing that there's inconsistency between internal and external commission.
And so I don't know that you'd get -- even if we switched it doesn't -- it would depend on how we switched.
And you wouldn't get consistency throughout the space anyway.
So again we'll always continue to look as to how we report versus our peers but we're pretty comfortable with where we are.
And then on cap interest the good news is that because of the deleveraging that we've done our cash interest expense is down about $15 million quarter-over-quarter and will continue to trend down as we've paid down our debt.
As it relates to the amortization it's really not a revenue-based concept.
It's -- we have given some guidance coming into the year that cap interest expense would actually be up this year by about $60 million.
That's based on closings essentially.
And so it's weighted towards the back half of the year.
So if you look year-over-year the amortization of interest expense was up $11 million in this quarter versus last year which is about 20%.
And you would expect to see based on closings higher interest expense next quarter to fill that bucket of the incremental $60 million that we talked about at the beginning of the year.
Going forward I think it is fair to say we will see a decline in interest expense amortization.
We've got less capitalized interest to amortize and we're capitalizing less as we go.
So I think you'll see a benefit on the income statement related to interest next year.
And your next question comes from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask Bob.
You guys got very aggressive at doing a strong job of managing the balance sheet.
Gross debt's at 31% and then net debt's down to almost 10%.
You mentioned the large cash position of $1.3 billion.
You have lower debt levels.
So I just wanted to see from a capital allocation standpoint with that $1.3 billion is that money going to be put mostly towards share repurchases dividends or land investment now that the debt's basically gone? Good question and it is one we've spent time thinking about.
We've indicated and consistently I think that we think the best place to invest is in the business.
We get the best return there and continue to believe that.
But as Richard highlighted we want to make sure that we're buying the best land assets that we can to drive the best returns over time that we can.
And so our belief is that if we try to invest too quickly some of our managers would likely be forced to take the third or fourth option which might be okay but not great.
And we'd prefer to stay in stuff that we feel really comfortable with.
As it relates to dividends and share repurchases since we have a big cash position we can make selection almost exclusive of what we think we're going to do on the land side.
Obviously we've lost some stock last quarter at about $15.79 a share and have obviously now got the dividend going.
That's something that we would look at and talk about internally with the board but mutually exclusive decisions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Really helpful.
Just wanted to touch -- you've made tremendous progress in a pretty short period in gross margin improvement.
And you've also done a really good job of leveraging fixed cost and SG&amp;A.
On the SG&amp;A side of the story is there room for improvement or are you guys kind of at the outer end? I think you're on track probably for like $575 million of SG&amp;A.
How do you want us to think about that going forward? Yes Bob this is Richard.
Listen we think we've done a really nice job.
The leverage is certainly going to somewhat volume dependent.
We'll have to kind of see how the year unfolds next year.
If you're asking do we plan gross SG&amp;A levels to come down from here I don't think that's very likely.
On the other hand we want to monitor SG&amp;A.
So I guess the way I'd think about it if I were you is we are extremely committed to an ROIC story that is driven by gross margins SG&amp;A leverage inventory turn.
So I'd look for us to pay attention to all 3 of those.
Your next question comes from Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was interested in the comments that you had about the increased competition from outside lenders and the lower capture rate.
Another builder that reported this week actually had I think amongst the lowest capture rate we've seen in 10 years or so.
So can we interpret that or -- as a kind of increased improved lending from outside sources and some better mortgage availability? Or I guess what are your comments on mortgage availability? Our perspective is it hasn't changed much.
And in particular for the first-time buyer it hasn't changed much.
QM has codified what people can approve as a loan.
Essentially what we think is happening as it relates to competition is as rates went up the refinance business that the banks had been very aggressively pursuing dried up.
You've seen some of the headlines about some of the downsizing of workforces at the big banks that were big mortgage originators.
And so they've got machines that need to be fed and so I think we're pursuing new money originations.
And so we've had to compete with them in order to retain the business.
And we like the business because we think it protects our backlog.
So it's forced us to be -- try and be more competitive on rate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question just on Del Webb.
I'm wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on some of the trends you're seeing there.
And particularly I was curious about the -- I think it was Slide 5 which had the price increases.
I mean should we interpret those that -- the Del Webb price increases being the largest amongst the 3 is that where you're seeing outsized improvement? Yes.
Adam this is Richard.
I would suggest a couple of things.
Number one the buyer has historically been a little bit later than the other buyer categories to sort of return to the market.
So we're not surprised that Webb continues to at this stage begin to sort of come into its own.
And we are seeing better results there.
And as you'll rightly note we have quite a bit of leverage opportunity if it continues.
The other piece I've mentioned to you is the commonly managed plans.
We have chosen to begin our efforts with the Del Webb product and we have had nothing short of fantastic results in both Texas and the Southeast where we've introduced our new commonly managed active adult Del Webb product.
I mentioned earlier we're rolling that now to the Midwest and we expect to have it in the Southwest at some point early in 2014.
So as time goes on we think we've got an excellent product offering to meet what's hopefully a growing demand category.
And your next question comes from Eli Hackel of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk a little bit about the land spend that you're going to do maybe give us some idea in terms of the land you have ready for 2014? And you mentioned you're going more into raw land.
Maybe from the additional dollars the $1.6 billion you think you may spend next year maybe where that's going to be mostly concentrated? Yes.
Eli this is Richard.
We are being really disciplined with our process as we have been.
So we're using our risk-weighted criteria.
And frankly that's leading to a pretty diverse implementation of land spend across the system.
Places that we've underinvested in the past we continue to invest in to help position ourselves.
A good example is Minnesota.
We've highlighted before we've put quite a bit of money into Minnesota.
Georgia actually is a market that has recently the last 6 to 12 months come on.
We're putting a good bit of capital to work there with really good results.
So it's not just one market if you will that's getting the lion's share of the investment.
With regard to 2014 I think it's fair to say that we have limited to virtually no ability to impact '14 at this point with land.
The dollars that we're putting to work now are for '15 and '16.
So again we're really pleased that our community count is going to be stable next year all year which shows that we're able to get some of the increased investment to work a little bit sooner than we have planned for.
And we're happy because the investments that we're making we believe are very high-quality investments.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one quick one.
I don't know if you said it or I missed it but what was the cancellation rate in the quarter? The cancellation rate in the quarter was 18%.
Your next question comes from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is actually for Bob.
I wanted to talk to you about the share repurchases in the quarter and this concept of intrinsic value and return on share repurchases relative to buying land and reinvesting in the business.
And what I'm trying to get some color on is just how you got to 5.3 million shares essentially? What was the math that kind of got you there that told you that that's the right amount relative to more or less and relative to the overall balance sheet? I'm just trying to understand how you compare the 2 better.
Well it's not as if we set out to say we want to buy x number of shares.
And so it's not a programmed trade.
Essentially what we do is we look at the activity that we're seeing in the market or we looked at the activity we were seeing at the market.
Clearly when we set the program in place we talked about internally what levels we were comfortable buying at.
And so over the course of the trading period it just sort of happened that that was the volume that we were able to acquire at prices that we were comfortable with.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the return differential between the 2 when you again kind of get back to the intrinsic value can you just get some more clarity on kind of how you think about one versus the other or how much more it has to be to reinvest in the shares versus in land specifically? Well -- and remember they're separate conversations at this point because of our cash position.
So it's not as if we're saying we are going to acquire stock in lieu of investing in land.
We are investing in land and that's a process that we go through and we're buying back shares.
And so it's not as if we're borrowing to do it that puts us in a position to make an either/or choice.
And David to maybe add a little more clarity we believe that over a period of time the balance that we're showing with regard to the priority being toward land investment when it makes sense in the smartest deals and then other uses of capital returned to shareholders in addition to that we believe will drive the best ultimate long-term shareholder return.
So just to reiterate to Bob's point it's not an either/or.
It's a combination.
And we worked ourselves into a position where we can be very flexible.
And your next question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Good progress on the margins.
I wanted to follow up on your comment about anticipating that future communities that you're going to be opening are going to be primarily looked at on a return-on-capital basis which obviously -- which makes a lot of sense.
But I just want to understand a little bit better in terms of how you think that might play out.
So it would be my expectation and I'm curious if you share it that as you go forward into late 2014 and into 2015 that mortgage availability should broaden out a little bit.
I certainly hope so.
And if that's the case you'll probably see a bit of mix shift where you'll see some more buyers who may be more towards the entry-level side come into the market.
And I was curious first do you sort of agree that that is the way things may play out over the next 18 months? And if so do you think that on balance your communities would be more skewed towards a little bit of a higher-turn lower-margin-type business model? And then the second thing is do you have -- do you feel like you've got that in your pipeline of projects to be able to accommodate that shift? Steve it's Richard.
Most of the investment we've been making is in that Pulte brand with some select Del Webb investment and select Centex investment.
So I would suspect that we're going to continue to get really good returns on projects.
But by nature of the investment if you had to say is it going to be more margin- or a pace-driven because it's Pulte or Del Webb I would suggest margin would get as much play versus the turn side.
In terms of mortgage availability and it's accommodation for the first-time buyer as Bob indicated it's still tight out there.
The QM rules have sort of defined the underwriting box.
And credit is not particularly easy to get for that buyer category.
And I suspect that's partly why we're not seeing the best return opportunities in that category.
So we certainly hope that that opportunity presents itself.
And we'll continue to play in that space clearly.
But I'd suggest the majority of our business is going to be driven by the Pulte and Del Webb side over the next 12 to 24 months.
Research Division</strong> So I mean clearly Richard you're correct that the environment today is more challenged in terms of mortgage availability because of the reasons you mentioned.
But I think if -- will it play out -- if over the course of the next 2 years or so you do see a broadening and some improvement of that situation how prepared is Pulte to be able to react to that changing buyer mix that you see actually visiting your communities? I would think that because you have a relatively long land supply there probably are some communities that maybe are a little bit further flung but -- and also therefore maybe more suitable to a Centex-type product mix.
I'm kind of curious first of all is that supposition correct that some of the older projects you have maybe from pre-2010 would fit that kind of a buyer? And then secondly how quickly would it -- could you sort of react to activate those and get models up in the air? Steve I'll try to answer as best I can.
Most of the acquisition we've done over the past 2 or 3 years has been communities that have a 2- 3- 4-year life.
So I would suggest that the long-lived land assets that we have are going to continue for a while and a lot of those are in Del Webb.
So those -- that specific small group but they have a lot of lots associated with them.
We clearly could not modify to accommodate the entry-level buyer.
On the other hand we'll be cycling through as Bob indicated 175 new communities next year.
I don't know how many in 2015.
I would suggest we can be reasonably flexible with regard to new investment.
But I think to turn existing investment from one category to another is probably not that easy.
Your next question comes from Dan Oppenheim of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit in terms of the land investments relative to what you're seeing on the sales side in the sense that clearly I think most everyone's in agreement there's hopefully going to be a short-lived slowdown here.
But what is it that you're looking at as you think about sort of increasing land spending? What are the factors that you're thinking about that give you the confidence aside from thinking okay it should be still the third or fourth inning here.
How do you look at that in terms of tempering the -- just thoughts in terms of just boosting the land spending? Dan I'll answer that as best I can.
I'm not sure I get exactly the question.
But we are seeing some really high-quality assets that we're investing in so we feel comfortable investing in those.
We also continue to continually canvass our operations in the field.
And they believe using the very selective disciplined criteria we have that they can put money to work in a relatively low-risk way.
So while we are an increasing investment and clearly we are we're not throwing the kitchen sink at it.
We're being very selective.
So I feel like the discipline that we have is very helpful.
The other thing that certainly gets us more comfortable is the fact that our operational progress if you will our mousetrap is much more efficient than it was 12 or 24 months ago.
I mean we're getting exceptionally good returns we believe.
And that gives us increasing confidence that provided we're smart with our land buying we can make it return for us.
Certainly we have more confidence in that now than we did a couple of years ago.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess following up I'm wondering in terms of the land investments you talked about the margin's likely to be up over the next several quarters so room for improvement there.
I'm wondering in terms of the underwriting and in terms of new land investments presumably those -- the underwriting margins are below the current margins.
Is that correct? It depends on the nature of the transaction.
Some things that we've underwritten absolutely have lower margins than we're experiencing today.
Some are at or higher than.
It all depends on the return characteristics of the specific transaction.
Your next question comes from Jay McCanless of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First question just wanted to ask on the new communities that you're underwriting for '14 -- and I don't know if you all write them this way or not but is there an expectation that the per-month orders or the per-quarter orders of these newer communities are going to exceed what we're seeing in the '13 results now? Essentially when we underwrite a transaction and -- our expectations are predicated on pricing and paces.
When we underwrite the transaction we are assuming paces consistent with market at that point in time.
And so most of the things that will open in '14 were bought earlier and call it 18 months ago or so.
And so I think you'd have to look at that time frame.
Paces are up I think versus what they were 2 years ago.
So the pace expectations we think we're pretty comfortable with.
And Jay to be crystal clear to answer that another way if you look into '15 or '16 which we're buying land for now we're not assuming pace or price changes from what we have today.
It's a static view in the way we look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just wanted to dig a little bit deeper into Del Webb.
Are you starting to see -- you said -- it sounds and correct me if I'm wrong it sounds like your opinion of Del Webb and that business right now has improved versus the second quarter conference call.
Are you seeing the opportunity to start raising price now? Or was this plus 10% this quarter just a mix change more options et cetera? Yes.
Jay it's a little bit of both.
And frankly in some Del Webb communities where we have 2 000 lots left we're much better off driving pace than price.
In other communities I can think of one in Charlotte where we're winding down the last phases we're driving price really hard because we only have a year or 2 left before we open up a new community.
So it's a blend.
I would say the general trend is we prefer pace over price to drive higher returns in Del Webb because of the lot count we have associated with them.
Having said that that buyer category is probably the least price-resistant regarding options regarding premiums or even base price.
So we're trying to be smart about it.
And you saw the results of that in Q3.
Yes.
The only thing I'd add to that Richard is average selling price in Webb is up quarter-over-quarter since last year.
So consistent price increases there.
Yes.
It's a good business for us right now.
And your next question comes from Ken Zener of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Builders are generally price takers rather than setters.
You just follow the overall market.
So if price is going to be kind of settling down a little bit can you give us a sense of -- how do you create your value benchmark? What actually drives your decision in those areas where you started doing some incentives to go after? And what kind -- type of elasticity did you see? Ken I'll challenge your opening comment a little bit if you don't mind.
This is Richard.
We implemented a new pricing strategy a couple of years ago where we started dissecting every single component of price.
And I think most of our operators would tell you we are among the price leaders in markets today.
And frankly given the fact that we're dissecting all the pieces of price we think kind of like the airlines are charging you for every little individual option or seat choice we're getting lot premium we're getting margin -- or excuse me we're getting base price we're getting option revenue and we're lowering discounts where we can.
And while that sounds very rudimentary we were not as disciplined in that years ago.
So I would tell you we are doing our best and it fits with our strategy.
We have not been as aggressive as some peers with regard to acquisition of land.
We're trying our best to maximize the value of what we have.
We feel it fits our disciplined land strategy.
So I just wanted to start out by saying we believe in our case we're a little bit of price takers.
Having said that we obviously operate in a competitive environment.
And we're not unique overall.
So we've had to be responsive but even with the selected incentives that we introduced here in the last 6 or 8 weeks I'll emphasize it was very selective.
We were very conscious not to go across-the-board and just say "Let's lower price x percent just to get more volume." It was extremely targeted.
So sorry to be so long winded.
I hope that helped.
Research Division</strong> No no that's fine.
I guess my second question -- this is what I've been struggling with is I look at the homebuilders while margins obviously have surged along with prices what we see when we look at a builder's absorption pace actually is historic seasonality.
So seasonal not cyclical growth.
And your quarter kind of exhibited that if we look at the pace change quarter-to-quarter.
How should we think -- or how do you guys internally think if you're on pace? Historically your absorption pace flows about 10% in 4Q versus 3Q and then it's up 35% in 1Q.
And we saw a lot of that normal seasonality.
How do you guys think about if we see the normal seasonality absorptions are the same your community count basically flat year-over-year next year and I do appreciate that guidance but I mean without the absorptions moving up and we don't see anything outside of normal seasonality right now I mean where do you get confidence that the volume next year would be up for you guys if you're not going to get it in the pace? Yes.
Ken again we're not giving volume guidance for next year at all.
But here's what I'll tell you.
The way we look at that is by community-by-community.
We have some communities right now frankly where we're sold out through Q2 of next year.
There's no reason to drive pace or to focus on any incentives there.
We have other communities where we've got a couple of more homes left to sell yet for December closings.
There we would be a little bit more selective in focusing on pace.
So it's very difficult to give you a generalized answer there.
It's more community-by-community.
Your next question comes from Mike Roxland of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked but just wanted to guess Richard on your comment about entitlements taking longer what have you seen as the biggest impediment and how much have cycle times been extended as a result? Yes.
It's municipal staffs frankly.
After the downturn it doesn't appear that a lot of municipalities have ramped up their hiring enough to keep up with the demand.
So it's not just the rate of dollars that you want to put into the market it's the actual pace at which you can get communities open.
And we're seeing those slip 2 3 4 months relatively routinely.
And it's municipal delays in both the entitlement process as well as sort of the final approvals on your final construction plans for land development things like that.
To be honest with you Mike not unexpected.
I think if I could guarantee anything over the next several years it would be that entitlement times will get lengthened in this industry.
It just seems like that's the way it works.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And then just a last question on price.
Outside of incentives in those communities where you've seen weakness have you done anything else in terms of possibly maybe adjusting base prices? Or has it largely been the incentives which have helped you move product? It's almost exclusively around option packages that have been offered at better pricing packages.
Spend $20 000 with us in options and get $5 000 off that type of thing.
Very little if any movement -- I don't think we've done base price changes hardly anywhere.
And it's been mostly around incentives and options.
Your next question comes from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> About gross margins you mentioned that the 20.9% post interest is the highest I think since 2Q of '06.
In your conversation with Alan you were describing the potential for gross margins to rise.
There's obviously a big difference between a capitalized amortized interest at this stage at 4.5% versus just over 1% back in 2006.
So when you are talking about gross margins potentially rising for the next couple of quarters are you talking about on a pre-interest or on a post-interest basis? Yes.
Nishu I was speaking on an adjusted basis if you will excluding interest.
But Bob did give some commentary that we expect capitalized interest to fall as well next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the -- if you do that historical comparison I believe it's even more impressive if you look at it on a pre-interest basis.
So I wanted just to ask I mean given the circumstances we had in the beginning of the year with the tremendous price increases and obviously that's showing up in gross margins but we're still at the beginning of the housing recovery arguably or in the early innings call it.
What is your view on what normalized gross margin should be now? And if you could frame that in terms of whether you're talking about the adjusted gross margin or the reported? Nishu I appreciate the comments and the complements.
It's -- frankly it depends on what you call normalized in this industry right? If we got anywhere back to normalized volumes we could have some exciting numbers.
Here's what I would tell you.
You have to be realistic about the fact that land prices are going up there's no question about that which will have some diminishing or pushdown effect if you will on margins.
Having said that we're running a different business: the commonly managed plans the pricing initiatives if you will.
So I'll put it to you this way.
We've been very pleased that we've been able to exceed our own internal plans for margin expansion at this stage.
The market's going to kind of dictate where we go from here but look for us to continue to move on the things that we can control ourselves.
Mix is also going to certainly play a role here.
We certainly benefited from a mix toward Pulte and toward Del Webb and away from Centex which historically is more of a pace business.
So all of that's going to get cooked into the kettle.
But we have visibility for a couple of quarters and as I indicated to Alan we see the opportunity for margin from here to go up based on the visibility we have today.
And this concludes the question-and-answer portion.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenter for closing remarks.
Okay.
I want to thank everybody for their time this morning.
We'll certainly be around all day if you have any follow-up questions and we'll look forward to speaking with you after our fourth quarter.
Have a great day.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the PulteGroup Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
My name is Sarah and I'll be facilitating the audio portion of today's interactive broadcast.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our host.
Mr.
Jim Zeumer you may begin your conference.
Okay.
Thank you Sarah and good morning everyone.
I want to welcome you to the PulteGroup's earnings call to discuss our fourth quarter financial results for the 3 months ended December 31 2013.
On the call today to discuss our results are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Jim Ossowski Vice President Finance and Controller.
Before we begin I want to remind everyone that copies of this morning's earnings release along with the presentation slides that accompanies today's call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
I also want to alert participants that any non-GAAP financial measures discussed on this call including references to gross margins after certain adjustments are reconciled to the U.S.
GAAP equivalent as part of this morning's earnings release.
And finally today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested on our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me call -- turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I want to start this call by saying thank you to our employees for their incredible accomplishments over the past 3 years.
It is only through their efforts that we get to speak with you today about the significant gains in PulteGroup's fourth quarter and full year operating and financial performance.
Their willingness to embrace our Value Creation strategy and implement needed changes have been critical to improving our fundamental business performance.
The realization of their hard work is again showcased in the outstanding quarterly earnings we released this morning.
We have been consistent over the past 36 months in explaining our Value Creation strategy and initiatives to improve gross margins overhead leverage inventory turns and ultimately return on invested capital over the housing cycle.
As I will highlight and Bob will detail we have been successful in delivering gains in each of these key metrics and more broadly across the business.
Our financial results clearly show the progress we continue to make.
For the quarter we were able to drive a 610 basis point improvement in gross margin to 23.2%.
Our adjusted margin of 27.7% represents the 12th consecutive quarter of margin expansion and is a full 190 basis points above our previous high recorded in the first quarter of 2005.
We are very proud of this accomplishment that has taken our margins from the bottom quartile in the industry just 3 years ago to among the industry leaders today.
The significant gains in fourth quarter results helped to lift full year 2013 margins to 20.5% up from 15.8% just 1 year ago.
2013 margins are also more than double our gross margins for full year 2010 which is when we started laying the groundwork for what ultimately became our Value Creation strategy a strategy that is clearly working.
Consistent with our overall focus on operating efficiency we were also able to improve our overhead leverage.
For the full year overhead leverage gained 80 basis points to 10.5% of revenues.
On a dollar basis SG&amp;A for 2013 was up $54 million from last year but this is against a year-over-year increase in homebuilding revenue exceeding $870 million.
We are simply running a more efficient business and certainly a more profitable one as we reported pretax income of $528 million for 2013 almost triple our prior year pretax income of $184 million.
In prior periods we had discussed the potential offered by our Value Creation strategy and I think now it's clearly evident the positive impact our actions are having on PulteGroup's operating and financial performance.
What should also be increasingly clear are the opportunities we now have to capitalize on PulteGroup's improved business platform going forward.
With a more efficient operating model than we had in the past with a more supportive capital structure and with more disciplined investment processes we can be more effective putting additional capital to work.
To that end as part of our 2014 budgeting process we authorized $2 billion for land-related investment.
This is up from $1.3 billion invested in acquisition and development in 2013.
Our decision to increase investment into the business is consistent with our view that U.S.
housing continues to advance to a sustained multiyear recovery.
While there are many estimates on what and when the peak of this current cycle will be reached consensus numbers point toward the industry having several years of increasing demand ahead a view that we share.
The fundamental market dynamics that launched and have supported the recovery in housing remain in place.
Interest rates are near historic lows although we certainly appreciate the rise in mortgage rates experienced in 2013 had an impact in the back half of the year.
The inventory of homes available for sale particularly as it relates to new homes remains low.
And home prices continue to appreciate in most markets which helps to create a sense of urgency and confidence among buyers.
With all that being said we still believe that the ultimate shape of the housing demand curve going forward will be impacted by broader economic conditions.
More jobs and ideally better-paying jobs will be critical in driving housing demand to peak levels.
Home buyer demand would also benefit from better mortgage availability particularly for first-time buyers who have been underrepresented in the recovery so far.
With major changes rolling through the system including the recent implementation of QM rules and new leadership at the Fed and FHFA it is difficult to assess how mortgage availability will develop in the next few quarters.
We do believe however that our government officials appreciate just how important housing is to a sustained economic recovery in this country.
Now with our fourth quarter earnings reported we close out an exceptional 2013 on a very high note and enter 2014 in a strong market position and with tremendous financial flexibility.
Now let me turn the call over to Bob for more details on PulteGroup's fourth quarter results.
Thank you Richard and good morning.
Our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results build on prior gains and continue a trend of operating and financial improvements that began more than 2 years ago.
We've benefited from an industry tailwind but I think our relative performance demonstrates the incremental gains we're generating from our Value Creation initiatives.
Let me provide some details on our financial results for the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter home sale revenues increased 9% over the prior year to $1.6 billion.
Higher revenues for the period were the result of a 13% increase in average selling price to $325 000 partially offset by a 4% decrease in closings to 4 964 homes.
The higher average selling price in the quarter was driven by price increases and the continuing shift in our business towards move-up and active adult homes.
For the fourth quarter our closings break down as follows: 46% from Pulte 32% from Del Webb and 22% from Centex.
This compares to our prior year closing mix of 47% Pulte 26% Del Webb and 27% Centex.
Looking out over the next 12 to 24 months we would expect that our mix of closings will continue to be weighted toward move-up and active adult product as the majority of our land investment has gone into Pulte brand communities while we remain fully invested in Del Webb.
As I mentioned our average selling price on closings was $325 000 which represents an increase of $38 000 over the prior year.
The increase was driven by higher pricing across all 3 of our brands with Pulte up 13% Del Webb up 11% and Centex up 6%.
As previously discussed the shift in mix also contributed to the increase in our overall average selling price.
Land sales in the fourth quarter generated revenues of $12 million and pretax income of less than $1 million.
In the prior year land sale revenues were $37 million with pretax income of $4 million.
As we've stated in the past we remain opportunistic with regards to selling noncore land assets.
Our gross margin in the quarter was 23.2% which is 610 basis points better than the prior year and 230 basis points better than Q3 of this year.
Due in large part to the significant interest savings we are realizing from the deleveraging we have accomplished over the last 2 years I'm happy to say that we feel that addressing adjusted gross margin is no longer necessary so we'll limit our commentary to our actual gross margins in the future.
Just being able to make that statement affirms how much progress we've made.
As has been the trend for a number of quarters our margin for the period included increased contribution from lot premiums and option revenues per closing.
In fact on a year-over-year basis fourth quarter lot premiums and option margin per closing increased 57% to 13 000 and 15% to 44 000 respectively.
On a sequential basis lot premiums gained 14% while option dollars were up 5%.
Our margin also benefited from our continued focus on minimizing incentives.
During the fourth quarter our incentives were 1.7% which is down 240 basis points from Q4 of last year and down slightly from the third quarter of 2013.
Similar to our spec home numbers we've likely reached the lower limit for incentives and we expect they will bounce around this range for the foreseeable future unless market conditions change significantly.
Looking ahead we expect higher land and construction costs to be an increasing headwind in 2014.
However we believe that our Value Creation work and common plan rollout along with a reduction of approximately $50 million in capitalized interest expense from prior deleveraging activities should benefit us in 2014.
There will be quarter-to-quarter variations but overall we see opportunity for continued margin expansion in 2014.
We continue making progress on the implementation of common plans to help drive greater construction efficiency across the organization.
During the fourth quarter commonly managed plans accounted for 21% of our closings which is up from 16% in the third quarter.
We expect the use of common plans to grow towards 40% of deliveries in 2014 and remain on track toward being 70% or more of our production in the future.
Expanding the use of common plans which have demonstrated higher acceptance rates with consumers and which typically carry higher margins grows increasingly important given cost pressures to continue to build in the system.
The entire lot cost is recycled through land positions or higher labor material pricing.
Our ability to squeeze dollars out of the vertical construction would help support margins.
Turning to our overhead.
Total SG&amp;A spend for the fourth quarter of 2013 was $150 million or 9.3% of home sale revenues.
In the comparable prior year period overhead costs were $142 million or 9.6% of revenues.
The increase in spending for the quarter reflects investments we've made in people and processes to support our common plan implementation as well as higher incentive compensation resulting from the company's improved financial results.
Looking at Financial Services our operations reported pretax income of $7 million in the quarter.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 Financial Services generated pretax loss of $24 million which included a $49 million charge associated with potential future loan repurchase obligations.
Financial Services income for the period was impacted by lower spread and lower origination volumes each of which we attribute to an increasingly competitive mortgage-operating environment.
We did not adjust our mortgage repurchase reserves in the fourth quarter.
Consistent with every quarterly close we assess the ongoing volume severity and potential future flow of claims related to historical originations.
We also considered conditions in the broader operating environment including policy changes at the GSEs and in turn large financial institutions.
While no reserve adjustment was taken in the quarter we cannot rule out the possibility of an adjustment up or down based on facts or circumstances in the future.
Turning to taxes.
We reported $12.4 million of tax expense in the fourth quarter.
Our effective tax rate this quarter was impacted by the estimation process included when we reversed our deferred tax valuation allowances in the third quarter.
Beginning in 2014 we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 39%.
Due to our significant loss carryforward position cash-paid taxes are expected to be insignificant.
Looking at the bottom line.
PulteGroup reported net income of $220 million or $0.57 per share which is well above last year's results.
Echoing some of Richard's earlier comments our Value Creation work is clearly enabling PulteGroup to more effectively capitalize on the broader housing recovery than we might otherwise have in the past.
Further the company's performance versus the industry also points to the relative improvement we're generating as measured by gross margin overhead leverage inventory turns and return on invested capital.
The gains we are realizing on the income statement continue to translate into ongoing improvements in our balance sheet and cash flows.
Looking at our investment in house and land we had 4 874 homes under construction at the end of Q4 of which 24% were spec.
Our strategy remains to minimize spec and focus on building to order given the enhanced margins we can typically realize.
During the fourth quarter we put 5 000 lots under control while investing a total of $361 million in land acquisition and development.
Our land transactions continue to get slightly bigger with the size of our average transaction increasing to approximately 150 lots.
Consistent with recent quarters the significant majority of our recent transactions were raw and require development.
As a result they will not drive closings until 2015 and beyond.
We continue to see a heavy emphasis on projects that serve move-up buyers through our Pulte Homes brand.
As the move-up buyer remains the most active segment of the market these projects are providing the best returns on invested capital.
That being said our division continues to search for suitable projects to serve the first-time buyer and I'm confident we can ramp up quickly if we see that consumer returning to the market.
We ended the quarter with 123 000 lots under control of which 23% are under option which is essentially unchanged from Q3.
On a year-over-year basis our lots under control and percentage under option have increased which is consistent with our strategy.
About 23% of our lots are finished with another 19% currently under development.
Closing out the discussion on land.
We invested $1.3 billion in land acquisition and development during the year.
This was slightly below our authorized spend of $1.4 billion.
We remain disciplined in our investment process and are confident that we can invest intelligently over time.
We believe this discipline combined with our improved home-building operations will reduce the risk of overpaying for land.
As Richard mentioned we've authorized $2 billion for land acquisition and development in 2014.
It's important to note that this includes the carryover of unspent authorization from 2013.
We want our land acquisition teams to invest but not to feel pressured to invest on a predetermined time line.
As we've mentioned we only want to invest on the risk-adjusted returns of a deal meet our criteria.
We aren't chasing the market and remain confident in the ability of our teams to invest our capital effectively.
Looking at our cash flows for the quarter we generated $326 million of cash flows from operations spent $35 million to repurchase 2 million shares of our stock and paid $19 million in dividends.
As of the end of the year we reported $1.7 billion of cash representing a sequential increase of $234 million from the third quarter.
On the topic of cash flows and capital allocation I'd like to take a moment to highlight our 2013 accomplishments.
Our operating cash flows for the year increased 16% to $881 million.
We increased our investment in the business by $300 million or 30% to $1.3 billion.
We reinstated our dividend at an annual rate that's 25% higher than our historical dividend.
We continued our efforts to reduce our outstanding indebtedness and we reinvigorated our share repurchase program.
In total we retired $461 million principal value of our debt and returned more than $156 million directly to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Even with all this activity we were able to increase our cash position by $176 million over last year.
Continuing the trend of the past 2 years our leverage ratio improved during the quarter.
We ended the year with a debt-to-cap ratio of 31% which is down from 53% last year.
We remain committed to our balanced approach to capital management including the almost 50% increase in authorized 2014 land acquisition and development spend compared with 2013.
We will also continue to evaluate opportunities to reduce our leverage and repurchase our stock.
During 2013 we repurchased a total of 7.2 million shares representing approximately 2% of our outstanding common stock for $118 million.
At the end of the year we had $234 million of capacity remaining under our existing share repurchase authorization.
Our balance sheet and cash credit metrics are among the best in the industry and provide a strong financial foundation that will allow us to remain flexible as we evaluate debt and stock repurchases.
Just a few final stats on the quarter.
Net new orders totaled 3 215 homes which is a decrease of 18% from last year.
The decrease in sign-ups was in large part attributable to our lower community count in combination with our focus on maximizing profitability per unit.
Given strong price appreciation the dollar value of sign-ups declined only 7% to $1.1 billion.
In the quarter sign-ups decreased 18% at Pulte 30% at Centex and 7% at Del Webb while absorption paces were down 12% at Pulte and roughly flat at Centex and Del Webb.
We ended the quarter with a community count of 577 which is down 14% from the end of last year and consistent with our guidance.
As we discussed during the third quarter earnings call we expect to operate from an approximate range of 560 to 580 communities during all 4 quarters in 2014.
Our 2014 plan calls for us to open approximately 190 new communities with roughly 40% of those communities coming online in the first half of the year.
It will be a busy year for our operations but it will also provide some exciting new floor plans and neighborhoods for our consumers.
With so many new communities in the pipeline the pace at which existing communities close out or delays in openings can impact quarterly reported community count.
We ended the fourth quarter with a backlog valued at $1.9 billion essentially unchanged from 2012.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for some final comments.
Thanks Bob.
Let me provide a few high-level comments on market conditions during the quarter.
Recognizing that the fourth quarter is historically the seasonal low point in demand so trends can be hard to discern.
That said volumes were relatively stable across the quarter and in fact we sold virtually the same number of homes in December as November which is a slightly better pattern than we normally experience.
While I would say that the East Coast is in generally good shape the Northeast down through Washington saw buyers pull back we believe largely due to lingering effects of the government shutdown.
As you go further south into the Carolinas Georgia and South Florida consumers were certainly more active.
With the volume of rhetoric around budget deals and government shutdowns much lower now we are optimistic about the spring selling season in the D.C.
area and very confident about markets in the Southeast and Florida.
Moving into the middle of the country pace has held up reasonably well in the Midwest with considerable strength in Michigan and an ongoing rebound in Chicago and St.
Louis.
On a year-over-year basis Texas was a little slower.
As we talked about last quarter Texas has a greater percentage of Centex buyers so higher interest rates and the closeout of some communities impacted our numbers.
And finally out West demand conditions really didn't change much from what we saw in the third quarter.
We had pushed prices aggressively in the first half of 2013 so the spike in rates generally caused buyers to be more cautious.
On a relative basis Arizona and the Pacific Northwest held up a little better than California and New Mexico.
Looking beyond market conditions in Q4 an area that we are watching carefully as any impact that January's extreme weather in the Midwest and East Coast may have on housing production in the first half of 2014.
With regard to recent sales trends let me add that we are very pleased with the traffic and sales activity we have seen thus far in the -- in January.
Our sales results for 2014 will be impacted by lower year-over-year community count.
But buyers are showing up in our communities and seasonal momentum is beginning to build nicely.
Based on the trends we have seen since December and extending into January we are optimistic about the spring selling season ahead.
Before opening the call to questions I will finish by saying that we are extremely gratified by the results we delivered in the fourth quarter and for all of 2013.
It was a year of tremendous progress for our company and further confirmation of the gains our Value Creation strategy is helping to drive.
In just a couple of years we have gone from the middle or even bottom of the industry to among the top performers in the critical areas of margin pretax profit growth returns and strength of balance sheet.
We now enter the important spring selling season with very positive expectations especially given our expanding library of innovative life-tested home designs and a number of new communities to serve consumers.
I'll complete my comments as they began by thanking our employees for their hard work on behalf of the company and our home buyers.
Thanks for your time this morning and I'll now turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we will open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Sarah if you'll explain the process we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is about the incremental land spend.
And understanding the commentary about how the changes in your model and your operating strategy are enabling you to be able to buy more land and buy land more effectively or efficiently.
I'm wondering if you can talk about how much of this is push and how much of this is pull? In other words are you finding more opportunities in the market now maybe because of some of the slowdown in the back half of '13 that you're saying "Hey we really want to go out there and pursue those opportunities?" Or is this just the model has gotten efficient enough now that you can go out there and compete more aggressively with some of your peers for new land acquisitions? David it's Richard.
I'd say it's some of both.
Primarily as our model continues to get more efficient we have a lot of confidence that we can drive excellent returns as we have with our land investment.
And frankly we've been increasing our appetite for land acquisition steadily over the past 18 to 24 months.
So it's a little bit of both.
Some additional opportunities but primarily I would say the confidence we have in our ability to find excellent transactions.
And I'll just point out that we are absolutely not wavering from our disciplined criteria that we've had now for 3 years to generate the best returns on the land spend that we put out there.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just as a follow-up the price increases at Centex -- and Richard in the commentary about how higher rates are impacting the business in Texas and the Centex business in Texas.
Were you surprised by the higher prices at Centex? And is this more of a mix shift in terms of product? And I know you guys have kind of worked to get out there and be able to compete with the existing home market at Centex and maybe that brought prices down.
But it's just a little bit surprising on our end to hear Centex prices up.
Can you talk about that a little bit what's going on and what's driving that phenomenon? No listen we've been reasonably pleased with what's happening in the entry level.
And frankly we're pleased with our sales results and our pricing across the board.
With regard to Centex specifically I think that brand along with our others are benefiting from the combination of pushing options pushing lot premiums.
All the components obviously that buyer doesn't have as much money as the move-up or Del Webb buyer to drive price.
But overall yes we saw some impact from the rate change that we saw during the year.
But I'll highlight David that things seemed to really begin to shift in December.
I referenced in my remarks that December was equivalent to November and we like what we're seeing so far in January.
So we're optimistic about Centex and the rest of our portfolio heading into '14.
Your next question comes from Eli Hackel of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just have a question on margins.
Clearly very impressive in the quarter.
Just wondering if you could help us dissect that a little bit.
How much was mix price maybe move to the more commonly managed plans.
And then you said -- looks like you may be able to improve margin -- gross margins further in 2014.
Is that on a full year-over-year basis or starting from the end of the year? All right.
So margins in 2014 we believe year-over-year we have room to improve obviously from the margin that we had for full year of '13.
As we look at our backlog we've got visibility into -- essentially the first 2 quarters and think we've got room there.
We benefit from not only improved efficiency and construction but also from a reduction in our capitalized interest because of the deleveraging we've done.
In terms of breaking down the margin specifically between mix it is a challenge for us to do that because there's a lot of moving pieces.
Obviously the change in our business towards our higher-margin -- sorry Pulte and Del Webb is the benefit.
The good news is that consistent with recent quarters the margin improvement we've seen has been across all 3 brands.
So it really is underlying improvement in the operations not just mix shift that's increasing our margin.
Eli Richard here.
One additional add-on as Bob indicated it's a lot of things.
And one thing I'd reference in his prepared remarks Bob indicated that lot premiums and option margins were up both sequentially and year-over-year.
So we continue to be able to eke out gains in several different areas the Common Plan Management the pricing strategies all of it is benefiting an exceptional margin performance in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one quick follow-up.
Just wondered if you could maybe help me understand a little bit more about what optimistic means for spring selling.
Does that mean absorptions could get to the point where they're flat year-over-year? Or maybe a little bit more color there would be helpful.
Listen I can't give you predictions in terms of details.
I'll tell you this.
It feels like in December buyers started to get more comfortable with the increased rate environment.
And we were very pleased that December was flat with November which historically doesn't happen in this business.
And January has gotten off to a good start.
I'll leave it at that.
Your next question comes from Ivy Zelman of Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Congratulations on a great quarter and a phenomenal year.
The question is can you surpass it? You got a high bar now.
But it sounds like you have confidence that you can.
One question related to the gross margins.
When you're underwriting the new land that you're acquiring are you assuming the gross margins are going to be at the same run rate? And is there expectations for any pricing in your underwriting? Or are you assuming prices currently at the level it is today? First question.
Yes.
So as to underwriting standards we do not assume price appreciation in our underwriting.
So we do use current pricing but don't project forward.
And I forgot the first question.
Gross margin or something.
[indiscernible] more kind of question.
Yes.
Sorry...
I can help with that.
Ivy this is Richard.
With regard to margins something that you might be interested in is margins on transactions that we have underwritten over the past couple of years continue to exceed margins on our legacy land bank.
And we continue to be pleased with that.
We believe this is a result of a lot of the efficiency that we're driving in the business through Common Plan Management and our pricing strategies that is causing that.
In terms of where margin sort of go from here as Bob indicated we believe we have room to go in 2014.
We'll have to see how it all plays out.
But given the visibility we have for the first couple of quarters we're optimistic.
LLC</strong> So it sounds like it's not contingent on price which is when I finish the next question you can confirm.
But that's good news.
The active adult market we have heard has gotten better really starting in December and seen some traction there.
Given you guys are the largest builder that services that market can you go into a little bit more detail what you're seeing there? And certainly that consumer is much more affected about what happens in Washington and the confidence in the country and the economy.
I'd love to hear your thoughts around that please.
Yes Ivy on the active adult side we have noted some strength in active adult particularly in January in the markets that we have quite a bit of active adult activity.
It's been an area of strength maybe notable strength for the company thus far.
I believe that that buyer group continues to slowly but surely improve which is typically what we'd see in a housing recovery.
They tend to be a lagger.
But starting last year and certainly into the first few weeks of this year we've definitely seen some strength in Del Webb.
Your next question comes from Dan Oppenheim with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about the sort of different products there in terms of Pulte Centex and Del Webb.
You talked about Centex being 22% from 27%.
Wondering if you can sort of talk about absorption across the brands and how that was over the course of the fourth quarter and sort of what are you expecting here? Sure.
So what we saw during the quarter in terms of absorptions was off 12% for Pulte and like we said roughly flat for Centex and Del Webb.
So I'm not sure if there's more you wanted.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in -- you talked about the -- sort of the best returns in terms of the -- best returns on capital in terms of the move-up and so some of the investment is going there.
Presumably with some of those projects taking -- being more time-intensive in terms of the holding period for that land then it would also -- in terms of getting that return you would need a higher margin.
So a mix shift towards Pulte and Del Webb would presumably also be positive from a margin standpoint correct? Well I think it depends.
Interestingly for -- even the entry-level land that we see today a lot of it is raw.
So the hold period isn't distinctly different.
The Del Webb is a little bit different because typically they are longer-lived communities whether it's 1 000 or 2 000 lots so it takes longer.
So typically we'll have more development profit in that and so yes you would expect to see higher gross margins.
And historically that has certainly been the case.
The Del Webb brand does represent our highest margin in the mix.
Your next question comes from Stephen East ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Richard if you look at your big land spend for next year you're not really moving your community count.
So even though you're opening a lot you've got a lot that are closing out too.
When you look at that is there a mix impact? Because I assume most of these would have the common floor plan approach to it.
Should all else being equal do we have a mix shift up on your gross margins just from that? And if you looked at the CFP just holding everything else static I know there's a lot of moving parts but holding everything else static what type of margin differential do you have in that versus your older product? Yes.
So Stephen a couple -- to clarify a couple of things.
The $2 billion in authorized land spend is going to impact 2015 and 2016 not '14 in terms of deliveries.
We expect that our common plans will represent about 40% of closings this year building toward our long-term goal of 70-plus percent as Bob indicated.
Having said all that we are going to have a continued mix shift during the year toward Pulte away from Centex.
And Bob had indicated that's as a result of the underwriting and investment that we made over the past 12 to 18 months.
So yes there'll be a continued mix shift this year into Pulte but the incremental land spend will benefit volumes and community count and all that in later periods beyond '14.
And one point of clarity on that.
In terms of the land spend if you remember last year we've told you that roughly 2/3 of our spend was development and a 1/3 third was land acquisition.
What we saw in the fourth quarter on the $360-ish million there's roughly 40% land 60% development.
Out into '14 we think that that actually moves even closer so it's about 45% on land and 55% on development.
So you've got a little bit -- you need to understand what's happening in the cash spend.
It's not all on dirt.
It is also the development dollars that we'll spend on the things that we have acquired over the last 12 to 18 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then if we look at -- you had been metering sales and some and I realize the demand has slowed down a lot.
But do you have any areas where you have to meter sales as you make these transitions? And then just differently on your SG&amp;A your expectations for operational leverage in 2014.
Yes.
So Stephen I'll handle the first one and Bob can answer your SG&amp;A question.
We have been metering sales in several communities in several areas of the country very consistent with the strategy that we've had for a while.
And yes I would expect that to continue this year depending on our lot supply in a given community when the replacement parcel is coming online.
And it's all about returns.
Our operators are very well disciplined on looking at pace versus price.
And if we have a large land bank like we may have in a Del Webb community with lots and lots in front of us we'll let it run and drive pace.
But in some of the Pulte communities where we may only have 50 lots left or 25 lots left we're going to be driving price as hard as we can.
So that's on the sales metering.
Bob? Yes.
And on leverage we had approximately $570 million in SG&amp;A this year what is that 10.3% of revenue.
We've talked in the past about a lot of that spend being relatively fixed -- our commissions are in SG&amp;A.
So going forward we highlighted for you in the fourth quarter that some of our spend was related to people and processes we're putting in for the Common Plan Management.
We'll see that in '14 as well.
So I think you would expect us to probably put a little bit of cost in to try and continue that effort.
Then leverage would be depending on what you think volume is going to be.
Your next question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Congrats on the quarter and the gross margins.
And maybe just hitting on that topic for the first question.
You've seen obviously a great acceleration in the pre-interest gross margin and as you said I believe beating the record back in '05.
So as you think about that I mean certainly I guess on a full year basis for '14 you're looking at to be above '13.
If I understand that correct Bob you were saying that you expect that to be both pre- and post-interest.
Correct me if I'm wrong.
But how would you view...
No Mike just to clarify that was post-interest that we were saying that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in that -- that really speaks for the question.
Given the results in the back half of the year particularly in 4Q '13.
I mean how do you view the sustainability of that? And if there might have been some amount of let's say excess price appreciation among other things that maybe it's not the right number to model sustainably going forward.
Well I think obviously as we look at fiscal '14 we see an absolute ability to see margin improvement because of the scaling up that we saw during the year.
Our margins grew quarter-by-quarter in '13 and our backlog is relatively consistent with the business environment that we saw during the back half of '13.
Obviously there was a little bit of relative weakness in the fourth quarter given all the noise around interest rates et cetera.
But again looking at it we think that we can continue to drive margins on a core basis consistent with what we saw in the back half of this year especially as we roll out the commonly managed plan.
And then obviously we get the benefit of lower interest amortization.
For perspective roughly $50 million if you look at fiscal '13 volumes that's about a point of margin.
Research Division</strong> So I guess maybe excluding the benefit from the interest expense and if you just look at the pre-interest gross margin you did about 25% I think a little over 25% for full year '13.
Given the positive momentum that you saw in the back half of this year would you expect '14 to be above back half of '13? Mike I think Bob indicated that we thought that it could be consistent with in that range based on the backlog that we see.
He also mentioned quarter-to-quarter variation.
Margins are not certainly going to move in a straight line all the time but we like our overall position.
And frankly the deleveraging that we've done all the work we've done on common plans all the work we've done on pricing we expect to continue to benefit us collectively.
And that's the way we're looking at it is what's the actual margin we deliver.
Your next question comes from Ken Zener of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Obviously your margins are progressing so I'd like to focus on orders which are more difficult to control and predict.
Our view is seasonal not cyclical growth right now.
And Richard your comments around 1Q trend -- historically 1Q absorptions increased about 38% from 4Q.
That's back to 1999 and 4Q this quarter decelerated 11% from the third quarter which is actually right what history would suggest.
So could you comment on your optimism around spring being above the historical absorption change which another builder has commented on that? Or are you just realizing the normal seasonal absorption improvements? Just trying to see if seasonality is a good benchmark for your comments.
Yes.
Ken I'll just point out that we're 4 weeks into the year.
What I will tell you though is that there was a noticeable shift in the market in December.
Normally you wouldn't see seasonal momentum begin building until late January and we saw it building a little bit earlier this year.
And I believe it's because buyers became a little bit more comfortable with the rate environment that kind of shocked them in the third and early parts of the fourth quarter and realized that the housing market is still very attractive.
So it's hard to predict exactly what the spring selling season is going to bring.
But at this point we believe it's going to be a good one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at Del Webb given that you are servicing a select age group.
We had done a piece showing that the older people are working contributing to the labor force more than they had in the past.
Can you comment on the buyers? I mean do they tend to -- are you seeing more working buyers in your Del Webb communities? Ken you're exactly right.
The buyer profile is changing.
We're seeing more and more working buyers in Del Webb and we're pleased with the activity that we're seeing in Del Webb.
And part of our strategy as a result of the trends we're seeing is to decrease the size of our future investment in Del Webb communities.
We'd love the demographic and we actually are in the middle of a significant study right now on how to really capitalize even further on that changing demographic.
We'll have more to say about that as our plans evolve over time.
But yes the Del Webb buyer is changing and we're keeping up with them.
And we like what we see because we believe a combination of smaller Del Webb communities going forward that frankly don't provide as much land risk over time is a good thing.
And they can be very return-friendly communities from what we've seen.
So we like the position we have and we're optimistic about that category.
Your next question comes from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The 190 communities that are going to be new openings of the 570 that you're going to have total for 2014.
Just wanted to get a sense of what that ratio looked like for 2013.
And also I think -- I'm not sure you -- I don't think you talked about this.
But of the 190 how many of those are newly acquired and how many would be from your lot inventories? Go ahead Bob.
I was going to say not a dramatically different number of openings.
We had probably more closings in fiscal '13.
And we do not have a significant number of previously unopened communities opening.
So no -- not a big mothballed community count.
Yes the vast majority of that Nishu would be new dirt.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it acquired since the recovery.
Okay great.
And second question.
Now obviously the benefits -- the dividends of your Value Creation strategy and the margins are pretty apparent very very strong trend there as many have noted.
A part of your Value Creation strategy has been to shift away from focusing on volumes.
So the sorts of analysis that investors and other builders do where they're saying we did x number of closings in 2005.
We're in some new markets so we can do that many again.
I know that you have very much shifted away from that.
But I wanted to ask you to just think about in the housing recovery given your Value Creation strategy can you grow as fast as the market? So if housing starts -- single-family housing starts after double from here can under the Value Creation strategy Pulte keep up with that growth? Can Pulte double as well in that kind of setup? Nishu there's absolutely no restriction on our ability to grow.
It's going to be a function of the investment that we put into the business.
What I will tell you is that the $1.3 billion we invested this year was a 30% improvement over prior year and the $2 billion that we are targeting to invest this year is almost a 50% improvement on that $1.3 billion.
Any way you slice it that's a lot of growth that we're anticipating going forward.
Having said that our focus is on return.
And every single community we're going to do the best we can to maximize return whether that's driving pace or price.
And frankly all the return on invested capital metrics that I look at we are now right around second place in the industry behind NVR who obviously has a lot lower overall capital base in terms of land than anybody else.
So we're extremely pleased and we believe investors over the long run are going to benefit from that strategy over the cycle.
So we are interested in growing.
We want to grow based on the market opportunity that we see.
We just don't want to be exclusively focused on growth like we were in the past and make the mistakes that we made in the past.
And we're not going to do that.
Your next question comes from Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> In light of the kind of metering and the discipline you talked about and the community count trajectory when you look at the full year 2014 is your expectation for positive order growth? Adam we're not going to get into commentary on that.
I will say that volume will ultimately follow the investment to some degree and then the rest of it of course is up to the macro environment and then our individual strategy by community.
So we'll let you model what your model will produce but we're not going to comment on specifics there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question goes to capital allocation.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks you had tremendous financial flexibility.
You have big cash balance and the buyback has been I would say somewhat minor relative to the cash balance.
Can you provide any kind of range in the order of magnitude of stock you think you might like to repurchase? And then can you also discuss if acquiring any small private builders is on your radar screen or not? Yes.
Adam we haven't given any color or commentary around our buying patterns and will not be on our stock.
As it relates to smaller builders we've certainly see everything that's out in the market.
We've got contacts and people recognize we have the balance sheet to do it.
We haven't seen any to this point that were attractive to us for a variety of reasons.
But certainly nothing stopping us from doing it.
Your next question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify what I thought you said.
First so I guess with your gross margins you had mentioned I thought Bob about a $50 million reduction in capitalized interest would equal 100 basis points.
So I want to make sure did you imply that -- from that comment that your capitalized interest that you're going to expense in 2014 would be $50 million less than it was in 2013? And if that isn't what you meant if you could be a little bit more precise about what you think it will be and how it will flow over the year that would be really helpful.
Yes Steven that is exactly what I said.
Our capitalized interest expense will be in the neighborhood of $50 million lower in 2014 than it was in 2013.
The point I was making about the 100 basis points is if you applied that $50 million reduction to our '13 business it was about 100 basis points.
Obviously what it would mean in '14 would be dependent on what you think our volume will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then if I could ask you a question about your inventory.
Could you give us a sense for what your inventory breakout figures were? I'm looking for the homes under construction and then also if you have like a sticks-and-bricks type figure that would be great.
Okay.
Total homes under construction were 4 874 at the end of the quarter.
1 151 of those were spec so 24%.
And total sticks and bricks were $525 million at the end of the quarter.
Your next question comes from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask your average order price.
In the last quarter it was $336 000 up 13% year-over-year and good sequential growth as well.
Would you be happy if for the full year 2014 it was up mid-single digits? And what do you view as the outlook for continued price increases this year? Listen we'd be happy with pricing growth of course.
Some of that's going to be mix shift-driven and we haven't sort of commented on specifically exactly what we expect there.
And I'm sorry what was the second part of your question Bob? LLC Research Division</strong> I was just looking for a general range.
Like would mid-single-digit ASP growth for new orders be something that you would say "Hey that's realistic and achievable and we'll be happy with that"? I'm not looking for a specific number.
I'll answer it this way.
The total price lift that we had in the market in 2013 I think was unique and special.
Yes I would say the range that you mentioned would be a realistic macro forecast.
But listen who knows exactly what's going to unfold here.
We'll have to see.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you're doing a lot to control costs and SG&amp;A too.
And I was just thinking how should we think about the trajectory of SG&amp;A dollar spending levels as volume increases? Obviously you got a lot of new communities opening up.
You had a great year in terms of cost control.
I just wanted to get your view on how achievable it is to stay at the current level.
Is it sustainable? Or should we look for dollar spend to rise pretty substantially with new community openings? Yes.
As we talked about obviously our spend is relatively fixed because we don't have the commission and SG&amp;A.
We did highlight that we will likely continue to spend a little bit of money to do the Common Plan Management.
And consistent with what we've said in the past the growth of SG&amp;A spend will be dependent on how we grow the business.
And so if we do it through a huge increase in community count you have costs associated with opening new communities versus if you get pace increases inside the business.
So if the Del Webb brand were to expand dramatically we don't need to spend much of any overhead to make that happen because it's really just hiring 1 or 2 more people to manage the process.
So again we're pretty comfortable with the spend.
We're investing a little bit in the improvement processes.
If we were to rapidly expand our footprint you might see us spend some more money.
Your next question comes from Mike Roxland of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> When I -- just following up on SG&amp;A.
When I look at SG&amp;A it came with -- on a percentage basis it came with -- came in somewhat higher than we were expecting.
Were there any surprises in the quarter from your vantage point? No.
No there weren't.
No we were happy with our spend levels and our closing volumes came in where we expected.
Research Division</strong> Just because when I look at SG&amp;A -- if we look back historically typically on a percentage of sales basis you typically see a decline.
And I think it was a little bit higher if I'm not mistaken versus 3Q.
Is that just more like the comp spending that you're over the -- the SG&amp;A higher this quarter relative to historical patterns? Mike there was some of that clearly in the gross number.
But I think more of it frankly is we don't have a spec model anymore and our ability to convert a lot of spec units to drop to the bottom line is a lot less than it was in the past and the consistency with which we're running the business year-over-year is a whole lot different.
So I'd suspect it might have been as much the revenue conversion as the absolute SG&amp;A levels.
But in terms of actual spend your compensation expense was up a little bit based on a good year.
And Bob had indicated we did some investment for our Common Plan Management work some IT investment things like that.
But my guess is most of it was the change in conversion based on the fact that we're a presale builder today.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just quickly following up on your comments regarding how constructive you are in sales in January would it be fair to say that January has been better than December? Certainly your tone has indicated that.
And have you seen improvement in January accelerate on a weekly basis? And is there any one area that you would cite as showing more notable improvement than others? Listen with regard to January trends we're not going to comment on the detail there.
The seasonal build is sort of what we referenced and we'll kind of leave it at that.
Your next question comes from Jay McCanless of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First question on the mortgage put-back issue.
Was that just a function of declining put-back requests? Or is it more related to the guidance that the FHFA gave out late in 2012 -- or 2013 sorry? Well certainly we take everything into consideration.
If you look at what we prepared in the webcast slides the volume came down during the fourth quarter but it was still at a relatively high level consistent with earlier in the year.
We look at payments that we have made.
You can see or you will be able to see in our filings that our reserve balance went down by virtue of making some payments.
Those payments were consistent with what we had accrued.
We certainly pay attention to what the FHFA is saying about when they think they'll be done with their review of files.
So on balance when we look at it and we do every quarter we didn't see anything that would tell us that the accrual we have is incorrect.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just want to shift gears to Del Webb.
Just want to find out if you're having to dial up incentives to drive that buyer in or if they're coming in willing to pay full boat.
Just a little more commentary about what you're seeing in the field from those active adult buyers.
Yes we're not dialing up incentives for active adult.
That buyer is frankly not very price-sensitive.
We like that category and as I indicated we like the trends we see building so far this year there.
Your next question comes from Will Randow of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of bookkeeping items.
In regards to the on balance sheet DTA can you remind me of the pace of the cash realization and any limitations on such? No limitations that we're aware of so that -- which is the reason we reversed essentially all of the reserve.
The cash utilization of that will be predicated on earnings.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And in regards to -- I can't remember if you mentioned it but what's the number of developed lots ready the go? And if you could provide a qualitative split between Pulte Del Webb and Centex.
The developed lots ready to go that we own are 23 245.
And then we also have developed lots optioned 5 124.
Your next question comes from Joel Locker of FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you about your SG&amp;A.
You guys touched on -- with the $570 million run rate in '13.
Do you expect to be flattish from there? Or do you expect that with the back end being up 5% 6% kind of the same year-over-year increase in '14 as you -- over '13? Yes as we've talked about not a significant change in spend other than the fact we will continue to invest.
We obviously have cost pressures on wages.
We have normal merit increases.
So you're probably there plus some.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just your tax valuation allowance what's remaining off balance sheet? $157 million.
And your next question comes from Buck Horne of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick housekeeping item.
Can you quantify what the commissions' numbers was as a percentage of revenue that was in the cost of goods sold? Yes I don't have an exact number on that but it typically runs at about the 4.5% range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Typically 4.5% total? Okay correct.
One other strategic question would you guys consider looking at private builder acquisitions to accelerate your community count growth? How do you guys evaluate buying another builder out there as opposed to just open-market land acquisitions? Buck we definitely would consider that and continue to look at the opportunities that get presented to us.
As Bob indicated with the firepower that we have we get to look at everything.
And we would underwrite it very similarly to a raw land transaction.
We'd look at the IRR characteristics the risk involved and the number of lots undertaken et cetera.
And we'll continue to look at those very opportunistically just like we would raw land.
And your next question comes from Alex Barrn of Housing Research.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you guys have done any kind of analysis on the qualified mortgage and what impact that would have had on -- and how many buyers maybe wouldn't have made it last year? Yes I think we've commented on this in -- when it got asked in the past and it's a very small percentage certainly under 5% maybe 3% or 2%.
So I would tell you that to this point that has proven to be true.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And as far as the DTA I think you guys had a small balance left over last quarter of like $231 million.
Do you have that -- an update on that? Or did you guys reverse any more this quarter of that? Yes I think that question just got asked but a little differently.
So essentially we did have a reserve last quarter.
The way the accounting works is we were -- the GAAP tells you that when we book the adjustment in the third quarter we projected what we would utilize in the fourth quarter.
So we used about $73 million during the fourth quarter for fourth quarter earnings and we have about $157 million left on the books at the end of the year.
And I have no further questions queued up at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenter for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
I want to thank everybody for joining us on the call today.
We'll certainly be around for any additional questions and look forward to talking to you as part of Q1.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup Inc.
First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
James Zeumer you may begin your conference.
Great.
Thank you operator and good morning.
I want to welcome everyone to PulteGroup's earnings call to discuss our first quarter financial results for the three months ended March 31 2014.
Joining me on today's call are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; Jim Ossowski Vice President Finance and Controller.
Before we begin I want to remind everyone that copies of this morning's earnings release along with the presentation slides that accompanies today's call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of today's call will also be available on the site later today.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
With that said now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Jr.</strong> Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'm excited to speak with you this morning about PulteGroup's first quarter operating and financial results which show the company's continued gains against our key business metrics.
Equally important I am pleased to report that the positive January traffic and demand dynamics we discussed on our last earnings call continue to develop over the quarter helping to improve our absorptions per community and giving us confidence in the ongoing recovery of housing demand.
Specific to the company our first quarter pretax earnings of $130 million and related financial results show ongoing success consistent with our value creation strategy and focus on driving better returns on invested capital over the housing cycle.
As Bob will detail shortly gains related to this work can be seen clearly in our income statement and balance sheet.
There are a couple of points I would note to highlight our progress.
First on comparable revenues we were able to expand year-over-year gross margins by 580 basis points to 23.8%.
Gross margins are also up 60 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2013 making this the ninth quarter in a row of sequential gains.
Last time our margins were at this level was back in 2005 a time when industry volumes and relating demand were obviously much higher than what we were experiencing currently.
Stated plainly we are running a much more efficient business today as we're able to generate much higher earnings at current production levels.
Second our results show the continued benefits we are realizing from our strategic pricing strategy which has given us a lot more opportunity to capture higher revenues and profitability for home.
The average sales price for closings in the quarter was $317 000 an increase of 10% over last year.
Yes we were able to realize higher prices on our base house but as Bob will detail shortly we saw even bigger percentage increases on option pricing and lot premiums.
Again this is reflective of our pricing strategies which focus on offering a great base house and then allowing the consumer to select those options and upgrades they value most and for which they are willing to pay.
In addition to the extensive new product development and testing work we are implementing for all new floor plans we put a lot of analysis into the options we offer and our lot pricing strategy as we work to capture the maximum value from each home we sell.
And finally I would highlight that our sign-ups for the quarter which totaled 4 863 homes.
The sign-up number is down 6% from last year but it was generated from 10% fewer communities indicating improved absorption paces within our communities a positive sign given the strength in last year's first quarter demand.
Given how demand developed and the favorable comments we have heard from our divisions during the quarter I am really pleased with our sign-ups for the period.
The combination of solid pricing improved absorption pace and cancellation rates that dropped back below 12% for the quarter leaves me optimistic about the remainder of the spring selling season.
We believe the industry is still in the early stages of what will be a sustained multiyear recovery but one that will develop at a more measured pace than passed housing recoveries given demand and supply constraints.
Certainly we could see the pace of recovery accelerate but I think we would have to see an increase in the rate of employment growth and better mortgage availability especially for entry level buyers.
To that point we get a lot of questions about the entry level buyer and PulteGroup's strategy for addressing this segment which is most directly served to our Centex brand.
At less than 30% of current overall housing demand compared with historical rates above 40% this group is underrepresented in the overall housing recovery thus far.
However we are seeing acceptable levels of entry level activity in certain markets and our most recent survey show millennials remain very positive about housing and homeownership.
When demand from this buyer demographic returns we will be ready.
We continue to refine our product designs and seek new land investments that are well located to serve this buyer.
We have the knowledge and financial capacity to react quickly as demand evolves and are excited about the future opportunities for the segment.
Now let me turn the call over to Bob for more details on the quarter.
Bob? Thank you Richard and good morning.
PulteGroup indeed has gotten off to a great start in 2014 with continued improvement across a number of important operating and financial metrics.
These gains allow us to post a strong Q1 financial performance.
First quarter home sale revenues totaled $1.1 billion which is comparable with last year.
As Richard mentioned we realized a 10% increase in average selling price to $317 000 which was offset by the 10% decrease in closing volumes to 3 436 homes.
We were able to achieve this despite the difficult weather conditions in much of the country as our operating teams worked hard to minimize this impact on our production schedules.
The higher average selling price in the quarter was driven by price increases at all three of our brands including 13% increases at the Pulte and Del Webb to $387 000 and $322 000 respectively and a 5% increase at Centex to $203 000.
We did see a shift in the mix of closings during the quarter which break down as follows; 41% from Pulte 32% from Del Webb and 27% from Centex.
This compares to our prior year closing mix of 46% Pulte 28% Del Webb and 26% Centex.
With our land investment continuing to skew to our Pulte brand we expect that our mix of closings will continue to be weighted toward move-up and active adult product.
For the quarter our gross margin was 23.8% which represents an increase of 580 basis points over Q1 of last year and 60 basis points over Q4 of last year.
Margins in the quarter benefited from mix of homes delivered in the period as well as our strategic pricing programs which allow buyers to select the lots and options that they value most.
The success of this strategy can again be seen as lot premiums in the quarter increased 41% to $12 000 per home while option dollars gained 12% to $44 000 per home.
Margins in the quarter also benefited from further reductions in sales discounts which fell for 1.6%.
This is down 180 basis points from last year.
In dollar terms sales discounts in the quarter were approximately $5 200 per home compared with just over $10 000 last year.
While we're likely getting to the lower end range of what's possible for discounts we'll keep working hard to squeeze out every dollar we can.
In addition to pricing benefits we continue to focus on driving greater construction efficiency and lower build cost to our common plan and related known strategy.
For the quarter commonly managed plans accounted for 30% of closings up from 21% in Q4 of last year keeping us on track towards our goal of 40% by the end of 2014.
With rising material and labor costs increasing the use of commonly managed floor plans is critical to our ongoing efforts to enhance margins.
Our current estimates show house cost up roughly $1 400 or about 1.2% for home from 2013.
As we've commented on prior calls rising land labor and material costs are an increasing margin headwind.
We see opportunities to enhance margins from here through common plan management strategic pricing and other initiatives.
But quarter-to-quarter volatility does exist depending of the mix of homes delivered and seasonal demand.
Turning to our overheads.
SG&amp;A spend in the first quarter totaled $145 million compared with $130 million last year.
Our spend in the period is consistent with comments we made in Q4 and reflects investments we're making in support of common plan management product and purchasing zones and our information systems.
Our Financial Services business reported pretax income of $22 million in the quarter which is up from $14 million in Q1 of last year.
These results include the reversal of $19 million of mortgage repurchase reserves offset by a decrease in operating profitability due to the more competitive operating conditions that currently exist within the mortgage industry.
We're obviously pleased to reverse a portion of our reserves related to mortgage origination exposure.
This accounting reflects the improving housing market recent settlement activity relating to known repurchase requests and the settlement of significant exposures relating to originations through the end of 2008 with a significant investor.
We will continue to work diligently to minimize and resolve our repurchase-related exposures.
Looking at our taxes we reported $55 million of expense which represents an effective rate of 42%.
Our first quarter rate was higher than our previous guidance of 39% due in large part to adjustments to our deferred taxes relating to changes in certain state tax rates.
In the prior year we reported less than $1 million of tax expenses maintained a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.
In total PulteGroup reported pretax income of $130 million for the quarter which is up 58% over the prior year.
Net income for the period was $75 million or $0.19 per share compared with $82 million or $0.21 per share in 2013.
We've gotten off to a strong start in 2014 and are well positioned to build on this performance as we move through the remainder of the year.
Looking beyond the income statement we had 5 121 homes under construction at the end of the quarter of which 19% were spec.
The spec percentage is comparable with Q1 of last year but down sequentially from Q4.
During the quarter we put 9 700 lots under control and invested a total of $325 million in land acquisitions and developments.
As has been the trend for several quarters most of these land positions are raw and require development but we were able to increase the percentage of deals under our options would allows us to control but not own the positions until needed.
At the end of Q1 we had 120 000 lots under control of which 26% are under option.
Roughly 23% of our lots are finished with another 19% currently under development.
As previously reported we authorized $2 billion for land acquisition and development in 2014 and we continue to target this level.
We are committed however to remaining disciplined in our investment process and will invest only when acceptable risk-adjusted returns can be realized.
Looking at our cash flows we generated $91 million of cash flow from operations despite the increase in our land investment activities.
During the quarter we spent $45 million to repurchase 2.2 million shares of our stock at an average cost of $19.95 per share.
As of March 31 we had $190 million of capacity remaining under our existing share repurchase authorization.
We also completed our previously announced transactions to repurchase $246 million of senior notes.
We recorded a charge of $9 million resulting from these redemptions.
At quarter end our total debt outstanding is down to $1.8 billion of which $1 billion matures in 2032 and beyond.
And our debt to capital has decreased to 28%.
After completing all these transactions we ended the quarter with $1.3 billion of cash.
The improvements we realized over the past couple of years in our operating and in turn financial metrics have been dramatic and are being recognized as PulteGroup has been upgraded recently by each of the major rating agencies.
Let me finish with just a few more data points before turning the call back to Richard.
We generated net new orders for the first quarter of 4 863 homes which is a decrease of 6% from last year.
As Richard mentioned year-over-year community count was down 10% so we did experience higher absorption paces in the period.
Benefiting from the strong price appreciation we've driven the dollar value of sign-ups actually increased 2% to $1.6 billion.
In the quarter net sign-ups decreased 8% for Pulte 6% for Centex and 4% for Del Webb.
However absorption paces were up 7% in Del Webb and 29% in Centex offset in part by an 8% decrease in Pulte communities.
The year-over-year increase seen in our Del Webb brand is a positive given the deep land positions we maintained in those communities.
We ended the quarter with a community count of 584 which is down 10% from the end of last year and consistent with our guidance that we expect to operate from an approximate range of 560 to 580 communities during all four quarters of 2014.
We opened more than 40 communities in the quarter and remain on track to open approximately 190 new communities over the full year.
We ended Q1 with a backlog of 7 199 homes valued at $2.4 billion which compares with our prior year backlog of 7 825 homes at a comparable $2.4 billion value.
In conclusion our Q1 results represent a strong start to the year and are further confirmation that our efforts towards running a more efficient and profitable business are meeting with success.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for some final comments.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Bob.
As I said at the outset we experienced good demand in the quarter with generally stable to rising prices and gains and absorption paces suggestive of buyers coming back into the market especially in March.
We'll have to see how demand develops over the remainder of the spring selling season but we are certainly encouraged by what we saw.
Taking this view down a level looking at the East Coast sales activity was stronger in the south and softer as you move into the northern markets.
Demand trends were strong in Florida and generally positive up to the Carolinas but as you move through D.C.
and into the New England area demand was respectable but certainly not as strong as the other areas in the east.
We saw a similar pattern in the central third of the country with demand in Texas arguably among the strongest in the country.
Again as you continue heading north you can still see pockets of strength but conditions were a little more mixed.
The one outlier is Michigan which continued to see good traffic and demand even in the face of the snowiest winter in more than a 100 years.
Inventory is just so tight in Michigan that any available supply is quickly snapped up and often in higher prices.
The west obviously didn't have to deal with snow and cold but I think the market is still finding its level after the significant price increases experienced over the prior 24 months.
On a relative basis the Pacific Northwest and Northern California saw better demand during the quarter while Arizona felt more pressure.
As for April we are seeing stable to slightly lower traffic levels of highly qualified buyers compared to March which is a normal seasonal trend and keeps us optimistic for demand over the remainder of the spring selling season.
As always I want to thank the employees of PulteGroup as they are the people who really make this business successful.
For a number of our markets it was a tough quarter to be a homebuilder so I want to recognize all those divisions that worked so hard to keep sales and production on track under some tough weather conditions.
Thank goodness spring has finally sprung.
Finally before opening the call to questions I want to make you aware of a press release we will be issuing later today.
I'm excited to share with you an announcement we made to our employees this week that we have named Ryan Marshall to become Executive Vice President of Homebuilding Operations and Harmon Smith has been named Executive Vice President of Field Operations.
Both will be reporting directly to me.
Ryan has been with the company for 13 years and Harmon 25 years.
In addition to being strong operators both have been instrumental in advancing our value creation strategy which has helped raise our financial and operating results to be among the best in the industry.
And moving them into these new roles we are aligning additional resources in direct support of value creation and allowing them to focus full time on advancing key underlying initiatives to ensure we realize the maximum benefits.
Some of you may have already met with them during market tours in Florida or Texas.
For those who haven't I'm sure there will be opportunities to speak with them in the future.
The press release we issue later today will provide more details on these changes and their respective backgrounds of Ryan and Harmon.
Thanks for your time this morning.
I'll now turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we will open the call for questions so that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call.
We ask that you limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up.
Tiffany if you'll explain the process we'll get started.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Bob I realized you just gave us the absorptions by segments but I truth be told I had a little trouble writing that quickly.
Can you elaborate a little bit more on just the trends you're seeing and the patterns by buyer segment? In terms of absorptions Yes I mean just wanted some more color on the whole idea at the entry level buyers challenged and move-up active adult might be better positioned and I just wanted either some more commentary to either prove or disapprove or just discuss that whole idea? Yes.
So what we saw was that we  I'll give you the data again.
On sign-up we saw 8% decline at Pulte; 6% at Centex 4% down at Del Webb but our absorption paces; Pulte was down 8% Centex was actually up 29% and Del Webb was up 7% so absorption paces are up 4% overall.
And I think that there's a couple of things happening there.
Certainly the Texas market was very strong in the first quarter which is where we have a really  a larger percentage of Centex operations and so that 29% pace increase is reflective of the really strong market we saw in Texas.
The Pulte market was influenced in part by Arizona where we saw a slowdown from what we saw as really really strong results last year.
And again the highlight to us is that across the board the Del Webb product absorptions were increasing during the quarter which is pretty consistent with what we've seen over the last couple of years that we've said that we think it's been a little bit slower back to market for them but we saw nice demand out of them in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then the second question just on gross margin I think previously you talked about all else equal the debt reduction could have added maybe a point to the gross margin expansion.
With the most recent debt refinancing and some of the increase in commonly managed plan contribution can you comment on what the updated thoughts were there? Jr.</strong> Adam this is Richard.
The recent debt refinancing won't impact margins until '15 and '16 and beyond given the way that we amortize interest overall.
So we still like our margin trajectory.
As we said there is going to be quarter-to-quarter volatility from here but we've been real pleased with what we've been able to do.
Just to clarify year-over-year the margin benefit from the reduced interest cost coming through cost of sales is 110 basis points.
So that 580 basis points increase in total margin 110 basis points is interest related.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Your line is open.
Thank you operator.
Good morning guys.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Ivy.
One of the things you guys talked about is the common floor plan and all the success of the initiatives.
Can you give us just the numbers with respect to the closing that benefited from the common floor plans and what do you anticipate over the multiple say next two years or so? I know you've given goals before if you can confirm that they are on track or where you are maybe ahead of expectations? I also think there is a lot of skepticism despite your great performance around the fact that your margin performance gross margins specifically is really just a result of purchase accounting from the Centex acquisition and that you've got all this old Centex mothballed stuff and it's all going to hit the P&amp;L at some point and your runway going forward is not there as where we're optimistically viewing it.
So maybe just a clarification Bob go through sort of the Centex legacy assets and much of which is gone from what I understand but I think it would be really helpful especially for the bearers that are listening? Jr.</strong> Ivy this is Richard.
A couple of thoughts.
First of all with regard to common plan management we were at 30% of our deliveries in the end of Q1 from common plan management.
That's up from 21% in Q4 and substantially below that earlier last year.
We are well on track toward our goal of 40% by the end of this year and our long-term goal is 70%.
So to answer that question I would suggest that if anything we're at or slightly ahead of the pace that we projected to get to so we feel very very good about it and it's beneficial to the company.
I'll answer the first part of the gross margin question and then throw it to Bob for more detail.
Our gross margin efforts have been very very focused on a combination of common plan management and strategic pricing actions that frankly along with mix are driving all of our margin benefit.
In fact margins on legacy land that has been around a while are in fact not benefiting from purchase accounting.
They are actually a little bit of a drag on our margins overall relative to the land that we've underwritten the last four or five years.
So I would suggest for any of the bearers listening we're earning every single dollar of the gross margin improvement that we're getting.
I'll just highlight again a couple of things Bob mentioned.
Our discounts are extremely low and we are continuing to work those hard.
Our option revenue is very high a lot of premiums are very high and we're working on base house improvement through our common plan management work.
So purchase accounting doesn't have much to do with it.
Maybe Bob can illuminate that a little more.
Yes just for color more than half of our closings in the recent quarter are from newer vintage lands so stuff that wouldn't have been impaired.
And we actually like that land better.
To Richard's point the margins are a little bit not dramatically so but a little bit better and I would suggest that the land we're underwriting today we will feel better about too.
Jr.</strong> Let's remember that the purchase accounting didn't allow us to write land down to incredibly low levels.
It was market levels at the time.
So we did the right accounting but that's not what's causing our margin expansion.
Well that's very helpful.
Elaborate if you would or ask you to elaborate on what is mothball today relative just to total company and that's not assets that you can get a return on.
I know that you really changed course in your return focus and you paired down on assets that weren't going to give you that return.
So for clarifications how much of the land that you hold on balance sheet is mothball today and not going to generate the returns that would justify keeping them? In terms of percentage we've got some longer life assets in the Del Webb portfolio but we've been pretty actively selling things that we don't think would generate a return over time.
There was another $5 million in this quarter several hundred million dollars over the last two or three years.
So it is a small percentage of our book of what you would describe as mothballed and non-returning assets.
Your next question comes from the line of Jacky Micenko with SIG.
Your line is open.
Hi.
I got a new nickname Jr.</strong> It's going to stick with you Jack.
I hope not.
Looking at the G&amp;A Richard it picked up a little bit in the quarter.
Anything behind that and I guess as an extension of that is the Atlanta headquarter expense is that all in the numbers? Is there anything to think about? I think that move is going to take place later this year anything on the expense side to talk about the ratio moving up a little? Jr.</strong> Jack frankly G&amp;A came in actually slightly better than our own internal projections and very consistent with the guidance Bob gave in Q4.
So we're making some investments in some IT systems that have been needed.
Our common plan management zone infrastructure to help sustain these excellent margins we're posting we're spending some money there.
And there is less than a couple of million bucks in this quarter relative to the headquarters' relocation so that wasn't a big driver.
So again while the dollar number is clearly higher than the last year it's well within the guidance range actually a little bit lower than Bob projected at Q4.
Okay great.
I notice the (indiscernible) slide is finally been removed.
I agree that issue is largely behind the industry.
Can you remind us what the reserve is left after the release and was there anything  was there any specific communication with the FHFA or was it just more assumption and behavioral patterns that led to the release? So at the end of the quarter we'll have $102 million reserve that's after reversing the 19 million.
And actually we were able to negotiate a settlement with one significant investor which prompted us to look at this during the quarter and coupled with rising home prices which certainly reduces the exposure on individual loans.
The GSEs have indicated that they are largely through their book.
We've seen a decline in the current year in the number of requests  a significant decline in the number of requests that we're receiving.
So on balance we looked at it and felt comfortable to release the reserve.
Like we've always said we will look at it every quarter.
If there are things that happened that merit adjusting the reserve we'll do it.
We'll explain it to you when it happens.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning and congrats on a good quarter.
The first question I had was the continued solid execution around the gross margins and you've clearly had a lot of success there.
I guess as you look at the common plan management implementation I guess you're roughly halfway through getting to your long-term goal.
I was hoping if you could kind of remind us how you think about how that could incrementally benefit the gross margin from here being I guess in a 27% 28% pre-interest range if you expect any incremental benefit from here or it would be more just operational and efficiency related perhaps balance sheet inventory turn et cetera? Jr.</strong> Mike this is Richard.
Commonly managed plans definitely have better margins than non-commonly managed plans.
So we would expect some benefit from commonly managed plans increasing in the future.
Two other points to make; as Bob rightly points out some of the elements of common plan management such as value engineering and (indiscernible) costing which we've been doing for a while are already embedded in our non-commonly managed plans.
So there's a portion of that benefit that we're not waiting to get.
But the biggest point that I'd like to make is that our commonly managed floor plans are better floor plans for the buyers and the absorption rates per home the take rates from buyers on options and things like that are better significantly better than our non-commonly managed plans.
So in addition to getting a cost benefit we're getting a revenue benefit.
And the combination of those keeps us extremely bullish to push this initiative as fast as we can.
I appreciate that.
I guess it kind of leads to my second question on the absorption rate.
I appreciate the additional color Bob that you pointed out in terms of the Centex benefit from Texas and Del Webb obviously continuing to perform nicely.
As you think about absorptions on a longer term basis where do you think that can go from here? I think a lot of the industry is  they're kind of all over the map in terms of where they are relative to history.
Some are seeing absorptions back to middle of the past decade some are still well below that how are you thinking about that particularly as you're looking at kind of new communities that you expect to come online over the next two to three years? Jr.</strong> Mike Richard again.
Listen it is impossible to predict absorption paces for a community.
There is just so many multiple factors that impact things.
I will tell you this.
I really like the land that we're buying.
As a company the disciplined investment process that we have put in place three years ago now is really benefiting us and obviously we've been focused on return on invested capital more than growth and I think you're seeing in our numbers some of the benefits of the good land we've been buying.
We have really stayed away from any B or C locations.
So how does that translate to absorption paces per community? It's hard to predict.
I'll tell you we're pleased with what we delivered in Q1.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody and a great quarter.
Jr.</strong> Hi David.
I wanted to start and maybe follow up on Mike's question a little bit and what I want to get an idea of is I think most builders yourselves included are using current pace current price current cost when they're doing their underwriting.
But given your heightened sensitivity to risk in the model and the kind of increased caution around capital allocation and focus on return on capital I'm wondering how you think about sensitivity analysis upside down tied especially with the volatility and pace right now how do you think about that? If you can give us some color and maybe some specificity when it comes to trying to underwrite deals in this market which is such a choppy selling season? David it's a good question and there is no definitive answer to that.
What I can tell you is when we see the pro formas that our deal teams put together we've got an asset management committee here that vets very deal.
So the field will go through it and they've put comps together on what pricing is and what paces are going to be and it gets challenged.
And so in markets where we have seen rapid run-ups we actually will tend to I don't want to say discount that but at least challenge.
Is it sustainable? Maybe one of the most important factors around that is what supply is coming online around it.
So if you've seen a community that's selling very well and you use that as a comp well gosh is there anybody selling against them what's going to come to market by the time we get there it goes a little bit to Mike's question too in terms of we're looking two and three years out typically.
So we really do try and flavor that into the expectations of what we can deliver.
Again it's not a  we're going to apply a 10% discount because they run up.
It's more around how do we feel the markets and job creation is going to be there and then what supply do we see in the market? Jr.</strong> David if I can just add a little color.
This is Richard to that.
We have a saying internally stay the course and we've been staying the course and that's probably the most important thing we could do depending on market conditions is not kid ourselves about what's happening as Bob indicated and stick to our discipline.
And I believe that's helped us continue to do the right thing with land transactions.
That's great color and it's actually a good segue to my second question because Richard you mentioned about the kind of hope that the entry levels is going to come back and trying to be positioned I think and be ready for that move when it does happen and yet the land acquisition is very focused on A locations and not B C locations.
And so I'm just trying to get an idea from a market research perspective how do you think about being ahead of when the entry level does come back.
Clearly you have the product in the Centex brand but from a land perspective how do you stay ahead of peers and make sure you don't end up chasing those positions? Jr.</strong> David number one we're not going to underwrite transactions that don't meet our return criteria and the truth is we haven't found that many that meet our return criteria for the entry level recently.
So our goal is to get ahead of it by ensuring we're challenging ourselves on what that buyer wants how do we deliver tremendous supportability and if credit eases be able to implement product very quickly that meets those demands.
So we do have a strategy team internally that looks at future trends in each of the segments and we're working hard to understand the needs of millennials.
Millennials are stretched with student loan debt.
Obviously down payments are hard to come by so I can't give you a lot of specificity on that but I will tell you we're not going to get caught flatfooted if credit eases and not have product and offerings ready to go.
The goal is to stay ahead of it.
The tough part is is that going to be a year from now two years from now when does that buyer return more meaningfully? We don't know but the point was we'll be ready.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
First question I wanted to ask was about kind of following up on Dave's question there.
Centex brand doing well in Texas so is that a reflection of first-time buyer demand reemerging maybe locally just in Texas or is that kind of a reflection of the historical positioning that Centex was the Texas brand so maybe Centex might skew a little bit more  move up in Texas? Jr.</strong> Nishu I'd say it's a combination of those two things plus a very strong economy in Texas.
Texas economy is adding jobs.
Houston's the biggest housing market in the country now.
I recently did a tour in March to all of our Texas markets and was amazed at the activity going on in all four of the major metro areas with just the overall economy.
So I think a combination of strong economy our legacy position there and an emergence of the entry level category there but largely fueled because of the strong economy.
Got it.
And second question the new EVP positions you highlighted and congratulations to Ryan and Harmon on those.
Is that a reflection of the success you've seen with some of your operating strategies the common floor plans and efficiency in production? So is that kind of a formalization or recognition of that or does that tell us that there are major new directions you're going to pursue and therefore these positions reflect more of that? Jr.</strong> Nishu there are very clearly focused on adding incremental resources to what we've already been pushing so definitely not signaling anything new.
But candidly we've had a very flat structure for the past four or five years and despite all the gains that we have made we believe there is more to go there.
And Harmon and Ryan are exceptional operators that have been very involved in all of the value creation work and delivered great results in their respective geographic areas.
So we're bifurcating the roles if you will where Harmon can help us focus on pushing each of the field operations to drive out additional benefits and Ryan's role kind of overseeing our homebuilding operations sales and marketing functions in the company will be derived around capability development to help us further enhance some of the things that we've been working on.
So very much staying the course but more horsepower behind it if you will.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Hi guys.
Just on your backlog conversion rate going forward do you expect it similar say just in the second quarter to the 53% you guys reported last year? Jr.</strong> Joel this is Richard.
We won't give any guidance on that but I'll tell you we don't have many specs so we have a very healthy backlog a very strong backlog and it's just a matter of getting those homes delivered but to add to that with incremental specs converting is not going to happen because we don't the specs.
So read into that what you will.
We're very very focused on a bill to order model and it's benefited us in many many ways so we're committed to that.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And also on your amortized interest that fell I guess around 70 basis points sequentially I think 440 down to 370.
And that kind of got down further faster than I expected and what do you expect going forward to  I mean you think that level is going to stabilize there that 370 basis points or do you see maybe up or down going forward? Yes we don't give commentary on margins by quarter.
What we did indicate is the total expense for the year would be down about $50 million or $55 million from last year.
It doesn't come in straight lined during the year it comes in based on closing volumes.
So you'll see a little bit more expense in margin quarters that have higher closing volumes.
But again call it 205-ish million we're thinking for the year in terms of total expense.
And to Richard's comment earlier the activity that we did in the first quarter of this year doesn't move the needle on current year interest.
That would be out years.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks very much.
I wanted to follow-up actually on the management change question.
Can you talk a little bit about how you see the structure of Pulte going forward on the homebuilding side as different or distinct from the kind of management structure you had on the homebuilding side sort of pre-crisis if you will? I know that things have obviously gone through a lot of changes.
I imagine you probably learned some lessons and some things you don't want to replicate and I was curious as to what you thought those things were and how we might be able to look at what you're doing today as being consistent [Technical Difficulty]? Jr.</strong> we think we have a long way to go to kind of push to where our vision is.
And then those are kind of the primary responsibilities for Ryan.
With regard to Harmon's role again very very focused on having the field operations report to him and digging into all the opportunity areas that I've been able to dig into frankly over the past four years myself.
But we still see lots of pockets of opportunity and my role has been fairly broad and we need to get a little bit more incremental focus on some of the areas to take it to the next level.
So all this signals is stay the course with additional very very well respected and highly qualified individuals to lead these efforts.
So relative to the long term  the past structure that the company has had I don't think it's all that similar.
We still have a very flat structure in the company and we're likely to keep it that way.
Okay great.
Well I'm certainly looking forward to following up there with them.
You made a comment about absorptions being up 29% at Centex the Centex subdivision.
I'm very curious about how much of that can be explained by Texas alone or if you were to ex-Texas out did you still see Centex communities performing better on an absorption basis and are you looking to increase the number of Centex divisions or subdivisions that you're going to be opening up as a result of this? Just trying to understand how you process that outperformance and absorptions at Centex? Stephen as we highlighted it was  the largest driver of that was the Texas market where we happened to have a lot of Centex communities.
I candidly haven't done it ex-Texas but I would suggest that it was up across the board but I don't know that percentage.
We can probably get that for you.
In terms of opening new communities our investment in land has been  we've talked about 75% 80% Pulte of the 9 700 lots we put under control in the first quarter less than 10% of those were Centex lots.
So I wouldn't expect a large flood of openings from us because we just don't have the land to do that.
As Richard highlighted we think if we see whether it's in specific markets or more broadly a move towards that buyer becoming more active we think we can get on the lots pretty quickly.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen East with ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning and congratulations also guys.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Stephen.
Richard you all are really the only one in the industry that can move their gross margin significantly from internal things you all are doing at this point.
If you look at the external market what do you think that's giving you right now? It's gotten significantly tougher particularly out west and that type of thing.
Has your strategy needed to change any? Do you need to be tighter with pricing or looking forward I guess I'm wondering are your incentives going to have to move up at least because of what the markets demanding and that type thing? Jr.</strong> Steve listen we're not immune to the market vagrancies that happen around the country.
So I don't want to imply that our business is not subject to the overall broader trends.
I will tell you this we have shattered some internal assumptions around what can be done in any different component of pricing and frankly cost.
And so as a couple of folks prior to you on the call here have indicated don't underestimate the impact of what the things that we're doing internally can do and we're continuing to work hard on those.
So I would suggest we do have an ability to drive efficiency in our business that's significantly greater than we have in the past.
That will be offset some by headwinds.
Bob indicated some numbers on pricing and labor costs and what have you that are up.
But look I like where we are.
I tell our teams internally we should feel really good about where we are because we've earned our success.
We haven't just relied on the market improvement that lifts land values to lift margins like we used to quite frankly.
So feel good about that with some offset that makes us subject to market conditions.
So hope that helps.
Okay that does.
And then if you look at monthly you gave some idea of what was going on.
As you've looked at this year has it unfolded  including into April has it unfolded from a monthly perspective in a typical fashion? And then you had in prior quarters you had talked about still metering sales et cetera.
I'm guessing based on your performance you didn't  that's probably starting to dissipate out there if not gone away completely.
And along with that on the Del Webb are you getting  you've talked about pricing power.
You've got the highest margins there.
Do you see this as a driver of your margins the primary driver of your margins moving forward? Jr.</strong> So you snuck in three or four there honestly.
I did.
Jr.</strong> See I caught that.
So listen a couple of things.
With regard to metering paces we are still metering paces in some markets.
A good example would be Northern California which is red hot and a few other markets.
I think directionally you're right.
Probably we're not metering as much as we were but frankly we could have posted more sign-ups in the quarter had we wanted to kind of let it run.
But where we already have a six or seven or even eight-month backlog that didn't seem to make a lot of sense for us given the way we're running the business.
So we feel like we're operating the right way.
With regard to Del Webb we're excited about what's happening in Del Webb.
As Bob indicated the overall focus for the company given how much land we have for Del Webb has been very very positive and I do think that's a positive for us overall.
However I would just point out as Bob indicates our overall margins are up a similar amount for each of the brands and the reason I highlight that is that's driven outside of market vagrancies.
That's driven from common plan management from focus on discount from focus on lot premiums.
I mean the numbers Bob gave you on options and lot premiums we're very proud of.
Those were things we were not paying attention to like we should have four or five years ago.
So hope that helps overall.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Roxland with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much and congratulations on a very good quarter especially given the backdrop.
Given the slowdown in Arizona what steps are you taking to address that if any? And excluding Arizona how did the Pulte brand do? Jr.</strong> So a couple of comments on Arizona.
Arizona is clearly not as strong as it was.
But I tell our people given the total volume and margin we're driving out of that market it's still a very good market.
Frankly I would suggest that our land positions there are very well located.
Our teams have done an excellent job.
And while we've certainly seen some softer conditions in Arizona it's not a bad market or one that we're concerned about.
We're actually quite happy with our overall performance there.
So I'd just point that out.
I'm sorry what was the second part of your question? If you exclude Arizona how did the Pulte brand itself do? Jr.</strong> As Bob indicated absorption paces were down.
We were hit a little bit with weather conditions in the Midwest in the Northeast where we have quite a bit of Pulte brand.
But we were pleased with our overall efforts on the Pulte brand.
I'm sorry I don't have a specific number for you if we exclude Arizona.
No that's fine.
I appreciate all the color.
And then just a last question on the community count obviously it increased to 584 this quarter.
I know Bob you mentioned that you're still looking at 560 to 580 for the duration of the year.
What occurred during 1Q such that you exceeded your own expectations with respect to key community count? And should we expect really community count growth to be at the higher end of the range that you've indicated in the last couple of quarters? No.
Again we still feel comfortable 560 to 580.
It's really the vagary of when does a particular community close when does a particular community open.
Again this isn't a signal of something structurally different in our community count.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Ken.
Given the success that you're demonstrating in the common plan I wonder if you consider replacing since you took it out of your put-back side with one that kind of traps your landed vertical costs.
And if you would even perhaps comment on that on a year-over-year sequential basis how the land is changing given that you are highlighting other factors like lot premiums et cetera.
But I think the core vertical versus land if you'd comment on your opinion talking about that? Jr.</strong> Listen I appreciate the suggestion.
We are trying to do our best to give as much color as we can around that with so many different factors that move the needle but point taken.
We are clearly not relying just on land appreciation to drive our margins.
There is a lot of internal effort that's going on there.
So Ken we'll take that under consideration.
It's a very clean way to prove your point.
Second could you comment on Arizona? I think there is obviously a lot of one-off things occurring there.
But to the extent there was once a distressed MSA can you comment why you think that might not be a precursor for what might happen as other distressed markets get more existing inventory back? Florida obviously with different foreclosure processes is a very different stage of the game.
It's not our view but if you can kind of address why you think it would not be a precursor for inventory pressuring new home sales in other markets? Thank you.
Jr.</strong> Well I don't see a lot of excess inventory coming to the market in a lot of places.
There was a fairly rapid and focused land grab if you will in Phoenix 24 months ago when that market started heating up and a lot of that supply is there today.
When we talked to our operators around the system we don't hear of a lot of inventory coming into the market in any specific market overall.
Obviously it's a function of demand versus supply.
But I'm relatively comfortable that we're not going to see a lot of other markets with a lot of supply there.
Ken if I could just reiterate a comment I made a minute ago.
Arizona is still a very good market for us.
I know a lot of folks have written about the softness in Arizona so to speak.
But I'll go back to something I mentioned earlier on this call.
We're buying the right kind of land in the right locations where buyers want to be.
And I wouldn't suggest we're immune from the overall vagaries of that market but we are posting exceptionally strong margins and good sales paces if not phenomenal sales paces like we were 24 months ago.
So at least for our business we're pretty happy with Arizona.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Hi Bob.
I wanted to ask you guys your average order price is up nearly 9% which is terrific and you have actually manageable comps going forward.
Do you think that kind of pace is sustainable in the current demand environment going forward for average order prices? Jr.</strong> Bob it's hard to say.
You can calculate what kind of a backlog is.
It's going to depend a good bit on mix.
Bob's comment on Del Webb is going to be important there to the extent that Webb continues to accelerate.
That's a positive for us obviously given the ASPs that we drive there.
It's hard to predict.
I really wouldn't want to comment on that just because who knows exactly what's going to deliver in a given quarter and what the demand environment is going to be.
So I don't know Bob if you've got any other color of that? No I think that's exactly right.
Okay understood.
One question on the balance sheet.
I know you guys have done a great job of managing towards driving return on capital higher and debt to capitalization now is the lowest it's been in a very long time at 28%.
You've got a lot of cash on the balance sheet 1.3 billion.
What's the longer view of how you see the balance sheet in two to three years and what do you want to do with the cash? Thanks very much.
Jr.</strong> So let me start out and then ask Bob to comment more specifically.
I think we have demonstrated that we want to be balanced with our capital.
And I wouldn't expect that to change going forward.
If you go back history would say that putting all of our investment into land is not necessarily the best thing for our shareholders.
I think we've learned that and you can continue to expect us to be balanced overall and frankly I think we demonstrated in Q1 all four aspects of capital that we could  all four aspects of spend we could put our capital toward with increased land spend obviously a dividend continuing to buyback our own stock as well as repurchase debt.
So I suspect more of the same.
I know that's not a lot of specific commentary.
Bob anything else you'd like to mention there? No.
I think you got it.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
Was wondering if you can talk about  you talked about the absorption based on the different brands that's very helpful.
When we think about the strength in Texas and the Centex lower price point and what that means do you think there's going to be any impact on margins as you move forward from that? Jr.</strong> Dan it's a good question and I'll remind everyone that our main focus is return on invested capital.
Obviously we're happy with our margin focus.
But we'll handle it and be happy to underwrite a transaction with a 30% return and an 18% margin as an example.
So it depends on what happens with that category overall.
It is a category generally speaking that has generally higher turn characteristics and lower margin characteristics.
But given what Bob indicated in terms of the overall land investment that we have I think our results for the next period that we can view are going to be largely driven by what's happening with Pulte and Del Webb.
Centex clearly is having an impact overall but I don't know that it will move the needle a whole lot one way or another in the short term.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
And I guess the other question is just could you provide some great color in terms of the cost per home in terms of the very modest increase there (indiscernible).
As you sort of look at the land that's likely to flow through how do you look at sort of the land cost on a per home basis and what is likely to come through this year? We haven't commented on that historically and I would tell you we highlight that land costs are going up but I think that's true for everybody.
What we have highlighted is that margin performance in fiscal '14 will be better than fiscal '13.
You saw that in the first quarter.
Our margin in Q2 was 18.8 to 20.9.
Our backlog visibility would suggest margins closer than what we thought more recently.
So I think you'll see improvement there.
And Richard just highlighted pricing so you can I guess backend into the lands done.
Your next question comes from the line of Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just wanted to go to a comment you made at the end of your prepared remarks just on April.
I think you just said  at least a little clearly for me so I just wanted to understand what you were trying to say with April as regards to your optimism for the rest of the spring selling season? Jr.</strong> Yes Eli what we said was that the traffic levels are slightly down from what we saw in March and we said that's the normal seasonal trend where we typically see traffic peak in March and then trail off a little bit through the rest of the selling season.
So we said  our comment was we are seeing a normal spring selling season unfold which leaves us optimistic for the balance of the year.
That's what we said.
Great.
And then just one quick one.
What was the comp rate in the quarter? Jr.</strong> Just under half.
Yes just under 12% 11.5%.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to our presenters.
Jr.</strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
I know there is a lot of conference calls queued up this morning so we're going to stick to our scheduled time.
We're certainly available for any follow-up questions or emails.
Thank you very much for your time on today's call and we'll look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Anastasia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup Inc.s Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Jim Zeumer you may begin your conference.
Great.
Thank you operator.
This is Jim Zeumer Vice President of Investor Relations for PulteGroup and I want to welcome everyone to our call this morning to discuss our second quarter financial results for the three months ended June 30 2014.
On the call today to discuss our results are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob OShaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; Jim Ossowski Vice President Finance and Controller.
Before we begin I want to remind everyone that copies of this mornings earnings release along with the presentation that accompanies todays call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Further an audio replay of todays call will be available on the site later today.
Please note that todays presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroups future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of todays earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Jr.</strong> Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Im extremely pleased with PulteGroups second quarter results which show a continuation of a positive company and industry dynamics we discussed as part of our first quarter conference call and more broadly over the past 12 to 18 months.
Within the U.S.
housing market that remains on a steady recovery path we are benefitting from companys specific initiatives that continue to generate gains and key financial metrics consistent with our value creation strategy.
Reflecting with an ongoing recovery and demand and overall favorable pricing environment the value of our second quarter signups increased by 5% as we once again realized the improved absorption paces over last year we see these as positive signs for our business going forward.
As Bob will detail among the promising aspects of these gains it is a meaningful increase in the performance of our Centex communities and the implications for potential future demand among entry-level buyers.
It has been widely reported that the first time buyer has been underrepresented in this housing cycle.
So improving demand at Centex communities is a very encouraging sign.
We also realized the solid increase in sales pace within our Del Webb communities.
As we have talked about before there is tremendous operating leverage to be realized with volume so continued gains in Webbs absorption pace is important.
Within this demand environment we continue to focus on maximizing profitability on each norm we sell.
Consistent with this strategy we realized a 12% increase in average selling price over the last year along with favorable market conditions on our ongoing mixed shift price gains were generated through specific pricing strategies that address everything from base house and option pricing to lot premiums and discounts.
Each is a dial; we can adjust to accommodate biogroups and local market conditions to help us achieve our goal of higher returns on invested capital in each community we operate.
For the better price realization and initiatives to drive more efficient ongoing operations we were again successful in raising reported gross margins.
On a year-over-year basis gross margin for the second quarter increased by 480 basis points to 23.6%.
In fact we have to look in history books all the way back to 2005 for these type of margins from PulteGroup.
We are of course pleased with the improvement in gross margin that we have been  we have generated in 2014 as well as over the past several years and see opportunities to continue the strength going forward.
Through a combination of pricing strategies gains in operating efficiency and savings associated with lower interest costs we see the potential for incremental gross margin improvement from here.
An insurance related charge taken in the quarter makes the year-over-year gains in our homebuilding operations a little harder to appreciate when you see earnings of $0.11 per share up a $0.09 per share last year.
However when you adjust for the charges taken in both periods and the more normal tax rate in 2014 the meaningful and sustained improvement in our homebuilding operations is clear.
Given the gains we have realized in operating and financial performance we are comfortable increasing our level of investment into the business confident that we will be able to generate better returns on invested capital that we were delivering in the past.
roughly 400 million of land spend for the quarter and 720 million for the first half of 2014 is the most we have invested in a number of years.
The increased investment is possible given our more efficient homebuilding operations and strong balance sheet and its consistent with our view of an ongoing recovery in housing demand.
So our headwinds facing the housing industry including type credit availability and in our view the negatives are outlaid by the positives such as the monthly jobs reports showing an economy generating more jobs than it had in the recent past.
Interest rates remaining low even a lot of that continues to withdraw support from the system and inventories of new and existing homes remaining imbalance with reports about an under supplier product in some areas of the country.
These conditions in content with a good pricing environment and continued increases in apartment lease rates support our expectation for a continued albeit measured recovery in housing demand.
Now let me turn the call over to Bob for more details on the quarter.
Bob?  Thank you Richard and good morning.
PulteGroups second quarter results demonstrate further success operating against our value creation strategies and driving improved operational performance and financial results.
As I will detail these improvements are evidence in our Q2 numbers.
Looking at our income statement wholesale revenues in the second quarter were $1.2 billion which is an increase of 2% over the comparable prior year period; the higher revenues for the quarter were driven by a 12% increase in our average selling price to $328 000 partially offset by a 9% decrease in our closings to 3 798 homes.
Consistent with recent quarters we realized price increases at many of our communities and within each of our brands.
For the second quarter the 12% average increase in selling prices included a 13% increase to $396 000 in our Pulte communities a 9% increase to $325 000 in our Del Webb communities and a 3% increase to $202 000 in our Centex communities.
We continue to experience a shift in the mix of homes closed to move-up and active adult product.
For the second quarter 45% of closings were from Pulte communities the mix of closings was 46% Pulte 27% Del Webb and 27% Centex.
Our reported gross margin for the quarter was 23.6% which represents a gain of 480 basis points compared with last year.
Our margins benefited from the higher prices and mix shifts I noted as well as lower interest cost.
I think its important to highlight that we believe our margins are being enhanced by our strategic pricing model which seems to maximize lot premiums and option dollars within the final selling price of the home.
We continue to realize gains through this initiative as lot premiums and option revenues per closing in the second quarter increased by 23% and 14% respectively to $12 000 and $47 000 per unit.
Also supporting the expansion margins was a reduction in sales discounts which dropped 90 basis points from last year to 1.7%.
In dollar terms discounts were only $5 700 per home down from $7 900 last year.
Weve highlighted that we dont expect discounts to decline significantly from these levels.
Along with capturing pricing opportunities we continue to expand our use of commonly managed plans to help insure that were building the best home for the lowest price.
In the second quarter 39% of our deliveries were from commonly managed plans.
This is an increase from the 30% we reported in the first quarter.
Were extremely pleased with our progress on this metric as we have grown this percentage from just 13% one year ago.
We are clearly on track to meet or exceed our goal of 40% of our closing from commonly managed plans by the end of 2014.
Given the benefits of commonly managed plans a favorable pricing dynamics were experienced in the market and the impact of our deleveraging the balance sheet over the last few years.
We continue to see opportunity for further margin expansion from here although there will be volatility from quarter-to-quarter.
Based on our current backlog we expect the margins for the balance of the year to be consistent with thats slightly higher than our margin this quarter.
SG&amp;A costs for the second quarter were $230 million or 18.4% of home sale revenues compared with $151 million or 12.3% last year.
The year-over-year increase in SG&amp;A was primarily driven by a charge of $84 million reported in the quarter for increased insurance reserves.
The adjustment to our reserves was driven by costs associated with siding repairs in certain previously completed communities in the west.
Beyond the direct cost of the repairs the negative development in the period to use the insurance filing impacted our actuarial estimates for incurred but not reported for potential future claims the combination of higher costs incurred and the resulting increase and estimates for future expenses throughout the second quarter charge.
Repairs are in process in the impacted communities and were working with homeowners and contractors to ensure the work is completed efficiently and with minimal disruption to the residence.
Excluding this charge SG&amp;A costs in the period were consistent with expenditures in Q1 of this year and with previous guidance.
Financial services reported pretax income of $9 million for the quarter compared with $16 million in Q2 of last year.
The reduction in pretax income for the period was the result of lower origination volumes and the more competitive operating conditions that continue to exist within the mortgage industry.
Capture rate for the period was unchanged from last year and consistent with Q1 of this year mortgage put back request remains at very low levels.
Inclusive of the $88 million in charges for insurance and office relocation costs pretax income for the second quarter of 2014 was $58 million.
Prior year pretax income of $38 million included charges totally $67 million for contractual dispute debt repurchases and corporate relocation.
As you can see our operating performance excluding these items was significantly improved.
Income tax expense for the period was $26 million or an effective tax rate of 38%.
This is consistent with our previous guidance and taxes in 2014 would be approximately 39%.
Prior year tax expenses only $2 million or an effective tax rate of only 5% that the company is yet to reverse deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
Net income for the second quarter was $42 million or $0.11 per share including $0.14 per share of charges recorded in the period.
For the second quarter of 2013 net income was $36 million or $0.09 per share including charges of $0.17 per share.
Again this years net income reflects the 38% tax rate compared with the 5% rate last year.
Looking at other operating metrics we have 6 321 homes under construction of which 15% were spec at the end of the quarter.
Spec reduction is consistent with prior year and prior quarter but particularly important; however finished specs sold less than 300 houses or well below one per community.
During the quarter we put 6 700 lots under control and invested $395 million in land acquisition and development.
we approved more deals in the quarter than we have in any quarters since 2006 including the approval of three new communities to serve future active adult buyers continuing recent trends about three quarters of the deals are raw meaning that land development is required.
So these transactions will support production in 2016 and beyond.
We had 126 000 lots under control at the end of the quarter of which 26% were controlled via option 24% of the lots under control are finished and we have another 18% under development.
At $395 million for the quarter our land spend is clearly increasing.
For the year-to-date period we have spent approximately $720 million.
We continue to target a full year land spend of $2 billion for 2014 or recognize it will be a challenge to spend an additional $1.3 billion over the next six months.
As weve highlighted before we are comfortable with this we continue to invest in a disciplined manner with a focus on better located positions and acceptable risk adjusted returns.
Its important to note that we continue to see good opportunities as evidenced by the level of spend we approved during the second quarter.
along with our higher land investments we have also increased our repurchase activity in Q2.
In total we acquired 2.8 million shares for $53 million or $19.12 per share.
As of June 30 2014 we had $137 million of capacity remaining under our share repurchase authorization.
We ended the quarter with $1.3 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
I would also highlight that we entered into a new three-year $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility yesterday.
the revolver which includes an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the facility to $1 billion replaces a letter of credit facility that have set to expire later this year and provide data financial flexibility for the company.
Moving past our financial statements the dollar value of signups in the quarter increased 5% over the last year to $1.6 billion.
On a unit basis net new orders totaled 4 778 homes which is down just 2% from last year despite a 6% decrease in community count.
As Richard highlighted this is the second quarter in a row where we experienced higher absorption paces.
Looking at this by brand net signups decreased 1% at Pulte and 5% at Centex and 2% for Del Webb.
Q2 absorption paces were down at 8% at Pulte but up 11% at Del Webb and 26% at Centex.
A 26% increase at Centex solves a 29% improvement in year-over-year absorptions in the first quarter of this year certainly part of the increase is driven by the overall strength of demand in Texas.
but the trend in Centex werent close monitoring and there may be a growing opportunity with the entry-level buyer.
We ended the quarter with 589 communities which is a decrease of 6% from the end of last year.
Q2 community account was flat with the first quarter of this year and in line with guidance that we expected to operate from approximately 560 to 580 communities throughout 2014.
The stability across the headquarters hides a fact that this is a very active year which we plan to open approximately 190 new communities over the full year.
Our quarter end backlog with 8 179 homes valued $2.8 billion which compares with prior year backlog units and dollars of 8 558 and $2.7 billion respectively.
The average price of our homes and backlog is up 7% over the last year to $339 000 and up from $336 000 in Q1 of this year.
Overall I am extremely pleased with our results for the quarter even more encouraging our improving absorption paces with better pricing growing margin and increased investment put us in a very strong position moving forward.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for some final comments.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Bob.
As Bob just detailed we continue to experience strong buyer demand in the quarter which generated increased absorptions and allowed us to realize higher selling prices.
While we appreciate that housing data can be volatile from month-to-month wed remain optimistic about overall conditions and very encouraged demand through the first six months of the year.
Looking at conditions in the second quarter on a more regional basis on the east coast conditions didnt changed all that much in the first quarter this year.
In that activity was stronger as you move from the north to the south.
Buyer activity remains particularly strong in Carolinas and throughout the State of Florida.
Market conditions in Washington DC however were still challenging in the quarter.
Conditions in the middle part of the country were positive in the second quarter similar to our experience on the East Coast demand strengthened as you move from north to south.
Texas remains one of the strongest areas of the country with exceptional demand across all markets of Dallas Houston Austin and San Antonio.
Relative to the first quarter of the year demand conditions got better as we move past the tough winter.
Finally moving to our western markets the patterns of the past several quarters continued as we experienced strong demand in Northern California and Pacific Northwest well our markets in the Southwestern states of Arizona New Mexico and Nevada are good but not as strong as this time last year.
As the U.S.
economy continues to improve we would anticipate that these markets will benefit.
In terms of demand for the first few weeks of July we have seen the typical summer slowdown but the market specific trends we experienced through the first six months of the year are generally unchanged.
In closing my thanks to all of our employees who are working extremely hard to help us drive our improved operating results and we are doing an amazing job opening 190 new communities this year.
Thanks for your time this morning and Ill now turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
At this time we will open the call for questions we will get started.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Michael Rehaut with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone and nice quarter.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Mike.
The first question I had was your comments on Centex and the continued positive sales pace you mentioned part of it was driven by Texas and I just wanted to get a sense of its sales pace was up in the other regions where Centex is more dominant or how much really Texas was responsible for this and part of this is  is just a reformulation or mix benefit from some newer communities as well? Jr.</strong> Yes Mike this is Richard.
Its a combination of Texas and other markets to be clear the entry-level does appear to be improving in other markets as well.
We happen to have the biggest percentage of Centex communities in Texas and as everyone knows the job growth in Texas is strong thats why we highlighted but it appears to be a broadening improvement for the entry-level categories? Okay.
And just secondly the gross margins continue to be great and youve showed a lot of improvement there one of the competitors this morning mentioned that theyve maybe taken some actions to improved sales pace in the market which might suggest a modest negative impact on gross margin.
Is this something that you think might continue going forward and kind of spread to the industry or have you seen this from a competitive standpoint  by other builders or in certainly other markets? Jr.</strong>  Mike we are definitely to run on the company for the highest returns on invested capital and we are not pushing discounts as a matter of fact as Bob indicated discounts drop year-over-year to an incredibly low level while lot premiums and option revenue increased.
So I cant speak to what competitors are doing? I am not seeing broad-based discounting across the board.
I think inventory levels candidly are too low and I would point out that the very strong quality land that we have been buying the land several years along with our return strategy is supporting our higher margins.
As Bob indicates we expecting to continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivy Zelman with Zelman and Associates.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Congratulations on another strong quarter.
Jr.</strong>  Thanks Ivy.
If you could just please talk to a little bit  with the charge reserves on the $90 million for the siding this is completely separate from the construction defects that you reserve for few years ago.
And just understanding making sure that separate and then my follow-up is just as you thinking about the mortgage competitive mortgage environment.
What are you seeing more in terms of lenders willingness to maybe remove some of the credit overlays.
As you deliver loans to Fannie and Freddie is the consumer actually seeing a better price as a result for the competitive pressures and maybe more specific within the credit buckets recognizing that you are typically dealing with the better quality borrower but youve also indicated the Centex this is picking up so is that a function and also lending improving to that bucket.
Thanks and congratulations again.
Jr.</strong>  Okay.
Thank you.
So Bob do you want to take the first part.
Sure.
So the charge IVY is for siding issues and it is construction defect work.
So we are repairing siding issues that we have identified and the mechanics of this are weve got certain communities where we have costs and then looking at the actuarial analysis.
When we saw that activity the actuaries look at that and say okay if we see it today we have to extrapolate across the universe of production.
So it is actually both specific to certain communities siding issues and then a extrapolation for incur but not reported plans.
Jr.</strong>  Okay.
And then Ivy with regard to the mortgage environment I would say credit appears to be easing just on the margin on the edges if you will I do believe that is some of the improvement in the entry level I do think however the majority of the improvement in the entry-level is job growth related.
I dont think credit has moved much but it appears to be easing just on the edges weve seen a very slight increase in credit availability as measured by MBA in their statistics.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Jr.</strong>  Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS Investment Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong>  Good morning David.
My first question I want to follow-up on one of the Bobs comment earlier about kind of where whats happening in the Centex business segment and the higher absorption rate and the trend keeping an eye on the trend.
What I am trying to get an idea is whats the trigger points for you guys to start maybe focusing more land acquisition on Centex communities? Is that you hit a certain absorption paces is a certain confidence in the economy.
What are you looking for when you are examining that trend and the improvements you are seeing to get more confident in your land acquisition in that segment?  The simple answer is as you heard Richard say it is return so as we look at land transactions in the market that the teams are agnostic to brand and so theyve got opportunities to invest in any one of our brands.
And so I think what would drive increased investments in Centex is a continuation of the pace increases if you are seeing here because it still has lower ASPs still has lower margins.
And so we need higher paces so it would be that improving environment for the buyer and Texas is a great example that job market there is really strong Richard highlighted this strong jobs are driving consumer confidence and that buyer is therefore buying in more volume and so you would see us invest more in that land when we see that activity.
Thats great color.
My second question was on the three new active adult communities that were I think put under contract you mentioned earlier in the commentary.
Can you give us just a kind of high level are these replacement communities for things that are rolling off these incrementally and what might be different or maybe the same about those relative to the existing Del Webb communities if you kind of look at the rolling off and rolling off pattern? Great question these are largely the replacement communities there is one that is a fresh community what I think you see different from the historical Del Webb is they are smaller they range and size from 600 units to 1 200 units we think we will be in and out of them and say five years it will have a slightly smaller aminity package to what I  you probably heard me refer to as the crew shift Del Webb if its continuation on an existing community it may have of shared aminities but typically we had a club house it might not have a golf course any more it will have walking trials.
So again a little bit smaller and I think weve talked about this for a couple of years those 5 000 unit communities are likely not featured  Jr.</strong> David everything Bob mentioned is all driven around return its all part of the Pulte story.
Great thank you guys.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Eli Hackel with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning.
I just wanted to go back to the first time buyer and credit for a minute or so Richard you talked I maybe think using on the margin is there anything else you can see over this next six nine months whether its conversations in the industry with your mortgage trends with people and do you see or maybe that change more maybe that would change more incrementally and then also on the first time buyer.
Do you think there is any holdback of them buying due to lack of available supply in the market so its really much more back to your first one which is really job growth accelerating within that core buyer? Thank you.
Jr.</strong>  Yes.
So I will answer and a reverse Eli I think the majority of a problem is a combination of tight credit and jobs the combination there overall I dont think there is a lack of supply for that category I think the industry can ramp up to build for that category on there is certainly some supply shortages but the majority of the issues I believe are tight credit and jobs.
With regards to credits potentially easing from here mortgage finance reform legislatively is likely dead for this year as I think everyone knows the jobs in (indiscernible) didnt make it too far in congress so we are working as a group of collective large builders to push the administration particularly to work on administrative solutions to the credit box which we do believe can have some impact that would be things like changing FHA fees things like that.
Unfortunately thats the sometimes tough to get done and I do believe that will take sometime but by clarifying a put rules by insuring that the definition of qualified mortgages and qualified residential mortgages is very clear by focusing on FHA fees things like that we do believe there is some administrative actions that know what could take as he heads up FHFA would be outside of legislative arena.
And we are working on that we are not holding our breath at anything is going to happen dramatically to help that.
Its going to take sometime for credit to years in my view.
Great thank you very much.
Jr.</strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from Stephen East with ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Thank you good morning guys.
Jr.</strong> Hi Stephen.
Richard you talk a little bit about the July rebound or is it July being pretty normal seasonally and weve heard from various places that June absorptions were down like 15% across the industry et cetera.
Could you talk about how your order progression was during the quarter and whether you saw that type of absorption drop in the quarter? Jr.</strong> Yes Steve.
We saw fairly seasonal typical trend.
And April and May were stronger than June.
We didnt see a dramatic fall off in June it was very typical summer seasonal which is continued into July.
Okay.
And then weve also heard over the last three or four months that generally traffic its been much better than the conversion into orders I was wondering if you all were seeing that and then if I could just ask one question back on the gross margins.
Can you help me reconcile a little bit the commonly managed four plans jump from 30% to almost 40% that the gross margin stayed about flat? How do we reconcile those two and is that going to be an ongoing thing there.
Jr.</strong> Okay Ill take it crack it both and then maybe Bob might want to add any color.
On traffic versus conversion we are continuing to see good traffic and conversions respectable I would just again say within the balance of a typical summer slowdown.
So not a lot of movement Steve either way on either metrics I would say we still had good traffic and respectable conversion both marginally down given the summer season.
On gross margin performance the commonly managed plans or better margin product and we are excited about the 39% but many things go into the margin performance including specifically mix for the quarter.
And we have indicated that we would have quarter-to-quarter volatility our margins even though they were sequentially down I think about 20 basis points they continue to be at a very high range and as Bob indicated based in our backlog we see opportunities in next couple of quarters in them to be in this range or slightly higher from here.
So were pleased with our overall margins and mix influences things from quarter-to-quarter.
I dont know Bob any other color.
I only things I want to add is one things that weve highlighted about these commonly managed plans that we think is sort of the hidden gem is that our absorption paces are higher with them.
And I think its contributing to the absorption pace increases you are seeing from us which is equally as important to return for us the margins.
Your next question comes from Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning.
First question I wanted to ask was about the profile of land spend you folks mentioned that you approved the most number of deals I think in since maybe and going back to the housing boom but at the same time you also said that $2 billion land authorization it will be tough to get there.
So I was just trying to reconcile those two does that imply that youve shifted your land purchases towards much longer deals where the cash flows are more back end weighted or is that just a reflection of the fact that the trajectory of housing this year is probably turned out to be a little bit slower than most of us originally expected.
Yes I would actually characterize it is that the change to a certain degree in what we are buying there isnt much finished lot availability out there.
So were buying raw land and so while our dollars out the door today it will be a challenge to get the $2 billion; weve actually committed a fairly significant amount in terms of what will develop in 2015 and 2016.
So youll see spending increasing in out years because of what weve done this year.
And we think well get close to the $2 billion we are just not sure well get all the way there.
And its because weve continued to tell our folks dont chase deals.
This is youve got authorization to go spend money but dont do it foolishly.
And so the discipline that they are exhibiting is going to make it a little bit of challenge to get the $2 billion but youll still see a significant increase over fiscal 2013 and we like the land that we are buying.
Jr.</strong> Nishu its Richard I want to add two things what Bob said.
Number one we are seeing some delays in entitlement and municipal issues which candidly or somewhat out of our control just based on processing times to get things through the cycle and thats causing some of the delay.
And secondly I want to be crystal clear we are not lengthening the land supply in a profile of the deals we are doing as a matter of fact.
We are doing our best to make them strong returners which generally means a little bit shorter positions clearly than the company is buying in the past.
So there is no change in our profile over the last two or three years that weve been indicating ROIC first.
Got it.
Great.
And kind of following up on that 190 new communities I think you mentioned I think youll be opening this year.
So a significant amount of turnover as well as accelerate pace of taking land under control.
So do we begin to see a more significant pace of community comp expansion in looking into 2015? Nishu we havent commented on that yet and we are sticking with our guidance of 560 to 580 for this year and as we get closer into either late Q3 or Q4 well provide some guidance for 2015.
But its too early for us to speculate on those numbers.
Your next question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Your line is open.
If you are on mute please unmute.
Ill apologize for that.
I was muted.
Thanks very much for the color the quarter interesting about the entry-level would set to see where that goes.
I wanted to ask you a question about labor and the ability to construct homes particularly Im interested we all know that labor shortage is that been something that the builders have talked about for kind of while and obviously there is cyclical cycle reasons associated with the severity the downtrend that have made labor and particularly short supply.
My question is is there  is it more difficult or more easier to get labor to build your entry-level product versus some of your higher end products.
And specifically what Im getting do you see a recovery in the entry-level demand? Do you anticipate that labor shortages will constrict your ability to meet that demands with product? Or is it because or could it be that because entry-level homes dont maybe required the same amount of finished skills trend and so forth that actually you can take some lesser skilled labor and still get those homes build at the entry-level? Jr.</strong> Steve were not seeing any difference in labor availability for entry-level versus a more luxury focused product for us.
Ill say labor is tight in the industry particularly for unskilled trades drywall looping and things like that.
And clearly there is some constraint on ability to close backlog in the near-term; its just a timing issue.
So you may have units moved from one month or one quarter to another.
So I dont think its a big problem for the industry but it could cause some minor disruptions frankly not unusual from past recoveries but no not a lot of change in segment availability of labor.
Okay thats encouraging great.
And then you made a comment in your prepared remarks about land and I just want to make sure that I got the numbers.
You mentioned I think that 24% of your lots were finished.
I wanted to make sure I understood was that the owned 24% of owned lots or 24% of your controlled lots.
I want to know how many owned finished lots you have? Jr.</strong> It was controlled Steven and well see if we can get that number for you.
We had 24 683 finished owned lots.
Thanks.
Jr.</strong> Which would be 27% of all finished lots we have.
20% of all.
Jr.</strong> All right 20% of all owned lots.
Sorry.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Ken.
Richard you talked about approvals impacted you commented on approval process impacting your land spend.
Could you comment on what the discipline side i.e.
your returns says about what land prices are in various markets this is my first question.
Jr.</strong> Yes Ken weve certainly seen a significant escalation over the past 12 months to 18 months in land prices; they do appear to be moderating to some degree.
However I would tell you that the discipline that we are exhibiting with a very capital constrained focus internally to drive higher returns continues to lead us toward challenges to meet the overall lands and goals that we have.
As Bob indicated we hope to get to the $2 billion level but we are not going force it.
So overall we are pleased with our discipline we think it served as well we think its one of the reasons that our margins have held up as well as they have.
And frankly one of the reasons our paces are doing well simply because of the quality of the land we are buying.
So continued more of the same I would say is in our future.
Okay and than my second question broadly related how you are running the capital structure.
Could you give us a sense of what you think the company will do if your revenues are growing let say 10% or X%? What is the cash flow cycle imply about your yield or your free cash flow generates the potential the buyback stock as you did  as you did in the quarter given that you are not going to be a cyclical on the capital investment cycle.
Yes.
Its a great question Ken and as a company we continue to  we think to exhibit balance with our capital allocation strategy and I think you can expect more of the same from the company we reintroduced the dividend last year to a reasonably nice level and we stepped up our share repurchases in Q2.
And so I would expect the company to continue to exhibit balance.
Now that our returns were strong as they are our first priority will be to put it in the business.
But candidly we dont want to delude our returns.
So we want to make sure that were buying the right lands.
So I think its fair to say were going to have plenty cash available to do a multitude of things and I would suggest that continuing to return funds to shareholders through dividend and buyback is likely in our future as part of our balanced process.
Right.
And I guess if you think about invest in the business like you said and youre going to be holding land and lets say two-year.
How do you gauge your discipline relative to what you want to invest today based upon where you think the market is going to be because thats the real thing right.
We have two-year 50% growth thats different than a steady 10% or 15% growth which will yield us different element of cash flow? Thank you.
Yes I think its tough to predict that on the future too far Ken.
I would suggest for the near to medium-term we like the conservative pasture that weve taken and well we realize that the large cash balance is a non-earning asset and wed like to deploy it we just dont want to do anything dramatic or sudden to try to tie in the market if you will.
So stay tune for further clarity and commentary on that as the picture become little clear in the future for us.
Your next question comes from Robert Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys a nice quarter.
Jr.</strong>  Thanks Robert.
Hi Robert.
How much  whats your upside do you think there is gross margin the standardized floor plans have been fantastic very positive impact.
Do you still see opportunity for upside? Jr.</strong> Bob we indicated for the next couple of quarters.
We see things in this range are slightly improved.
Beyond that long-term we dont want to provide a lot of guidance we certainly like the benefit from commonly managed plans we like our discipline but Ill highlight something that Bob indicated is certainly a nice margin story and we want to keep it going but its about return for the company.
So were going to continue to make good decisions based on return overall.
So we like where margins are headed for the foreseeable future.
Thats helpful.
Youve been in the homebuilding industry for a long time.
Do you think were transitioning from early cycle to mid cycle of the recovery? If you could just kind of give us your view where we are in terms of the evolution in that process? that would be great.
Thanks.
Jr.</strong> Yes I think housing has several good years ahead.
I dont think were mid-cycle yet frankly in my view.
But I do think its a slow and steady path upward from here Id like to tell our folks internally my best projection is that I dont see anything causing a sharp increase in overall demand nor do I see anything causing a sharp decrease in demand.
I think a slow and steady recovery is the most likely one which is kind of what weve seen.
There are a couple of headwinds that we historically might not have had in housing recovery such as job growth that is good but not great anti-credit but the same token those things appear to be getting better slowly but surely.
So that would be what I would expect.
One other thing Bob just mentioned is that the recovery now appears to be taking on regional and local geographic characteristics which is very typical of a normal housing recovery.
I think we transitioned probably late last year or early this year from the sort of macro view or housing was horrible for several years and then we had a couple of years where housing was really good everywhere.
Now its becoming much more about local economies and local geographies and thats normal.
So as we indicated Texas has got great job growth and its strong and DC has got social job growth and its not as strong that feels normal to us.
So again to summarize slow and steady from here is my best guess for many years.
Your next question comes from Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Richard in the last couple of questions youve mentioned returns a lot I was wondering if you could in one particular you said returns are strong now.
So I just wondering if you could be even more specific and talk about what youre referring to whether its something margins or if its ROEs or ROICs and what  where you are versus where are your targets and what might be achievable? Jr.</strong>  Yes.
We are clearly focused internally on our invested capital.
So its ROIC that Im referring to and all of our folks in the field Ive been running the business.
this is the fourth year in a row with a focus on a combination of margins SG&amp;A leverage and asset turns.
And if you kind of put that in the triangle right in the middle of it wed kind of stamp ROIC.
so we feel like our returns are very strong today and we feel like we can keep them in this range or higher from here.
We dont think that our balance sheet is completely being utilized.
In other words we still have a number of lots that are long positions.
and as we cycle through those and we replace them with more term friendly deals.
I think that can help the denominator and obviously were working on the numerator as well.
So its hard to predict where returns can go but we intend to be a high return in builder through the cycle certainly not as higher returns in the down cycle as in the up cycle.
but we want to be focused on returns from here on now because we do believe that metric is the most important metric to drive shareholder return over the long run.
Okay thanks.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Your next question comes from Will Randow with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys and thanks for taking my question.
Jr.</strong>  You bet Will.
Hey Will.
Hey in regards to your land spend are you guys kind of augmenting that towards Texas and Georgia versus some of the stronger markets.
I think we are seeing I dont know if you are as well? Jr.</strong>  We actually focus our investment on a couple of things.
One is to maintain relative market share and the markets where we operate.
The other is obviously where we see the opportunity for increased investment.
So it will be a function of how well theyre investing today.
We dont say okay if were going to invest 100 in total ex-percent goes here here here its static.
It actually moves over time.
so certainly the improved operating environment in Texas is one that has interested in investing more.
So they have a fair amount of capital.
But we are trying to maintain relative market share in all of the markets where we operate.
Thanks for that.
And then just in terms of on the balance sheet give me some of credit metrics do you intent to refinance your 2015 2016 maturities from Centex.
and I guess overall is your goal being investment grade or is it just more than returns on capital? Jr.</strong>  I wouldnt want to comment on individual debt offerings.
What I will tell you is that there are very very expensive.
So as we look at all of our debt over time if we were to make an investment to buy it back because we can get some positive yield out of it and thats a challenge with some of the pricing that were seeing on our paper.
Sorry I forgot the second question.
Sorry Will.
Well come back to you Will.
Your next question comes from Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Good morning everyone.
First question what was the [cap rate] (ph) in the quarter?  14.1 so flat with last year.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question in a little different take on the lands can you comment on the valuations youre seeing in private builders who are willing to sell and all those valuations in line with what youre looking forward with the right strategy and could you potentially go out and do some deals and buy some of these private builders to accelerate that land growth that youre talking about and then is that two building target this year? Jr.</strong>  Certainly we see all the transactions that are coming out the stuff that gets announced we see these.
And I would say the answer is yes we could potentially be doing transactions but wed look at them as typically just a land transaction.
So we are putting the same return requirements on them as we are on any particular land transactions in a market.
Oftentimes when people come to market theyve got fairly lost the expectations for price.
We havent seen anything that was compelling to us to chase but that doesnt mean we wouldnt  we look at them and were interested were a buyer and seller of land its part of the equation here.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Krapfel with Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
So using your risk-weighted focus on ROICs ultimately where do you see options as a percent of total land under control long-term and how long do you think youll get there? Jr.</strong>  Jim wed like to drive option desires we possibly we can.
weve been really pleased with our ability to do so given our focus on returns.
to some extent that can be dictated by the seller in some instances its not available but Bob if you have any more color on that.
Yes.
The only thing Id add to that is options can take on different looks and feels.
If youve got a finished lot option transaction its different than one where youve got raw land where youre optioning partials of it as you go forward.
And for us that can extend it to what generates the best return risk-weighted.
So if we are buying raw land the option  we want the option to have risk transfer elements to it whereas if youre buying finished lots its a little bit simpler to work through.
So what weve been doing now we are increasing our percentage of option transaction.
but again they are typically raw where you may have a 600 lot community and we take the first 200 down and option the second 200.
And on the finished land side the options of finished land.
When do you think you could start to do that to a greater extent? When will the developers regain those naturally held to do those kind of deals? Jr.</strong>  All right thats a great question.
And I dont know.
Okay next Jr.</strong> I havent seen it to a large extent at all today.
Your next question comes from Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering its great kind of confidence that you talked about in terms of the gross margins during the back half of the year is that flatter or slightly up.
Just wondering about that how much that is the view that the  what youre doing internally in terms of the common plans and the price optimization is offsetting on the slower home price appreciation and from a high land cost.
Jr.</strong> Yes Dan I think its all of the above Ill will tell you Im very pleased with our internal focus on commonly managed plans and dont rule out that the stats Bob keeps given each quarter around lot premiums and options those are  and discounts our internal focus on isolating each of those metrics and trying to optimizing them helps.
So its clearly a combination of all of the above when you have as many moving parts as we do going in its hard to isolate it to anyone but collectively thats what where we get.
Great and second question you talked about the strong absorption on the Centex side but then in terms of pricing with Centex it was up less (indiscernible) achieved in terms of more (indiscernible) lower price points at first to pushing price less in Centex than in many other brands.
Yes certainly our operators are trying to get price for ever they can they are also trying to get return and so phases get to there.
Its interesting we were talking earlier yes the Texas market had outsized first time absorption increases but the non-Texas markets were up 13%.
So of that 20 plus percent pace increase its not just Texas.
So the return characteristics are not so much in that business about generating higher prices be with that buyer is somewhat limited to the down payment they can come up with.
So paces what actually replaces it and weve seen that across all our markets in this quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen East with ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just want to follow-up Richard and Bob a little bit on the cash generation et cetera.
As you sit here and look this year and this year and next year before your debt pay down and you repose given the big land spend what do you expect you should go through on the cash generation side for this year and next.
We havent given any color on next year obviously weve been absent debt transaction dividend the share repurchases were going to be cash flow generative this year and substantially.
So lot of it will depend on how much of the land spend we actually get done and then how much we allocate to share repurchases.
Sure okay.
If Richards scenario were sort of a slow and steady I mean is it rationale for us to think 215 cash generation before those other issues with sort of be on the similar track.
Jr.</strong>  Steve And certainly we will be  a tax there next year.
So our earnings stream is cash consistent with this year.
Your next question comes from Buck Horne of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Your line is open.
Thanks I appreciate  the question.
I wanted to ask a strategic question because you got good presence with the entry level brand youve got to the move-up brands youve got the active adult segments have you given consideration to moving further upstream whether its the second time move-up were taking a full bigger push into the luxury market have you considered expanding your brand options? Jr.</strong>  Buck weve talked about it and this is Richard.
Weve talked about internally and we think the Pulte brand allows us to expand up nicely.
as a matter of fact we have several communities operating in the 6s and 7s and even a couple over a million with that brand just fine.
So one of the things wed recognize is that even though the margin and return characteristics in that segment are very strong and good they typically represent above 10% of the total housing market plus or minus.
So we think we can serve that very effectively with the Pulte brand.
Okay.
so you wouldnt think you need to make an acquisition outside of the company to try to establish a different presence or different brands? Jr.</strong>  Thats correct.
We have enough experience with the Pulte brand and with construction techniques design et cetera that we believe we can stretch that name into that category.
but again we want to be selective we like the fact that we are diversified with our portfolio.
Okay thanks.
Jr.</strong>  Thank you.
All right.
I apologize Will I remember your second question and it was about the rating agencies and investment grade.
it is certainly the business that were running; we think certainly warrant consideration for investment grade.
weve shared that our thoughts on that with the rating agencies.
The one thing I would say is its not the overarching reason we do things.
So again we think we actually warrant consideration for investment grade today and were running the business in the way I think that is supportive of that type of ratings.
But it doesnt mean we wouldnt look at doing things differently if we thought it was better for shareholders.
There are no further questions at this time.
Ill turn the call back over to Jim Zeumer.
Great thank you operator.
I know you have a lot of other calls to be held today.
So well be available to have any follow-up questions.
Thanks very much for your time and we look forward to speaking with you on the next quarter.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Jonathan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup Inc.
Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
And Mr.
Jim Zeumer you may begin your conference.
Great.
Thank you Jonathan and good morning everyone.
I want to welcome you to PulteGroup's earnings call to discuss our third quarter financial results for the 3 months ended September 30 2014.
On the call today to discuss PulteGroup's results are Richard Dugas Chairman and President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Jim Ossowski Vice President and Financing Controller.
Before we begin I want to alert all participants that copies of this morning's earnings release along with presentation slide that accompanies today's call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
Also posted to the website is the second release we issued this morning announcing a 60% increase in our quarterly dividend and the $750 million increase in our share repurchase authorization.
We will also post an audio replay of today's call to the website a little later.
Please note that today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
This risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now with that said I like to turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I am once again very pleased with the strong earnings and operating results PulteGroup reported this morning.
A 29% increase in year-over-year pretax income and bottom line earnings of $0.37 per share reflect our relentless pursuit of operational improvement.
We continue to work on a series of key initiatives which are improving our fundamental business metrics in support of driving better long-term returns on invested capital.
In a few minutes Bob will review the details of our third quarter results which demonstrate the operating and financial progress we continue to make against our goals.
I'd like to take some time on this call to discuss the other release we issued this morning on dividends and share repurchases.
For the past several years you've heard us talk about our Value Creation strategy and our focus on driving better margins overhead leverage and inventory turns.
If you have been monitoring our results you can see PulteGroup's relative performance on these metrics go from middle of the pack or even bottom in certain instances to among the industry leaders.
The work we've done these past few years has clearly driven meaningful company-specific gains beyond any market lift the industry has realized since the housing recovery started in 2011.
The critical next stage which investors have been asking about has been on the company's plans for future capital allocation.
Beyond the more than $1 billion of cash we carry and related very strong balance sheet investors see our operations continuing to grow more profitable and more capital efficient.
These trends and the fact that PulteGroup won't be a cash taxpayer for several years point to the potential for continued strong cash flow generation going forward.
Based on these facts and trends the time is right for us to better define our capital allocation plans for the future.
We will discuss these plans in much greater detail at our December 9 Investor Day here in Atlanta but the basic components are as follows.
First to invest in the business to drive higher return on invested capital.
Next we have increased our quarterly dividend to enhance the cumulative returns of our shareholders and finally going forward we plan to return available excess capital to shareholders routinely and systematically through share repurchase activity.
Looking at our investment philosophy you may recall that prior to implementing our Value Creation strategy we allocated capital almost exclusively into the business to acquire the land needed to support aggressive growth.
We got the volumes about our expensive and heavy land pipeline hindered returns on invested capital and created outsized market risk.
Among the many lessons learned from the last housing boom is that there are paces and rates at which you can effectively grow this business while still generating high returns.
Exceeding those rates for multiple years in a row put significant stress on a company and can encourage an organization to take on excessive risk.
We believe shareholders are not well served by doing either.
So today having fixed our balance sheet and improved our overall returns on invested capital to be above our cost of capital it make sense to continue to increase our investment in land.
In 2013 we invested $1.3 billion into land acquisition and development which is an increase of 30% over 2012.
In 2014 land investment will likely be up another 40% or more over 2013.
And given our expectations for a sustained albeit gradual recovery in housing demand we have authorized a land spend budget for 2015 of $2.4 billion.
This is an increase of $600 million to $700 million of our expected 2014 expenditures for land acquisition and development.
Notwithstanding our positive outlook on the market we are steadfast in our view that we need to remain balanced and return funds to shareholders over the cycle.
Having established the level of investment we want to pursue we consider the form and size of the routine systematic returns of funds for our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
This morning's announcement of a 60% increase in our dividend and a $750 million expansion of our share repurchase authorization is a direct reflection of this discipline.
We've said from the start of the housing recovery that we expected a slow measured improvement in buyer demand that would play out over a number of years.
We have probably been more right than wrong in this forecast.
Our forecast which we continue to support and now we are articulating our plans for capital usage throughout the cycle.
From a demand perspective I am pleased with what we saw over the course of the third quarter as absorption paces improved for the third quarter on a row and our expectations are for sustained growth and demand going forward.
We will however keep a watchful eye on the issues ranging from recent stock market volatility and interest rate fears to fighting in the Middle East and health concerns developing in the U.S.
to see if they impact consumer confidence going forward.
More broadly our view of the U.S.
market remains positive as continued improvements in both the economy and employment provide ongoing support to an industry that continues to benefit from low inventory low-mortgage rates and favorable demographic trends.
Further we are encouraged by proposed changes at FHFA which have the potential to improve mortgage availability particularly for first-time homebuyers.
Regardless of how the macro environment evolves I feel really good about where we are as a company and how we're running the business.
With the 134 000 lots under control $1.2 billion of cash on the balance sheet a gross debt-to-cap ratio of 28% and a disciplined capital investment process we are in a great position to further improve our returns and the returns we generate for our shareholders.
I think it's important to stop here and thank the employees of PulteGroup who have been instrumental in putting us in such a strong position.
Their efforts have allowed us to successfully execute our long-term plans while delivering the day-to-day actions needed to run this business.
They are an amazing group of people.
With that said let me turn the call over to Bob for more details on the quarter.
Bob? Thank you Richard and good morning.
The 2 press releases we issued today demonstrate the ongoing benefits we're realizing by operating our business in alignment with our long-term Value Creation strategy.
As Richard indicated we realized strong year-over-year gains across a number of critical areas in the business.
Before I get to the details let me remind everyone that as we highlighted in this morning earnings release we acquired certain real estate assets from Dominion Homes in August.
In connection with this transaction we gain control of 8 200 lots in the Columbus Louisville and Lexington markets and assumed 622 Dominion Homes in our backlog.
During our 5 weeks of ownership these assets contributed 64 sign ups and 86 closings from 33 active communities.
Looking at our income statement home sale revenues in the third quarter increased 4% over the prior year to $1.6 billion.
Our higher revenues were driven by an 8% or $24 000 increase in our average selling price to $334 000 partially offset by a 4% decrease in closing volumes to 4 646 homes.
The increase in average selling price was driven by an 11% increase in ASP to $410 000 in our Pulte communities and a 6% increase in ASP to $322 000 in our Del Webb communities.
The average selling price of $204 000 in our Centex communities was essentially unchanged from the prior year.
Our mix of closings by brand was consistent with the third quarter of last year with 46% coming from our Pulte communities 30% from Del Webb and 24% from Centex.
Our reported gross margin in the third quarter was 22.9% which is an increase of 200 basis points over the third quarter of last year.
Our margins continue to benefit from higher average selling prices lower interest costs and gains from our strategic pricing programs which focus on maximizing revenue opportunities within lot premiums and home options.
Lot premiums in the third quarter increased to 11% or approximately $1 200 over last year while option revenues per closing increased 15% or approximately $6 500 versus last year.
There's been a lot of market commentary relating to the potential for the industry's increasing use of incentives in certain markets.
I'm pleased to note that we have not seen significant pressure to increase incentives in the majority of our markets.
In fact sales discounts in the quarter actually fell by 8% to just under $5 700 or 1.7% per house.
We know there's a lot of focus on gross margins and while our margins are up 200 basis points compared to last year we recognized that they're down 70 basis points from the second quarter of this year.
Approximately 30 basis points of the decrease was driven by closings from Dominion's backlog which carry very low margins because of acquisition accounting adjustments.
The remaining decrease in sequential margins is due primarily to unexpected costs associated with the closeout of certain legacy communities and a modest unfavorable shift in the mix of homes delivered compared to the second quarter partially offset by a reduction in interest expense.
It should be noted that closing out the remainder of the Dominion backlog will continue to weigh on our reported margins for at least the next 2 quarters.
The margin impact could be in the range of 50 to 100 basis points each quarter depending upon the volume and mix of units closed in each period.
Beyond these short-term impacts we continue to realize efficiency in sales pace benefits with commonly manage plans which accounted for 45% of deliveries in the third quarter.
The closing volume from commonly managed plans is up from 39% in Q2 of this year and we're now slightly higher than our year-end target of 40% for 2014.
SG&amp;A costs for the third quarter were $147 million or 9.5% of home sale revenues compared with a $139 million or 9.3% in the third quarter of last year.
At $147 million SG&amp;A expenses for the period are consistent with previous guidance.
Financial services reported pretax income of $11 million for the quarter which is comparable with last year's results.
Capture rate for the period was 80% which is unchanged from last year and consistent with the first half of this year.
For the third quarter Pulte reported pretax income of $225 million which is up $50 million or 29% over the $175 million of pretax income reported last year.
Our income tax expense for the period was $84 million which equates to an effective tax rate of 38%.
In the third quarter of 2013 we reported a tax benefit of $2.1 billion relating to the reversal of substantially all of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
Net income for the third quarter was $141 million or $0.37 per share.
Last year's DTA reversal makes the EPS comparison hard to assess but given the 29% increase in pretax income we're extremely pleased with the progress we continue to realize in our financial results.
Looking beyond the income statement we had 6 865 homes under construction of which 18% were spec at the end of the quarter.
As a percentage of construction activity this is consistent with prior year and our finish spec inventory totaled only 335 homes which remains well below 1 per community.
During the quarter we put 16 165 lots under control half of which are related to the purchase from Dominion.
Our third quarter investment of $525 million brings our total year-to-date land acquisition and development spend to $1.25 billion.
As occurred last year it's likely that we will not get our entire authorized spend targeted at $2 billion for 2014 invested this year and that will -- we will be closer to $1.8 billion for the year.
This would represent a 40% increase in investment over 2013.
And as Richard commented our land acquisition and development investment authorization for 2015 has been set at $2.4 billion.
I would point out the development and entitlement delays continue to grow more pronounced which is impacting our ability to get money invested.
Having said that we want our divisions to remain disciplined and not force investment into the system by reaching for deals or taking on incremental risk just to get a contract signed.
While deals are taking longer the profile of the projects we put under contract has not changed.
Consistent with our recent quarterly updates roughly 75% of the transactions we entered into during the quarter are raw which means additional time and dollars will be required to bring the communities online.
We also continue to see the best return opportunities in projects targeted toward move up and active adult buyers.
So the lion share of our investment was targeted toward these consumer segments.
At the end of the quarter we had 134 000 lots under control of which 36 000 or 27% were controlled via auction.
We continue to look for opportunities to auction rather than own assets where such a structure allows us to enhance returns and or reduce risk.
Of the 134 000 lots under control approximately 23% are finished.
During the quarter we also paid a $0.05 per share dividend and repurchased 2.7 million shares of our stock for $50.3 million or $18.85 per share in addition to the investment in the business.
This brings our cumulative share repurchases since reactivating the program in July of 2013 to 14.9 million shares or 4% of our shares outstanding for $266 million or $17.82 per share.
Even after having spent more than $600 million during the quarter on investment and return to shareholders we ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash.
We recognized that having $1.2 billion nonreturning asset is not advantageous.
Today's announcement about our dividend and share repurchase authorization in addition to stepping up our land investment in 2015 demonstrate our commitment to putting this capital to appropriate use.
Moving on to sales activity the dollar value signups in the quarter increased 3% over last year to $1.3 billion.
While net new orders were essentially unchanged at 3 779 homes.
Signups increased 8% at Pulte and decreased to 11% and 3% at Centex and Del Webb respectively.
Aggregate absorption paces were flat during the quarter.
However if you exclude the 5-week impact of the Dominion assets absorption paces were up 5% overall.
Looking at this by brand Centex and Del Webb communities increased 8% and 23% respectively offset by a decrease of 4% in our Pulte communities.
It's worth noting that our Del Webb community count was impacted by the close out of several selling positions since last year.
Regardless we're pleased by the stronger paces we continue to see within this brand.
The ongoing improvement in our Centex communities continues to be an encouraging sign in terms of potential future demand.
We finished the third quarter with 600 communities which is comparable to last year's 604 communities.
And we ended Q3 with a backlog of 7 934 homes valued at $2.6 billion which is up from 7 522 homes valued at $2.4 billion last year.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for some final comments.
Thanks Bob.
We were generally pleased with the overall level of demand experienced in the third quarter but depending on the market we did see a little more volatility from week-to-week.
On the East Coast we continue to see stronger demand in the southern markets and particularly in Florida and the Carolinas.
The DC area showed some improvement as the quarter progressed.
But demand conditions remained below expectations as you move further north of the Coast.
Third quarter demand in the Midwest were generally positive with ongoing strengthen in Michigan Indianapolis and Cleveland.
We're excited about the opportunities we see to improve the operating results we realized from the Dominion assets along with building out our position in these markets going forward.
We have a strong experience team in place so I am confident about the execution.
Texas remains one of the strongest areas of the country but we did see the market starting to ease a little from the torrid pace they have been setting.
Out West Southern California Las Vegas and Phoenix picked up in the quarter which is a positive sign.
Northern California was little more volatile from month-to-month.
Demand through the first few weeks of October has followed the usual seasonal pattern with some uptick coming out of September but with a little less consistency from market-to-market driven by local market dynamics.
What we're also seeing from market-to-market is varying degrees of strain on the local trade basis which are at times struggling to keep up with the current pace of production.
It is likely that tight labor resources will create production challenges in the industry for the foreseeable future.
In closing I want to thank everyone for joining us on today's call.
Taken together I think this morning's 2 releases say a lot about the company and the strategies we are executing against.
You see continued strong operating and financial performance supported by a more disciplined capital investment process working together to drive improve returns for our shareholders.
I look forward to seeing you at the December investor meeting where we can discuss these topics in greater detail.
Thanks for your time this morning and now I'll turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Great.
Thank you Richard.
Before opening the call to questions I do want to alert that -- investors that registration to attend our December 9 Investor Day will open up Monday October 27.
We will issue an email announcing the online registration is active and as space is limited I'd encourage interested investors to sign up promptly.
Now we'll open up the call for questions so that we can speak to as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call.
[Operator Instructions] Jonathan if you will explain the Q&amp;A process we will get started.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Stephen East with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I really like what you're doing on the capital allocation side and could you talk more about that the decision process that you went through the criteria that you're looking at when you do it what you think about the future capital allocation? How you look at the cap structure throughout the cycle just sort of the whole process that you went through? Sure Stephen this is Richard.
I'll make some comments and then Bob can take you through a little bit more about how we're looking at the balance sheet.
We've studied this very carefully frankly over several years.
And had really I think done our homework with regard to the entire housing cycle over a long history and frankly what we believe is that returning funds to shareholders through a very disciplined manner overtime is the best path toward total shareholder return and value creation for shareholders.
So what you see is a little more formalized pronouncement of our strategy.
We've obviously been operating the business with a view toward high returns for several years now and the results I think are evident.
Now we're just trying to be a little more explicit about additional return of funds to shareholders through dividend and share repurchase activity.
So that's how we looked at it and our December 9 Investor Day is going to get into frankly a lot more history and detail on how we came about these ideas but maybe Bob you could explain a little bit about the balance sheet and what we're looking at there and then cash.
Sure.
We -- as we look at this -- we -- it will hinge off of leverage to a certain extent.
So you heard us talk about in the past that we want to or we're comfortable with 40% leverage.
You can expect us now to target leverage between 30% and 40%.
That's not a hard-and-fast rule if there's a particular transaction that makes sense we might go above or below that but the guiding post for us will be 30% to 40% leverage overtime.
And so then as we looked at it the first priority is always what are we going to invest in the business.
You heard our commentary on what we're going to do for 2015.
The goal obviously being to drive higher returns.
So now that we've-- are actually earning above our weighted average cost of capital we'd like to improve that so returns have be accretive to that on investment in the business.
At the same time we want to be balanced.
We talked about this too.
The dividend I think you can expect us to target a yield between 2% and 3% overtime.
It will be important to us that we have the confidence that we can deliver that through cycle.
So we've started I think the yield based on yesterday's close with about 1.7%.
So if the market is feeling good it's always subject to Board approval but you can expect to see us increase that 2% to 3% overtime.
We always want to be cognizant that M&amp;A activity is available to us and we still look at it as land transactions so Dominion is a very good example of that.
And then what we'll do is as we look at our projected cash flows capital structure again targeted 30% to 40% leverage ratios if we have money available beyond that in any period of time we would seek to buy back stock with that.
It's important to note that we're not actually looking to time the market on that.
So you would see us put plans in place that are meant to do that ratably over a period of time.
Those plans will be reactive to market pricing so if there's dislocation I think we'd accelerate somewhat but again it's not designed to say we're making a call on the equity value today.
It's we're returning shareholders to -- money systematically and routinely as Richard said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I really like the plan that you all are laying out on that.
And just to follow along on the land spend side you started ramping up your spend you're still sort of in a catch-up mode if you will as far as getting new communities open as the others burn off.
As you look at the $2.4 billion for next year what type of gross community count do you expect and how is that compared what you think will be rolling off? Yes Steve this is Richard.
We're going to give some guidance on that number at our Q4 call as our budgeting process is kind of underway now.
I think it's fair to say the increased investment at some point in time will yield community count growth but we're not prepared to kind of get into that today as we're still finalizing the numbers for next year.
Your next question comes from Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Bob the margin guidance this piece of Dominion is 50 to 100 each quarter is that incremental or is that also sort of the run rate how do we think about that next couple of quarters? Yes so what that does is it incorporates.
We assumed 622 homes in their backlog which because of acquisition accounting will be ascribed very low margins.
We're just saying that mix of business in our total will drive our margins on an aggregate basis down between 50 and 100 basis points.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Richard you said in October there was some volatility region-to-region can you talk about maybe -- where maybe demand was little better versus maybe a little not as good? Yes Jack we're not going to comment on specifics with regard to October but it's candidly not a lot different than we saw in Q3.
If you noted in our release Florida was particularly strong the Midwest was a good market for us.
We saw some improving conditions in the Southwest and then a little bit weaker versus frankly probably unsustainable pace in Texas in the quarter and then Northern California started to show a little bit more volatility.
So what we're trying to indicate about October was that we saw a typical seasonal uptick coming out of September but we do see some volatility week-to-week just based on all the world events.
Your next question comes from Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions conceptually for you since you've gone through this exercise on returning of capital.
Your 30% to 40% net leverage target you're going to have confidence in that after you book second quarter backlog assuming it converts so that assumes always a back half biased to share buybacks? Ken just one comment it's a 30% to 40% gross leverage.
It's not net just FYI.
You said net.
And candidly the seasonality within the businesses doesn't impact our leverage ratios much or at all.
Research Division</strong> And then when you think about yield that's yield to your current stock or that's what you value your own company at intrinsically? It would be to current value.
And we recognize that there's volatility.
If we had made this announcement 1.5 week ago and the price was $17 the yield would have been higher.
So again it's -- we're thinking of this through cycle.
Obviously our belief in our forward cash generation will help to drive what we do.
And if it turns out that its 1.9% yield or 2.7% yield is less important to us than the consistency and being able to deliver it through cycle.
Yes and Ken this is Richard.
Just if I could illuminate on that just for a second the goal here is to signal very clearly and deliberately that we want to be balanced in capital through cycle.
And we're making a deliberate statement to suggest that our first priority is in the business but at high returns.
And to the extent that annually we have left over funds which clearly we think will have a capacity for strong cash flow generation a combination of dividends and repurchases we think is the best bet for shareholders over the long run.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I guess if I could ask for your comment just briefly on the news last week with the agencies and the SEC the rulings about if qualified residential mortgages what are the factors that you're going to look at over the next month that you think are most indicative if in fact that's delivering higher demand? Yes.
Well with regard to what's happening with FHFA right now Mr.
Watt's comments earlier this week certainly leave us encouraged.
There's always a path between announcement and implementation so we have to watch to see what ultimately gets implemented.
But we have said for some time that mortgage availability is tight in the industry and we believe any clarity that can be brought with regard to how government loans are going to be treated is important for banks to want to underwrite.
And we've heard that again and again from folks at Wells Fargo JPMorgan Chase and others so we believe what we've heard is the right step.
And I think it's important that the administration has recognized that housing is not as big a driver in the economy as it could be partly due to credit being a little bit tighter than is necessary.
So we're watchful we're cautious we're not certainly predicting that anything dramatic changes here but overtime if some of these ideas get put into practice it certainly has the potential to affect activity particularly for that entry-level category.
And I think we've all talked about for a couple of years now that that segment has been underrepresented in the recovery and if it gets going housing could get exciting again.
So our view is that it's a positive statement.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Desi filling in for Bob.
Just speaking on that topic maybe a little further along there do you think the easing of credit standards could be -- maybe what gets us from 1 million starts today to 1.2 million to 1.3 million starts or is it more of smaller incremental upside from where we're at? That's a really tough question to answer.
Candidly I don't know.
I do think it's important to recognize that.
A combination of factors will go into this.
Number one will be the actual easing of credit to the extent it eases.
And number two will be the press that goes around it that suggest to buyers that today could actually get credit that are not applying to apply.
There's certainly some evidence that people think that credit is tighter than it actually is.
So a combination of people that are maybe a little bit uneducated with regard to credit today could get in the market along with some actual easing could help us we believe.
But in terms of exactly what impact it is in terms of starts are I don't know how to quantify that at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then on just to give little clarity on the community count absorption pace that you talked about.
In the absence of the acquisition of Dominion Homes would your community kind of have been lowered year-over-year? I'm just trying to square the fact that orders were relatively stable with absorption pace at 5% and community count flat.
Yes so what happened is we bought it.
We have 33 active communities that came online in August and contributed some signup activity.
But if you think of retail with same store concept in our 600 ending communities are 33 communities from there so to directly to your question we would have had 567 communities if we hadn't purchased Dominion.
And our pace assumptions so we've talked about a 5% pace increase.
What it does is it takes the 33 out of our ending community count and then takes the signups excluding the signups from those communities say how did the rest of the business do that was in for the entire quarter.
Your next question comes from Ivy Zelman with Zelman Associates.
LLC</strong> But the $600 million to $700 million incremental in land and development that you're planning on spending we got lot of questions about Pulte is chasing land they're late to the market.
They stopped buy -- they didn't buy land when everyone else is buying land and now they're paying at inflated prices and given your disciplines around returns my first question is really understanding how to comfort investors that you are not going to sacrifice returns by now incrementally buying more land? Yes Ivy this is Richard.
First of all let me just refute directly the fact that we're taking on more risk than we should as a matter of fact that would be countered to everything that we have said with regard to the last several years about investing in high return communities.
We now have this 13-point risk adjusted scale for investment.
And frankly we have stuck to that discipline.
We have not chased any land transactions.
We do not build in forward price assumptions into our transactions.
And in fact I'm extremely pleased with the quality of the land that we are buying.
And frankly as one of the largest builders in the country we do have access to land given the size of our checkbook and the land that have been pursuing is of really high-quality across the country.
So I completely discount anybody's concern that we are reaching or chasing.
And frankly the rest of our announcement today is indicative of that as evidence of the fact that we're not going to reach given the incredibly strong cash flows that we have and frankly are likely to have in the future.
We're going to be balanced to ensure in fact that we don't overreach.
We've learned the lessons of the past.
This company used to be very land heavy.
We're not going back there.
We want to be very balanced and a combination of prudent smart high-returning land a combination of a growing dividend and maybe stepped up share repurchase activity I think is evidence of that.
LLC</strong> Very helpful.
And then secondly as we talk about one of the proposals from director Mel Watt was to reintroduce the 97% LTV recognizing that with the loan limits are higher in most of the country relative to FHA if you could talk about specifically Phoenix and some of the Northern Cal markets where it was more dramatic whether it be Stockton Fresno maybe you're not in those areas as much.
But if you could just talk about the potential impact that those markets with the higher loan limit and that 97% LTV could have on your business is it -- in that -- those markets meaningful? I guess great question.
It's certainly not insubstantial.
A lot of people I think it flew under the radar when the loan limits got dropped.
I think people got that really high-cost markets came down from $700 to say $550 but places like Phoenix that or kind of a lot of bread-and-butter housing a $50 000 or $60 000 drop in loan limits made a big big difference and took out of swath of the market.
So it's again per someone's earlier question a little bit hard to quantify exactly what it could mean but it's clearly a positive.
And the only thing we're watchful for is to make sure that it gets implemented responsibly.
We've heard the announcements and we're certainly excited about it and through the leading builders of America our industry has done a good job of advocating for responsible credit and credit that is accessible to all with the right safeguards.
And I think we have a good relationship with Mr.
Watt and the administration and we're looking forward to seeing what comes of it but directly to answer your question it's -- it could be significant.
I can't put an exact quantification on it but it will certainly help housing.
Your next question comes from Mike Roxland with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> As Bob mentioned the commonly managed floor plans increased to about 45% from 39% in 2Q yet your gross margins still declined sequentially even after testing for 30 bps of accounting adjustments related to Dominion.
Can you talk about some of these that weakened mix shift that occurred in the quarter that negatively impacted margins.
And I also believe if I recall correctly got in 2Q also had a weaker mix which impacted margins.
So I'm just trying to get sense of what actually occurred this quarter and whether you expect this type of trend to persist or reverse going forward? Yes Mike this is Richard.
We indicated on the prepared comments there were 2 factors.
One was some unexpected legacy community closeout costs that impacted margins.
And second was that mix shift that you mentioned.
And frankly it was less-high margin Del Webb closings coming through and more lower margin syntax closings coming through.
With regard to kind of future trends on mix it's frankly almost impossible to predict.
There is volatility in closing mix and candidly the trade base issues I mention persist in the industry.
So overall you can have one particular region versus another closing homes in one quarter.
But we continue to be very pleased with our margins.
We clearly move from a low-margin company a few years ago to among highest in the space and we like our position overall.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up could you -- will it be fair to say that as you sell out of more of the higher-margin Del Webb and continued to see an acceleration in Centex than maybe you'll have this negative mix shift persist on a go forward basis? And then just as a second question would be with respect to the accounting adjustments once you get through them the next 2 or 3 quarters should we expect to see gross margins rebound to the 23% or 24% you had been achieving? Yes Mike a couple points there.
We have said that margins are going to vary quarter-to-quarter and we said that very consistently and I don't see any reason that kind of changed that view.
With regard to the second part of your question we don't have visibility to our margins much beyond the next couple of quarters given sort of our backlog.
So frankly I don't know what's going to happen say as you get into Q2 or Q3 going forward.
I will point out that we do have favorable pricing dynamics.
We continue to like what we see.
We do offsetting that though have higher land cost and some trade pressures coming through.
So it's going to be choppy and volatile from here.
So it's difficult to give you a guidance number there.
Your next question comes from David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up Richard on the comments on labor tightness.
And I am wondering if you could help us kind of connect that Common Plan Management system how that's working with the trade if it's allowing you to attract some of the trade a little bit more favorably because you have more consistent program going through and also if you can with that kind of talk about cycle times and what's happening on homes that are going through this system what the cycle times would look like versus homes that haven't been -- maybe as valued engineer or as not as efficient right now? Sure David it's Richard.
From the labor comments basically what you're seeing is I think has been well chronicled is they're just not as many folks available to build the homes that are in production across the country as there were.
With regard to Common Plan Management we are able to attract trades that are more favorably inclined to candidly build for us for 2 reasons.
Number one we're big and we have a large backlog and trades understand that consistency to work is important.
And then our Common Plan Management allows for more ease of production as the trade base particularly on the labor side gets more familiar with the plans.
So candidly I would suggest that even though we're seeing some delays in closing as a result of labor shortages it's probably less pronounced for us than candidly many folks who are smaller in this space and particularly the real small builders I think are going through a very volatile time with regard to overall labor.
And we are very optimistic that the Common Plan Management rollout as Bob indicates continues to ramp up it's a very productive part of our business for many many reasons.
With regard to cycle time we are focused separately on house turn time and land turn time if you will internally.
We have a lot of focus on both those areas.
And frankly we made a lot of progress on our house turns in the last few years including this year.
So how much further can we push it it's hard to say.
Frankly we're -- inventory turns in total are one of the guiding posts around our focus on return which has been helpful.
So I hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on the Common Plan Management system on customer satisfaction have you been able to do to gauge I know it's kind of early in the process still but in terms of quality of construction in terms of the fact have you been able to kind of gets engage on overall customer satisfaction and warranty related issues on homes that have gone through this system versus the homes that haven't really even versus the historical where you've been? David we certainly have high expectations in that regard.
It's probably a little early to look at warranty trends and customer satisfaction trends given the delay between putting these homes in the production closing them and then having people live in them for 1 year or more overall.
But clearly everything that we're doing with Common Plan Management we believe has benefits margin benefits sales space benefits customer satisfaction benefits.
And frankly to your point kind of long-term with regard to customer satisfaction and warranty.
The features that we're putting in our commonly managed homes I think a lot of investors appreciate the efficiency gains that we have.
We are probably more excited about the actual buyer acceptance of these consumer-driven plans and if you recall the feature CNBC did on us about 1 year ago now where we're putting homes in productions into prototype and warehouses and getting buyer feedback we're continuing that good work that our marketing and architectural teams are doing.
And so we got a lot more of where that comes over time and this whole idea of continuing to refresh our product portfolio while reducing the overall number of floor plans we manage has benefits in all parts of the company.
Your next question comes from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on the share repurchase and we appreciate obviously the increased focus there.
I think it certainly helps the more balanced approach to capital but when you talk about a gross leverage of 30% to 40% I guess right now you are in the high 20s.
And you also mentioned that you'd really be excess cash that you would be deploying after internal investment in dividends.
So if I'm reading it right it doesn't sound like this is going to be a sort of a relatively aggressive bulk purchase at any time more of kind of like the perhaps what you did in this past quarter and maybe a little bit more but can you kind of give any color on that because certainly again from the gross leverage standpoint it doesn't seem like you have that much wiggle room although certainly you have a lot of cash on the balance sheet? Yes Mike we do have lot of cash on the balance sheet.
We also expect to be generating a lot of cash over the next few years particularly as we realize the deferred tax asset.
But the other thing we've made a point of is we're not stock pickers so we're not going to be doing an accelerated plan generally.
So you can expect us to be buying it sort of dollar cost average through the year but I think the $750 million speaks to the fact that we're going to be buying more stock.
Yes and Mike this is Richard.
If I could just add having bought back about 4% of our shares with a frankly less-defined program over the past call it 12 to 15 months we are not talking about insignificant activity but Bob mentioned on his remarks earlier we're talking about being routine and systematic and disciplined and balanced and we see it all as part of a well-orchestrated well-articulated plan.
We think we have articulated our operating philosophy very well for the past several years.
We're now trying to articulate our balance sheet and cash philosophy with that same degree of consistency.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And I guess secondly on the absorption pace I think you mentioned Centex down 8% Pulte down 4%.
And generally people viewing the year ago comp is somewhat easier given the rate driven slowdown from last year.
You'd also mentioned that the Common Plan Management does drive some improvement in sales pace.
And I'm just trying to get a sense of if you're kind of pleased with the sales pace at current levels did you think it would have improve off of perhaps an easier 1 year ago comp and what could be done to perhaps increase that going forward? So Mike just a couple of points and Bob can give you the details but our pace is in Centex and Del Webb were up sharply especially in Del Webb so you may have misheard that and we are pleased with our paces.
So Bob maybe you can reiterate the numbers.
Yes so it was up 8% not down at 8% Mike.
So again Pulte was up 4% Centex up 8% Del Webb up 23%.
Your next question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to sort of follow-up on the land question the land spend question.
You talked about $2.4 billion.
We were already modeling it about $1.9 billion.
We thought that that was pretty generous.
So I was a little surprised your targeted land spend was about $500 million more than what we're looking for.
I was wondering if you could give us some understanding as to the breakout of that spend in terms of new lots versus development of existing lots.
And maybe in answering that question if you could let us know whether the 23% of control lots that are finished how much of those actually are owned versus auctioned? Yes so Stephen we've expressed I'd say over the last 12 months that because we're buying more raw land our spend during the year has changed.
So 2 years ago we were probably we were 2/3 on land and 1/3 on development.
It's now probably 50-50.
So part of the spend that you're seeing us do next year is to develop the land we've been buying over the last 18 or 24 months.
So I think not...
Research Division</strong> But only half though but only half right? Okay.
Yes it's not an insignificant number though Steve.
We're really pleased to with that number.
And as we've indicated we have a very clear formula we get above our cost of capital and we can find high returning assets.
We want to grow the business and invest and we spent 2 or 3 years getting our business to that point.
We're there now and just to reiterate a comment someone asked earlier we're definitely not reaching for land.
We are being very disciplined and prudent.
And frankly with still a lot of dry powder we're continuing to return funds to shareholders elsewhere.
Research Division</strong> Yes I don't think you got the -- I didn't get the finished number? Oh sorry he had asked another one so say it again Steve please? Research Division</strong> Well yes so my question was of the 23% of controlled lots that are finished I assume the majority of those are owned but I wanted to check on that.
And one other one before I get cut off is that you had talked about in previous quarters perhaps a recovery in the entry-level.
I think you'd pointed to some signs in your Centex division.
I was curious if you could just quantitatively or qualitatively talk about whether you think that momentum is building whether it's pulled back just how you're feeling about the entry-level buyer at this point? Yes so Stephen the 80% of those finished lots are owned.
And then Steve with regard to the entry level we are pleased with what we've seen.
The absorption pace is up 8%.
It was up -- excuse me nicely the prior 2 quarters as well.
We do think it's building.
And as I indicated while we don't want to get ahead of ourselves the potential for some of what Mr.
Watt outlined to be enacted has the potential to improve it further we're going to wait and see what happens.
But we thought it was a good announcement that they're at least considering it.
Yes Stephen the one thing that we have seen in terms of the entry-level buyer they're still buying closer in.
We haven't seen them really start to go out to some of the outer markets.
We've had a couple meetings here in Atlanta and it's a perfect example.
Strong demand in the closer in positions but if you look at some of the outlining areas where there aren't finished developed lots available they're still no buying going on out there so we're pretty comfortable in our ability to respond quickly on this.
But right now again the demand is closer in and not further out.
Your next question comes from Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First I wanted to follow-up on the conversation Desi and Bob are having earlier.
If you take out the 30-odd communities from Dominion at the end of 3Q it implies a pretty steep drop in the number of communities.
I think you mentioned some of the factors.
Obviously there was the close out of the legacies which impacted your gross margins as well.
You also mentioned that delays in opening new communities.
So the drop that we saw here the significant drop is that just -- how should we think about that? Is that just a temporary mismatch and that the trend that established -- has been established in last few quarters of increasing community count should continue or is there something more than that? We have guided between 560 and 580 throughout 2014.
So X Dominion we were right within the guidelines that we have provided.
And Nishu a little more color on that.
Things are taking longer to open.
There's no question about that overall.
And as Bob indicated in his prepared remarks that persists.
So we're trying to be balanced and not get communities open before they're ready and before we're ready to present a good sales image overall.
But I don't think that implies anything one way or another kind of going forward.
And as we indicated earlier we will be giving guidance for 2015s community count on our Q4 call.
Your next question comes from Michael Dahl with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back Richard to your comments on the entry-level buyer a minute ago.
And I was curious because you still said that I think in earlier remarks land deals are best for so that move up and active adult.
So in your budgeting for next year is that contemplating more of a shift towards more of the Centex type communities? Mike it's a good question.
And the way we do that is when we allocate capital to the operations we are agnostic as to where they spend it.
We want it to go to the highest returning opportunities that they find and they clearly have a targeted plan.
But we don't push it towards say Pulte or Centex or Del Webb any of the brands.
So the answer is I don't know how exactly that's going to play out.
Overall it depends on what we see in the market when folks are requiring property.
What I will say is the same factors that go into the underwriting are the same ones.
So what we said consistently is that up to now while margins have been very acceptable in that category paces have not recovered yet to where we believe they are needed to underwrite a lot of Centex communities because given the limited pricing power that we have on the buyer income side with regard to Centex we need more pace to support good returns.
As the market recovers and particularly if the entry-level begins to see a little bit more credit availability the potential does exist for that category to come back and therefore for us to start seeing more land deals there.
But it will be dependent on whether the pace comes back to a point at which that becomes a bigger factor.
So I don't know exactly how that's going to play out.
I think it's clear based on what we have purchased the last year or 2 that for the foreseeable year to 18 months most of our openings are going to be on the Pulte or Del Webb side but we're hopeful that could change with a little better availability in the future for credit.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess as a follow-up at a high-level you also made comments that you want to be careful to avoid getting into stretching for growth rates that are going to put real strain on the organization and clearly you've had some runoff of legacy land but this will be the second year looking out to 2015 that you're looking for 40% growth on the spend side and so a lot more of that coming.
On development that does support quite a bit of growth.
So how do you reconcile that like how close are you to a level where you're less comfortable pushing for growth aggressively? Yes Mike again we're not giving kind of community count guidance but land investment dollars don't necessarily translate into volume or community count directly.
It totally depends on what you're buying what markets you're buying it in how expensive the land was where you are.
So I am not concerned about us approaching the level of which we get concerned about growth.
We are nowhere near candidly the growth rates of what we use to be in the past through the boom times.
And as I started out the prepared remarks and my first question out of box today we are not going back there.
We're going to be very balanced with our view.
We're going to be balanced with our capital allocation and mindful of what can happen when we get overly aggressive.
So we're not close to that edge at all and frankly not concerned about it but we're very mindful of it and are going to be cautious.
Your next question comes from Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up I wanted to ask was Richard about the Investor Day.
It's been quite some time since you had an Investor Day.
And that certainly not from a lack of exciting things happening at Pulte.
Value Creation strategy being conceived and executed well in the past couple of years so I wanted to get your thoughts on what prompted the decision to kind of create an special outreach event for investors? And maybe if you could just some preview on what you will be covering because clearly it has created some excitement around the event.
Yes I appreciate that.
First of all this is not something that we intend to do every year.
And it's been many years as you've indicated.
We think we have a great story to tell.
And while we have gotten pieces of the message out over the last several years we don't feel like we have had a forum to really tell the entire story.
So what you can expect is a little bit of a view onto what the details were and how we got to the philosophy that we are today.
We're certainly going to expose you to some of the possibilities for the future with regard to what Common Plan Management can do for us what our pricing philosophies can do and demonstrate for investors that there's more energy around some of the things that we have been working on than have yet kind of come to the market.
And then we're going to get a little more detailed on this capital allocation strategy.
How we got to it what the parameters are and basically walk into a little more detail than we're able to do on an earnings call like today.
So we think it's a very robust lineup.
We look forward to seeing as many investors there as possible and it should be a good day for us.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer session for today's conference.
I will now turn the call back over to Jim Zeumer.
Great.
Thanks everybody for your time this morning.
We've gone through our allocated time for today's call.
We're certainly available for the remainder of the day if anybody has got any follow-up questions.
We will look forward to seeing you on December 9 here in Atlanta Georgia.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Shawn; I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2014 PulteGroup Inc Fourth Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Jim Zeumer you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator and good morning.
This is Jim Zeumer Head of Investor Relations for PulteGroup.
I want to welcome you to our conference call to discuss the company's fourth quarter financial results for the three months ended December 31 2014.
Participating in today's call to discuss our results are Richard Dugas Chairman and President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; Jim Ossowski Vice President and Financing Controller.
Let me remind everyone that copies of this morning's earnings release along with presentation slide that accompanies today's call are posted to our corporate website at www.pultegroupinc.com.
We'll also post an audio replay of today's call to our website a little later.
Before we begin the discussion I want to alert all the participants that today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
This risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
That's it.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thank you Jim.
And good morning everyone.
Early in December we hosted our first Analysts and Investor Day in almost a decade.
Our goal in hosting the meeting was to provide a comprehensive review of our value creation strategy and the underlying initiatives which have driven its success over the past four years.
The topics of our Investor Day included a review of the significant operating and financial gains we've realized as we work to deliver higher returns on invested capital.
And assessment of the opportunities that remain to realize additional gains in revenues gross margin overhead leverage and overall construction and asset efficiency.
And finally a comprehensive analysis of our focus on capital efficiency and our related approach to capital allocation.
For those of who you are unable to attend I'd certainly encourage to review the presentation which is posted on our website.
I am extremely pleased to say that the strong financial performance we delivered in the fourth quarter and the full year demonstrates the ongoing success of our efforts.
In a couple of minutes Bob will provide a detailed analysis of our fourth quarter results and gains we've realized.
So let me spend my time looking at our full year 2014 progress against our value creation strategy.
On slightly lower unit volumes we generated a 4% increase in home sale revenues to $5.7 billion.
The much more telling number however is our ability to leverage the 4% revenue growth into a 33% increase in reported pretax income of $635 million for homebuilding operations.
Inclusive of our financial services operation we realized pretax income growth of 31% to $690 million.
The significant increase we generated in 2014 pretax income was supported by our strategic pricing and common plan initiatives along with interest savings from our dramatic debt reductions over the past few years.
In combination these factors help to expand our reported 2014 gross margin by 280 basis points to 23.3% and pretax margin by 250 basis points to 11.8%.
As we've done over the past several years we capitalized on our strong operating performance and associated cash flows by implementing a disciplined allocation of capital which included investing $1.8 billion into our business in 2014 an increase of roughly 40% over 2013.
We are also in position to comfortably expand our plan 2015 investment by another 30% to $2.4 billion but only if we can identify high returning projects.
We retired $246 million of debt in 2014 helping to reduce our yearend debt to capital to 27% among the lowest in the industry.
We returned $321 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases and after all these we still ended the year with $1.3 billion of cash on the balance sheet which is available for planned investments and to fund dividends in any future share repurchases.
We are extremely pleased with these results and I am personally very proud of the entire organization for all the hard work they have invested to make them happen.
Given the significant gains we've realized over the past several years since launching our value creation strategy in 2011 we remain committed to this program and the ongoing benefits we believe we can deliver.
As such we will continue to focus on margins overhead leverage inventory returns return on invested capital and disciplined capital allocation.
Back in 2010 we analyzed 20 years of financial and operating data on our company and our peers.
The findings clearly show that company is generating the highest return on invested capital drove the greatest total shareholder returns over the housing cycle.
An ROIC focus should have value in all market conditions but we believe it can be particularly effective during the sustained but historically slower paced housing recovery we expect will continue for the next few years.
By focusing on returns we've controlled our investment and land assets and lowered our house inventory by reducing specs and accelerating cycle time.
Having raised our return on invested capital above our cost of capital our land investment spends is moving beyond maintenance and is now supporting future growth.
Consistent with our operating strategy this would be higher return growth not just investing to churn out higher unit volumes.
And as we demonstrated in 2013 and 2014 if the appropriate land transactions are not available we won't force investments into the system but we'll continue to use our capital to fund ongoing dividend payments and repurchase shares.
At the same time we continue to advance our common plan management work and related initiatives to squeeze additional efficiencies out of our construction operations.
Many of you got to hear from Ryan Marshall Harmon Smith and Mike Wyatt at the Investor Day.
So you can better appreciate how much we've accomplished and yet how much opportunity remains to be realized.
Overall I view 2014 as another year of great progress relative to our value creation work.
Equally important I think we enter 2015 in a strong overall position with opportunities to drive additional operating and financial gains.
Now I'd like to turn over the call to Bob for discussion of our fourth quarter results.
Bob? Thanks Richard.
And good morning.
I'd like to echo Richard's comments for 2014 marked another significant step in our progress and highlight that the fourth quarter represented strong finish to the year.
Beginning with the review of our income statements home sales revenues in the fourth quarter increased 10% over the prior year at $1.8 billion.
Higher revenues for the period were driven by a 7% increase in closing volumes to 5 316 combined with the 3% or $9 000 increase in our average selling price to $334 000.
The increase in our average selling price reflects higher sales prices at all three of our brands.
In the fourth quarter Centex is up 1% to $212 000 Pulte was up 5% to $406 000 and Del Webb was up 4% to $327 000.
The mix of closings by brand changed only slightly from last year's fourth quarter with 45% of closings coming from Pulte communities 30% from Del Webb and 25% from Centex.
Our fourth quarter gross margin was 23.1% which is down 10 basis points from the fourth quarter of last year but up 20 basis points on a sequential basis.
Our stable Q4 margins reflect a number of factors including the company's efficiency and pricing initiatives interest savings from our significant debt pay down the mix home closed as well as change in labor material and land prices.
In addition although the land market is competitive we believe our focus over the last few years of investing in well positioned higher returning land assets has helped support our margins.
Fourth quarter option revenue per closing increased 11% or $4 800 over the prior year while lot premiums in the period decreased 5% or $680.
Sales discount for the quarter remain below at just over $7 000 or 2.1% for home compared with approximately $5 500 or 1.7% for home last year.
We've said for a number of quarters that discounts are likely approaching their lower limit so the Q4 change should be viewed as typical and quarterly variant and not a shift in our pricing strategy.
As we've said the company's future margin performance there is clearly a number of macro and local market forces at work.
In this volatile operating environment we continue to focus on our value creation strategy and we'll respond to local market challenges on a community by community basis.
Based on our view of the market and considering the company's specific opportunities we see in strategic pricing and construction efficiency initiative weighed against the challenging competitive dynamics in the market we are targeting full year gross margins in 2015 to be consistent with our current level of 23% with the proviso that we expect they will be moving up or down as we move from quarter-to-quarter including previously discussed Q1 headwinds from acquisition accounting adjustments associated with our Dominion transaction.
SG&amp;A costs for the fourth quarter totaled $146 million or 8.2% of home sale revenues compared with a $150 million or 9.3% last year.
Our SG&amp;A expenses for the period was benefited by approximately $15 million or $0.03 per share from reversals of construction related insurance reserve.
The reduction to our insurance reserves is not directly tied to the insurance charge we took in the second quarter of this year reflect typical adjustments based on actuarial assessments of our construction related exposures which trended modestly better than projected in the second half of the year.
Looking at our projected overhead spend in 2015 we expect our SG&amp;A will be in the range of $160 million to $165 million per quarter which is consistent with our underlying spend in Q4 of this year.
The increase over 2014 relates primarily to investments we are making in support of our value creation initiatives and in connection with the increased number of community tool we will be opening and operating this year.
As noted in our press release this morning we recorded a charge of $8.7 million or $0.01 per share for lease exit cost in connection with the relocation of our corporate offices to Atlanta.
The charges recorded another expense net and were anticipated in the original cost estimate we provided when our relocation was announced.
Our financial services operations reported pretax income of $13 million in the fourth quarter which is up from $7 million last year.
In the quarter financial services benefited from higher volumes and decreasing interest rate which drove higher gains on mortgage sales.
Capture rate for the period improved to 81% from 79% last year.
In aggregate our pretax income for the fourth quarter was $267 million which is up $35 million or 15% over the prior year.
Closing out our review of the income statement we reported $50 million of income tax expense which represented effective tax rate of 19%.
It should be noted that our fourth quarter tax is reflect benefit of approximately $50 million or $0.13 per share associated with the regulation of a certain federal and state tax matters as well as adjustments to our state deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
The company's normalized effective tax rate in the quarter was 38% which is lower than our original guidance of 39% for the full year.
At this time we expect our 2015 effective tax rate to be approximately 38%.
On the bottom line reported net income for the fourth quarter of $217 million or $0.58 per share.
Included in this result for the tax and insurance benefits of $0.16 per share partially offset by the lease exit charge of $0.01 per share.
Moving out to homebuilding operations.
At the end of the quarter we had a total of 5 059 homes under construction of which 26% were spec.
As a percentage of construction activity this is comparable with the prior year.
At year end our finished back inventory amounted to only 483 homes keeping us below an average of one per community.
In the fourth quarter we approved approximately 8 800 lots for purchase which brings our total for the year just over 22 000 lots.
One interesting note about our Q4 land transactions almost 60% of the lots were for Del Webb communities including four new positions and an extension of our highly successful Georgetown community outside Boston Texas.
Given the timeline for developing these positions we expect these projects will impact our operations in 2016 and beyond.
We spent $539 million on land acquisitions and development in the quarter bringing our total land spent for 2014 to approximately $1.8 billion.
Consistent with recent quarters our spent was split equally between development and acquisition.
As we noted at our Investor Day our spent this year was less than our authorization of $2 billion.
As a result the authorization of $2.4 billion for 2015 includes the $200 million remaining authorization from 2014 as we seek to allow our local homebuilding teams to manage their capital investment programs over time with any eye towards driving investment in high quality high returning transactions.
We finished the year with 131 000 lots under control of which of 35 000 or 26% were controlled via option.
Of our controlled lot approximately 25% are finished with another 18% currently under development.
Looking at our 96 000 owned lots as measured against our 2014 deliveries of 17 196 homes our own lots supply is approximately 5.6 years which is two years lower than we maintained in 2011.
We are pleased with our progress on this metric given its significance to our overall return on invested capital.
As we have demonstrated throughout the year we are actively allocating capital beyond our land investment activities.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 5.2 million shares of our stock for $98 million or $18.87 per share.
This level of activity is roughly twice the level we executed during each of the first three quarters of 2014 and is consistent with our announcement at last quarter that we had increased our repurchase authorization by $750 million.
We put the extended authorization in place with the intension of using it and clearly we are.
Based on our strong operating performance we ended the year with $1.3 billion of cash despite the significant investments we made during the year in land and our return to shareholders of $321 million in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
We expect to use this capital over time in the fashion we laid out at our Investor Day.
Our debt to capital at the end of the quarter was 27% which is down from 31% last year.
Few final data points.
On a year-over-year basis Q4 sign ups to increase 1% to 3 232 homes which on a dollar basis increased 2% to $1.1 billion.
Unit signs up increased 4% at Pulte while slipping 3% at both Centex and Del Webb.
Fourth quarter absorption paces were down 5% at Centex and 7% at Pulte while Del Webb closed out a very strong year as absorption paces gain 10% in the quarter.
The lower absorption paces for Centex and Pulte were impacted in part by a decision to slowdown and in some cases stop sales at several Columbus and Louisville communities as backlog levels have gone too far extended.
Excluding the impact of the Columbus and Louisville operations our absorptions paces were essentially flat versus the prior year.
We finished the year with 598 communities which are up 4% from the end of 2013.
Looking ahead to 2015 we expect to operate out of approximately 600 to 620 communities in each quarter of the year up from the 560 to 580 range for 2014.
Plans calls for opening over 200 new communities in 2015 so it will be another busy year for our operations.
Finally we ended 2014 with a unit backlog of 5 850 homes valued at $1.9 billion compared with 5 772 homes valued at $1.9 billion last year.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for some final comments.
Thanks Bob.
As we typically do let me provide a few comments on the market conditions we experienced in the quarter.
At a regional level on the East Coast we continue to see the same general pattern that existed throughout the year with demand getting stronger as you move from the North East down to the South East and into Florida.
The Carolina Georgia and Florida in particular were among our strongest markets.
Demand in the middle third of the country experienced the similar pattern with conditions improving as you move from North to South.
We have purposefully slowed sales in the roughly 30 communities we acquired from Dominion in Columbus and Louisville as delivery dates on the acquired backlog and new signs up were out too far.
We are working hard as we speak to get builds cost down and strategic pricing tools established in both of these markets.
As was the case throughout the first nine months of 2014 Texas was strong in the fourth quarter with demand improving as we move through the period.
We are certainly monitoring conditions to see what impact lower oil prices ultimately have on housing demand but thus far in January demand in Texas continue to be strong.
We have read the articles on Texas' economy being more diversified than in the past and how the benefits of lower gas prices nation wide provides a big tailwind for the overall economy.
We appreciate the potential for lower oil prices to impact the Texas' economy.
Like everyone else we have to see how this plays out in 2015.
We are fortunate in that our investments are diversified by brand in each market and geographically diversified across the markets of Texas and across the country.
Fourth quarter results were generally stable out west although conditions were volatile over the period.
California principally the coastal and bay areas Arizona and New Mexico held up well during the quarter.
Our newest Del Webb community called Mirehaven is just opening for sales in Albuquerque so we are looking forward to seeing how these performed in the year.
Relative to our expectations we are pleased with the fourth quarter demand trends which suggested positive momentum was building as we move through the period.
On a year-over-year basis we generally experienced higher traffic levels and signs up volumes and held up except for our actions to slow pace in Columbus and Louisville as we move through the period.
We've seen a continuation of these positive traffic and sign up trends in the first few weeks of January which we consider a good sign heading into the important spring selling season.
These recent demand trends are consistent with our optimistic view as we head into 2015 with expectations that housing demand continues on a slow and steady recovery path that we have been discussing for the past several years.
We are mindful however that there are lots of cross currents which will impact individual markets differently and make demand challenging to predict.
Overall we believe that the positives and the improving economy with declining energy cost rising employment lower mortgage rates and related fees beneficial long-term demographic trends in a generally healthy supply of inventory should be able to offset any headwinds the industry may face.
The reality is that we can't control the U.S.
economy or the housing markets.
What we can do is concentrate on running the best business we can.
For us this means continuing to improve the returns on invested capital we generate over time by capturing efficiencies in our operations.
It also means implementing a supportive capital allocation program that in this order seeks to first invest in projects to maintain or grow relative market share while achieving required return thresholds.
Second fund an increasing dividend.
Third selectively engage in return accretive M&amp;A and fourth distribute any residual capital through systematic share repurchases.
Let me close by thanking the employees PulteGroup for their hard work to successfully implement our strategies and for delivering the tremendous gains we realized in 2014.
I believe you are the best team in the industry.
Also I want to thank you and our suppliers and trade partners for your enthusiastic support of PulteGroup's built on a program.
I am proud and humbled by your efforts.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
We will now open the call for questions.
So that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
Shawn if you explain the process we will get started.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ivy Lynne Zelman.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Great job on the presentation guys and solid quarter.
Richard can you talk a little bit about what you are seeing in the mortgage environment given some of these policies changes as well as maybe challenges on why people can't get approved what the main reason please? Sure.
Ivy good morning.
From the mortgage environment the changes that the President announced few weeks ago I honestly think it is too early to see how they play out.
Having said that I am very optimistic and certainly I think my peers are optimistic that they are meaningful changes.
As you know the mortgage environment has been tight overall and the FHA fee change announcement allows several hundred thousand new potential buyers to qualify for FHA mortgages.
So we are optimistic and as we noted in our commentary we believe that there was a demand shift that began sometime around Thanksgiving that began playing out in December.
And we certainly saw positive trends through the first weeks of January.
And can you comment on why people do get denied when applying for mortgages maybe as Centex operations and some of the impairment that you guys see that are lingering or challenging? Because it seems this FHA have pretty lean underwritings to get those people with credit scores low and low down payment.
So what are the reasons when people can't get approved? Yes Ivy I think it is couple of things.
I guess primarily down payment difficulty.
I think underwriting standards with regard to FICO scores and debt to income ratios and things like that have been stringent for some time.
And I think the big impairment is down payment scores and then of course lenders wanting to lend in this environment so that the changes in FHA I believe are significant.
That 3.5% down payment threshold with proper supportive appropriate underwriting guideline is a very effective program.
I think the folks at FHA would tell you that the quality of the book that they have been writing last several years is outstanding.
So I think down payments are an issue overall.
And that to me is one of the big impairments one of the reasons why FHA is so important.
So we are very optimistic that the changes that we've seen with these recent announcements will have an effect.
I think it is little too early for us to say whether that's driving the improved activities we are seeing yet or just people being more optimistic in general about housing.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Richard in Analyst Day you talked about a net debt cap number 30% to 40% longer-term target.
Obviously you are below that now with the pull back in the long end of the curve just thinking about where your head is at around maybe layering a little more balance sheet leverage and how we can think about that line going forward? Yes Jack it is Bob.
I think the answer to that is it will depend on our investment levels it will depend on our capital outlets for other things and share repurchases being the driver that largely-- certainly as we look at our leverage we've got maturities in fiscal 2015 that are relatively modest.
Then we've got bigger maturity in fiscal 2016.
And so as we think about we will look at the long end of the curve we'll also think about we've got -- we've already got paper out there.
It might make more sense to start building the latter in the sort of 5 to 10 years window.
And I think it's really going to just depend on what the capital market is like when we actually are in a position where we need to issue some debt.
Okay great.
Let's just say 2015 is maybe the year of return of the first time buyer how quickly can you ramp Centex? I mean we always think about third a third in your business mix and the other two have been fairly successful where demands has been at but can that number rise above 30% can you pivot fairly quick to meet that demand? Jack this is Richard.
I guess first and foremost I remind everyone we still have a big Centex position and just like we've seen with other segments the first place you will see in same store sales growth.
So I am very confident that we can capture our fair share of that activity.
In terms of new investment it is likely an 18 to 24 months cycle so we could put dollars to work now if we saw that activity improving that could benefit say the end of 2016.
It is not an immediate turnaround.
In some cases it can be quicker than that.
As an example in Texas the market is little bit easier to access land and you might -- it might have a little bigger impact for 2016.
I think it is fair to say that 2015 is baked but I remind everyone that the first place improved demand shows up is in same store sales growth and as we commented on Del Webb and Pulte before it is quite a bit of leverage we can get from relatively deep land position we have there as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen East.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just talking little bit more about the capital allocation et cetera and maybe Bob this first question is for you.
If you look at it $2.4 billion in land spend you spent about $300 million for next year and you spent about $300 million in dividends and repurchase ignoring any type of M&amp;A are you comfortable with that number being -- those combined being around $3 billion or so and with that where would you like -- where would you feel comfortable with your cash balance dropping down to? Yes we certainly look at liquidity and it's not just cash its availability under our revolver and it can be substantially below where it is here.
I don't want to say $250 million or $500 million because it is really going to depend on the timing of cash flows and obviously the way the business works a lot of our closing volumes in the back half of the year.
And so if we spent a lot of money early in the year on land and development we might go a little bit lower on cash and then expect to recoup which is closing to the back half of the year.
So it is not a hard and fast rule but certainly we could live comfortably between $250 million and $500 million and actual cash Okay.
So having a $3 billion type number out there is not a big stretch and I guess when you look at it? Yes.
I don' want to -- I don't want to say what we are going to spend on share repurchases because that will happen over time but I think order of magnitude you are absolutely right.
Okay fair enough.
And then if you look at -- Richard that was helpful on Centex how long it would take to ramp up if you just look at your land spend in 2014 and then perspectively in 2015 could you talk about where you put money regionally? Where you are going in 2015 and is there any switch among the other buckets other than Centex? Yes.
Stephen from a geographic standpoint given the stringent standards we have it is fair to say we allocated an appropriate amount of money across the country.
I don't think there is any one geography that stood out.
We are certainly being cautious in some of the places that we have a long land balance as we work hard improve returns.
And as an example we have a very large land balance in the DC area we have a large land balance in Phoenix.
So we would want to be appropriately focused and not get too far ahead there and continue to drive our turns.
As relates to segment we have in 2014 continued to put most of our money in Pulte Bob indicated though we did see a ramp up in Del Webb's spend in the fourth quarter in terms of approved transactions.
That's going to ebb in flow up and down those don't come in evenly.
So I'd expect in 2015 we are going to get predominantly Pulte branded approvals with some Del Webb and Centex I think is a TBD.
We didn't do a whole lot of it last year.
We got to see that activity continue to ramp up before we really push the accelerator there.
Your next question comes from the line of David Goldberg.
Thanks good morning everybody.
I was -- last quarter I was wonder if you could talk a little about competitive environment at Webb.
And now you kind of mention for the business for homebuilding generally certainly competitive and some of the competition maybe doing a little more incentive and discount little bit more.
So could talk about the Webb business? I know prices up 4% this quarter you mentioned but what's the environment how is traffic been and are you finding that buyers are looking for more incentives or more discount as they come in the door? David the Webb environment is probably the least competitive of all the segments that we deal in because the uniqueness of the offering that we have.
We certainly have good competitors there.
Shea Homes is a very good competitor obviously some of our larger peers like Lennar Hovnanian others have competitive offerings.
But Webb is we believe unique.
What we find there and this is consistent with what we've seen two past cycles those buyers not nearly as price sensitive as some of the other categories.
What they want is confidence in the economy and confidence in their ability to sell their existing home which is clearly improved through 2014 versus what it was say in 2012 and 2013 which is why we've seen absorption paces lead in Q4 there.
And I'd expect good things out of Webb this year.
We typically see them being a latter cycle play in housing market and that continues to play out so I don't want to give anyone the impression there is no competition there but it is certainly an area that we have the ability to push margin and price more than some of the other areas because of the lack competitors but also frankly because that buyer category is less price sensitive in general.
That's fantastic.
And then Richard I want to ask a bit of a follow- up question.
You mentioned in your comments about kind of maintaining market share or growing market share as you look forward and you look at the growth in within your closing and kind of flattish year-over-year up a little bit year-over-year from where we are now what I am trying to get an idea is with community count that you have big then and the guidance you gave do you think that would position or you would kind of maintain market share versus the overall market do you think you grow faster than the market or do you think it is too hard to determine I mean like that just based on the community count growth.
Yes.
David it is tough to know what exactly our competitors are going to do but I'll just remind everyone a couple of things.
We were much disciplined about not pushing investments until we got above our cost to capital.
That happen for us sometime in 2013 and that's when you begin to see us accelerating our investment to more than I think it has script indicated maintenance mode and more in a growth mode.
How that relates to our ability to take shares is going to be really depended obviously on what happens to the market and what our competitors spend.
I'd expect that over a period of time not necessarily today or tomorrow but over a period of time that we are going to be able to grow our share but one of the factors that we are focused on internally is the concept of relative market share and meaning our size in the market vis--vis our peers.
And we believe that if we can have relative market share somewhere around 0.5 or greater that captures the majority of the efficiencies that we can get in a market.
So our goal has been to push our relative market share to at least that level in every market and in many were much greater than that.
And for those markets where we have not been able to achieve that either figure out a way to get there or get out of the market.
And we've been much disciplined with that.
So how does that relate to overall market share growth it is really hard to say? Clearly we are focused on generating high returns and as you can see with our community count guidance growing our business in general but I wish I could give you a more definitive answer on market share but it is a little too complicated to answer that.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay McCanless.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
First question I had was going back to Centex.
Do you see the opportunity either through acquisition or through loosening of the mortgage standards to maybe increase that neighborhood counts.
I know you've all been asked to this a couple of different ways but just after the commentary we heard on the third-quarter call I was surprised not to hear more about Centex and where you're going with that.
Well Jay I'll remind everyone that part of what we acquired with Dominion was Centex.
I don't remember the exact percentage but the sizable piece of that business was that first time category.
So there is a good example of our desire to get into that space where we feel like the terms and price points and financial transactions matter.
So we are paying attention to this category but we said consistently before we need pace to continue to come back to ensure that returns get there.
Now again I'll just remind everyone that we like overseeing these last few weeks and couple of months with the market.
So that could be the beginning of an opportunity for us to begin and invest more in Centex.
So we are going to not force investment in the segments that don't generate the highest returns for us and we are certainly hopeful that Centex becomes a bigger part of that equation.
But we are going to watch the market to make sure.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up question I had is on a Del Webb.
Are you seeing an increasing amount of cash wires there? Are you seeing people come with more --either of higher down payments et cetera? Just wondering if you are seeing more well-heeled buyers starting to get into that market and helping to accelerate the sales pace there? Yes.
It has been fairly consistent Jay.
We've been sort of in the 40% to 45% range for cash buyers cash as a percentage of the total Del Webb category overall.
Not a big change in the financial profile.
Again this buyer category is quite different from either Centex or Pulte in that they have a large asset base built up; they are less concerned about income.
It is more about cash flow and their overall position.
Their financial position and what we tend to see with this category is that if they feel good about the economy and their own financial position they tend to increasingly want to buy.
For the Del Webb buyers it is really not a question of whether they want a new lifestyle they clearly do it is a question when they are comfortable pulling the trigger.
And as we've seen slow and steady improvement in that category which should continued to bear out in Q4.
Your next question comes from Ken Zener.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
I appreciate your gross margin outlook.
Given that it's fairly steady could you comment on what gives you the confidence in giving that guidance given the overall pressure we're seeing from gross margins from some of the larger builders.
Some are highlighting lower margins to go after high returns.
Others are just saying we're at a high-level let's smell the coffee.
Can you express where your confidence comes from? Is it that your common plans are giving you that lift or is it that because you didn't buy high-priced land that would be helpful.
Thank you so much.
Sure Ken.
This is Richard.
A number of things we highlighted few of these things in our script but number one common plan management and efficiency of production we believe continues to make a difference for us.
So that's part of it.
Would you quantify that? Or you just ranking them? It is very hard -- no I am not ranking them but you asked about the different factors.
So let me just kind of give you them.
Number one is the common plan management and that's clearly important to us.
Two would be our strategic pricing focus.
We do have a very disciplined focus on lot premiums option pricing ensuring that we have a systematic base price increases when we can.
So we are being disciplined there.
We also are very proud of land that we have been buying.
We believe that our focus on land has been very disciplined and focused on high return that's all.
I'll also point that our limited spec inventories helping us.
We are not discounting a bunch of finished bag and frankly that continues to weigh on our margins very positively.
We've also got lower interest costs that are coming through as a result of all the debt we pay down and we are very proud of that.
So when you add this all up it equals what we call value creation.
It is a road to higher returns over time to generate the best possible total shareholder return and we believe we are on that road and well on that road.
We are doing well with it.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Dahl.
Your line is open.
Hello thanks for taking my question.
Richard I guess the follow on Ken's question on or to a certain extent of the margin side.
It seems like strategic pricing still obviously a focus.
You've got backlog that looks kind of flattish.
Pricings flattened out.
Community count growth is going to improve a little.
It seems like the way your setting up for the business is for a fairly low revenue growth at least for this year for maybe some investments kick in.
Is that fair? Mike we are not commenting on our revenue targets or unit targets overall.
I would just remind everyone that we are executing our playbook.
We increased investment into the business starting 2013 we clearly ramped up in 2014 we are guiding to our more investment in 2015.
It does take time for that investment to flow through.
We are staying disciplined on it overall.
So we are very happy with our overall trajectory and sometimes we wish we could push a button and community would pop open.
We are facing entitlement delays and development delays just like other people are.
But in the scheme of it we like to slow and steady progress that we are on.
We feel like that benefits investors.
We are really being smart about the land that we buy not getting out ahead of ourselves.
And if you were to walk around our communities and talked to our leaders around the company they would tell you they are focused on returns.
And a portion of that is of course pretax income growth.
But a portion of it is also inventory returns and SG&amp;A leverage and all the other pieces.
So I am just trying to run balance business Mike.
Got it.
And I guess as a follow-up and Bob I think you've commented that you expect SG&amp;A to be in a dollar range of $160 million to $165 million per quarter.
So I guess did I hear that correctly? And if so that seems to imply that you potentially de-lever by maybe 100 basis points or so.
So just how to think about that and what the opportunity or timeframe of re-levering the SG&amp;A would be? Yes obviously you are right.
We are projecting an increase in our spend and it is for all the things that we are working though.
And sometimes you have to spend in advance obviously we are opening a lot of communities.
This year opened a lot of communities last year so there are costs associated with that.
I think if you take a step back what we are proud of is -- you look at our operating margin for 2014 and it is -- excluding the construction defect accounting in the second quarter 13%.
So we are paying attention to our spend and choosing where to invest.
So I think we are delivering on the bottom line and trying to be disciplined about that.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim.
Your line open.
Can you guys hear me? Okay sorry about that.
Yes very interesting call and obviously good result.
I guess a couple of questions related to your guidance on margins.
You just has put a lot of emphasis on return on invested capital.
But not -- but than giving guidance on the gross margin but not really giving guidance on the revenues what strikes me about that that's interesting is that most of the others builders that are talking about somewhat lower gross margin with a little bit more volume are also talking about return on capital and talking about the fact that they are able to sort of tolerate a somewhat lower gross margin because of the fact that they are just simply focusing on return on capital and now sometimes require more volume expense to margins and that's okay.
I think counter return on capital guidance figure from you and I was curious if you could give one because just giving a gross margin kind of guidance number without a revenue number doesn't really seemed to be consistent with the focus on return on capital.
So I was wondering if you can give some more guidance on the return on capital.
Yes Steve this is Bob.
We have not historically nor did we today give guidance on what our goals are.
What we've said consistently over time is that we seek to improve it.
You heard Richard say we got our cost to capital our returns exceeds our weighted average cost to capital sometime in 2013.
We are moving that forward.
We've got a lot of cash.
We wanted to manage through that.
We have large deferred tax asset.
So our investment profile our invested capital profile is a little bit different than we might like.
So rather than set a target that gets measured against your goal is improvement.
And we think we've been doing that and expect to continue to do that.
And Steve this is Richard.
I'll just add a little bit of color to add emphasis to what Bob said.
We want to improve returns over time.
The way capital flows into this business is lumpy at times quarter-to-quarter.
There can be volatility but clearly over time we want to improve returns.
We've got one builder in this space that has outstanding returns.
And we are in second place the way we measure it.
And we want to close that gap over a period of time.
So just because we didn't give an ROIC target for a lot of reasons don't think for a minute we are not focused on improving it.
No.
That comes through loud and clear.
Great thanks very much for that.
So with this focus on returning I want to then shift a little bit to the gross margin because what's interesting is that you're talking the flat gross margin outlook for 2015 but you have three sort of distinct businesses you have the Centex Del Webb Pulte and I was curious if we should be thinking that in general your gross margins will be flat next year in each of those three sub-categories or if you are envisioning that one may start to drive negative year-over-year margins but that others would be up and so the aggregate would be flat.
If you could just help me understand how widespread is going to be? Yes Steve we're not breaking it down in that much detail.
What I can tell you is that Webb continues to and Pulte continues to deliver higher margins than Centex does.
Again our operators are incented.
Their pay systems our pay systems for the senior leadership team are all focused around return.
We continue to focus a lot on margins though because we believe it's a big driver of return and we've seen what has done for us.
I'll just point everyone to the comment Bob made around operating margins.
When we got operating margins excluding the charge we had to take in Q2 last year around 30% we're pretty proud of that.
So we're continuing to focus on that.
So I would just leave you that Webb and Pulte higher than Centex overall in margins but the volatility within each of the guidance within each we are not providing that level of detail.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Roxland Thanks very much.
And congratulation on a good quarter and a good year.
Now there a bit lot of questions on Centex on this call thus far so really I don't want to be dead horse here but just one quick follow up.
Obviously you've seen some of your competitors begin to focus more on the first time buyer; you yourself have seen some improvement in Centex ignoring what some of weakness in 4Q.
At what point do you start to become more constructive on that cohort and begin investing in it and is there any particular metric that you look at that we get you over the hurdle.
And if let's say if that metric is return their type of return hold that must be clear before you start actively investing.
Can you just help us frame how you would get comfortable putting deploy more money into the Centex? Mike I'll take stab and then Bob can give you some additional color.
We have 13 point risk weighted scale for the way we invest in all of our land.
And all the different factors that go into that include things like the link of land transaction whether or not we are building the same product.
And the market's performance et cetera number of factors and the return threshold range from around 20% up into the low 30% category.
So our focus for when to invest in Centex is when we can generate returns in that band between 20% and 30% effectively.
And the fact that we talked about repeated that we believe drive Centex over that 20% threshold is pace.
Because that buyer unlike the Pulte or Del Webb buyer has a limited amount income to spend there is only so much you can do on pricing side with the Centex buyer before you price them out of their home.
So as an example if you are selling four homes a month in a Pulte community and you are selling four homes a month at a Centex community if Pulte is generating 25% margin and Centex is generating 19% margin it is going to take more pace than four per month in order to get those returns where we need them.
So you might need six or seven homes a month in a Centex community and make that work.
So that's what we are looking for.
And perhaps we are beginning to see -- the beginning of that with the improvement.
But it is generally pace so Bob anything you add there.
Exactly I can say only thing and to emphasize is it is not as if we've told people don't invest in Centex today.
We are agonistic to brand.
So the local investment and operating team are actually evaluating transactions against each other with the capital they have to spend over time.
And so what Richard has laid out plays out such that today the move up in Del Webb transactions look better to us from a return perspective that's why we are investing.
Got it.
Appreciate all the color there.
Can you just drill down little further though say if you look at the return threshold 20% to 30% can you give us an idea where returns currently stand on your Centex product? And what the current paces on an absolute basis versus your targeted pace to achieve the 20% to 30% threshold? Mike it is little complicated because a lot of land that we are sitting on for Centex we might have acquired five years ago some we may have acquired two years ago.
So they kind of current returns -- obviously a project when it gets to the end of its life generate higher returns than in the beginning when you are putting a lot of capital in overall.
I would yes we are driving each of our current communities to the highest possible return.
And that's like balancing the knobs in an airliner try to adjust all the different pieces.
So for Centex it might be pushing pace a little bit more than price kind of given the dynamics that have indicated.
I think the commentary we are trying to provide is around new investment or future investment we need to get over that 20% return hurdle which is a way we look at it before we invest a lot of additional dollars there.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
First question I was hoping just delve in a little more granularly in terms of the gross margin component that being interest expense amortization you had a great improvement in 2014 you listed it as one of the drivers I think about 130 BPS.
I would presume that is expected to continue to come down in 2015 I was hoping perhaps you could give us a range or an outlook for that as percent of sales.
We wouldn't do it necessarily Mike as a percent of sales haven't given sales guidance but what I can tell you is what we expensed in fiscal 2014 was about $195 million.
And you can expect that number to come down probably to around $140 million next year.
Reflective of the fact that we are -- have much less leverage our cash spend on interest is in the neighborhood $130 million or $140 million a year.
So we will get to the point where we are expensing what we are capitalizing.
And so before my second question Richard that $130 million $140 million with that kind of be where it is stabilizes unless you take a lot more debt off the balance sheets? Yes obviously depending on what we do.
So we paid down some debt this year.
So what we capitalize in 2014 which will get amortized over time is less than what was capitalized the year before.
So it is kind of like FIFO if you think about all the counting analogy.
Right.
And then just lastly Richard I think you referred a couple of times to December and January trends being a little bit better.
If I'm characterizing that right.
A little bit momentum perhaps.
I was hoping you could review the trends let say throughout the quarter? Other builders have pointed to perhaps competitive activity intensifying a little bit.
And I just was curious if you had seen that yourselves because certainly the December/January commentary suggests otherwise possibly? Yes.
Thanks Mike.
So let me just kind of take everybody back a little bit to 2014.
The year started off from a sales pace perspective I think for everybody really strong.
And definitely we noticed a pause sometime in a summer that continues through most of the fall.
What's notable is that around Thanksgiving things started changing.
And so to answer your question we sold virtually the same number of homes in October November and December which candidly very rarely happens.
Normally you sell lot more homes in October than you did in December and you see the quarter trail off so that was notable in our minds.
And then January has continued to be quite positive.
So from a competitive activity standpoint it is hard to say.
Candidly we are not trying to play the spec inventory drive a bunch of volume push incentives in order to drive a bunch of volume gain so perhaps we are not focused as much on sort of what's happening from a discounting perspective as maybe others are.
I can just tell you that overall buyer activity I think was weak in the beginning of Q4 and improved through Q4 based on that trend and is continued into January.
And before we move Mike I just want to clarify something in terms of the interest expense side I had indicated $140 million you said $130 million to $140 and I would say it is probably $140 million to $150 million rather than $130 million to $140 million just for everybody's benefit.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
I wanted to ask about the share repurchases.
The increase in the share repurchases in the fourth quarter relative to the earlier quarters of the year.
Was that driven mainly by just the seasonal cash flow is obviously stronger cash flows at the end of the year or lesser need for land purchases.
What was the kind of driver? Was it opportunistic? Well I think we talked about this at the Investor Day.
And we announced the very significant increase in the authorization.
It really comes down so we have the capital to do it.
As we look at the cash balance that we have -- if really interested either or conversation around land investment so we elected to increase our spend on repurchasing shares knowing that we were increasing our spend on land as well.
And Nishu as we indicated on our Investor Day it is not our goal to try to be opportunistic.
If something happens and we have that opportunity then we always have that option but our goal is to more systematically and routinely return funds to shareholders but I'll just remind everyone invest in the business first dividend improvement second accretive high return M&amp;A third and then repurchase is fourth.
And we have a good discipline about the way we are going about that today.
Got it.
And the second question everyone tends to think just about Texas and oil prices.
You have one of the broader footprints of the public builders.
Are there any other markets you are keeping tabs on or would be potentially concerned about as it relates to lower oil prices or is it pretty much just focus on Texas? I would turn that around to tell you I am pretty optimistic about the rest of the country because of a huge tax rate that everybody just got with a lot lower gas cost annually.
So clearly there are other markets that have more energy dependence if you will Nishu than others.
But I don't think anyone to the same degree as Texas.
And potentially California and market or two but I am personally I am optimistic that the cash flow implications for people's monthly cycle based on gas price are a positive factor from oil prices being depressed.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall.
Good morning and thanks for all the color.
Obviously really good quarter.
Just wanted to get your view on land costs what you are seeing.
Obviously your spend flow down last year and you came in lower than your original targets.
What are you seeing from land prices today and do you think that there is a possibility you might come up short and have to redeploy the excess cash elsewhere this year? Yes.
Bob it is Bob.
I don't think we slowed down our spend.
We didn't spend everything we authorize and that's again consistent with the year but still a 30% increase in our spend.
We are projecting another 40% if we can find an investment that makes sense.
Is it possible we won't spend that much money? Yes.
Just like we did in last year and I'd say the same thing we said a year ago.
We are okay with that because we want people to do it because things we are trying to give our team's visibility to is a multiyear capital allocation so that they can plan accordingly.
And if we've just said okay we authorize to this year and then take it away they will be induced to spend it because they don't want to lose it.
So we think it drives better behavior to say look one thing we haven't shared with this group broadly is we've actually given the field three years of capital allocation.
So they know today what they have for 2015 2016 and 2017.
And we will give them a view of 2018 at some point.
That the idea being manage your capital over time.
And so I know we all focused on this call around the current fiscal year what we are going to spend.
As a company we are actually looking longer term than that because the market is still competitive.
I don't know that we would say okay if we spend $2 billion next year instead of what we've targeted would we then turn around and write a big dividend check or buyback a lot of stock.
Not necessarily it would be depended on what we thought we are going to do over time.
What do you think with the land prices? Bob it is Richard.
Land prices are competitive.
No question about them.
Unfortunately we've got a very broad footprint.
We are not -- as Bob indicated forcing investment into any particular geography.
We allocate capital to geography and if we can't find right deals we don't spend it.
So land is competitive.
I don't personally think that's news.
And I expected to stay competitive.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger.
Hi thanks.
Two questions on the Dominion acquisition.
The first one was the purchase accounting impact this quarter and what is the expected impact is for next quarter? Yes.
So it is about a 70 basis point headwinds so detrimental margin impact in the fourth quarter and our expectation is between 30 and 50 basis points in the first quarter next year.
Thank you.
And the second question relates to your comments about slowing or stopping sales that Columbus and Louisville communities.
How much is that -- at first glance I'll make that we will make it sound like those were ultra strong market.
So my question is is that the case or how much of that is a philosophical or structural difference in the way you want to run the business versus how they ran the business? It is 100% the latter.
Although we are happy with the markets and we think the market dynamics are good and appropriately strong.
But frankly we have way too much backlog out there in front of us.
So Adam we are very comfortable with few months of backlog.
But we don't want to get seven eight nine months of backlog because we think we lose pricing power.
It also gave us the opportunity to intensely focus on common plan management getting our frankly more efficient plans in place and what they have been building in Dominion and then also implement some of our strategic pricing focus with lot premiums and our option focus.
The teams are fantastic.
They are really working hard and doing a lot of work to kind of prepare for reopening a number of communities both existing communities that we stop as well as new community.
So very pleased with what's happening there.
But it was just philosophical difference and frankly driving return versus growth.
Your last question comes from the line of Will Randow.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for fitting me in.
Just a follow up on the land color.
I was curious if the markets like Texas in particular you are seeing competitors back off or it get less competitive in regards to land? It is interesting.
I can't say what's happen in the last 30 days but certainly have approved a number of transactions there including one of the Del Webb.
And I would tell you for well positioned assets people are still interested.
So it is not like the demand goes away from the builders immediately.
Got it.
And then in the South East are you seeing competition stepped up? I would assume so based on number of acquisition among competitors.
Will it is Richard.
I think the South East has been historically pretty competitive.
I haven't noticed a big change in that dynamic.
We happen to have some pretty dominant positions.
Our two operations in North Carolina and South Carolina are fantastically run.
We do very very well there.
So I'd say it is continued to be competitive but we are doing very well.
And for the extent that they bought somebody it is just different name but they are still the same builder there with the same lot position initially.
So it doesn't change the competitive landscape immediately.
There are no further questions.
Presenters I turn the call back to you.
Great thank you Shawn.
I know there is a lot of conference call lined up today.
Sorry we ran a little bit long in this call.
We wanted to get in as many people as we could.
We are certainly be available for the remainder of the day if you got any follow up questions.
Thank you for your time.
And we look forward to speaking with you in next quarter.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Ryan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup Inc First Quarter 2015 Financial Results.
All lines have been placed on mute in order to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks will have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn our call over to Jim Zeumer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ryan and good morning to everyone participating today.
I want to welcome you to PulteGroups conference call to discuss our first quarter financial results for the three months ended March 31 2015.
Joining me for today's call are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; and Jim Ossowski Vice President and Financing Controller.
A copy of this morning's earnings release and the presentation slide that accompanies today's call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
We'll also post an audio replay of today's call to our website a little later today.
Before we begin the discussion I want to alert all the participants that today's presentation may include forward-looking statement about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
This risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
During our last conference call we commented about seeing a strengthening of demand starting midway through the fourth quarter and carrying into the first few weeks of January.
Im pleased to report that the momentum and demand which began building in Q4 continued through the first quarter and has gotten the spring selling season off to a good start.
Since the housing cycle turned positive several years ago weve stated our belief that unlike recoveries in the past we didnt expect to see a rapid V shaped rebound.
Our expectations were that this would be a longer more gradual recovery with periods of faster and slower growth but with an overall upward bias consistent with the sustained rebound in housing demand.
The early read on the industry's 2015 spring selling season it is that were now in one of those periods of improving demand.
Having participated in a number investor meetings over the past couple of months one of the questions were often asked is what has been the catalyst for the improvement in the countrys housing demand.
In the absence of a single dramatic change in any of the underlying demand factors it is likely a culmination and continuation of market dynamics.
First with Boomers and Millennials acting as powerful bookends certainly the demographics are favorable and supportive of an ongoing rebound in demand.
Millennials maybe doing things later but their desire for home ownership is well documented and our strong Centex results which Bob will discuss shortly support this thesis.
Turning to active adults with the youngest boomers just now passing 50 this group remains a tremendous source of future demand and our Del Webb brand is unmatched in its ability to serve these buyers.
Second interest rates remain low and with recent cuts in FHA fees the monthly payment has become a little less expensive for many potential homeowners.
The mortgage market generally remains tight and we dont expect any material change in credit availability anytime soon but every little bit helps as our Centex results suggest.
And third consumer sentiment and the job market trends have certainly been positive with more than 3 million jobs created over the past year.
While these numbers jump around from month-to-month there are clear signs that point to an improving economy and a rising number of household formations.
Looking ahead along with more jobs wed like to start seeing more wage inflation which should make it easier for would-be home buyers to afford a mortgage.
Given the acceleration in US housing demand in the early stages of spring selling season our expectations are that the strengthening of demand is sustainable and should drive better new home sales for all of 2015.
Like the overall industry PulteGroup experienced strong demand in Q1 and is well positioned to deliver yet another year of strong operating and financial performance in 2015.
First quarter sign-ups of 5 139 homes were up 6% over last year on a 5% increase in community count.
I am pleased by the fact that we were able to increase sales while maintaining high absorption paces without pushing incentives meaningfully during the period.
Consistent with our value creation strategy having strong sign-ups per community at high margins is a more efficient business model for PulteGroup in trying to drive volume aggressively.
Our continued steady improvement in return on invested capital these last several years indicates our strategy is working.
One of the things we have emphasized during this housing cycle is the need to focus on better located properties which typically mean staying with the better closer end locations and within established areas of buyer interest.
For the most part buyer demand in the secondary locations throughout our markets remain tepid.
So even though the land may be cheaper it doesnt necessarily make it a good investment for us.
The strong margin performance we continue to enjoy is partly the result of sticking to our land investment discipline.
Speaking of land investment the 5% increase in community count that we reported understates the amount of activity actually taking place in terms of getting new communities open.
In the first quarter we grand opened almost 60 new neighborhoods which keeps us on track with previous guidance that we expect to open upwards of 200 new communities in 2015.
Turning over 10% of our communities in a quarter is a lot of work especially in todays environment were entitlement and land development delays grow increasingly common.
We of course track the progress and performance of our communities in relationship to their original project plans and a number of the communities end up running behind schedule in terms of when they register their first sign-up.
Still through a lot of hard work for our land teams we are getting the job done and I am optimistic we can reach our community count guidance for this year.
We are encouraged by market conditions during the closing months of 2014 and through the first few months of 2015 and remain positive about expected housing trends for the next several years.
Now let me turn over the call to Bob for a detailed review of our first quarter results.
Bob? Thanks Richard and good morning.
Against the backdrop of improving conditions that Rich discussed our first quarter operating results were in line with our expectations and with the guidance we provided on our last call.
More importantly our Q1 results have well positioned to deliver another year of excellent operating and financial results.
Looking at our first quarter numbers home-building revenues were $1.1 billion which is consistent with last year.
Our current quarter revenues reflected 2% or $6700 increase in average selling price to $323 000 offset by 2% decrease in closing the 3365 homes.
Our conversion rates in the first quarter dropped from the prior-year as the production was negatively impacted by a number of factors including weather in certain markets which hindered land development and house construction a continuing challenging municipal entitlement environment and tight labor resources.
We expect that we will be able to get our production related closings back on schedule over the balance of the year with the majority of the delayed closings occurring in the third and fourth quarters.
The 2% increase in average selling price for the quarter was driven by price increases realized in each of our brand with Centex being up 2% to $208 000 and Pulte and Del Webb each increasing by less than 1% to $387 000 and $325 000 respectively.
On a year-over-year basis we saw a continuation of recent trends in our mix as Pulte continued to increase as a percentage of our total closings.
More specifically closings in the first quarter break down as follows: 45% of closings from Pulte 30% from Del Webb and 25% from Centex.
This compares to 41% 32% and 27% in the first quarter of last year but its consistent with the fourth quarter of last year.
Gross margins for the first quarter was 22.7% which is down a 110 basis points from last year but it is in line with the 2015 outlook we provided on our fourth quarter earnings call.
Our Q1 margin reflects higher land labor and material costs as well as the impact of acquisition accounting associated with the Dominion transaction which impacted our Q1 margin by approximately 30 basis points.
These headwinds were partially offset by lower interest expense resulting from our deleveraging over the last two years.
Looking at option revenues and lot premiums in the quarter we continue to realize higher dollars on both lines.
In the quarter option revenues per closing increased 13% or $5700 over the prior year while lot premiums in the period increased by 3% or $400.
Sales discounts in the quarter totaled 2.2% per home which is up about 60 basis points from last year a little change for the fourth quarter.
Given our strong Q1 margin performance along with ongoing opportunities from our value creation initiatives and our positive view of the market we continue to target full-year 2015 gross margins of approximately 23%.
As weve said in the past there will be movement in margins up or down as we move from quarter-to-quarter and dependent upon the mix of closings.
SG&amp;A costs in the first quarter totaled $161 million or 14.8% of home sale revenues compared with $145 million or 13.3% of home sale revenue last year.
The higher SG&amp;A spend in the period reflects investments were making in people and information systems as well as increased start-up cost associated with the large number of new communities we are opening this year.
The overhead spend in Q1 was consistent with previous guidance for 2015 SG&amp;A expenditures to be in the range of $160 million to $165 million per quarter.
Our financial services operations reported first quarter pretax income of $5 million compared with $22 million last year.
Note that last years pretax income included $19 million benefit related to the reversal of mortgage repurchase reserves.
Capture rate for the period improved 82% up from 78% last year.
Our reported Q1 income tax expense of $41 million represents an effective tax rate of 42.6% which is higher than our previous guidance of 38%.
The higher tax rate for the period reflects the charge of $0.02 per share relating to an adjustment to our deferred tax assets resulting from a change in our perspective effective tax rate due to tax planning initiatives.
We currently estimate that the company normalized rate for future quarter this year will remain year our previous guidance of 38%.
On the bottom line the first quarter net income was $55 million or $0.15 per share compared with net income $75 million or $0.19 per share last year.
Note that our prior year results include $0.02 per share of net benefit relating to the reverse of mortgage repurchase reserves which was partially offset by charges in connection with debt retirement activity.
Shipping to homebuilding operations the company had 5387 homes under construction at the end of the quarter of which 19% respect.
As a percentage construction activity this is comparable with the prior year.
At the end of March our finish spec inventory totaled over 345 homes so we continue to maintain a tight control on our spec production.
In the first quarter we improved approximately 2000 lots for purchase and finish the period with the 135 000 lots under control.
Our lot position includes 39 000 lots controlled under option.
This represents 29% of our lots which is up from less than 26% last year.
Of our controlled lots approximately 23% are finished with 18% currently underdeveloped.
We spent $484 million on land in the quarter of which 49% was for development of exciting position and 51% was for acquisition.
That spend rate is behind our full year authorization at $2.4 billion this is due to the fact that the timeline in a number of land transactions have gotten longer as municipal accruals and/or land development is taking more time but we still have a lot in the pipeline and are working hard to get deals approved and into production.
Even though housing demand in 2014 was up only slightly over the prior year land prices did not retreat and according to our division President have actually risen in 75% of our markets.
As weve consistently indicated we intend to remain disciplined in our investment in the business and only fund projects that meet our return thresholds.
In support our broader value creation objectives we continue allocating capital consistent with the priorities we articulated most recently at our investment day.
First to invest in the business and pay dividends then to opportunistic M&amp;A of any excess funds being returned to shareholders in the form of share repurchase activity.
During the quarter we repurchased 4.6 million shares for a $100 million or $21.75 per share.
This level of activity is comparable to Q4 and reflects a stated strategy of being systematic in our approach to share buyback rather than trying time to market.
We ended the quarter with $1.1 billion of cash and with the debt to capital ratio of 28%.
Our debt to cap is unchanged from the prior year.
I will note that we're likely to use the portion of our cash to retire $238 million in bonds which mature in the second quarter of this year.
We passed the balance sheet with sign-ups in the quarter increased 6% to 5 139 homes.
On a dollar basis sign-up revenue increased 6% to $1.7 billion.
By brand unit sign-ups increased 13% at Pulte and 6% at Centex and decreased 7% at Del Webb.
The decrease at Del Webb is due to the close out of a number of selling efforts in Del Webb communities.
Absorption phases increased 8% at Centex and were essentially flat at Pulte and Del Webb.
We are certainly encouraged by the improved sales pace among entry level buyers and particularly in some of our largest Centex communities which are experiencing notable increase in sales phase.
For the quarter we operated from 613 communities which is up 5% from the same period last year.
We continue to forecast operating from approximately 620 communities in each quarter of the year and are on track to open over 200 new communities in 2015.
One last data point we ended the quarter with a backlog of 7 624 homes valued at $2.6 billion which is up from 7 199 homes valued at $2.4 billion in March of last year.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard for some final comments.
Thanks Bob as I talked about at the beginning of the call for a variety of factors the spring selling season was off to a very good start with improving traffic manageable inventories and select pricing opportunities across many of the markets we serve.
At a regional level many of the trends we have discussed during the number of the previous earnings conference calls continue to develop during the first quarter of 2015.
More specifically on the East Coast we saw very solid demand up and down the coast with Florida and the Southeast experiencing strong buyer interest throughout the period while demand improved in the mid-Atlantic and Northeast markets as the quarter progressed.
Once again the Carolinas Georgia and Florida realized the strongest demand some of which was likely people looking to escape yet another harsh winter.
Heading towards the middle of the country conditions in the Midwest were generally stable for the quarter although like the East we did see demand improved slightly as the quarter progressed.
As I know its an area of focus let me spend a little extra time on Texas.
In total Texas sign-ups were down 5% in the quarter mostly as a result of the closeout of several large communities in Austin and San Antonio which would be yet to be replaced.
Demand in Dallas held up reasonably well while Austin and San Antonio were slightly weaker in the quarter.
Specific to Houston sales in the quarter were flat with the prior year although demand slowed as the quarter progressed particularly at the higher price points.
So far the impact of lower oil prices seems manageable and with oil prices seeming to a bottom we are optimistic that Texas will continue to be a strong market.
Our West conditions held up well during the quarter but the market the submarket and the community location all matter as we continue to experienced better demand on a coast of California and we close certain locations around Phoenix Las Vegas and Albuquerque.
On our last call we mentioned our newest Del Webb community called [indiscernible] and Albuquerque.
The community comprises 550 homes roughly seven miles from downtown.
The community which is open very well is part of an expanding portfolio of projects designed to serve active adult buyers we want to be closer to a city center and the amenity such locations offer.
In the coming quarters and years I expect you will see us open more communities for active adults expanding a variety of sizes amenity offerings locations and brands.
Overall we are pleased with our demand developed in the quarter and during the first few weeks of April.
We are particularly encouraged by the improved experience in our Centex communities.
We are optimistic that this is the beginning of a more substantial recovery in the entry level which is really missing piece of the housing recovery to date.
Assuming there are no dramatic changes in the U.S.
or globally to have a material impact on employment trends consumer confidence or interest rates new home sales should see continued gains in 2015.
PulteGroup is also well positioned to see improved operating and financial performance as the quarters progressed given the opportunity for increasing margins and greater overhead leverage as delivery volume increased over the course of the year particularly in the third and fourth quarters.
As the year progresses we will continue to advance our key value creation initiatives and focus on delivering high returns on invested capital.
At the end of our formal remarks by recognizing and thanking all of our employees for their tireless efforts to deliver a great home buying experience to our customers everyday.
Our success only possible through your passionate commitment.
Now I turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
We will now open the call for questions.
So that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Ryan if you explain the process we will get started.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
I wanted to ask I guess Houston being a big topic and a wide range of comments so far from some of the builders that you guys are one of the few to talk about some slowing but it seems to be very dependent on submarkets so I was wondering if you could just specify kind of which submarkets within Houston not just that price point but kind of around the area have you seen the impacts trying to get a sense of how isolated it is or broad.
Mike this is Richard in talking to our leadership team it's fairly consistent around the whole Metro area of Houston but as indicated higher price points seem to be a little bit slower.
We're very pleased with demand of the lower price points.
But I wouldnt note any particular submarkets has been stronger or weaker than others.
Got it.
And I guess if you - the comment on Houston being flat for the quarter but then demand slowing through is there any sense if youd give us in terms of magnitude so that January started up year-over-year and then February and March were down by how much? No I think the reason we noted it Mike is that typically you would see stronger demand in March then you would say in February or January and we did not see that through the quarter.
I dont have any specific on exactly how many units it was I would point out that but Houston is an important market for us we go very balanced portfolio throughout not only Houston but also through the state of Texas in the country.
So frankly we are not particularly worried about it and continue to like the overall benefit that lower oil prices give a whole country as opposed to the headwinds potentially for Houston.
Right okay thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Hello Mike.
First question I had was just on pricing trends; you noted I believe at the beginning of your remarks Richard that you didn't push meaningfully in terms of incentives to achieve the sales that you were able to book so I was hoping maybe to get a little more granular if there's any regions that maybe saw pricing power a little better than expected I guess outside of the regional commentary that you gave just specific to prices and incentives if there are any trends that you know maybe surprised a little bit to the upside or downside? Yes Mike its Richard again good question.
I think as opposed to regional trends which frankly we felt that the country was pretty consistent what we continue to be pleased with is our ability to drive option revenue and lot premiums higher and this is the multiple quarters in a row that Bob has commented that we have been able to take those numbers up.
Thats indicative of a fairly healthy market.
As we indicated in our prepared remarks we do have higher input cost land as an example coming through the income statement which everybody does.
But I would say we generally believe that the pricing environment is more favorable than not as we go through the balance of the year.
So we are optimistic as we indicated we are guiding for 23% margins for the year implying a little bit of growth through the balance of the year so we feel good about pricing.
Great no I appreciate that.
I guess the second question you highlighted the sales pace by brand and Centex kind of standing out there a little bit.
Bob we talked about in the past kind of your focus on exploring opportunities for building the Centex brand or building that out a little bit potentially to the extent of that market appears to be a little bit more favorable and I know that absorption was a big component of whether or not the economics might become more favorable.
I was hoping maybe you could talk about the  kind of where you are in the process of exploring greater opportunities for Centex obviously there was also a slide on the Investor Day about kind of looking at that brand in 2015 for land opportunities and obviously the economics have to work.
So any thoughts around that would be helpful.
Yes you are exactly right Mike we are focused on it as a buyer group in the whole of the Millennials and so we are doing some strategic work around how to approach that marketplace.
In terms of how we buy land around that  that hasnt changed we are still focused on returns and what we're seeing still to this point is that closer in is where people are choosing to live and so we are seeing better opportunities to drive paces at prices that make sense in that move up space and in the active adult space.
I think if we continue to see absorption rates increasing with solid pricing in the first time I think it will make more land available or attractive for that buyer group.
So certainly we're focused on it because it is such a big cohort I wouldn't say we've seen a change in our buying patterns around that but we are looking at ways to serve that group more specifically.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks very much guys.
Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Let me just follow-up if I could on the margin trajectory improving over the course of the year comment.
I think you are talking about gross margins as well as SG&amp;A and I just wanted to ask about how margins typically progress through the year I mean generally a lot of builders first quarter gross margins are generally lower just by the virtue of the fact that you have some marketing expenses associated with community rollout but you dont have as many deliveries and that kind of thing.
And I was wondering if that dynamic was actually going to be at work this year also and if that is kind of what is giving you confidence about your gross margin maybe improving sequentially from what we saw this quarter? Or if there is something else at work? Well I think Stephen the commentary was actually around gross margins not operating margins so SG&amp;A wouldnt be part of that so our SG&amp;A weve confirmed that we still think that 160 to 165 a quarter is a good number.
And in terms of the gross margins itself as we look at the backlog and as we look at the overall housing in market and the fact that we will no longer have kind of suppression that came from the purchase accounting that we see opportunity and candidly weve obviously guided to a higher annual rate that we have in the first quarter.
So we think that the margins are actually going to be a little bit higher through the balance of the year; mix always matters to that so if there was a larger proportion of first time closings that can move that a little bit but I dont think it moves it much on the whole.
I dont know Richard if do you want to No I think thats exactly right.
I just wanted to  you already said it Bob clarified that we were speaking to gross margins not operating here.
Okay thats very helpful so youre [indiscernible] incorporating very much mix in that but you are assuming that you are going to see some lift from the abatement of the purchase accounting that kind of stuff.
Okay my second question relates to a comment you made about land prices being up in 75% of the markets I think you indicated that your folks are telling you.
I was curious if you could give a little more color around that is that a year-over-year comment if so how about sequentially what are prices done in land because I think that you know land prices probably arent that seasonal I would think and which markets are you seeing that and I assume thats consistent with what you are buying also.
So just some color around the land price comment.
It certainly is year-over-year and certain degree  I mean its what folks are telling us they are seeing as they got negotiate land transaction three quarters of the country our footprint in the country I would tell you is most of our markets and so I wouldnt want to call one out versus another.
I guess the point being really and weve said it for a couple of years now land doesnt move quite as quickly down as it does up and there is I think again for the types of land parcels that we're interested in a competitive landscape.
So we are working hard to make sure we buy in terms of that make sense and can support the returns that are  has set out as being requirements due to transaction and for those attracted parcels its a competitive set.
And Bob I would just add that we clearly believe our land buying discipline is very very helpful to returns its also one of the regions that our margins not only are among industry leader several 100 basis points higher than many in the space but also the reason that we continue to guide for a more positive margin trajectory versus the industry and we believe at the land discipline serves as well.
For its not about a lot of unit volume although we are pleased with the volume performance its about higher returns the combination of the appropriate volume and strong margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Hi Bob.
Good morning just wanted to ask you in terms of ASP trends it seems like decelerating and I was trying to understand is just more a function of a mix shift or is it function thats you had really strong pricing gains in 2014 so the comps are tougher.
Bob this is Richard.
Thats a great question two things there.
I think its fair to say that the comps are little bit tougher but we did have an unusually core mix of closings in Q1 relative to ASP and frankly we dont think we did it great job highlighting that last call.
So the numbers were down pretty substantially simply do to mix.
So as I indicated earlier one of the earlier questions we are pleased with pricing trends and you see that through premiums and options trends overall.
So its a little bit about but we did have a particular weak Q1 mix.
Is that makes reverse then.
Hey just would find point on that  think about the way the closing sequence works we are going get more closing from warm weather places which typically at lower ASP so its not mix by brands its really geography to drive that.
If you look at our backlog you know ASP in the backlog is consistent year-over-year today.
So March versus March and it actually up from December.
Okay.
So I am thinking you are saying thats going to reverse as we move forward correct or start to improve.
Right so that the backlog ASP today as I think 335 or $6000 versus the ASP that we actually printed at 323 in the first quarter.
Again geographic matters and were the closings are coming from.
Got it got it thats really helpful.
And just a follow up you guys got out construction delays negative impacted deliveries.
Some trying to think through that and Richard also mentioned the commentary about the difficult you permitting which I think it lead to extension deliveries from a timeframe standpoint.
Does that me that some of the product you expected to bring online in 1Q actually is going to role in the second calendar quarter instead.
So it sound like demand destruction so should we see benefit in 2Q as you are able to result construction delays no it just look in for little granularity what kind of delays you guys are mentioning in it sounds like a transitory problem is suppose to something recurring.
Thanks.
Bob your are exactly right and its related to just being an able to get the homes close no change in overall demand trends overall there we simply missed some units below our expectation in Q1 and most of that make up is going to be in Q3 and Q4.
We will get about what we expected in Q2 but the make up unfortunately just given sort of the push and timing we are expecting the vast majority of that in the second half of the year.
So it is transitory your timing issue having nothing to do with overall market demand.
Your next question Ivy Zelman from Zelman and Associates.
Your line is open.
Hey guys good morning.
Hi Ivy.
Hi Ivy.
I understand on Centex product offering in terms of your 200 I think you get 208 000 average price with FHA available at pretty reasonable underwriting 580 if I go you talking about 3.5% down in the back end ratio at plus 50%.
Richard you mentioned tight underwriting I guess what you think its tight about that and then secondly as you think about the impairment to extending the Centex brand and getting more absorption is it more impairment because your land doesnt pencil to the return or what actually happened because I dont think you are going to see anymore favorable underwriting to FHA right now [indiscernible] about it.
Yes Ivy we agree with you on that FHA is clearly accommodated for the Centex brand.
It is more land underwriting criteria kind of to one of the earlier questions its about pace coming back strongly enough to support the kind of returns we want.
I will say we are optimistic with what weve seen in Q1 and our markets are really watching that and the potential to invest further in that category I think is rising.
One of the thing I know as Bob indicated earlier in the middle of studying this category in detail we are actually breaking that study into two different portions.
One were calling the urban millennial buyer and the other were calling sort of the suburban value buyer and we do think that both of those categories behave a little bit differently.
But later this year we are going to have more color on what we believe drives those of course we are watching the market overall so we're optimistic that we could see a change in our investment portfolio over time we have not yet and we are still seeing vast majority of our land transactions at Pulte but yes we agree that FHA is accommodated for the inter-level buyer.
With regard to the comment around tight underwriting criteria however it is very very clear that credit in our opinion is two types in general and we are also and we put in our prepared remarks dont think you are going to see much change in that regard but that has to do with QM and QRM just being a very tight underwriting box overall and thats why we are making that comment.
And I appreciate thank you for that.
On the tightness can you be more specific because even within QM I think that the question is is it really tight or is it just a self employed barrowers and for a national what specific about QM would you say thats tight [indiscernible] 3% down 6.25 go backend ratios.
I think people when everybody talks about tight its hard for us to understand what that really means? Yes Ivy I think you are right the construct of the offering is good its the underwriting discursion or lack there I think we are talking about so whether its credit overlays or just an inability for the people who are underwriting loans to say I see a blemish and I understand it and I can document around it.
People arent really willing to do that yet and so the rep and warrant issue that has been sort of an overhanging the industry we believe still impacts loan generation.
So that tightness we are talking about isnt around the product or how affordable it is or how accessible it is to a particular buyer group its really that  its tough to get a mortgage approved.
Your next question comes from the line Jack Micenko for SIG.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Looking at the  the cadence of buyback so I think we are running whats call it 50 million in the first three quarter of last year and kind of stepped up to $100 million number through the first quarter.
I am just thinking say systematic is because the question is systematic the 100 going forward or 50 how do we think about that on a go forward basis.
Hi I think we havent given any forward guidance on that and we look at candidly as we go through the year.
I think the fact that we now done a couple of quarters that $100 million is indicative of what we are thinking for 2015.
Because the only thing offer on top of that is as we look at our cash position and we look at our cash generation and what we are going to utilize our cash for we will adjust that over time.
So as we for instance go through our reforecasting process each quarter here we look at what is our cash position.
How much we are going to be investing in the business what we are getting need to run the business and obviously $1 billion in cash still higher than we would like to carry.
Heard I thanks.
Here just talk about that will use cash actually to likely pay down the debt that matures in the second quarter.
Again we are looking at ways to trying utilize some of the cash.
Okay great.
And then just to confirm there is no more go forward  impact in the gross margin.
Yes we work through the - with that we acquire which is what has really challenged margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen East from Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning guys.
It like follow up on Jack question just a little bit.
Associate with capital allocation in your ROI see target first on the ROI see do you all have target out there you are willing to share maybe or at least that progression of how you expect this is to go over the next few years and then given whats you all have been taking about seeing much higher land costs probably not running  probably not getting out over year skews on community growth et cetera.
Are you starting to is you cash allocation starting to the [indiscernible] starting to move away from reinvestment toward that that pay down and return to shareholders are you still where are you still pretty much in the same type of the mode if you will.
Stephen this is Richard.
I would say a couple of things.
We clearly intend and optimistic that we can drive returns higher in the coming years.
We dont have a particular target out there other than that is crystal clear throughout the organization that our view is to our number one goal financial is to drive higher returns.
With regard to allocation we are very consistent we go we said our December Investor Day our first priority is to invest in the business and we are pleased with getting our communities open and were pleased with the ability we believe to hit our targeted committee count for the year.
Thats our number one goal.
Second is to continue to fund an increasing dividend third is any opportunistic M&amp;A and then residual cash on a very systematic basis back to shareholders.
So that last one is going to fluctuate depending on our ability to invest in the business and as Bob indicated we stepped up here in the last couple of quarters.
So we feel like we're doing exactly what we said we would we're very pleased with our performance were pleased with the environment were pleased with the quarter we feel like were doing exactly what we said we will be doing.
Okay thats fair enough.
The only thing I would add to that Steve if you would focused on the debt repayment we got a maturity here in the second quarter I think it's $238 million not really a big enough bite for us to say lets refinance it so I think what were looking at is we got cash well pay it down weve got a bigger maturity stack next year its little bit under $500 million.
And so I think if you think us youd see us looking at structuring leverage sometime over the next six to nine months  market conditions that were some activity this week that price pretty attractively.
So the markets are still accommodative so we will be looking at that over the next call it year but for this maturity it just seems to us we got the cash we will use it and then be opportunistic and then we access after that.
Okay yes thanks.
And then just one more time on Centex you did push it a little bit more you said you saw some better demand out there is maybe if you could talk a little bit about that the demand which you are seeing and this Centex really become much more of a 216 and 217 type story versus later this year.
And if I can squeeze one other do you mind ranking on the cost you said land labor and materials.
I assume the pressure on the gross margin is in that order but if you could clarify it.
Yes so from a Centex perspective Steven we are pleased with what weve seen I think its a little too early to say whether its a 16 or 17 story more than this year we have some large communities that are absorbing nicely throughout Texas throughout the Southeast and in the Midwest and number of markets so we're feeling good about that.
And with regard to margins just you know one comment over there we feel like land pressure is definitely coming through.
But in terms of the comment that you are making we are very pleased with the margins you are right in the guidance range that we have they continue to be among the industry leaders and we're guiding for flat to up margins from here.
So were very pleased with that there is a lot of commentary out there about margins down.
But we are right where we want to be and we intend to stay at or near the industry leaders.
And then just one other thing on Centex just to be clear we have not invested a lot in Centex over the past couple of years.
So the likelihood of Centex continues to be a smaller portion of our deliveries in the coming quarters is still there and thats okay.
It will take some time to invest in Centex in the current timeframe reported manifest itself and we are watching the markets clearly to see when that happens.
Your next question comes from the line of Susan Maklari from UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Susan.
Can you talk a little bit about material cost and any trends that we should be expecting as we go though the year especially given the decline that weve seen in some of the prices? Yes we obviously keep tracking everybody else and the good news is that for the significant majority of our material input cost we see either flatter even in some release as number gets talked about a lot of the packages are trending nicely maybe the one out layer that is concrete where we would see some price pressure.
So all in all I think we had talked about coming into the year maybe 1% increase in pricing and weve certainly see that or maybe even a little bit better I dont know I think it was backwards but its not working against us in a large sense so a positive results there.
Okay thats great.
And then in terms of the mortgage market there is some big changes that are coming later this year in this summer and August can you just talk a little bit about how you are working with your lenders to just make sure that some of them  there maybe a potential forward of the short-term bump that we see from that the avoided? Yes its a great question so [indiscernible] here talked about August first is the date goes live and there are lot of people and lot of companies working really hard on this.
Its kind of a complete reboot of the documentation process and we dont use a lot of outside lenders obviously so our mortgage company has been diligently working on this for months since they announced it last year.
We feel good about our ability to serve under the new guidelines so I would tell you it should be business as usual for the Pulte mortgage company.
If you are looking for things that could happen the possibility exist that not everybody is going to get there because it is a big undertaking and so for instances if we got a consumer thats trading out of another home that has to sell their home if their buyers lender isnt able to close.
So you might see some ripple through the industry around that.
So I think we feel good about our ability to meet and serve under the new trader rules and regulations but this is a big deal.
I've had a characterized me as it's more disruptive to the mortgage industry than the cumulative DoddFrank impact.
And think about all the DoddFrank encompass so this is a big undertaking.
I would read certain survey I dont know if there is a right or wrong that close to half of the mortgage then might not be ready to do this.
So we are will be ready to land but its a big undertaking.
Yes okay thats great color thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks first question I want to ask was about SG&amp;A.
You mentioned the 160 to 165 range persisting the typically with your closing rising as they year went on you would expecting other various components to drive a little bit higher.
So how should we think about that the investments you mentioned the community turnover.
Although going to decline at rate that with an offset closing is driven variable component of that because you mentioned obviously that your community is you are going to open 200 I think 60 is in the first quarter.
So how should we think about all that? Yes so if you look at the increase in our SG&amp;A year-over-year about third of that increase we would contribute to community count opening.
On top of that youve got the other two thirds being for people that characterize of that way.
Some of them are community oriented so its in relation to opening new communities and other are so we talked about we made investments in IT training quality and so I would I think you will heard to say over time is that hour SG&amp;A spend is not as variable as many.
So this is something that we have pretty good visibility into the people and the processes that we are investing into improve and to enhance the value creation this is we have underway or largely going to be fixed going forward.
So the people that we are hiring should work on the projects in IT that example to work on the training will be ongoing cost.
And obviously we have pretty good visibility into our planned openings in the spend on community so we think we have pretty good inside to whats happening in 2015 going forward obviously depending on how many new communities we have we will give you some color into variability of that expense each year.
Got it.
Thats very helpful.
Second question you mentioned Richard some weather effect in the first quarter on closing so I mentioned there would be a little bit of get back in the second question you mentioned Richard some weather effect in the first quarter on closing.
So I mention that would be a little bit of give back in the second quarter my question was around demand though was there any effect related to weather as you saw it and demand for the first quarter I guess in that context it might be helpful also if you any comments about April and whether is any snapback or rebound.
Just two comments there we did indicate we miss some closings in Q1 and you referenced and coming back in Q2 we have been clear on this call most of them are coming back in Q3 and Q4 just FYI.
No there was no demand impact from weather in Q1 we are very pleased with demand it exceeded our expectations.
We are pleased with the sales volume we had and we are also pleased with April.
April appears to be unfolding at a normal seasonal rate which is a good selling month.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Randow from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning and thanks for taking my question.
Hi Will.
On the number of homes in control near develop or developed lots.
Can you talk about thats trended over the past 12 months and how that might impact community count going forward? I would say I had hard time hear you actually well.
I think he was asking what happened to control lots over the past several quarters and how thats going to impact community count side.
I think I can answer the first part.
Community count we still feel very good about our ability to be between 600 and 620 for each of the fourth quarters this year.
I think Bob has got a little commentary on control lots.
Yes our control lots have been [indiscernible] its relatively flat for the last couple of years when we have been replacing lots as we deliver them.
We are up about 8 000 lots and in terms of  if you think about whats happening inside that we are working through some older Del Webb community and we saw our Del Webb community count drop a little bit and were replacing and essentially with Pulte community so you see that community count increased over the last several year.
But again 8 000 lots in last 12 months.
And I would characterize that as largely flat.
Thanks for that and just one follow-up with option revenues reaching 13% in the quarter what do you think that can go over the next year particularly as a mix of closing changes.
Yes will thats tough to put a number on candidly we do track every single market and every single community and we still have an emphasis in that area.
And I would say we still have some opportunity.
I cant give you specific number.
I will just tell you that its crystal clear around the organization that we are doing our best to drive returns.
And clearly option revenue and lot premium revenue help.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Mccanless from Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone.
First question with the incentives going up on a year-over-year basis do you guys expect that to continue through the year? We are talking about this probably 18 months now Jay we have gotten incentives down to I think the one point was made here 1.5% or 6% which might be the comp working year-over-year and were at 2.1% last fourth quarter were 2.2% now running between $5000 and $7000 a unit we are not seeing anything I think you heard Richard talk about the current sales environment we are not seeing big increases in incentives.
So our expectation since we are not doing spec business is that you really see that material.
Okay great.
Thats all I have thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line Megan McGrath from MKM Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks.
Just wanted to get a little bit more clarity on this Centex comment to be better for us I just wanted to clarify you did say that absorptions were flat year-over-year in the quarter in Centex? No I said they are up 8% Megan.
Up 8% okay.
They were flat for Web and Pulte.
Flat for Web and Pulte.
Okay and then could you talk about that a little bit more was there any sort of geography that you saw that tickup or whether really nationwide that you saw that incremental improvement? Well we dont have Centex communities in all of our markets from where we did we saw a pretty robust change.
Texas was good the Southeast was good and that where a lot of our Centex product is so it wasnt isolated to anyone market.
Great and then could you just for clarification give your cancellation rates for the quarter.
11%.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you just on the material side where we have seen pretty dramatic drops in lumber and structural panels pricing in the last couple of months what would that show up in your cost of goods sold is that going to be six months from now or is it really third quarter fourth quarter where you would potentially see the benefits of that? Yes typically you are going to see what we are contracting today well deliver in six months and so I think thats  and based on what we buy we have kind of a trailing pricing grid.
So you would see benefit for current sales I should say changes in commodity pricing.
And then how much of an offset if any might the tightness in labor that you were talking about factor and relative to where your expectations are been it does seem that materials maybe lower than you thought but is labor potentially going to be an offset or do you have any view on that.
Yes that will be market-by-market candidly so in markets that are busier you are going to see more labor pressure you know obviously we still we are one of the biggest builders in every market we operate in.
So we got leverage capability with our trade but if there is a lot of activity out there sometimes we have to pay to get them.
Your next question comes from the line of Buck Horne from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Let me just talk a little bit about Del Webb just wondering why you think the biggest impediment is to improve absorptions at Del Webb right now.
I am little surprised given the demographics and the weather patterns and just a strength of Florida and some other markets why you are not getting a little bit more improvement there whats  can you guess a little more explanation with what you think going on at Del Webb.
Buck again absorptions have been steadily increasing throughout the last couple of years there and they were flat this time.
So we are not disappointed in Del Webb overall we did have quite a few communities absorption selling efforts that rolled off as Bob indicated.
And we do have some coming in the future.
So its very difficult to say not exactly sure whats happening in Del Webb collectively other than that it continues to be a good performer we just didnt particularly see the outsized performance this quarter.
And the pricing there is still strong the margin generation and the ASPs that we are getting from that buyer group were  they are still healthy and if and when they start to buy more actively it would really be beneficial.
One other comment there Buck in talking to some of the operators in some of our strong Del Webb committees we do limit lot sales quite a bit.
We dont want to get too far out of our ability to produce and protect our ability to drive price forward and there is a number of communities where we had excellent performance that were holding the lines.
So a little bit of this is self induced just to ensure that we dont get say a backlog thats out of year as an example versus say six or seven months.
All right thanks.
And I wanted to follow-up on Nishus question a little bit on the SG&amp;A because anyway we were getting with this question about your variable cost is on commission should be increasing as you have more closings in the back half of the year.
The component you said about your community openings you are certainly planning on continue to open a few number of communities later this year.
So I am trying to understand is implicitly are you forecasting that  the people cost you described are actually going down in the back half of the year to hit to that 160 to 165 number or people cost Buck you have to remember we actually run our commissions through margins.
So cost of goods sold so thats not a variable from SG&amp;A.
So I think that's the difference between what you're asking.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Ken.
Looking at gross margin the interest that you are capitalizing is out about 80 bps year-over-year.
And I am just wondering if you could give us kind of a view on structural elements in gross margin that you know about so you are going to be doing about 23 gross margin this year you know there is a tailwind of in 1Qs case 80 basis points from interest expenses is that what you would expected to be for the year.
And then could you maybe talk about other factors that thats tailwind could you kind of highlight with some of these factors are that you are kind of seeing or thinking about I mean are you saving more in commissions or commissions cost any more is land does that change as well as given the 1Q prices.
Are you going to  I am sorry if I missed it but did you give a fiscal year ASP or year end ASP that you would be willing to guide us towards.
Thank you very much.
Yes Ken we did not give any total year or forward looking ASP number we are going to continue to get the interest benefit through the year with regard to margin and then you know all the other components collectively obviously add up to that 23 number so component of price or component of cost et cetera I dont know Bob do you have any more granularity that you want to share.
No you know we dont give quarterly views on the interest but we talked about the fact that wed have 40 or 50 plus million dollar benefit this year in expense versus last year.
And so you will see that come to the income statement and will vary by closings on a quarterly basis.
I mean I guess one question I have and then a follow-up as you move towards the common plan which I think you guys have obviously highlighted a lot of the benefits there part of that being cost is there a way that you could kind of quantify how much the adult is benefiting you guys in terms of vertical costs or something? Ken this is Richard there is so many moving parts there mix between costs between price between all of those components its difficult to give an exact number.
Ill just leave it with this we are very very pleased with our margin performance we are at or near the top of the industry and we are very confident in our margin trajectory from here.
I terms of exactly which components are driving the March performance its up to put a hand alone given the quarter-to-quarter variability.
Your next question comes from the line Jim Krapfel from Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning thanks for taking the question.
As you mentioned challenging entitlement from early part of your remarks I am just curious to hear which markers are you seen us mostly what you think the underlying drivers are for the more challenging entailment process and then what you expect the course of this trend say over the next several years.
Yes Jim entitlements are incredibly difficult in every market they tend to be a lot tougher on the cost and they are saying Texas as an example which is an easier entitlement market but the trend continues to elongate across the country and thats likely to continue.
Its simply a combination of lack of folks at the municipality that are available to approve both zonings if you will as well as land development approvals along with the fact that municipalities in general are being conscious of smart growth and the hit rate for entitlement for new communities continues to be very very challenging.
This is not a new story this is something that I think the industry has talked about a lot weve talked about a lot so again its having some impact on our ability to get our communities open and get our land spent on time.
So its more of a transition problem in terms of timing and it is a big picture issue but I doubt the entitlement market ever gets better candidly.
Thanks for that.
And then second question what were the commonly managed plans as a percent of closings this quarter do you still expect that to get to 70% and if you could get all ballpark how much incremental margin you could get remaining from getting to more commonly managed plans holding other factors constant? We delivered 54% of our closings through commonly managed plans in the quarter and we feel very good about our ability to get to 70% in a timely that we indicated over the next 18 to 24 months.
End of Q&amp;A We have no further questions in the queue.
I like to turn our call back over to our representer.
Thanks Ryan.
Thanks everybody for your time this morning.
We will be available for the remainder of the day if you any follow up questions otherwise we will look forward to speaking with you on the next call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup Inc.
second quarter 2015 financial results conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question and answer session.
Thank you.
Mr.
James Zeumer you may begin your conference.
Great thank you Steve and good morning everyone participating today.
I want to welcome you to PulteGroup's conference call to discuss our second quarter financial results for the three months ended June 30 2015.
Joining me for today's call are Richard Dugas Chairman President CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; and Jim Ossowski Vice President Finance and Controller.
A copy of this morning's earnings release and the presentation slides that accompany today's call have been posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
We will also post an audio replay of today's call to our website a little later today.
Before we begin the discussion I want to alert all the participants that today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by our comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual reports and quarterly reports.
That said let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
For those of you who have been following PulteGroup for the past few years you have repeatedly heard us use terms such as balance discipline and return-driven which are all supportive of the value creation strategy we have been pursuing since 2011.
Consistent with this focus let me highlight a few numbers.
We have purposefully increased our land spend over the past 24-plus months allowing us to grow our community county and land pipeline over the period while actually owning fewer lots but controlling more positions via options.
We remain disciplined in our pursuit of land.
Yet our land acquisition and development spend for the first six months grew by 30% or roughly $200 million over the prior year.
The increased investments we make now are intended to support an expanded business in the future.
We've focused on investing in superior land positions which coupled with the slow but steady housing recovery helped drive an 11% increase in our second quarter order value our highest quarterly value in eight years.
We have also been consistent in our emphasis on maximizing margin opportunity on the homes we sell as demonstrated by our second quarter gross margin of 23.3% an increase of 60 basis points from the first quarter.
Our gross margins continue to rank among the highest in the industry which is a dramatic improvement from just a few years ago.
And finally we paid down $238 million of debt in the second quarter while also returning almost $0.25 billion to shareholders through dividends and stepped up share repurchase activity in the quarter.
I know we have made this point before but in the past we likely would have driven every dollar back into new land even if it meant reaching for deals or potentially taking on additional risk.
Under today's more disciplined approach we look first to invest appropriately in the business and then to return excess funds to our shareholders.
When we started our value creation journey in 2011 we talked a lot about being more disciplined in how we ran the business and including share repurchases and in increasing dividend in our allocation of capital.
We also talked about the need to focus on key operating and financial metrics such as gross margin overhead leverage inventory turns and return on invested capital.
I'm very pleased to say that the numbers I highlighted and others that Bob will discuss shortly demonstrate the ongoing success of our efforts and that we remain clearly on track with our value creation strategy.
The final numbers I want to highlight relate to our backlog which at almost 9 000 homes valued at $3.1 billion is our highest in the past eight years.
Such a large pipeline of sold homes affords us a lot of production visibility and stability as we look to the second half of 2015.
Picking up on comments that I made in our last earnings call broadly speaking I would say the improvement in housing demand that we noted in the fourth quarter of 2014 continued through the entire spring selling season of 2015.
Our experience aligns with government data that while always subject to revision shows that new home sales on a non-seasonally adjusted basis are up every month of 2015 over the comparable prior-year period.
While dynamics ranging from potential Federal Reserve actions to uncertainty around global events are helping to create significant volatility in the financial markets the key underpinnings of a housing recovery remained very supportive of future strength.
First the U.S.
economy continues to expand at a modest rate enabling the country to generate in excess of 200 000 jobs per month without triggering inflation fears.
Second interest rates are still historically low.
And while they have started to move higher they are still very supportive of homebuying especially as compared to ever-increasing rental rates and finally demographics are aligned to support sustained housing demand with the large boomer population at one end and the even larger millennial segment at the other.
Recent data suggests that millennials are getting more active in the market.
According to the National Association of Realtors the percentage of first-time buyers rose to 30% in June.
In contrast a year ago first-time represented 28% of all buyers.
While still below the 40% to 45% expected in a typical recovery first-time demand is showing more consistent signs of improvement.
Overall we continue to see positive market trends and believe we are still in the early stages to mid stages of a sustained recovery in U.S.
housing.
In addition we believe PulteGroup is extremely well positioned to capitalize on the market conditions.
Our goals remain consistent: to deliver exceptional operating and financial results return funds routinely and systematically to shareholders and to deliver an unmatched experience to our homebuyers.
Now let me turn over the call to the Bob for a detailed review of the quarter.
Bob? Thanks Richard and good morning.
PulteGroup's homebuilding revenue for the second quarter totaled $1.2 billion which is comparable with prior-year results.
Second quarter revenues reflect a 1% or $3 800 increase in average selling price to $332 000 which was essentially offset by a 1% decrease in closings to 3 744 homes.
The 1% increase in average selling price for the quarter was driven by a 6% increase in our average Centex prices to $214 000 along with a 2% increase in Del Webb to $332 000.
The average selling price for our Pulte brand was down 1% to $391 000.
The decrease of second quarter ASP for Pulte primarily reflects a mix shift driven in part by last year's acquisition of certain homebuilding assets of Dominion Homes in Columbus and Louisville.
In the second quarter the closing percentages by brand were as follows: 24% were Centex 48% were Pulte and 28% were Del Webb.
This compares with 23% 45% and 32% respectively in the second quarter of last year.
As we've discussed over the past few years two-thirds or more of our land investment has been going towards Pulte communities because that's where we're seeing the best returns on invested capital.
The overweighting into Pulte communities continues to drive a shift in the mix of the homes we're delivering.
Gross margin for our second quarter was 23.3% which is a sequential increase of 60 basis points from Q1 of this year and is down 30 basis points from the second quarter of 2014.
Allowing for typical quarter-to-quarter variability we expect our third quarter and fourth quarter gross margins to be comparable to the 23.3% delivered in Q2.
Based on these expectations we anticipate that our full-year gross margin will exceed our previous guidance of 23%.
The Q2 trends and option revenues and lot premiums were comparable to what we experienced in Q1 of this year.
For the second quarter option revenues per closing increased 9% or $4 400 over last year while lot premiums gained 5% or $600.
Sales discounts this quarter totaled 2.2% per home which is up about 50 basis points from last year but consistent with our preceding two quarters.
As a result of changes to certain accounting estimates recorded in the second quarter of 2015 and 2014 SG&amp;A for the periods was not directly comparable.
Reported SG&amp;A in the second quarter of 2015 was $130 million or 10.5% of home sale revenues.
SG&amp;A in Q2 2015 included a $27 million benefit resulting from a legal settlement.
Excluding the impact of this settlement SG&amp;A was consistent with our guidance for quarterly expenditures in the range of $160 million to $165 million.
Reported SG&amp;A in the second quarter of last year was $230 million which included $88 million in charges for insurance reserves and office relocation costs.
Financial services second quarter pre-tax income was $10 million up slightly from $9 million in the prior year.
Our mortgage capture rate for the quarter increased to 83% up from 80% last year.
Closing out a review of the income statement the effective tax rate was 38% which is consistent with our previous guidance resulting in second quarter net income of $103 million or $0.28 per share.
EPS for the quarter was calculated on approximately 364 million shares outstanding which is down 4% from last year resulting largely from share repurchase activities.
Moving onto our homebuilding operations.
At the end of the second quarter the company had 6 779 homes under construction of which 17% were spec.
Our finished spec inventory at quarter end was only 314 homes which remains well below one finished spec per community.
We continue to emphasize a build-to-order model for our operations but we may elect to put a limited number of spec homes into production in certain communities to help reduce seasonality in our projection in the future.
While the number of spec units involved will be modest we believe a more even production cadence has the potential to yield construction efficiencies and can help reduce some of the volatility in quarter-to-quarter closing volumes.
On the land side we approved approximately 4 800 lots for purchase and ended Q2 with 136 000 lots under control.
In total 40 000 or 30% of our lot position are controlled through options which compares to 10% at the end of 2010 when we launched our value creation initiatives and reflects the progress we've made in our efforts to manage our land risks and drive higher returns on invested capital.
Of our controlled lots approximately 23% are developed.
In the second quarter we spent $444 million on land and related development of which 58% was for development of existing positions and 42% for was acquisition.
For the first six months of this year our total land spend was $929 million.
We're anticipating that our land investment activities will accelerate in the second half of 2015 although we are likely to slightly under-spend the $2.4 billion full-year authorization we noted at the beginning of the year.
A competitive land market development delays and longer entitlement timelines on a number of projects means some deals have slipped and some may have been postponed or delayed indefinitely.
As we've said previously we won't force investment into the system.
While our $2.4 billion authorization remains in place we now expect that our 2015 land investments will be closer to $2.3 billion.
This would represent an increase of almost 30% over last year's land spend and is consistent with our view that the housing recovery will continue for at least several more years.
In addition to investing in the business during the quarter we also repurchased 10.7 million shares of PulteGroup stock for $213 million or $19.90 per share.
This level of activity has roughly doubled recent quarters and is consistent with our commitment to the return of capital to our shareholders.
We also used available capital to retire $238 million of senior notes that matured in the second quarter.
Given the reduction in both our debt and equity positions we ended the quarter with a debt-to-capital ratio of 26% and a cash position of $478 million.
Second quarter sign-ups totaled 5 118 homes an increase of 7% over the prior year.
As Richard noted in his comments on a dollar basis sign-ups increased 11% to $1.8 billion our highest quarterly value in eight years.
By brand unit sign-ups increased 27% at Pulte and decreased 13% and 7% at Centex and Del Webb respectively.
Adjusting for community count absorption paces increased 6% at Pulte and 4% at Del Webb while declining 7% at Centex.
Lower reported Centex paces were driven in part by acquired communities in Columbus and Louisville which are still transitioning to new products and processes.
During the second quarter we operated from 630 communities which is up 7% from the comparable prior-year period.
Plans still call for us to open approximately 200 new communities during 2015.
Depending upon the ultimate timing of community openings and closings we expect to operate from approximately 610 to 625 communities in both Q3 and Q4.
And finally we ended Q2 with a backlog of 8 998 homes valued at $3.1 billion which is up from 8 179 homes valued at $2.8 billion last year.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Bob.
You just heard Bob provide a breakdown of our business by brand but we have had discussions internally about whether this data provides a complete picture of our homebuilding business.
Why do we say this? As we have talked about on our prior calls in 2014 we undertook a comprehensive study of active adult consumers.
Then this year we launched a comparable study of first-time homebuyers to identify underserved market opportunities.
Last year's research has already led to our developing smaller active adult communities.
And while the first-time buyers study is still wrapping up it shows distinct differences across the spectrum of first-time buyers from traditional entry-level to millennials.
While externally we discuss buyer activity along brand lines for the sake of simplicity investors who have followed PulteGroup for a while know that we actually design communities to serve 11 targeted consumer groups or TCGs.
From the community location and lot layout to the specific floor plans and options we offer we develop each community to address distinct buyer wants and needs.
Our TCG process and brands usually align but not always.
For example some of our newer smaller active adult communities are marketed under the Pulte Homes brand to differentiate them from large highly amenitized Del Webb offerings that may also be in the market.
At the same time within our array of communities are those developed to serve a subset of first-time buyers who prioritize proximity to downtown over schools and single-family design.
Based on experience and consistent with this year's market research work the buyers for these communities are very much today's millennials who are moving out of shared living arrangements and into their first homes.
While geared to first-time homebuyers these communities typically sell under a Pulte Homes brand.
The active adult communities under the Pulte brand are just ramping up in number but communities serving first-time millennial buyers under the Pulte brand accounted for roughly 10% of our communities and 500 sign-ups in the second quarter.
And based on our project pipeline our investment is growing consistent with increased first-time buyer demand.
On future calls we'll look for ways to efficiently bridge the gaps between our brand information and the more fundamental TCG data to provide clearer insights into our consumer-focused approach to the market.
Before we open the call to questions let me close out my comments with a quick overview of market conditions.
Consistent with comments made earlier in this call overall demand in the second quarter was solid with strong buyer traffic to our communities and sign-up gains in both units and dollars.
Generally demand trends at the market level have remained fairly constant over the past several quarters.
At a high level conditions in the quarter were as follows: Starting on the East Coast we experienced strong demand pretty much across the board from Massachusetts to Florida.
As we have highlighted in the past Georgia Florida and the Carolinas continue to demonstrate notable strength.
We have also seen improvements further up the coast particularly in the Northeast.
Working our way toward the central third of the country the Midwest generally experienced a favorable demand environment although we saw volatility between markets and periods.
I'd like to make a comment about our Columbus and Kentucky markets which we entered last year through the purchase of certain Dominion assets.
The team there has done a great job repositioning select communities and building the business while getting integrated into our systems and adopting our common plan processes and related strategic pricing programs.
Both markets are very healthy and we are pleased to have a business presence there.
Dropping down into Texas demand softness at higher price points in Houston which we have commented on previously is being exacerbated by shortfalls in lot availability in certain communities across the state resulting from rain-induced development delays.
Traffic to our communities across the Texas markets indicate that buyer interest remains high but consumers have more products from which to choose as additional supplies in the market.
Demand conditions out west remained strong from Arizona Nevada and New Mexico and into California.
If there is a market or sub-market where we experience any softness in sales the issue is more likely product availability than buyer interest.
We are certainly encouraged by the demand conditions we saw in the quarter and over the spring selling season.
I will say however that market sub-market and community locations matter with better closer-in positions generally still faring better in the quarter and through the first few weeks of July.
From PulteGroup's perspective we would say the spring selling season was a successful one for the company and one that leaves us well positioned for the coming quarters.
We experienced strong sign-ups allowing us to end the quarter with a backlog of almost 9 000 homes our highest backlog in years.
At the same time we have a robust land pipeline that we continue to expand through our disciplined investment process and our operations continue to deliver superior gross margins with the potential for significant overhead leverage as delivery volumes climb in the last two quarters of the year.
Finally we maintain what might be the strongest balance sheet and financial position in the industry.
We view the flexibility this provides us as an important competitive advantage as we continue to move through the housing cycle.
The strength of our market and financial positions are a direct reflection of the hard work of our 4 000 employees.
And I want to recognize and thank them for their efforts.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Thank you Richard.
We'll now open the call for questions so that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call.
We ask that you limit yourselves to one question and to one follow-up.
Steve if you'll explain the process we'll get started.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Alan Ratner with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Your line is open.
Hey guys good morning.
Nice quarter and congrats on the buyback activity.
I think that's going to be well received.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Alan  First question on the backlog conversion and the closings.
I think last quarter you highlighted that you really expect to see most of the catch-up from the weather issues more 3Q 4Q.
Was hoping you could just give us an update there on how you think closings are going to play out over the course of the remainder of the year.
And with the new spec strategy or I guess a little bit higher spec total is that something that we should kind of factor in to closing and order estimates for this year or is that more in anticipation of the 2016 selling season? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Alan it's Richard.
A couple of things we really don't use conversion rate as something that we track a lot internally.
But weather in the second quarter did impact our delivery schedule.
And I would just say this with regard to the balance of the year we expect that conversion rates to trend back towards historical norms through Q3 and Q4.
Relative to the spec comments Bob made one thought there we are not dramatically changing our spec position but we are going to introduce selected spec deliveries to help even out production cadence.
And that's more of a 2016 impact than anything you could expect this year.
Got it thank you.
And then one follow-up.
On the pricing environment you mentioned margins should be pretty flat with 2Q.
Was curious what you're seeing on the pricing side.
Is pricing power accelerating in any of your markets? And if so how do you think about the margin outlook maybe beyond the next couple of quarters? Do you feel like the bias is more to the upside from current levels or are you still striving for maintaining a current kind of 23% level on a go-forward basis? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all this is Richard again.
I'll say that we're pleased with our margin trajectory.
And we're happy with the guidance that we provided which is up slightly from what we said before.
From a pricing perspective I think we believe there is more upside than downside to pricing.
We're going to have watch what happens with the economy and with rates overall.
But we wouldn't want to provide Alan any commentary beyond the guidance that Bob gave.
So nothing really at this point for 2016 our backlog visibility isn't quite that far yet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks very much guys.
Good results.
Let me ask you a question if I could about the orders.
I think you mentioned about Centex down 7%.
You were talking about some acquisition-related effects.
Can you just give a little more granularity about that? What you meant by that and sort of what we're seeing on the ground which is driving that negative impact? Yes Stephen this is Bob.
What we were highlighting was that the cases out of the Columbus and Kentucky are slower.
So if you had excluded that for instance from our Centex results our Centex paces would have been flat quarter-over-quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it okay.
That's great.
The second question relates to a comment  or I think a thread of conversation that you and I had a month or so ago where you were talking about some consumer research I think that you were conducting regarding the entry level.
And I think one of the takeaways was that you were starting to see that millennials or entry-level buyers are willing to trade size for proximity.
So they're not willing to drive till they qualify kind of thing.
They kind of want to live closer to the job centers and were willing to take a smaller footprint home to do that.
I wanted to follow up with you see whether or not that is in fact what your research has concluded.
And if so do you have any availability in your existing communities or ones that you sort of teed up here over the next year or two to sort of accommodate maybe some smaller more entry-level product into existing land positions because that would seem to suggest you'd have to sort of rezone them or not? If you could just sort of talk about the research and the conclusion  how you would deal with the conclusions in your  on the ground.
Yeah.
Stephen it's Bob again.
We have not concluded that research.
We're making progress and so certainly before the end of this year.
But for everybody's benefit essentially what it would suggest is that there is a group of first-time buyers in that millennial age group that  and you said it will  are willing to trade size for proximity.
And I think it's essentially what Richard talked about in his prepared remarks about that millennial buyer.
And what it was trying to tell you was that it is already a pretty significant part of our portfolio of again not entry-level but first-time buyers in that millennial age group.
And so we do have communities open today.
Certainly you've heard us talk about three quarters of our spend is Pulte-branded  it includes that buyer group.
So yeah we are actively serving them today.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Stephen Richard with a little additional commentary.
That's what we call our TCG3 category which is part of that first-time buyer group that serve under the Pulte brand and that was sort of a clarification we were providing at the end.
In addition to it being a big piece as Bob indicated we also indicated in our prepared remarks it's a growing piece.
And then lastly we would not anticipate being able to rezone existing communities to take advantage of it but that's not to discount the ramp up in investment activity geared toward that category which will play out over the coming years.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen East with Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning Richard.
You'd mentioned  made two comments during your prepared remarks that I thought were interesting.
One you talked about investing appropriately as you move forward and the other better located still performing well.
Could you talk some about what that means to you investing appropriately as you go through this cycle? And maybe you can put it in content versus this year.
I don't know whatever works best but then also the better located still performing well in through July and all that talk a little bit about what that means better located if you will.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Stephen good morning.
I would say from an investing appropriately standpoint what we really mean by that is tied to our disciplined philosophy where number one we invest in the business and our land positions.
And then the other investment choices come after that including on increasing dividend selective M&amp;A and then residual cash being used for routine systematic buyback purchases.
And I think you saw us execute against all of those this quarter.
So we view that as very consistent.
And to put a little more granularity in it we're very proud of the fact that we stuck to the appropriate investment philosophy which leads to your second comment around better locations.
What we're really trying to say there is that's one of the reasons our margins are holding up well.
We continue to believe we're buying the best dirt out there.
We're not reaching for things.
Overall our land trajectory our spend trajectory has been up; so we would expect a bigger business in the future and that's why we continued to invest where we are while keeping all the other parameters in check so hope that helps.
It does.
Thanks.
And then sort of along those lines your orders grew pretty much in line with your community count.
I know you focused a lot more on margins over the last three years and have not been as focused on the absorption pace if you will.
As you look out call it over the next four quarters six quarters whatever timeframe you're comfortable putting on it how do you view that dynamic? Are you at a point in the cycle where you think your absorption should be greater or you still are  that's just secondary to what you're doing on the gross profit line? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Stephen our overall goal we've said it repeatedly is return on invested capital.
And the blend between pace and price is a tricky one in every single community and frankly it depends on the community overall.
I would be hard pressed to say whether we had more opportunity in margin or pace going forward.
But I will tell you this we've made a lot of progress on margin over the past few years.
We haven't provided any guidance sort of beyond that but we're looking to balance both.
And for us everything from compensation to the way we talk about the business is really ROIC.
We've emphasized margins a lot these past few years because our margins needed a lot of improvement overall.
And at this stage we're really talking about returns.
So I apologize for not being able to give you more specificity there but that's the way we're looking at it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark (sic) [Mike] Dahl with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions and the helpful color here.
Wanted to just ask a question maybe a little more granularly on the margin guidance because it seems like if you're holding these levels for the next couple quarters it nets out to like slightly above 23%.
And the previous guide was approximately so are we talking was the previous guide really like a 22.8% and now it's a 23.2%? Or just any sense of magnitude on just really what the increase is.
Yeah Mike it's Bob.
We have just trying to clarify we have been speaking to 23% certainly in the last quarter since we delivered in excess of that and have suggested that we'll continue to.
And with the seasonality of the business the production being more geared towards the back half of the year we would blend to a higher rate than 23% and just wanted to point that out.
Got it.
Okay.
And then shifting to some of the color around Texas obviously some challenging conditions as you noted with the weather.
But were some of those comments also around just being the high end pricing issues being exacerbated by shortages but then there was also a comment about more competition.
Was that also still isolated at the high end or was that a broader issue that you're seeing on the market  on the ground in Houston? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Mike this is Richard.
Rain throughout Texas hampered results across the state for the quarter particular with regard to production.
The comment we made regarding the high end was specific to Houston but the comment we made regarding a little bit more inventory in the market is statewide.
So our overall view on Texas we like Texas.
We like the market environment.
It's a little more competitive than it was.
We're trying to say it as matter-of-factly as we can.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning and congrats on a very nice quarter.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
I've got a lot of very positive feedback on your share buyback activity.
And just I think speaking to some of Richard's comments about land prices being inflated.
If you don't find what you need in terms of land supply to your expectations what is the priority for that excess cash? Does it go to share buybacks or what do you want to do with it? Hey Bob this is Bob.
I think the answer is we look at that every year.
Certainly we have been more active in the share repurchase arena that's largely not a call on the equity it's actually just capital structuring; we're below our targeted range of 30% to 40% leverage at 26% so we feel we have significant capacity to do that.
But again first and foremost we want to invest in the business.
You can see that in the investment levels.
Going forward we'll look at that with a forward view as based on our best estimates of what the business can do.
Certainly you heard Richard talk about the priority is investing in the business paying an increasing dividend.
So we look at dividends.
M&amp;A activity if it's out there we would opportunistically look at and then the rest would be share repurchases.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
So my other question is just on that theme of reinvesting back into the business.
Today when you're looking at the incremental dollar spend that you're going to put in which of your three brands is most likely to get that dollar? And geographically where are you trying to invest the most? Thanks and good luck.
Thanks Bob.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
Richard here.
Thus far in housing recovery and we've been pretty consistent in this we've been putting most of our dollars into the Pulte brand to serve that move-up category.
I would say there is an increasing focus on the entry-level for us and again we're trying to highlight in our commentary that we've been actually putting quite a bit of capital toward the first-time buyer that millennial category to serve that growing category.
And we'll have more to say about that in the future as our study continues.
And then I'd say some selective Del Webb investments in smaller positions across the system.
So overall I'd say Pulte is the priority and then probably the other two categories with a fairly balanced approach but always trying to seek the highest return; so it can vary from quarter-to-quarter.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
And your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
First question just on the segments you kind of mentioned that the Pulte brand in a sense is bleeding into the other if I could use that term bleeding into the other categories in terms of serving some of the Del Webb demand as well as perhaps some of the entry-level or millennial demand.
And I'm just curious when you think about if you were to report ASPs and particularly closings is what I'm getting at not by the brand but by broader let's say entry-level move-up entry-level/move-up for Centex active adult instead of Del Webb which would include perhaps some of that Pulte-branded offerings.
At this point would the Centex and Del Webb percentages be up by a couple percent? And given the morphing or brand extension of Pulte is this perhaps how you might report the segments from a demographic perspective going forward? Yeah so sorry I hate to be technical.
Our segments are geographic Mike.
We present this information for simplicity when we're talking to Wall Street.
But I think the answer is and what Richard highlighted we are seeing a future pipeline of that active adult that's Pulte-branded.
We have an existing book of business that is first-time buyer that is Pulte-branded.
And he highlighted the amount of that.
And so I think what it would show you if you looked at it in the way that you just asked that entry-level first-time buyer group would be bigger than our Centex brand.
You wouldn't see much of a change out of Pulte into the active adult so that wouldn't change much.
So I think what we're looking at is how to make that information digestible without confusing people with too much data.
Right right.
Yeah no I think that kind of the continuation of thinking about that would certainly be helpful and maybe again broadening the  instead of Centex Del Webb maybe just broadening the definition so to speak.
Secondly you mentioned Texas and also California in your regional review.
I was hoping to get a little bit more if possible market-by-market review of California how the different markets are going.
As well as when you talk about Texas being slightly more competitive is that just in the form of perhaps discounts coming up a little bit by percentage or two or if you're seeing any price reductions? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Mike it's Richard.
With regard to California what we're seeing is the better located assets are doing extremely well.
Some of the outer-lying positions not quite as well but where you have very very well-located communities we're seeing a lot of strength.
With regard to Texas overall the Dallas market is the strongest of the markets but our commentary overall is not really related to discounts.
It's just a little bit more inventory in the market across the state.
Not a dramatic shift but something that we've noticed over the past couple of quarters overall so again still a good housing market.
One that we're pleased to be in but a little more competitive than it was.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
So I wanted to ask  I think you mentioned either in your slides or your press release about an increase in the amount of land that's optioned.
Was that a change over the last couple of quarters? Are you seeing any kind of change in increase in options available or could you maybe give more detail on what's going on there? Megan it's Bob.
We have been seeking to do more option transactions and I would say it goes back over years not quarters.
You've seen a gradual increase I think in the data we've presented.
It showed 10% up to now 30%.
And the answer is to your second question is it more available? Really not.
So what we're seeing is a lot more raw transaction.
So historically it was a healthier developer base in the country.
You might have seen more opportunity to do finished lot option takedowns.
What we're really talking about is if there's a position and I'll make up a fact pattern that has 600 lots in it and we've got a current need for 200 of them of medium-term need for 200 more and then a longer-term need for 200 more what we're trying to do is structure transactions that would allow us to take the first third control the second third and third third over time.
But we would be the developer typically and so it comes down to a parcel-by-parcel negotiation.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Megan Richard here.
One of the reasons we highlighted it is just when you look at it over the few years as Bob indicated it's a pretty dramatic improvement and very consistent with our overall focus on a much more balanced approach with regard to capital.
So in addition to the priorities for capital even within the land priority we're very proud of the fact that we're controlling a lot more lots while not taking here as much risk as we have in the past.
Great thanks.
And then just a little more clarification on the first-time buyer discussion.
I think you're trying to answer this but let me just clarify.
You mentioned in your initial comments that there is evidence in the market that the first-time buyer is coming back.
You mentioned statistics from the NAR and you also mentioned that the new stuff  that your Centex was flat so are you saying that you are actually seeing it it's just in these Pulte-branded communities? Or are you saying there's some evidence but you're not actually seeing it yet in your order growth? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Actually Megan if you go back over the last year or two we've had pretty strong comps in terms of the Centex brand and not just in Texas.
We've highlighted other parts of the country but Texas is a big part of our Centex business.
So I think we've seen although flat absorptions this quarter ex-Louisville and Columbus we've seen pretty good results over time.
And to your question in terms of what's in the Pulte brand I don't have the data right now to tell you what that first-time buyer component that we've flagged Pulte is.
But obviously the Pulte same-store comps were up 6% so you can certainly conclude that it was a portion of that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko with SIG.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Another question on the first-time buyer and how it relates to the Pulte brand expansion.
What I think I'm hearing is the strategy on the first-time for Pulte is hey look we're going to keep focusing on that higher income first-time buyer maybe the larger house in part to preserve margin more so than a lower margin lesser location Centex-type product.
Is that a fair interpretation of where we're at on the first-time strategy? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jack I don't think it's either candidly.
What we're trying to highlight is that under the Pulte brand as I think everyone's aware we have been serving this millennial buyer.
And sort of the traditional view of an entry-level consumer buying a home in their mid-20s and then trading up et cetera over time is changing.
And in fact we're seeing a lot of people actually skip the Centex true entry-level product say at $200 000 and buy a Pulte-branded home at $300 000 in their early-to-mid-30s typically consistent with when they either get married or begin living together and their housing needs change from rental to ownership.
We have been doing quite a bit of that business with the Pulte brand.
And it's in an urban sort of infill location it's clearly targeted to that upwardly mobile millennial buyer.
And as we started peeling through the data in response to lots of questions from investors we wanted to just provide a little bit more clarity that that was a significant portion of our business.
And we were not ignoring the growing interest in what's happening with the millennial category overall.
So we've been doing a lot of that business through the Pulte brand with townhome product a little bit of condominium product and it's not an insignificant amount of our business as we indicated about 500 closings in the recent quarter.
So we're simply just trying to introduce this concept that our brand strategy was not always perfectly consistent with first-time move-up and active adult.
And going forward we're looking for ways to clarify that a little bit more.
Okay thank you.
And then I think Richard in your prepared comments you had mentioned that land was heating up.
Any way you can give us sort of a magnitude of rate of change.
And then curious if the step-up in buyback is in any way related to that higher  a higher more expensive land picture that you mentioned? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll start and then Bob may want to add something here Jack.
First of all the land environment has been competitive for the last several quarters.
And we haven't noted anything unique this particular quarter overall.
And as it relates to our buyback activity starting last fall we told investors very clearly that we had a priority for investment first in land second increasing dividend third opportunistic M&amp;A and then fourth residual cash for systemic and routine buybacks and we've been executing exactly against that.
As Bob indicated our leverage is a little bit lower than we like it.
We had free cash flow.
And I think we're extremely pleased with the flexibility we have.
It's not an either-or for us.
So we were able to step up our land purchases fairly significantly in the range of the guidance we provided while still paying down debt and repurchasing shares at a higher rate than we had.
So it wasn't particularly related to a spike in land prices this quarter but more of an execution on our strategy that we think over time provides the best returns for our shareholders.
Yeah Jack.
The only thing I'd add to that on the land piece is it's important to remember and you heard Richard talking about that we are seeking better located assets and the reality is those are always competitive.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Randow with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey good morning and congrats on the quarter.
Thanks Will.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Will.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> In terms of your two years of developed supply is that skewed towards controlled? I won't expect it to.
And do you think that's enough developed lot supply if we see demand pick up incrementally? I'm not sure I understand the question Will.
You say it is our two-year supply? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Maybe you could repeat it Will if you don't mind.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sure sure sorry about that.
Your two years of developed lots in terms of supply.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Do you think that's skewed  is that skewed towards controlled in any way? And do you feel like that's enough lot supply if we were to see demand pick up? Yeah I think the answer is it's going to be market-by-market.
There are certain markets where we have ample supply of lots in front of us.
There are others where we're working through and developing lots as we go.
I think we've got 27% of our lots are finished/owned 26% are under development.
So we feel pretty good but you heard Richard talk about in Texas when we get weather it can slow you down so it's always a work-in-process.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks for that.
And in terms of the as a follow-up the $27 million legal settlement do you expect any further reoccurrence of that? And what is the cash flow hit from that? Well actually this is a reversal of an accrual so it means we won't spend the cash.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
And it's really just another step in the process of settling construction issues one that had been working its way through the courts for a number of years.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Susan Maklari with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Morning Susan.
Your Centex ASP rose 6% during the quarter despite some of the sort of issues around the acquisitions and things in that segment.
Can you just talk a little bit about what drove that and how we should be thinking about it going forward? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Susan it's actually a mix issue.
It's because of the production issues in Texas which has our lowest Centex-priced product so the mix is just different.
Okay.
And then looking long bigger picture with the potential rise in rate that's coming this year are you hearing from any of your buyers that that's factoring into their decision process yet? Or maybe how that will eventually factor into their thoughts and getting them maybe to pull the trigger and make that purchase decision? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Susan it's Richard.
I would say it's a little early yet for that to have played out.
Rates just did begin rising here over the last month to six weeks primarily.
Historically I would say that does drive purchase behavior as people kind of fear the loss of a low rate environment.
So we certainly don't fear that occurring provided that it continues with the economy continuing to strengthen.
But are we hearing a lot of anecdotal information on the ground about that? I'd say not yet.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Buck Horne with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks guys.
I'm just trying to interpret some of the comments and maybe read between the lines here.
But based on the land investment strategies and the talk about the first-time millennial buyer which may be acting and behaving differently than previous generations I'm kind of wondering is there a sense that the core Centex that entry-level suburban sub-$200 000 price point is that really going to have a recovery in this cycle? And I'm guessing what are your thoughts about  do we really need to maintain the Centex land positions at this point or do we  is there a need to continue reinvesting in that product? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Buck this is Richard.
We absolutely want to continue reinvesting in that area when returns make sense.
And nothing in our commentary would suggest that we don't believe that's an important part of a housing recovery.
I would say however consistent with what we said in the past making the returns work for those more suburban lower-priced product is more challenging still today.
And we would expect that as the housing recovery continues that that will get a little bit easier as pace continues to come back into that segment.
So that's a little bit disconnected candidly from our comments about the millennials.
We're simply trying to highlight with regard to the millennials that there's a growing appetite for a fairly affluent in-town urban buyer that wants this attached product that we have been delivering and will continue to.
But with regard to Centex proper if you will the kind of traditional entry-level $200 000 price point as an example that's an important part of the business particularly in Texas and particularly some of the southeast markets that we want to continue to invest in.
It just hasn't warranted the ramp up in investment that some of the other categories have yet but we're watching it closely and we candidly expect it to at some point in the housing recovery.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just because it was brought up earlier in a quick comment but there was a mention about you'd potentially look at M&amp;A transactions if they would make sense I guess.
I'm wondering what criteria and under what circumstances you guys would think about M&amp;A? Is that mainly looking at other private players or potentially another public-to-public transaction? What was maybe behind that comment or thought process? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Nothing new there.
We highlighted that it would be one of the priorities for our utilization of capital.
I wouldn't want to speculate as to whether it would be a private or public builder.
We would typically look at these as land transactions though.
So we use the same basic underwriting criteria for a transaction for a group of assets from a builder as we would for a single community.
So it's really a land play for us.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
So on the interest rate question we've seen rates rising through most of this year through particularly in the second quarter.
So is there anything that you've seen on your month-by-month trends or maybe through your mortgage operation that could give us some sense of whether the rising rate environment has spurred people on or whether it has caused people to back away from purchases? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't know that there's anything that you would be able to know what would've happened if rates had been different.
One thing that you can see is that people are locking a little bit earlier.
People are not choosing arms.
So from the financing perspective it influences their behavior in terms of how much risk do they want to take coming up to the closing.
But I haven't heard any detailed commentary about  I'm not buying because of interest rates or I bought today because interest rates might go up.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And you've talked a good bit about the weather you addressed Texas mainly as I understand it in your comments so far.
So in the Midwest and the Northeast there were also some pretty significant rains towards the end of the second quarter particularly in June.
You folks obviously have decent-sized operations in those regions.
So any effect on those regions either from a demand perspective or from a deferral of closings construction schedules perspective? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Nishu it's Richard.
I would say what we've seen in the rest of the country you'd typically see somewhere in the country with regard to weather.
So we haven't called it out uniquely.
Clearly weather always plays a factor in production.
It's not as big a factor with regard to sales unless it prevents you from opening communities which the reason we called out Texas this time is it was so unique.
It caused some community delays which impacted our sales environment some but more importantly helped to cause the production shortfall that we've seen through the first couple of quarters of the year.
So beyond that nothing that we would note particularly.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
On the capital structure wanted to get a sense as to where you think you are today.
Is your cash position about where you'd want it to be? And do you feel that you are still under-levered? And what might be the key metrics that we should be thinking about to understand what you view as an optimal capital structure? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah what we've highlighted is that we'd like to have leverage and it sort of hinges off of leverage somewhere between 30% and 40%.
We're obviously a little bit below that today.
We have just under $500 million of cash at the end of the quarter.
We have several hundred million dollars of availability under our credit facility above and beyond that.
So we feel like we have a really strong liquidity position.
Obviously we chose to pay down our debt instead of refinancing it with the maturity in the second quarter.
So going forward I think as we look at it a lot of it will depend on our expectations for investment in the business and obviously we reforecast that periodically coupled with our expectations for cash generation out of the business.
And so in looking at it I think it's fair to assume we've got a pretty big maturity coming up next year so we'll be looking at our leverage over the next two quarters three quarters to figure out what makes sense.
We pay attention to capital markets activity all the time to see if there are attractive entry points.
So I think we're very comfortable running with this much cash and even a little bit less candidly because we have so much availability under the revolver.
And then we think we've got access to the capital markets on terms that what would be attractive.
So when we need to we have a way to fill any cash shortfalls that we might want to deal with.
So again leverage being between 30% and 40% is what is driving most of our decision making.
Inc.</span></strong> And so is it fair to say  because I guess you had to make that decision whether to go refinance or not.
And I certainly see that you might've decided to yes go out and refinance now and yet you choose not to.
Is that because you want to have a greater degree of line of sight in terms of the investments in land and development opportunities that would have justified putting more debt on that balance sheet? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we feel like we do have pretty good line of sight into our projected spend certainly over the next six months to 12 months.
So what it tells you is we have obviously a business that is cash-accretive.
We're not paying cash taxes.
We have a lot of production coming in the back half of this year which will be generating a lot of cash.
We're also going to be investing a lot but we didn't feel any pressure that says oh gosh we should go refinance this debt.
So really it's just an evaluation as time goes on.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to ask in terms of the ROIC focus.
Could you talk about the returns on potentially selling some of the land that you may have earmarked for some of these entry-level and maybe a little more spec-heavy communities? Because it looks like in the first half of this year you guys have run a land gross margin of about 22%.
Last year I think it was roughly 31%.
So I think there would be a case  there's a case to be made that you might make more from selling that land especially with the appreciation you've discussed rather than trying to put maybe some gross margin-dilutive homes out there.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Jay this is Richard.
Several years ago about three years ago we undertook a really deep-dive look at every single position in our balance sheet.
And we were pretty clear with investors that we did intend to sell a portion of land and we've done most of that.
I don't know what the exact numbers are but somewhere around $300 million of land over the past few quarters have been sold.
So it's always a portion of our portfolio and from time to time there'll be a position that gets sold.
I would say a lot of that heavy lifting is done.
It's also hard to predict the timing on it so we couldn't give you any good projections but there's not a concerted effort to wipe off a portion of the balance sheet there.
We would rather develop that into home sites and capture the margin on the land as well as the home.
We've gotten pretty efficient at capturing margin on the home in addition to any built-in land appreciation.
So we prefer to capture it that way.
And given the fact that our prudence with regard to our capital structure has been what it's been we're pretty happy about that decision.
So I wouldn't look for any big land sales.
Okay.
And then just did want to ask a follow-on on the debt question with the 2016's and 2017's coming due.
I mean is it  could you talk a little bit more about could you refinance potentially both transactions at one shot? Or do you think you have a better shot at paying it off? Just a little more color on the 2016's and the 2017's? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Don't want to comment on 2016's and 2017's other than to say we obviously look at them as we think about our leverage.
I don't think necessarily it makes sense for us to go and take everything out.
We'd probably start to want to build the leverage ladder again.
So you'd see us putting different things in place but not trying to take care of all our current maturities.
But you never know.
Time will tell.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Haendel St.
Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hey there good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
So I guess first question is follow-up on some other comments that you made on spec.
I guess specifically your appetite here for raising spec count levels.
As you look across your platform are there regions today where increasing spec count makes sense? Is it across the board? And how do margins on your spec compare to margins on build-to-order? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah our comments  this is Richard Haendel.
Our comments on spec are related to help us with regard to managing production cadence overall and it would be on a very limited amount.
We have gotten very very comfortable and happy with our build-to-order model.
So we're not trying to signal any kind of shift in priority.
We just want to let you know we may feather in some additional spec in select communities to give us an opportunity to help even out our production cadence.
And I would suggest the margin impact of that would be very very minimal because we're not talking about any significant real change in spec policy.
Got you appreciate that.
And second question is I guess another margin-related question.
Curious to what extent mix was playing a factor in driving gross margin higher sequentially and whether specific areas were able to contain costs versus the first quarter.
Yeah.
So on a sequential basis actually our margins are up across all three of our brands as well as a little bit of a benefit from interest.
So no concentrated issue there just better performance across the entire spectrum.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Gentlemen.
Ken.
Hi Ken.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Ken.
Inc.</span></strong> I wonder I have two questions.
One is your success in gross margins which is adjusted for commissions industry-leading is that kind of actually trapping you into a narrower opportunity in terms of how you're looking to invest perhaps? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ken this is Richard.
I would say absolutely not.
We've tried to be as clear as we can that we run the business based on returns.
And frankly whether margins go up from here or go down from here if we get excellent returns on it that's the name of the game for us and our land priorities are not margin-specific.
They're return-specific as we look at the 200-plus communities we're going to open this year it's all based on returns.
So no I don't think gross margins have trapped us into anything.
We're happy with our gross margins we've done a good job with our gross margins.
We're proud of them but I don't think it limits what we do going forward at all.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
And I asked that  I was obviously doing that respectfully because you do have very high gross margins.
And I'm thinking about another builder that also focuses on returns but in that investment process pursued a lower price point got a higher absorption.
I agree with that approach but obviously there's a wider view perhaps from investors in terms of interpreting if that's good to have the gross margins go down as they're not as focused investors perhaps on the returns on capital.
Could you perhaps highlight little concerns or thoughts you've had on how others have enacted that return on capital as it relates to lower gross margins? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think you have to appreciate it in terms of what the company's overall philosophy is.
And for us it's very related to our overall capital approach.
And if we were as focused on land investment exclusively as we were five years or 10 years ago we might have a little bit of a different posture here.
But given the fact that we want to be involved in all aspects of capital allocation which we are very convinced over the housing cycle is going to be the best total shareholder return for shareholders has dictated our philosophy.
So I wouldn't want to comment on what anyone else is doing.
I would just say that we think we're doing a good job quarter-in and quarter-out and balancing it.
And over time we're very confident that it's going to yield the right result.
We've learned our lesson in the past of trying to overdo it on the land side and we're really pleased with our balanced and prudent approach today so I hope that helps.
Yeah and just to close that out Ken it's Jim we've talked for a while now about not being so focused on just driving unit volumes or driving volumes for volumes' sake and really being more focused on to Richard's point about the returns.
And as a consequence the investments and everything line up accordingly.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Zeumer I turn the call back over to you.
Great.
Thanks everybody for your time this morning.
We'll certainly be around for the remainder of the day if you've got any additional questions.
We'll look forward to speaking with you on our next call.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carol and I will your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PulteGroup Inc.'s Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Mr.
Jim Zeumer you may begin your conference.
Great.
Thank you Carol and good morning everyone participating this morning's conference call to discuss PulteGroup's third quarter financial results for the three months ended September 30 2015.
Joining me for today's call are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; and Jim Ossowski Vice President Finance and Controller.
A copy of this morning's earnings release and the presentation slides that accompany today's discussion are posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
We will also post an audio replay of today's call to the site later on.
Let me remind all participants that today's presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroup's future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by any comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of today's earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
Now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
PulteGroup's third quarter financial results reflect another quarter of strong business performance across key operating metrics partially offset by the challenging production environment that is impacting us in many housing markets across the country.
More specifically I would highlight our strong sales performance and the increase in absolute signups and absorption paces both of which moved higher in the quarter.
I believe these results attest to the sustained rebound in overall U.S.
housing demand and are consistent with our expectations that the recovery path for this housing cycle will be gradual and prolonged.
Beyond signups I would also highlight that our gross margins of 23.6% are up 70 basis points over last year and up 30 basis points from the second quarter 2015.
Pulte's gross margins continue to be among the highest in the whole building industry which demonstrates the tremendous progress we have made from when we began this journey less than five years ago.
I believe that our gains in third quarter signups absorption paces and gross margins have all benefited from the quality of the land positions we have been putting under contract over the past few years.
As we have talked about on prior calls we have worked hard to maintain a disciplined approach toward acquiring better located land positions that we believe will generate higher risk adjusted returns.
In addition to supporting the idea of better land locations the strength of our gross margins demonstrates continued success in the implementing our strategic pricing initiatives and in expanding the use of commonly managed plans.
In the third quarter commonly managed plans accounted for almost 60% of closings which is up from 45% last year and keeps us on track to reach our goal of 70% in 2016.
Our margins are also benefiting from prior actions to significantly reduce our debt balances which in turn has helped to lower our annual interest expense.
Through the first nine months of 2015 interest expense running through the cost of sales is down almost $37 million from last year.
Our disciplined approach to capital allocation including reducing our overall balance sheet leverage these past few years is clearly having an impact.
And finally I look at our contract backlog approaching 9 000 homes with a total value of $3.1 billion up 18% over last year and note that these are our highest Q3 backlog statistics since 2007.
Given the strength of our backlog and a roughly $100 million year-over-year increase in homes under production on the balance sheet I am encouraged by how well we are positioned for the remainder of the year and heading into 2016.
These same backlog stats however reflect the struggles that we and as reported the broader industry continue to face getting homes delivered on a consistent schedule due primarily to constraints across the production system.
We talked on prior calls about working to overcome construction bottlenecks that had developed but these delays are taking longer than expected to correct.
The reality is that resource constraints particularly as it relates to labor exist across a number of our markets and are continuing to hinder our progress.
With almost 8 000 homes under construction which is up 1 000 units over this time last year the houses are clearly in the production pipeline and will ultimately be delivered.
We would anticipate that we'll close some of the gap with prior-year production metrics in the fourth quarter and then work to make additional progress in 2016.
The good news is that overall demand for housing continues to be positive.
Overall I see a lot to be proud of within our third quarter results and what they say about our commitment to running this business to deliver earnings growth with higher returns over time.
Consistent with our long-term objectives with regard to delivering higher returns we continue to allocate capital in alignment with our stated priorities: first to invest in the business which we did in the form of $586 million of land and development spend in the third quarter; second to fund an increase in dividend; third to consider opportunistic M&amp;A; and fourth to return excess funds to shareholders via share repurchases which we did in the third quarter to the level of $121 million.
Our land investment for the quarter keeps us on track with prior guidance of allocating roughly $2.3 billion to land acquisition and development in 2015.
We expect this level of investment to be supportive of future volume and more importantly earnings growth for the company.
This investment level is also consistent with our expectation that U.S.
housing demand continues to move higher over the next few years as an improving economy generates new jobs and ultimately higher wages and help sustain the recent gains in household formation numbers the country has been experiencing.
Against this positive demand environment we see generally favorable supply dynamics with reasonable inventories of existing homes and a manageable supply of new homes available for sale.
If you wanted to find a silver lining in a cloud of tight land and labor resources it would be that the supply of new homes is not as likely to get ahead of consumer demand as in past cycles.
Overall our expectations remain positive with regard to the broader economy and related macro-housing conditions across the U.S.
We see a lot of runway out in front of the new home industry with particularly bright prospects for PulteGroup given our strong sales and margin performance driven in part by our disciplined land investments.
Now let me turn over the call to Bob for a more thorough review of the quarter.
Bob? Thanks Richard and good morning.
As Richard indicated there are a lot of positives to be taken from PulteGroup's business results and how the quarter positions the company for improved performance going forward.
Looking at the specifics for the quarter homebuilding revenue totaled $1.5 billion which is down 6% from the prior-year.
The change in homebuilding revenues was driven by a 6% decline in closings to 4 356 homes which was partially offset by a 1% increase in average selling price to $336 000.
Per Richard's comments home deliveries in Q3 were below our expectations.
As we discussed on our most recent call we expected that our conversion rate would trend toward more recent norms over the back half of this year.
Resource constraints however particularly related to labor and land development delays triggered by tough weather conditions at the start of the year hindered our efforts.
We remain confident that we will work through this and with a healthy backlog of sold homes this is fundamentally a timing issue.
We continue to expect to make up some ground in Q4 relative to historical closing metrics and then we'll work to realize further gains as we get into 2016.
In the third quarter closings by brand were as follows: 23% in Centex communities; 49% in Pulte; and 28% in Del Webb.
This compares with closings of 24% 46% and 30% respectively in the third quarter of last year.
On our last call we talked about targeted consumer groups or TCGs being a more granular approach to defining the buyers we serve.
Breaking the business down by TCGs shows that 33% of our third quarter closings were first-time buyers 35% were move-up buyers and 32% were active adult buyers.
As we've discussed on our last call one of the primary differences between discussing brands versus TCGs is among first-time buyers.
We continue to invest in developing infill communities under the Pulte Homes name designed to serve first-time buyers typically older millennials who want to live closer-in and can afford to pay the higher prices such locations can typically command.
For the quarter the company reported gross margins of 23.6% which represents a year-over-year increase of 70 basis points and sequential increase of 30 basis points from Q2 of this year.
Based on our current backlog we anticipate Q4 gross margins to be consistent with the third quarter of this year.
Q3 margins continued to benefit from increased option and lot premium revenues.
In fact option revenues increased 7% or $3 300 per closing and lot premiums increased 6% or $674 per closing compared with last year.
Sales discounts in the quarter totaled just 2% per home which is up roughly 30 basis points from last year but still remains relatively modest at only $6 900 per closing.
As our numbers indicate our focus on driving greater profitability through our strategic pricing programs continues to yield benefits.
Reported Q3 SG&amp;A of $159 million or 10.9% of home sale revenues includes the benefit of approximately $6 million resulting from a recent legal settlement realized by the company.
I think it's important to also highlight the litigation-related charge we recorded in the quarter.
PulteGroup received an unfavorable jury verdict in the amount of $20 million associated with a contract dispute.
We have already filed post-trial motions seeking to among other things overturn the jury verdict and are prepared to appeal the decision should that action be required.
However in light of the decision we recorded a reserve in the full amount of the jury award.
The charges reflected on our income statement and other expense net.
Our financial services segment reported pre-tax income of $14 million in the quarter which is up from 11% in the comparable prior-year period.
Our mortgage capture rate in Q3 increased to 83% up from 80% in last year's third quarter.
For the quarter our effective tax rate was 40% which is up slightly from last year and from our guidance.
The higher rate was driven primarily by adjustments to our deferred tax assets resulting from changes in certain state tax rates.
Net income for the third quarter was $108 million or $0.30 per share.
Our per share earnings were calculated using approximately 353 million shares outstanding for the quarter which is down 6% from last year largely as a result of our share repurchase activities.
Looking at our homebuilding operations we ended the third quarter with 7 849 homes under construction of which 17% were spec.
Consistent with comments we made on our last earnings call we're putting additional spec units into production with the goal of helping to even out quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in future construction cadence.
Even with this increase we ended Q3 with only 343 finished spec homes.
Looking at our land position we approved approximately 6 000 lots for purchase during the quarter and ended the period with 137 000 lots under control.
Approximately 41 000 of these lots or 30% of our land position are controlled via option.
Continuing a trend you have seen over the past few years we continue to strategically increase our use of land options as a way to enhance returns on our invested capital and to lower our overall risk profile.
Of our controlled lots approximately 24% are finished and 17% are currently under development.
While our land spend has been increasing we continue to invest under a disciplined process that is focused on identifying well-located parcels that can generate higher risk adjusted returns.
In addition to keeping our preference for closer-in locations we are also seeking to manage the duration of our projects.
In the quarter we spent $586 million on land acquisition and development.
Of this spend 56% was for development of previously acquired land and 44% was for the acquisition of new positions.
This brings our total land investment for the first nine months of 2015 to $1.5 billion and keeps us on track to invest the $2.3 billion previously announced.
Excluding the handful of Del Webb positions we've added this year the average lot count in our newly approved communities is roughly 100 homes.
While generally keeping the duration of our projects shorter means a lot of work for our operations teams it helps to reduce the risks associated with any single land position.
In addition to risk mitigation another benefit of a disciplined land investment process is the better margins that well positioned land parcels can support.
As Richard said PulteGroup's strong margins are partly the result of our defined investment practices.
Along with investing in the business we returned $121 million to shareholders through the repurchase of 5.9 million common shares at an average price of $20.29 per share.
In the third quarter we executed a $500 million term loan agreement.
The proceeds from this transaction are expected to be used for working capital and general corporate purposes.
Inclusive of these funds the company ended the quarter with $760 million of cash and a debt-to-capital ratio of 31%.
On a year-over-year basis signups in the third quarter were up 8% to 4 092 homes.
This reflects a 6% increase in our absorption paces over last year.
On a dollar basis signups increased 17% to $1.5 billion as the average sales price in our backlog rose 7% to $354 000.
For the third quarter the company operated out of 611 communities.
This is up 2% from last year and within the range of 610 to 625 communities we provided on our Q2 earnings call.
As Richard highlighted we ended the quarter with a backlog of 8 734 homes with a value of $3.1 billion which is up 18% over last year.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Bob.
Before opening the call to questions let me provide some brief comments on the market conditions we experienced in third quarter.
As you would anticipate given our increased signups and absorption paces demand in the third quarter continued the positive trends we saw in the first half of 2015.
On average traffic to our communities was up over last year and we continue to see opportunities to selectively push pricing through our strategic pricing programs.
At a market level we have not seen material shifts in demand conditions over the past several quarters.
Broadly speaking we continue to see better performance from communities that are closer-in and well located.
More specific to the geographies demand conditions in the third quarter were as follows: We continue to see good demand trends along the entire East Coast but particularly as you look to the Southeast.
Consistent with our comments we have made on many of our recent earnings calls the Carolinas Georgia and Florida remain areas of strong demand.
In the middle third of the country demand conditions were generally positive although we did note some meaningful volatility in the performance of individual markets.
Looking specifically at Texas total signups for the state were down about 5% as the strength in Dallas' Q3 orders effectively offset softness in Houston and San Antonio.
Land development and related community opening delays caused by tough weather earlier in the year certainly had an impact on sales for the quarter and we are continuing to see some oil-related weakness in Houston most notably at the higher selling prices.
And finally out West we continue to experience robust demand across the major markets in California Arizona Nevada and New Mexico.
Let me close out our prepared remarks with a final thought.
U.S.
housing demand has been improving over the past few years and we would say that it has been good in 2015.
The reality is however that at a pace of 500 000 plus or minus annual new home sales the market is still 30% or more away from being just average.
Assuming the economy continues to chug along even at what most consider only a modest pace of growth we expect new home sales can continue to grind higher in the coming years.
As we have been saying since the housing recovery began we expect the slope of the recovery will continue to be gradual and there may be a pause or two along the way but we believe there is more upside opportunity over the coming years.
We see PulteGroup as being extremely well-positioned to be successful within this type of environment.
We are putting incremental capital to work in the business which we expect will support future growth.
We continue to focus on construction and overhead efficiency to leverage that growth into greater earnings potential and we are further enhancing that earnings potential by reducing outstanding shares and returning excess capital to our shareholders through dividends and routine share buybacks.
We believe that this approach of running a balanced business through the cycle versus trying to time the market will benefit our shareholders over the long run.
And finally let me close by thanking the employees of PulteGroup who do an amazing job operating our business every day and who work passionately to deliver a great home buying experience to our customers.
Let me now turn over the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Great.
Thank you Richard.
We will now open the call for questions.
So that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call we ask that you limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up.
Carol if you'll explain the process we'll get started.
Certainly.
Your first question comes from the line of Haendel St.
Juste from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
Morning.
My question  I'd like to follow-up a bit on the construction bottlenecks comment you made earlier appeared to be impacting your conversion rates.
If I'm understanding this correctly it sounds like an issue with I guess obtaining and retaining labor? If that's the case what can you do or what are you willing to do to remediate the issue or are you comfortable with the lower conversion? And I guess are you offering incentives to buyers in your backlog like we've heard some of your peers doing? Would you be willing to offer incentives to people experiencing delays in home deliveries? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Haendel this is Richard.
There's quite a few questions there.
In general labor is the primary culprit of our lower conversion.
No we're not happy about it overall it's clearly impacting our production.
In general we're having to pay more for labor and we're beginning to work hard to try to source additional trades either taking trades from some markets that have capacity to other markets or look for additional trades in markets beyond the ones that we've been using.
Having said that it's going to be a slower process to correct than we had anticipated which is one of the reasons why our conversion was weak this quarter.
Having said that we are not offering incentives to buyers to extend their closing.
We're doing our best to estimate proper closing times when they sign contracts so we have not had issues in that regard.
And then finally we are beginning to start a little bit more spec inventory at this time of year in order for additional deliveries to be available for us in the early part and middle part of 2016 in order to help even our production flow out so we're not quite as spiked toward Q3 and Q4 like we have been.
That's going to take some time to implement but that's as many broad pieces of the issue as I can get to.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen East from Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Steve.
Richard maybe just talk a little bit more on the orders.
You gave a nice roundup on what's happening geographically.
Your absorption has moved up your ASP moved up a bit.
What's your strategy right now? You're also putting more specs on the ground.
At this point given your land spend are you trying to drive absorptions much more quickly than you have in the past or are you trying to ramp your margin as much as you can? I know that's been your strategy in the past but just trying to understand if there has been any change here on your strategy? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Steve there has been absolutely no change to be clear.
Our absorption strength we believe is driven by good land locations and sticking to our discipline of driving as much price as we can particularly in a constrained environment where we're having difficulty getting homes delivered.
With regard to increased spec I want to be crystal clear.
It's a modest increase in spec and it's frankly timed when the spec inventory would be available during the strength of the selling season which we would say would start call it late January through May or June.
It's not sort of a broad brush change in strategy.
But with only 17 of our homes in production being spec we have cut it pretty far back and we think there's an opportunity to potentially modestly even the flow of deliveries in the future which will help reduce the dependence on this kind of maddening Q3 and Q4 spike at the end of the year.
But no change in terms of policies with regard to discounting and/or driving absorptions over price.
It's still a focus on return.
We obviously balance both but I will say as evidenced by Bob's comments this is the umpteenth quarter in a row that option  margin  excuse me  option dollar contributions and lot premiums are up and that's not by accident.
Okay.
Thanks.
One thing I forgot to mention before I go on to my next question.
The West you've categorized is robust we've heard some rumblings recently that the West has slowed.
One I was wanting to know if you're seeing anything on that? And then as you look at your land spend any difference in brand allocation where you're going with it moving forward or your regions? And what's land market look like as far as re-trading with costs moving up? Have you started to see more re-trading in the market? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
I'll start and then throw it to Bob for a little more color.
With regard to the West specifically Stephen Arizona is doing quite well.
Our Northern California business continues to do well.
We don't have as much investment as some in Southern Cal but we are doing well with the good locations there.
And then we have a pretty small business in Pac-Northwest that we're trying to ramp up so it's not as relevant to our total; but in general we're pleased with what we see.
With regard to land spend we're continuing to allocate most of the dollars to the Pulte brand and selective Del Webb positions as we rotate out of others with a little bit less in the Centex brand but as Bob highlighted we're beginning to put more money into the first-time category that served through the Pulte brand for this urban millennial category in many markets which we have really good demand characteristics from.
With regard to land pricing and any re-trading I've not heard of much but Bob any more color on land pricing? No.
As we've talked about we're typically staying closer into the core.
We haven't seen a significant pullback there.
It's still competitive for just about every position we look at and we're not seeing a lot of returning.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lovallo from Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks very much for taking my call.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
First question just touching back on labor for a minute if we can.
It's been widely talked about that there's been labor constraints in the market but our feeling was that it was kind of isolated to markets like Colorado and Texas.
Are you seeing more of a widespread impact at this point? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> John this is Richard.
The Journal had an article a couple of weeks ago that referenced this.
It is definitely widespread.
There's no question about it.
There's not a market in the country that we're not experiencing some degree of labor shortage pressure.
So yes it's definitely more than just Texas and Colorado.
And it may be a different trade base depending upon the geography that you're dealing with.
It may be framers in one area it may be masons in another but you can find it across most of our major markets.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then moving on there has been some bank data that has come out and some of the retailers have even talked about the environment in Texas just starting to soften even more than some had expected.
You guys are just still seeing it kind of at the higher end is that correct? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The higher end in Houston to be more specific.
I think as we indicated Dallas had a good quarter.
Houston and San Antonio effectively offset that to give us that negative 5% comp; so candidly it doesn't feel a lot different than it has for most of the year with some oil related softening at the higher end and Houston being the primary driver of Texas weakness.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alan Ratner from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Your line is open.
Hey guys good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Alan.
So I know the focus this morning is obviously on the construction delays but I was actually hoping to ask a question on another topic which I think is a big focal point of Pulte investors which is the growth potential over the next few years.
And as we look here at your forward-looking growth indicators here your land spend is going to be up about 30% this year.
Your lot count is up double-digits over the last couple years.
Your SG&amp;A dollars are up about 10% year-over-year which usually come in advance of community count growth.
And I know you've been reluctant to talk about community count guidance in the past but when I look at all those metrics it points to inflection point that should be coming soon.
And what I was really hoping you could give is a little bit of a blueprint on where you see the business growing over the next several years? Are we wrong to extrapolate those numbers and think that growth should eventually break out of this low single-digit range that you've been in on the community count side for the last couple of years? And any timing and magnitude of that I think would be helpful just in framing expectations out there? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Alan this is Richard.
First of all we will be giving community count guidance on the Q4 call as we traditionally do.
It gives us a little better window as we get to our planning season right now as we put our business plan together for 2016.
Having said that we certainly expect growth in the future years.
The investment ramp-up that you're seeing is definitely having an impact.
I will point out that we specifically in our script emphasized our future earnings potential and we also talked about volume potential but we're really focused on driving earnings and return over time.
So my point is that dollars spent depending on where they are spent don't create lots equally.
And frankly as an example for investing in the Southeast or Texas we're getting quite a few more lots than if we're in Northern California and we had been reasonably balanced with our overall investment.
So that's why community count to us is only partially the indicator and why we're emphasizing absorption rates for community.
Having said all that Alan we do expect growth in the out-years from here.
I'm not in a position to tell you how much that is but we haven't been ramping up our investment spend to stay flat.
Got it.
Thank you.
And if I could squeeze in a second one.
I was hoping you could just give us your construction cycle timelines where they're running today versus a year ago and any margin impact that you expect these delays to have going forward as you look out over the next few quarters? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So our cycle time is roughly and this is rough.
I'm not going to give granular detail.
About 10% higher in terms of overall construction cycle times versus say a year ago.
Indicative of the labor shortages that we're seeing.
I'm sorry Alan.
What was the second piece of that? Just any potential impact on margin as a result of these delays on deliveries? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I don't think there is much of a margin impact based on delays.
We have not heard I've been talking to our operators frequently of incentives or any offerings to consumers.
I think we're doing a good job of setting expectations when we sign a contract that as an example instead of a home being delivered five months out it may be seven months or eight months out based on where we slot in the production cycle.
So that in and of itself I don't think has much impact on margin.
Now again we're not providing forward margin guidance beyond what Bob's prepared remarks said about Q4 which we expect to be approximately where we are in Q3.
Yeah Alan the only thing I'd add to that is and it goes to the question of labor rates and pricing.
We have seen obviously some pressure on that.
So the 1.5%-ish increase in house costs that we've said is probably likely a little bit higher this year as a result of that.
Offsetting that is a relatively benign commodity market.
So you can see it in our margins this quarter sequentially being up 30 basis points.
Now there's interest benefit in that but the homebuilding margin has stayed flat and it's our expectation that based on the backlog we see that through the end of the year.
So it doesn't necessarily translate to margin compression just because we've got time extension.
Got it.
Thanks and good luck.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Mike.
Morning Mike.
First question on  just going back to the gross margins for a moment.
A little bit better I think than we were looking for perhaps than what you were implying in your guidance last quarter.
And I just wanted to get a sense of number one to the extent that's true it was maybe a little bit better what was driving that? And as you look into 2016 I know you don't want to give guidance at this point but just strategically you've talked in the past about not going too far down the rabbit hole chasing the entry-level buyer given that you feel that the absorption isn't there yet to justify the lower gross margins.
If that's something that as you kind of balance margin versus perhaps incremental segment in that area is there a balance? Are you willing to kind of increase that by a little bit? I know the Centex piece which you consider more entry-level is more focused on that segment and seems to continue to shrink.
Just how to think about that segment's influence on gross margins going forward? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mike this is Richard.
I have a couple thoughts in that regard.
First of all we're not going to give specific margin targets for next year.
I would suspect that most of our margin performance will be driven by whatever costs are coming through the pipeline with regard to land and house.
And obviously offset by whatever the revenue side is from a selling environment.
The reason I point that out is we do not intend to kind of change our strategy with regard to our focus.
You pointed out the declining focus on entry-level.
I'll just point out that the first-time buyer as reflected in some of these urban projects we are ramping up some investment in overall.
But it's really going to be largely dependent on what happens when we get into the spring selling season in terms of what kind of margins we deliver next year along with the land costs coming through.
And just lastly I will tell you that our Centex margins continue to be strong even though we're driving a combination of pace and price there.
So again I apologize for not providing details for you in terms of guidance going forward.
I think the most relevant thing you can take away is we're not intending to change our strategy.
And just so I'm clear on that question.
Was the gross margins maybe a little bit better than expected in 3Q  and then my second question is  and if that's so what was driving that? And my second question is the interest expense amortization continues to come down.
Directionally should we expect that to continue in 2016 as a percent of sales and on an absolute basis? Any thoughts there would be helpful.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So on Q3 margins obviously mix matters Mike.
The margins were in line with what we expected.
The relative mix of it moved it a little bit.
But we don't have complete vision of what our margins are going to be.
So when we said 23.3%-ish (34:23) that is reflective of what we saw actually in the third quarter.
On interest expense no commentary yet on next year.
Although our cash spend has been less than what we're expensing so you can expect it to go down more.
We'll give some color on that towards the end of the year.
But as a percentage of sales you'd have to look at what your model projects for volumes.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is actually Matt (35:01) on for Mike.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So just with respect to the challenging production environment you were very clear that labor was the bulk of that.
But was it all labor issues you're referring to or is there something else on the land development side or even lingering weather delays that we should be thinking about? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Matt (35:27) we indicated in our prepared remarks it was primarily labor but there was also some community delays primarily from earlier in the year that impacted our ability to get homes begun on time and then ultimately get closed on time that had a portion of it.
So the way to read it is the majority was labor some of it was community opening delays and I think Bob indicated in his prepared remarks some of that was driven by weather from earlier in the year that got us started slower than expected and we were not able to make up as much ground as we anticipated.
But the majority of it was labor.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then you disclosed a very balanced mix of a first-time move-up and active adult.
So just wondering if you could provide some historical context.
How has that looked year-over-year? And then maybe the relative strength of each one currently? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah this is Richard.
I can speak to a couple pieces there.
We just began the break-out of first-time move-up in active adult last quarter.
So we don't have a huge amount of historical data at our fingertips.
Perhaps we could get back to you later with some detail if we can find it there.
In terms of the demand characteristics for each category both the first-time category as well as the move-up category had strong absorption growth for the quarter.
I don't have at my fingertips the exact numbers.
And then active adult was relatively flat it was actually slightly down on a same-store sales basis from prior.
But the other two categories were up fairly strongly.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Haendel St.
Juste from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my  I guess my second question.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There you go.
Sorry about that.
Too many pieces in the first one.
Sorry about that.
Looks like you caught me trying to be sneaky there.
I guess the question I had is a bit on the absorption pace trend during the quarter in each segment and how it's currently trending.
Can you give some color on that? And then a little color on the weakness in San Antonio please? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Through the quarter Haendel if I'm understanding your question through the quarter we were relatively sort of normal seasonality there.
Didn't see a tremendous amount of variation through the quarter.
So if you are asking sort of sequentially there was nothing unusual there.
We didn't see one month in the quarter spike.
In terms of San Antonio did you ask specifically? We had some weakness in San Antonio along with Houston kind of offset by Dallas.
It wasn't anything dramatic but the net combine there had us down 5% in Texas.
Can you give us a little color on what's driving the weakness though in San Antonio a little bit of market color? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Candidly I don't have much more because it frankly wasn't a big move one way or another.
So we didn't get real granular on that one.
So we could certainly look for that after the call if we want to get back to you.
But there was nothing unusual driving things in San Antonio.
It wasn't a gigantic drop.
Okay.
Thank you.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko from SIG.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Question for Bob.
Looking at the backlog conversion for the fourth quarter you guys have been in the high-60%s the last couple of years.
And I just want to get some clarification.
I think your commentary was it would be better than that am I understanding you correctly? And are you able to maybe put a sharper point on how we should think about conversion rates into the fourth quarter given some of the delays? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think what we were saying was not that it was better than that but we'd be moving towards it and that we would seek to catch up on the difference for what we've left on the table to this point this year through the first half of next year.
And you're right.
The last two years or three years we've been 66% 67%.
And so that is something that we will look to get towards but I wouldn't say we told you we were going to beat it.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I know you had said earlier you haven't been incenting to keep buyers in the backlog but have you seen any change in cancellation rates with the construction delays? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
The sales environment continues to be strong and frankly the level of inventory out there continues to be modest.
So those would both indicate not significant cancellation worries and we certainly are not seeing a spike.
Yeah.
So actually third quarter versus third quarter it's 17.1% this year it was 17.6% last year.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Yeah.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Bob.
I noticed in new orders it looks like your average selling price rose from $331 000 last year to $358 000 this quarter and that's an 8% year-over-year increase.
And that's one of the better trends we've seen out of the homebuilders that are reported.
What's driving the big uptick in order growth ASP? And is that something  and I know you're not giving forward guidance but how critical is that in terms of offsetting higher labor costs and sustaining a 23% gross margin? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bob this is Richard.
It's reflective of a couple things.
One is just the shifting mix from the prior investments that we've made in the Pulte category the move-up category primarily which would have been our 2014 and early 2015 investments beginning to sort of come through.
And then secondly obviously the pricing environment.
In terms of its overall impact on margins and profitability again we're not trying to give any projections for 2016 but ASPs matter.
I'll just point out it's one quarter and we have to see what ASPs develop like say in Q4 as it reflects into our next year's backlog et cetera.
But it was a pretty significant move you're right.
That's nice momentum.
And for Bob I was surprised by the SG&amp;A which looked a little bit elevated versus what I was thinking.
I know you had a reversal of a charge in there as well.
Is this kind of like a transitory situation with lower revenues when you convert your backlog you're going to get very good revenue growth? How should we be thinking not just this quarter because I'm not that concerned about it but longer term about normalized SG&amp;A levels as a percentage of revenues? Yeah Bob certainly the volume of the business impacts our ability to leverage our overheads and as we've talked about before because commissions don't flow through our SG&amp;A our SG&amp;A is much more fixed than others might be.
Certainly we've got start-up and we've talked about the fact that with all the community turnover this year our start-up expenses are up.
So I think actually about 25% of the increase year-over-year relates to community-related spend.
But certainly we think that it is leveragable because so much of it is fixed on a relative basis.
And just to highlight with the $6 million net benefit if you exclude that we were $165 million of spend for SG&amp;A and as we had said at the beginning of the year we predict to be between $160 million and $165 million every quarter.
So it was consistent with what we expected to spend.
But I'm just trying to understand next year you are expecting to get better operating leverage off the SG&amp;A line correct? Like from...
Yeah we'll provide some color going into the year of what we think our SG&amp;A spend will be.
And then obviously as Richard talked about we've been investing to try and grow the top line.
So yeah we think it's leveragable over time.
Got it.
Good luck guys.
Thank you very much.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks very much guys.
Your land spend expectations of $2.3 billion this year just even taking or adjusting for the delays on closings in this quarter it seems like you're sort of targeting around 38% or something in that vicinity as a percentage of revenues which is quite high particularly given the fact that you already have close to 100 000 lots owned.
So I was wondering are you implying a geographic or price-point repositioning that's forthcoming? Just given the fact that you have a very significant amount of land-owned already.
You are forecasting a fairly elevated level of land spend now.
Just wondering whether or not there's maybe certain areas that you feel your current land base can't provide you the opportunity to go into and so that's some of what is driving the increased land spend? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Steve this is Richard.
I'll offer three or four different pieces there.
First of all roughly a third of our total lot count is still tied up in Del Webb positions many of which are long-lived positions and that trend is going to take years to modify.
There's only so much we can drive out of each existing Del Webb position.
So when you look at our overall balance of land you have to factor that in as a significant chunk makes our matrix look a little different than others.
Secondly Bob pointed out in the prepared remarks that we are skewing our land investment towards the shorter end and most of our new land investment communities are roughly around 100 homes each so at any kind of a normalized absorption pace that's no more than a couple of year's worth in each land position.
So while our land spend is certainly up the characterization of it or the mix of it is significantly different than Pulte's habits in the past of investing in very large transactions with long trajectories of six years seven years eight years at a time.
So the total health of our balance sheet as it relates to land frankly continues to get better and better.
And then thirdly we continue to be very disciplined with regard to the way we're allocating capital and our risk adjusted return criteria we believe is keeping us in check as evidenced by the fact that our margins haven't fallen 200 basis points or 300 basis points or 400 basis points which would be indicative potentially of reaching.
So we are trying to grow the business.
We feel good about sort of the long-term potential for housing over the next few years.
But we are paying attention and we've seen nothing yet to suggest that over the next two years three years four years we should be worried but just to keep our bets safe we're investing the majority of things in shorter positions.
And then finally I'd just point out that roughly 60% of our total spend in the quarter was development.
Only about 40% is new acquisition dollars.
So for what it's worth that's investing to bring lots on where we already have invested.
And Steve just to put a finer point on that it's raw land.
So the land we've been buying over the last couple of years we are now developing and so the spend is on bringing those lots to fruition.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it yeah.
I mean your answer's one and three I resonate strongly with.
I would just say that the second point about how you are skewing your investment to smaller communities I mean that still would suggest that let's say your recent land spend is going to be what you are building on over the next couple of years.
It still leaves the question of the existing land bank that's there so whether you are buying more sort of shorter-dated lots or whether you are using up kind of a FIFO basis it still leaves you with a very large land position.
But I hear you on the points one and three.
I guess my second question relates to the labor issues that we've heard a lot about.
I was curious as to whether or not in addition to some of the other considerations that you weigh when contemplating going out to the entry-level market more aggressively if underlying your assessment about opportunity if the production challenges you're seeing from tight labor makes targeting this segment even less appealing than it did before? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Steve to be clear we're focused really on the first-time buyer as opposed to the entry-level buyer.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And there's a difference.
The first-time buyer is typically  we're seeing a $300 000 to $400 000 urban product serve them.
And I'm not hearing or seeing differences in labor challenges there versus any other segment.
I just want to comment on your point too around land spend.
We hear you that we have a large land bank.
And I guess the point I'm trying to make is that you can only get so much out of existing communities that have large lot positions but the total dollars that we have invested in the business are going into shorter and shorter positions which we feel like is a really good risk mitigation tool and is far different than our prior behavior.
So you have to dig beneath the numbers to really appreciate the way we're running the business.
And frankly we can't be focused on returns so aggressively and not pay a lot of attention to the balance sheet.
So we hear your concern and I want you to know we are paying attention to that a lot.
Inc.</span></strong> Well I appreciate that and thanks very much for the answers.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Susan Maklari from UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Susan.
You mentioned in your comments that you're at about 60% of your closings are commonly managed.
That's up pretty considerably year-over-year.
Given all of these issues that we've talked about on this call how do you think that that has helped you or how do you think the commonly managed plans have helped with that? And maybe are there any changes in the way you are rolling it out given what you are facing? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Susan I would say if anything the commonly managed plans give us an advantage in two regards.
One is our absorption pace.
The commonly managed plans are all consumer tested.
We have a warehouse facility here in Atlanta that we bring buyers through to test all of our plans before we put them out into the field and I think our absorption rates per community are being helped by designs candidly that our consumers tell us they really like.
And then specifically we believe it's helping to hold up our margins.
That along with the pricing data that Bob gave are the two components that we feel are helpful so those are the benefits from commonly managed plans and we're really pleased that it's this big a portion of our total production.
Okay.
And then at the beginning of this month we finally had the implementation (50:58) of TRID that came in.
Have you seen any disruptions related to that or anything that has changed meaningfully? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well certainly for us I would tell you we were ready for it.
We have loans in production under the new process.
Actually some of them are slated to close in October.
I think it's too soon to tell from an industry perspective.
I'm hearing that people were generally ready smaller mortgage lenders might be having a little bit more systemic issues with it and so time will tell.
But we haven't seen it as an impediment to this point.
So so far so good.
Our next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Following up on Susan's question about the new mortgage rules.
With their initial proposed implementation being right at the beginning of the fourth quarter was there any volatility around your order flows or trying to get contracts and mortgage applications in? And really I guess the question there would be was there any pull forward of orders from 4Q into 3Q as a result of that original implementation date? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Certainly not for us Nishu.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Great.
And I know there has been a lot of discussion about the cost issues.
Just taking a step back.
I think the broad-level concern that investors have is that with labor and then obviously land as well prices running the way that they have that the dynamic is if they would threaten  and it would threaten to overwhelm pricing power which has obviously slowed from where it was a year or two ago.
And therefore threaten the longer-term profitability of the business.
I know obviously you're not and you've said this many times giving forward guidance; but Richard as you sit back and look at the dynamics that are in place right now would you share that concern? Is that a legitimate concern? Or do you see a situation in which it's a healthy dynamic which is driving those cost increases and therefore there should be the pricing power longer-term to match those cost increases.
Or do you share that concern about the unhealthy dynamic? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Nishu I'll say it this way.
I understand people's concern about it overall.
I can simply tell you that given our visibility into our backlog we have not yet seen it manifest itself in terms of significant pressure.
Given our Q4 closings that are upcoming as we've indicated we expect margins frankly to be about what they are in Q3 which is a very robust level.
Again I won't comment on margins going forward.
We don't have enough visibility to really do that.
We'll try to give you as much as we can each quarter regarding kind of the next quarter overall.
So I certainly understand it but I do think that the normal tendency in this industry that I've seen in my time has been for us to be able to get price generally to offset costs.
I can't guarantee that that's the case going forward but that would be an expectation that would be reasonable based on what we've seen throughout the industry.
I do think that there is an acute shortage of some trades today that have not come back as quickly into this business after the last downturn and I think it's been elongated more than many including us in the industry would have expected.
Having said that we'll work our way through it and live to fight another day so to speak.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning gentlemen.
Morning Ken.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Ken.
Inc.</span></strong> So your gross margins at the 26% level pre the interest have been steady.
I wonder could you highlight some of these components? Because your commonly managed plan which obviously was part of your redesign process in addition to just being very steady and focusing on a more capital-return model.
Could you highlight how much that community you said Richard that you think it's helping.
I assume you have some metrics around that? Talk about the labor how much that's going up? And have you considered paying the people more to get more labor on-site? Because some larger builders haven't really highlighted this labor issue but they've done more.
So I'm just trying to figure out the different components as you think about your very steady gross margins? Yeah well certainly our margins we think are a factor or are impacted by lots of things.
First of all the land we're buying the process we're using the value creation efforts that we've talked about.
So you've seen lot premiums increasing options increasing.
Maintaining low discounts because we're not doing a lot of spec building.
Clearly things that will influence our margin going forward are; land prices are going up so we'll have an increase there and labor rates will change depending on different markets.
So I don't think you can point to any one thing commonly managed plans or anything else that says this is why margins are what they are.
It's the way we're approaching the business and all those different things that we think will allow us over time to generate higher gross margins than we historically would have.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Ken this is Richard.
Just to add one other quick thing.
Higher relative to what others may be doing with their business.
To Bob's point our business model is such that we believe the commonly managed plans the pricing et cetera help us to stay at the high end.
We are obviously subject to market conditions.
We're subject to labor pressure.
We are paying more for labor than we have.
But on a relative basis we continue to outperform on the margin line we think because of all the pieces that Bob ran through.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
You obviously at your Analyst Day talked about capital allocation but you're sitting on quite a bit of cash.
You're starting to buy back.
You're having measured spend on your land more geared to developments which means you can obviously harvest that land.
Have you got a little more comfortable around perhaps liquidity levels that we should target? I mean you're at about 30% now.
I mean as we model rising cash can we just always assume you're going to be largely putting that back into sales given your moderate view on how the housing recovery is unfolding? I mean you guys have bought back...
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah as we highlighted we like leverage between 30% and 40%.
We were underlevered coming into this quarter obviously you saw we borrowed some money late in the third quarter and you'll see in the Q that we actually were borrowed on our revolver at a point in time during the quarter.
So most of liquidity that we had we spent during the quarter.
Obviously as closings start to ramp up and with the borrowings we ended the quarter with a fairly sizable cash position but we're working with that too.
So we highlight that we have a pretty big spend on land and development in the fourth quarter roughly $800 million.
We've talked about the dividend we've obviously been buying back stock.
So we're looking out over the next 12 months and looking at the capital profile and we like where we sit today at 30% or 31% debt-to-cap.
So it's not as much about managing what's the dollars that we want to keep in the bank because those move every day.
It's how do we keep liquidity sufficient to do the things we want to do.
And our capital market activity will help to drive that offset obviously by closings.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay McCanless from Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Morning everyone.
First question I had could you give us a sense of what percentage of closings have been spec versus dirt over the last couple of quarters? And then also maybe the gross margin differential between those two that you've seen? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jay I'm not sure...
Jay we're digging to see if we have that...
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So just for perspective we...
[Audio Break] (1:00:06-1:00:23) Participants please stand by.
This is the operator.
I apologize that there's been a slight delay in today's conference.
Please hold and the conference will resume as soon as possible.
Thank you for your patience.
[Audio Break] (1:00:34-1:02:30) Thank you again for your patience on today's call.
We are still experiencing a slight delay in the call.
Please hold and the conference will resume momentarily.
[Audio Break] (1:02:39-1:03:43) And thank you for your patience today.
We're now ready to resume today's conference.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jay are you on the line? I am.
Can you hear me? We can.
Sorry.
Did you get any of our answer? No I didn't.
Sorry.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Can you repeat your question? We'll start all over again.
I apologize to everybody else on the line.
Okay.
No problem.
Was just trying to get a sense of the gross margin spread between spec and dirt and what percentage over the last couple of quarters have been spec closings versus dirt closings? Yeah Jay I don't know exactly what the closing profile is but what we can tell you is that for the last couple of years we've been between 15% and 20% spec starts.
And what we've talked about for a couple of years now is we don't mind spec starts at all because you don't see much margin degradation as long as you sell it before it finals.
The other thing I can tell you is we have very little spec final on the ground.
We were at 340-ish units at the end of September and that number has held pretty constant over time.
So again we are not uncomfortable with spec.
The margin differential isn't big unless you have three or four of them on the ground at one point in time in which case oftentimes you have to discount the homes.
Got it.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how we should model a little bit more spec coming in in 2016.
The other question I had with you guys taking out the term loan should we expect you to redeem the 2016 notes the I think it's $480 million.
Should we expect you guys to redeem those at maturity and then look to refinance the term loan? Or how are you thinking about the debt structure at this point? Yeah we've talked about it for a couple of years now in terms of how we're looking at maturity profile.
Obviously we went short on this particular one.
The rate is very attractive the market was very supportive and it happened to be at a point in time when the capital markets were a little bit unsteady.
So we really like the execution on the term loan that we did.
Looking forward obviously a lot of it will depend on capital needs timing of that.
Obviously the big maturity is the one that's next year.
And that obviously factors into every or any decision that we're going to make over the next nine months before we get there.
So no firm commitment on how and when we'll deal with that but it's sort of next in the queue.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Jay.
Your next question comes from the line of Buck Horne from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks.
Good morning.
I know we're way over time so I appreciate you staying on to answer a couple more questions.
Going back to the comment about the active adult segment and I think you said that absorption there was slightly down year-over-year on a same store basis.
I was wondering if you could just give us some commentary about are you surprised that the active adult segment is not seeing maybe a stronger lift or better absorption at this stage of the cycle? Is there anything in particular about the Del Webb product that's notable about or maybe location-wise that's affecting that absorption trend? And have you thought about maybe introducing a different kind of Del Webb product? Could you go more urban or maybe high-rise with the Del Webb brand as well? Any thoughts on that? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Buck this is Richard.
The active adult buyer is obviously continuing to read sort of the broader signals overall and they typically do lag more than the other categories.
Having said that we did close out several positions in the Southeast part of the country that were Del Webb that probably had as much to do with it as anything.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And maybe I missed it earlier in the call.
Did you guys give the net order comparisons by brand in this quarter? Jr.
- Chairman President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think we did.
Although I indicated that both the first-time category as well as the move-up category were up nicely and then Webb was down some...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
This concludes today's question-and-answer question due to time constraints.
I'll now turn the call back over to Mr.
Zeumer for closing remarks.
Thank you everybody and I apologize for the technical difficulties in the middle of this.
We are around all day so if you've got any follow-up questions please give us a call.
Otherwise we'll look forward to talking to you in Q4.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Sean.
Ill be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q4 2015 PulteGroup Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Jim Zeumer you may begin your conference.
Great.
Thank you Sean and good morning to everyone participating in the conference call to discuss PulteGroups fourth quarter financial results for the three months ended December 31 2015.
Joining me on todays call are Richard Dugas Chairman President and CEO; Bob O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and CFO; Jim Ossowski Vice President Finance and Controller.
A copy of this mornings earnings release and the presentation slide that accompanies todays discussion are posted to our corporate website at pultegroupinc.com.
We will also post an audio replay of todays call to the site later today.
Let me remind all the participants that todays presentation may include forward-looking statements about PulteGroups future performance.
Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by any comments made today.
The most significant risk factors that could affect future results are summarized as part of todays earnings release and within the accompanying presentation slides.
These risk factors and other key information are detailed in our SEC filings including our annual and quarterly reports.
With that said now let me turn the call over to Richard Dugas.
Richard? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Im extremely pleased to  with PulteGroups fourth quarter earnings which show significantly improved results across key business metrics.
In addition to ending 2015 with very strong results our fourth quarter operating and financial performance provide a foundation we can build on in 2016.
As we capitalize on opportunities to accelerate the growth of our homebuilding business.
Bob will go through a detailed review of our Q4 financials in a moment.
But there are a couple of numbers and points that Id like to highlight.
Order rates in the fourth quarter were up 13% which is the biggest year-over-year percentage jump we have realized since 2012.
As solid as this number is what I view even more encouraging is the 9% gain in absorption pace that we realized in the quarter.
Weve always said the generating higher sales within our existing footprint is the most efficient way for us to grow volumes and ultimately earnings.
Pultes disciplined approach to acquiring the right land positions over the past several years is having a positive impact on our results.
Along with order rates the average sales price were able to realize for our homes continue to increase.
In the fourth quarter closing ASPs were up 6% to $353 000 while backlog ASP is gained 10% to $365 000.
Between market opportunities mix shifts and ongoing implementation of our strategic pricing programs we expect ASPs will continue to move higher in 2016 versus comparable quarters in 2015.
Our recently closed purchase of assets from John Wieland Homes and Neighborhoods will further our pricing gains given their higher price points.
I also want to highlight our gross margins which at 23.5% is up 40 basis points over last year and remains arguably among the highest in the industry.
As we have discussed for the past several years we have implemented a number of programs from product and purchasing zones and commonly managed plans to  should costing and strategic pricing.
As an example almost 60% of our fourth quarter closings were from commonly managed plans that have the benefit of increased consumer feedback and more efficient floor plan design.
The goal of all this work has been to improve sales paces and gross margins in support of delivering higher returns on invested capital.
A lot of time and effort has been invested in implementing these initiatives and the gains are evident in our results.
Given that the financial improvements we realized in the quarter were so broad based I can highlight a number of other metrics in my comments.
I purposely picked order rates ASPs and gross margin because there is at least one common element which I believe is an important factor in all three metrics.
That common element is land.
In 2011 we launched the value creation strategy with its focus on delivering higher returns on invested capital over the housing cycle.
By 2013 we had raised returns to the point where they exceeded our cost of capital.
Since that time we have purposely increased investment into the business because it makes economic sense to do so.
While we have raised investment we have done so while adhering to the guidelines and disciplines we put in place back in 2011.
These disciplines include underwriting projects to a defined 13 point risk rating scorecard that helps ensure we select the highest returning projects focusing in on land positions that are closer into job centers and located in the better markets and sub-markets prudently using options which now account for 31% of all lots and 34% of our more traditional Pulte and Centex land positions to help enhance returns and/or mitigate land risk.
Even though we are having to develop over 70% of the lots we use we have systematically expanded the percentage of option lots we maintain.
We continue to emphasize investing in shorter faster turning projects with an average investment cycle of 36 to 48 months from acquisition to completion.
By focusing in on shorter duration projects we help to minimize risk should a housing downturn emerge sooner than expected.
As an example we expect to recruit the capital we invested in the John Wieland assets in less than four years.
And we expect the purchase to be accretive to company returns by year two.
By strategically investing in land over the past few years we have assembled a robust land pipeline that should allow PulteGroup to grow at a rate consistent with or ideally ahead of the overall housing market.
Our just completed Wieland transaction will certainly support this effort.
The John Wieland Homes and Neighborhoods brand is highly regarded in the Southeast particularly within the luxury buyer category.
Beyond the opportunities we see to expand this position we also see the potential to deploy our Pulte brand on to certain Wieland land positions as we work to increase volumes and accelerate future absorption of the acquired lots again enhancing returns.
By focusing as intently on the quality not just the quantity of the land assets we acquire.
We put ourselves in the best position to maximize sales pace pricing margins and most importantly returns on invested capital while working to mitigate excess market risk.
Through our value creation strategy we have now put the company in a position to grow.
While continuing to generate better financial performance and consistently returning funds to our shareholders.
And we have done all this while taking a more conservative lower risk approach to our business.
Growth stronger returns and properly managed risk.
We think this is a great combination.
Now let me turn over the call to Bob for a more thorough review of the quarter.
Bob? Thanks Richard and good morning.
The gains demonstrated in PulteGroups Q4 financial results are direct reflection of the meaningful improvements weve continued to realize in our homebuilding operations.
As I will detail these gains can be seen throughout our fourth quarter financial savings.
Fourth quarter homebuilding revenues totaled $2 billion which is up 12% from prior year revenues of $1.8 billion.
The increase in Q4 revenue is driven by a 7% increase in closings to 5 662 homes combined with a 6% increase in average sales price $353 000.
Although not a metric we managed against the 5 662 homes closed in the fourth quarter equates to a backlog conversion rate of 65%.
As we addressed in our most recent calls we are working to close the year-over-year performance gap weve experienced with regard to getting homes delivered.
We are pleased with the progress we made in the fourth quarter.
Having said that the challenges we and the industry face with regard to labor resources and extended land development timelines are not likely to improve in the near-term.
We believe however there are decision to prudently increase spec production should help us to maintain a more consistent build cadence going forward.
In the quarter closings by brands were as follows: 19% of homes were from Centex communities.
55% were from Pulte communities and 26% were from Del Webb.
In the fourth quarter of last year closing from Centex Pulte and Del Webb were 24% 46% and 30% respectively.
Given the profile of projects we are investing in coupled with the projected impact of assets acquired in the Wieland transaction we believe that describing our customers by buyer group rather than by brand will better represent the makeup of our business.
As a result beginning in Q1 we will address buyer groups rather than brands.
In the fourth quarter closings by buyer group were as follows: 31% were first time buyers 40% were move-up buyers and 29% were active adult buyers.
In 2014 closings by buyer group were 34% first time 33% move-up and 33% active adult.
The company reported gross margins of 23.5% in the fourth quarter which is up 40 basis points over the prior year.
As its been an ongoing trend fourth quarter margins were enhanced by higher option and lot premium revenues.
In fact option revenues in the quarter increased 10% or $4 976 per closing while lot premiums gained 16% or $1 868 per closing.
Sales discounts remained modest it just 2.2% or $8 026 per home compared with 2.1% or $7 040 per home last year.
This implementing our strategic pricing programs and 2011 as part of our value creation strategy option revenues per home have increased by $19 800 or 58% while lot premiums per home have increased by approximately $7 100 or 107%.
We believe our more strategic approach to pricing has been a key contributor to the high gross margins we continue to maintain.
Reported fourth quarter SG&amp;A expense of $139 million or 7% of home sale revenues included the benefit of a $30 million reversal of construction related insurance reserves.
Reported prior year SG&amp;A expense of $146 million or 8.2% of home sale revenues reflected at $15 million reversal of construction related insurance reserves.
Looking at the full-year our reported SG&amp;A of $590 million which was 10.2% of homebuilding revenues includes the benefit of $62 million or 110 basis points associated with certain legal settlements and reserve reversals.
PulteGroups financial services segment reported fourth quarter pre-tax income of $29 million which includes the reversal of $12 million in mortgage repurchase reserves.
The decision to reduce reserves is based on probable settlement of various repurchase requests and current conditions.
Mortgage capture rate in Q4 was 83% up from 81% in the prior year.
I would like to take a moment to highlight the efforts of our financial services team including Pulte Mortgage and PGP title and meeting the challenges in the new regulatory environment under TRID.
Our teams did a tremendous job closing Pulte Mortgage loans without missing a beat and supporting our customers under the new rules.
Deb Still our President and CEO of Financial Services and her team are recognized leaders in the industry and did a fantastic job implementing the changes needed to operate within the new TRID guidelines.
Looking at net income for the fourth quarter we reported $228 million or $0.64 per share which includes $0.07 per share of benefit from insurance and mortgage reserve reversals taken in the quarter.
Our per share earnings were calculated using approximately 352 million shares outstanding for the quarter which is down 6% from last year largely as a result of our share repurchase activities.
As part of our income statement review we wanted to provide some thoughts about 2016 given our backlog in anticipated land labor and material costs.
We expect 2016 homebuilding margins inclusive of the diluted effect of the Wieland transaction to remain high and be in the range of 21.5% to 22%.
This annual margin guidance includes a negative impact of the Wieland transaction of approximately 100 basis points in the first quarter 80 basis points in the second quarter and 50 basis points in each of the third and fourth quarters.
Looking at our projected SG&amp;A we expect our full year spend will be approximately 10% of homebuilding revenues.
Consistent with prior years this will be impacted on a quarterly basis by the seasonality of our closings.
Based on the margin and overhead guidance we just provided the calculated operating margin we expect to generate in 2016 is between 11.5% and 12%.
The operating margin we reported for 2015 was 13.2% but this was enhanced by the 110 basis points impact from the construction related insurance reserve reversals we recorded during the year.
When you consider that our 2016 operating margin guidance of 11.5% to 12% is being negatively impacted by roughly 70 basis points from the Wieland transaction and factoring the 110 basis point enhancement to 2015 operating margins.
You can see that operating margins will actually flat to slightly improved in 2016 compared to 2015.
Given headwinds the industry is facing on land and labor costs were very proud to be able to maintain our strong operating margins.
Putting all this together the combination of expected higher closing volumes higher ASPs and overhead leverage have us positioned for strong earnings growth in 2016.
Moving past the income statement and reviewing our homebuilding operations we ended the fourth quarter with a total of 6 494 homes under construction.
Spec units accounted for 30% of the homes under production which is up from 26% at this time last year.
As discussed we have purposely increased the amount of spec homes we have in the pipeline to help maintain a more even construction cadence.
In the fourth quarter we approved approximately 7 000 lots for purchase excluding the Wieland assets as that deal close to mid-January.
We ended the year with 138 000 lots under control of which approximately 42 000 lots or 31% were controlled via option.
We continue to seek out opportunities to increase our use of land options in an effort to enhance returns and/or lower our overall risk profile.
Of our controlled lots approximately 23% are finished and 18% are currently under development.
As Richard discussed we continue to use the defined and disciplined approach to our land investment.
Consistent with our land acquisition guidelines we invested $485 million in land acquisition in Q4 and an additional $304 million for development of previously acquired lots.
These investments brought our full year land related spend to $2.3 billion.
For the year we invested approximately $1.2 billion to acquire new land.
Looking ahead to 2016 including the money invested to acquire the Wieland assets we have authorized $1.6 billion for land acquisitions.
As always this level of investment is predicated on our continuing assessment of the market and on our ability to identify suitable high returning projects.
Looking at our capital allocated to shareholders in the fourth quarter.
We distributed $28 million in dividends and did not repurchase any of our stock.
The lack of share repurchase activity was due to trading limitations resulting from work to close our previously disclosed term loans and to acquire the Wieland assets.
We expect our share repurchase program to become active again beginning in the first quarter of 2016.
Based on our fourth quarter activity we ended the year with $775 million of cash and the debt to capital ratio of 30%.
As Richard noted at the start of this call we realized strong new order growth in the fourth quarter as orders were up 13% over the last year to 3 659 homes.
Higher orders for the period were driven by 9% increase in absorption paces as all three buyer groups realized higher prices.
It should be noted that we expect absorption paces in the first half of 2016 to be lower as we integrate the Wieland communities with their typical operating model of higher ASPs and slower absorption paces relative to Pulte averages.
Breaking down orders by buyer group on a year-over-year basis our first time buyer business was flat while move-up an active adult orders increased 35% 3% respectively.
Adjusting for community count our absorption paces were up 16% from first time buyers 11% from move-up buyers and 9% for active adult buyers.
On a dollars basis orders for the fourth quarter gained 24% to $1.4 billion helping to raise the average sales price and backlog to $365 000.
Its important to remember the normal business seasonality and its impact on the mix of closings will typically result in lower delivered ASPs in the first quarter of each year.
The company operated out of 620 communities during the fourth quarter which is up 4% over the prior year.
Looking ahead we currently expect community count growth versus comparable prior year period to be in the range of 8% to 10% in the first two quarters of the year increasing to 10% to 15% growth in the back half of the year.
This will be our largest year-over-year increase in community count since the housing recovery began.
Supported by our strong orders in the fourth quarter we ended 2015 with a backlog of 6 731 homes valued at $2.5 billion.
The growth in our year-end backlog up 15% in units and 26% in dollars compared to last year gives us great momentum heading into 2016.
Now let me turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Bob.
As Bob detailed the company realized meaningful improvement in our operating and financial results for the quarter.
Given the strength of our operating metrics and the expansion of our land pipeline we are in an excellent position to grow earnings in 2016 and beyond.
As has been our practice let me provide a few comments on the market conditions which drove our fourth quarter results.
Consistent with our Q4 increases in orders and absorption pace we experienced generally higher buyer traffic to our communities a pattern we realized throughout 2015.
Further many of the trends we experienced earlier in 2015 continued through Q4 with stronger demand in the better located and on average closer end communities.
Specific to the fourth quarter buyer demand remain positive up and down the East Coast with notable strength in the Southeast from the Carolinas down to Florida.
Weve talked about positive demand trends in the Southeast for a number of years.
It is this trend and our expectations for long-term growth in the Southeast markets particularly the bigger markets of Atlanta Charleston Charlotte and Raleigh which made the transaction with John Wieland so compelling.
Looking to the center of the country demand conditions remain favorable although we continue to experience volatility in the performance of underlying markets.
Demand in the Midwest showed some positive gains as we benefitted from an expanded community count in several markets.
Our Texas business in Q4 was slowed by having roughly 10% fewer open communities available for sale versus the prior year.
In addition our Texas numbers were impacted by ongoing demand softness in the higher price communities in Houston resulting from the prolonged weakness in the energy markets.
Given current conditions we are being very thoughtful about deploying additional capital in the region and well continue to carefully monitor demand throughout the state.
The Western third of the country continue to realize excellent demand from Washington through California and through our markets in Arizona Nevada and New Mexico.
Overall we were pleased with our demand conditions developed in the fourth quarter.
We have seen a continuation of good traffic and demand trends through the first few weeks of January.
So we have every reason to be optimistic heading into the spring selling season.
Consistent with our long held expectations for a gradual but sustained recovery 2015 new home sales of approximately 500 000 units for the country were up 15% over last year.
Given the favorable market dynamics of strong job growth accelerating household formations supported demographic trends and continued low interest rates we expect new home sales will continue their slow and steady path higher for the next several years.
All that being said we are well aware of the volatility in the world today.
From concerns of our global economic conditions to the swoon in oil prices to gyrations in the stock market the day-to-day swings can be violent.
The reality is however that we cant control any of these factors what we can do is focus on running our business consistent with the goals we have established and disciplines weve demonstrated.
This means acquiring well-located communities that we believe can deliver high returns on investment.
It also means hedging our bets by using more land options where possible and focusing in on smaller shorter duration projects where we can get our capital back quickly.
It also means not over leveraging the balance sheet and keeping one hand on the lever to slow investment if housing demand begins to change.
And finally it means having the discipline to systematically give excess funds back to shareholders rather than trying to force investments in the system.
We ended 2015 with a strong fourth quarter performance.
Im confident that we can build on these results in 2016 and further capitalize on the excellent market position I believe PulteGroup maintains today.
Our market position has been built by our exceptional group of employees who work hard every day to build great homes and deliver an unmatched home buying experience to our customers.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim Zeumer.
Jim? Great.
Thank you Richard.
Well open the call for questions.
So that we can speak with as many participants as possible during the remaining time of this call we ask that you limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up.
Sean if youll explain the process well get started.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Interesting year I just wanted to touch on  you guys have really robust order growth and you also noted 7.5% decline in deliveries in Texas and orders were also soft.
Can you give us a view on what youre seeing in the Texas market and specifically is it broad based or is it and whats going on with price points there? Bob this is Richard.
Good morning.
Overall the higher price points in Houston continue to exhibit softness as weve discussed.
Outside of Houston Got it.
Thats helpful.
As a follow-up great execution it seems like youre on track with deliveries and surmounting some of the labor bottlenecks.
Trying to understand the setup for 2016 when were thinking about pacing and absorption and your expectations for ASP performance you said that there is some volatility but then you look at some of your trends and they seem very strong.
How should we be thinking about pricing trends versus cost? You touched on that gross margin 21.5% to 22%.
What gives the confidence on the ASP growth you can get there? Thanks and good luck.
Theres a lot of stuff in that question Bob.
I think in terms of ASP growth we dont factor that into our expectations.
But weve got  a third of the year in backlog weve got an expectation that weve got relatively benign input costs this year.
So lumber is trending positively basically all the other input costs we see about 2% increase maybe in our house costs construction thats largely labor.
Were obviously working through that in all the different markets.
So we have visibility into a good part of the year and at least in terms of input costs we think that were in relatively good shape coming into the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much guys.
Yes strong quarter and impressive results.
Thanks Steve.
I wanted to ask you a little bit about your break-out of the first time move up in active adult.
Just one two clarifying questions on that.
So first of all you said that in 4Q I think it was 31% first-time 40% move-up and then you gave  some numbers about a third third third for 2014.
I just want to make sure that was full year 2014 versus fourth quarter of 2014.
If you could remind me again the definition of first-time versus move-up.
I mean are you actually just asking them? Is it the first time youve ever owned a home or you just sort of  putting that sort of a demarcation based on price point or what you think a typical first-time buyer would be buying? Yes Stephen.
To the first question is  that is Q4 data not full-year.
And to the second question we actually have what we call targeted consumer groups and so its based on the type of product were building and the location of it that tells us who the buyer groups are.
And so the first time designation is just an aggregation of the targeted consumer groups that serve people that are buying their homes first time as opposed to move up.
Yes.
Thats what I thought.
And whats interesting is that weve been sitting Stephen just to clarify I think we had talked about this on a couple of calls.
The flagging of those differs somewhat.
So there are  for that millennial buyer thats closer in typically higher price point we flagged them Pulte but they are really first-time buyers.
So thats the primary difference there and then there are certain active adult penetrations that we have historically and will continue to flag Pulte not Del Webb that will get caught in the active adult categorization as opposed to again being a Pulte flagged.
Right.
And I think thats  thats obviously an important distinction to make because obviously weve been  will not obviously but weve been seeing a pickup in first-time buying activity that doesnt seem to really have manifested in entry-level product per se.
But  if that would be consistent with an idea that the guy who lets say was a 26 27-year-old six years ago is now older and probably in the market maybe buying a slightly different product than he would have six years ago.
I guess my question generally would be as you lay out your community count growth as you think about how youre going to be utilizing the Wieland land with some of your product.
And just generally as you position your business in 2016 and 2017 how specifically or discreetly are you targeting a first-time buyer who may be looking to sort of buy a product which historically might have been considered a little bit more of a move-up the first-time move-up kind of a product? Like how much are you actually positioning yourself for the emergence of that kind of a buyer into the marketplace an increase in that demand? Yes Steve.
This is Richard.
Thats exactly what were doing.
As an organization I think weve talked about the millennial study that we completed in 2015 which showed what we believe to be significant opportunity for a buyer that is probably in their early to mid 30s who hasnt owned a home before.
So theyre called a first-time buyer but theyre spending $300 000 to $400 000 on urban townhome product.
So overall our categorization that Bob described we think more accurately depicts how were attempting to serve the business because those buyers will be captured in that first time category.
And we are investing in several of our major cities in that buyer category and thats part of the contributing change in ASP that you see in our backlog and in our continued guidance going forward.
Thats a part of the Pulte story here.
Just to follow on that to add Steve point Richard the average selling price of the first time home is about $264 000 and when you compare that to the historical pricing that we've disclosed for Centex that entry-level business that roughly $200 000 there is a definite difference in the product we are offering the location we're offering in it.
Your next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks and yes let me add strong results in the fourth quarter.
So congratulations on that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
First question I wanted to ask was  the absorption trend was very nice in the fourth quarter and counter to what weve seen generally I think from the industry.
9% absorption growth now that was on a lower level of community count growth.
Youre expecting quite strong community count growth 10% to 15% I believe you said year-over-year by the end of the year.
So typically with new community openings that might dampen absorptions at first.
How would that trend then carry through or how would you anticipate that strength carrying through into 2016? Is it going to be diluted by a lot of these new communities are going to be coming on or do you think there is enough momentum that you might be able to sustain that? Nishu this is Richard.
Just a couple of comments.
To be clear our 13% sign-up growth was driven by 4% community count growth and 9% improvement in absorption rates on like stores.
So we are very pleased with that and before I answer to your question I just want to point out that we believe that underlying strength and absorption rate is primarily driven by excellent land positions and weve been talking for several years how we believe were doing an excellent job of positioning our communities not just growing for growth sake.
Having said that with regard to our 2016 two things number one were going to have nice community count growth this year but it will be a little less in Q1 and Q2 as Bob indicated and then more in Q3 and Q4 although strong really all four quarters.
So that factor we would expect absorption rates in Q1 to be impacted there.
But probably more notably as we work to integrate the Wieland business that business is typically a higher price point slower absorption model and that as we integrate it will impact our results particularly earlier in the year.
So just try to make sure that everyones expectations factor that into their overall model.
So were very pleased with the way the trends are playing out for 2016 particularly as it relates to earnings growth overall but those factors will play in.
Got it.
Thats helpful.
And then second question on the margin outlook which Bob I think you laid out pretty well.
The capitalized interest that is flowing through the gross margin line has been an important tailwind for the overall gross margins thats certainly the case in 4Q as well as for overall 2015.
How do you expect that to trend in 2016? Should we take the percentage of revenues that are represented in 4Q and maybe carry that forward? Could you give us some  your thoughts on that? Yes thats a great question.
And essentially if you think about it weve got a lag between when we incur cost and expense it.
And weve had the benefit over the last few years of the debt paydown.
That obviously is mitigated in most recent year if you look at our current full year 2015 our cash interest expense was about $128 million the expense that weve recognize through the income statement was $138 million.
So theyre getting closer together.
So there will be a much smaller Delta I think in absolute terms we were $57 million benefit for interest in 2015.
That number will be smaller in 2016.
And again reflective of the fact that basically where costing off what were expensing.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Mike.
Good morning Mike.
First question I wanted to delve in a little bit around the gross margins as well.
And appreciate the insights there and I think if I understand you correctly Bob youre saying that the amortized interest for 2016 will trend closer to that $128 million is that fair? Yes we havent given any detail.
But its going to be a much smaller delta than it has been.
Right right.
So youre just trying to get into the components then of the pre-interest gross margin.
And get some of your sense of the puts and takes there 4Q 2015 down about 100 or 90 basis points year-over-year.
What were the key drivers of that and it was also down sequentially I just wanted to get your sense if labor was a big part if there was a mix shift if there was land cost what were the kind of drivers.
And also as we think about 2016 I know you highlighted the Wieland acquisition being about a 70 basis point drag but what would the other components of that  of the year-over-year change be? Yes Mike I think you summarized it well.
There is about 70 basis points of detriment that we expect in 2016 from the Wieland acquisition.
And then if you look at it the margin profiles business thinking about it from consumer groups is as has been the case for years the most the highest margin is going to be our active adult.
Interestingly when you look at it the first time business actually enjoys very high margins for two reasons.
One that millennial business that we talked about is a very strong margin business for us.
And for the historical Centex business since we havent been investing many of the lots that were running through now are older so they enjoyed strong margins.
And then that move up business which is where weve done most of our investment over the last three or four years still enjoying very good margins but because of the higher land cost and labor costs that we are seeing is today of the three although still strong the lower margin business.
And so the mix shift towards that has implications to our composite margin.
So 70 basis points from Wieland mix shift and labor cost probably the biggest driver of margin otherwise in 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of John Lovallo from Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
First question I had is you gave a lot of detail on the purchase accounting effect from the Wieland acquisition on gross margin.
Just curious about how you are expecting kind of SG&amp;A to trend through 2016 given some of the integration costs and then moving past that once its fully integrated is the $165 million kind of quarterly run rate still a good number or do you think that will actually go up a bit? We actually are  instead of targeting dollars we are putting trying to get things more aligned with industry and say okay relative to sales this is what we think.
So we think 10%.
Obviously the seasonality of the business with lower closings in the first half of the year higher closings you can and should expect to see be a richer number being higher than 10% in the first couple of quarters and lower much like we did in the fourth quarter of this year.
You know certainly there will be some integration cost associated with Wieland that we would expect overtime to be able to narrow out of the business.
But the 10% that we had projected for 2016 is inclusive of that.
John.
This is Richard.
And little color also.
The 10% guidance Bob provided when you factor in the construction reversal impact in the 2015 number you can see that were getting substantial leverage in 2016 as we expect to grow.
Okay thats helpful.
And then in terms of maybe can you just give us an update on kind of your spec strategy and how that progressed in the quarter.
I think you ended the third quarter with something like 340 finish spec homes and we did you close of the year? So finished spec at the end of the year was 471 units which is actually down about 2% from prior year.
We started that spec really in the third quarter so they werent finished at the end of year.
So youll see that come through in our first quarter and second quarter results.
But totals spec we talked about at about 30% of our starts compared to 24% historically.
So its not a big change and I think what you can and should expect to do is manage against not letting finished specs get really heavy.
And John and everyone else just to remind everyone the reason that were increasing our spec production a little bit is to help us with the quarterly cadence of closing not trying to run quite as tight as we were with pre-sold inventory and we think thats going to help us moving forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Ratner from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning and nice quarter.
Congrats.
Thanks Alan.
Richard just on your comment on January it seems like its holding up pretty well.
Curious if youre  what youre hearing underground from your active adult buyers given all the stock market volatility? Has there been any  have you noticed any discernible trends there versus more of the first time or maybe first time move-up product.
Because it is a very discretionary buyer I imagine theyre looking at 401(k) portfolios as they might be a little bit skittish.
So just curious what youre seeing from that subset of buyers currently? Alan its a great question weve been paying attention and so far weve not seen a change.
Great thats good to hear.
Second on the spec strategy is there any contemplation within the gross margin guidance next year for specs to represent a greater percentage of your sales? Assuming that is the case whats the margin differential are running at currently between your spec and to be built sales? Certainly Alan we factored that into our guidance.
As we put together our plans for the year people knew what they were going to try and start in terms of spec.
In terms of actual performance I would tell you that recent activity we would tell you that there is a very consistent with historical trend where you are your dirt sales have the higher margins weve actually seen that people are contracting before framing that the margins hold up and stay consistent and then we have a couple of 100 basis points of degradation on spec that is finished.
So again I think one of the things were really focused on is lets not get that finished spec to be a big drag on our margins going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath from MKM Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow-up a little bit on the absorption pace.
The nice improvement you had in the quarter in your commentary you stated that you feel like that driver is primarily because of  the location of your communities.
But I assume that location didnt change too much quarter-to-quarter.
So was there anything specific in the fourth quarter that you think drove that sort of incremental increase? It doesnt feel like overall new home sales accelerated in fact maybe decelerated a little bit.
So what specific do you guys changed lets say third quarter and fourth quarter which help that absorption pace in your view? Megan there is volatility typically quarter-to-quarter.
But I would point out this is a third or fourth quarter out of the last maybe four or five that we had improved absorption paces.
So I believe thats a factor.
I would also say that as our commonly managed floor plans continue to grow as a component of our total those are very well designed and frankly sell better than the non-commonly managed floor plans so thats a factor.
But I would continue to highlight that well place land were focused on quality of land not just quantity of land is the primary driver in my opinion.
These will  maybe what some others in the industry have talked about.
Okay.
Thanks.
And I wanted to follow-up on SG&amp;A a little bit too as well.
I apologize if I missed part of your answer before.
But I know theres a lot of moving parts here and some of the numbers.
So it looks like youre looking for if we ex-out the benefits this year a pretty meaningful year-over-year improvement in SG&amp;A it looks like about 100 plus basis points.
If I have that right.
But also looking for a pretty good increase in gross and community count which I would usually associate with maybe some accelerating SG&amp;A levels.
So if you could maybe talk us through your confidence and being able to sort of growth SG&amp;A the slower rate even though you are accelerating your community count growth that would be great thanks.
Well its interesting Megan a big driver of the community count growth is Wieland.
And so we opened 200 communities this year and will open some number similar to that next year.
So there really isnt a significant driver there.
Its in terms of community count growth a lot of it is going to be Wieland that we get one big chunk.
And Megan I think you highlighted  this is Richard I think you highlighted it inappropriately.
We are anticipating growth in earnings and certainly in volume this year and that provides leverage overall.
So were not giving any SG&amp;A dollar number but we do expect to leverage our overheads and you are right with your guidance or your commentary if you will on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
Why dont you go back to the margin discussion and I think you addressed it with both Mike Rehauts question and Alan but in terms of some of the mix shift youve got two things going on.
Youve got selling through some of the legacy Centex stuff that was higher margin and transitioning both to move up product and the recent vintage so just wanted to get your sense of this margin erosion that youre seeing in 2016.
Do you think you are fully run rating what the kind of go-forward mix will be or is there still some to kind of transition out this is still being lifted a little bit by 20% or so of the communities that are still legacy Centex? Any additional detail you could give there? Well honestly we will as the year goes on share what the breakdown is by consumer group.
I dont know that we would want to give quarterly forward guidance that would be community specific Mike.
So I think there certainly continues to be a mix shift weve invested largely in that move up category.
So you will see that continue to play out.
And Mike this is Richard.
I think its worth noting that we are extremely pleased with our margin projection for 2016.
When you factor in the known headwinds from a new acquisition.
We are pretty pleased with how margins are holding up when you combine that with what we expect to be good SG&amp;A leverage and strong growth.
Our operating margins we continue to be very pleased with.
So yes there are certainly some anticipated core declines from higher input cost that Bob mentioned but our relative basis we like our margin position a lot.
Right I mean clearly coming from a point of strength.
I guess then Richard on that last point on the acquisition once we get through the  I mean this is for Bob once we get to the purchase accounting headwinds which I believe you said 70 basis points drag for the full year how should we think about that margin relative to what your legacy business has been producing? I think that was understanding was that may have been a competitive deal so as this once we get through the purchase accounting of 20% margin business or is it really closer to what weve seen out of your legacy business the past year or so? Yes Mike we havent given anything beyond 2016.
I would tell you we see opportunities to reduce costs and enhance cases to drive higher returns and that's what we're going to work towards.
When we get to 2017 well share what our total margins are and to the extent that it's relevant well share what the impact of Wieland this season.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen East from Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Richard maybe the first one.
With John Wieland could you talk a little bit about what drove your decision process here? I know you all are always looking at acquisition this land buys but more extensively what was the attraction and how specific was it to John Wieland versus are you all still actively engaged in looking for more acquisition opportunities that type of thing? Steve its a great question.
Let me first confirm your comment that all acquisitions are looked at through the lands and were pleased with the economics of the deal overall and as Bob mentioned the ability to put some Pulte efficiency if you will and to what we saw there.
And a part of that you might have noted in our script were intending to take some Wieland assets and put Pulte product on it to help accelerate absorptions and drive returns.
So we feel really great about that.
Beyond that this particular transaction had significant brand value in our mind.
For buyers in the Southeast the John Wieland named commands a premium.
And when you factor that into the strategic pricing programs the focus on option revenue and lot premium revenue it's a really nice fit into the way we've been driving margins in the business.
And we feel like it's a real consistent approach toward driving high returns.
So the brand value there is exciting and candidly even the value of the Wieland name from an entitlement standpoint we feel very good about going forward.
We want to grow our business in the Southeast and the Wieland reputation is excited and allowing us to get into some of these core infill locations millennial locations.
So a very very strong recognized consumer brand in the Southeast that gives us opportunity along with the strong land positions.
And then potentially lastly Ill mention the Southeast Steve we like vis-a-vis some other markets we think the Southeast is not overheated.
We think the Southeast has got a lot of runway in front of it.
And complimentary assets that are not cannibalizing anything else we felt good about.
And then just on your last point we continue to stay actively looking at any transaction come that our way.
Weve been very very disciplined to make sure the economics work.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then Bob did I hear you right did you say land spend in 2016 would be $1.6 billion or were you just talking about acquisition side of it? Can you give me a little clarity there? And where you would be are you reallocating more toward this first time buyer I know not active adult but first time buyer away from the move-up buyer? And just maybe a bit broader on your net debt targets comfortable where your debt is now or do you want to take it lower versus repo that type of thing? Yes so to your first question that $1.6 billion that we highlighted was just land acquisition.
We will obviously have development spend on top of that.
In terms of where we are spending that money we are still agnostic.
Over time weve told folks go find the best deals what that has yielded over the last few years is mostly move-up and that millennial core business that weve talked about.
I dont see anything at the moment that tells me its going to be anything different in the future but certainly as and when for instance if that true entry level buyer becomes more robust in terms of paces and the returns make sense weve always talked about a willingness and desire to do that.
And then to your last point on net debt 30% to 30.5% at the end of the year.
We are very comfortable with that.
We have laid out a target range of 30% to 40%.
So yes very comfortable with our balance sheet position and liquidity.
So weve got plenty of choice candidly weve increased the dividend starting here in the first quarter.
We didnt get to do any share repurchases during the quarter but you can expect to see us do some of that going forward and obviously we think we can do that all in the context of the land spend that we outlined.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Randow from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys and congrats on the progress.
Thanks Will Thanks Will.
I just had a question on the mortgage business in regards to how are you thinking about normalizing underwriting standards if possible what levers can pull and if you could talk about the difficulties and implementing to know before you owe in terms of more mortgage closings are elongated et cetera.
So Ill take the first one Will in terms of overall underwriting standards if they remain fairly consistent.
They continue to be tight and we are governed by the same rules that everyone else is.
So no real change in outlook there may be on the margin it continues to ease just very very slightly but overall not much change and then Bob maybe on the TRID rules? And with respect to all the rules again I think weve got the best team in the business.
They think about change long in advance sort of problematically systematically.
So I dont see it being an impediment and I know theyll say gosh a lot of hard work behind that but theyve got a very clear calendar of the things that are coming at us.
Think about strategically so again I dont want to make it sound easy but the TRID that affected this fourth quarter it really did not impact our closings and thats testaments of the work they do that from Your next question comes from the line of Susan Maklari from UBS Securities.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hi Susan.
Hi Susan.
In terms of the labor side can you talk a little bit about what youre seeing there? It seems like with the progress you made in closing homes and the talk around your spec strategy are you seeing any incremental using there? Perhaps some of the contractors are gaining a bit more confidence and whats going on in the market? Susan I dont think were seeing a real easing.
I think were getting a little bit better at managing through it by not being quite as tight with our spec inventory change if you will.
We give ourselves a few more targets to shoot at each quarter to account for any up and downs that may occur in the market.
But labor continues to be tight.
Theres not a lot of new labor thats flowing into the space.
So I do think the industry and thats particularly we are getting a little better at managing through it.
But its going to be with us for a while.
Okay.
But the ability to give that to labor markets the cadence and a consistent view that says  weve got the following work were going to keep our crews busy were not pulled off  on off the sites.
We think well have real benefit in terms of our ability to produce timely.
Okay.
And then as we look to your obviously the improvements in the option revenues that weve seen and we think 2016 the continuation of the value creation efforts there.
Can we see that continue to come up or how should we think about the trends with this? Susan this is Richard.
I would never say were done in that regard.
We certainly taken a lot of price in the last few years and I would say the low hanging fruits have been picked overall but thats a big focus for us as an organization.
And every new job we open we tend to push its actually been extremely pleasing to us that weve been able to continue to make progress quarter-over-quarter there.
So no specific guidance there clearly there is headwinds from higher cost land and labor pressure as Bob talked about influencing but that helps us to mitigate it.
I cant really give you much more detail though in terms of what we expect there.
Well have to see how the quarters play out.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay McCanless from Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
First question what was the can rate in the quarter and what was last year? Can rate was 18.1 that's about 100 basis points over the last year.
Okay and then the second question I had is just with Richards commentary earlier about maybe shifting some of the Wieland land to the Pulte nameplate we had expected an ASP growth of roughly high single-digits for this year as you guys were Wieland in is that what youre expecting internally or should we be a little more muted and what you expect for average price growth if you are going to shift some of that land to lower price Pulte product? Jay were not given specific guidance on ASP overall you can kind of see whats happening in our backlog and project out the next quarter or two in terms of whats happening with overall ASP.
I would point out that Wieland in total will make a modest percentage of the companys total.
So when you factor a portion of that only a portion of that being Pulte that specific impact is probably not significant on our overall ASPs.
And later in the year can [indiscernible] by the time you actually launch the new product get the community open start building houses that doesnt happen overnight Jay.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko from SIG.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Im curious about how to think about your lands strategy obviously the option components correct up to about a third of the inventory now.
But then I think in the prepared comments you had said around 70% of the land spend was for undeveloped.
Can we think is that the option percentage is going to continue to creep up or is this a signal that maybe to maintain those margins going to be go out give more on the development side.
Yes Jack what we really are trying to say is we are really paying attention to managing the risk side of the land component.
The fact that were having to develop 70% plus is just a factor of the way the land comes to us in the market but that doesnt mean we cant break those takes into two or three or four takes with options to mitigate risk.
And we want to highlight that on Wieland candidly because some of the reports I saw showed people talking about buying eight years or ten years or 12 years worth of land and we expect to recoup all of our capital in less than four years on that deal.
So were very very focused on mitigating risk from that perspective.
So in terms of option percentage I would hope that we can continue to drive that forward the market will take that but agnostic to options or development or not the key is were managing risk very differently than we did in the past.
Buying 10 or 12 years worth of land at one time is very very rare event today for the company and will continue to be going forward.
Okay so consistent strategy of sort of more efficient balance sheet around the land piece.
I think thats right.
Yes and just to clear its really not a margin management exercise to Richards point its what comes to us in the market and we underwrite transactions against returns not against margins.
So they may drive higher margins at some point in time but we are really focused on what the characteristics of the return obviously we have to hold the land for too long that doesnt seems much good.
Okay.
And then adding on to the Alans earlier question about the marketplace I mean the risk between what I guess the equity markets are pricing and around the domestic picture and what companies across many industries are now spring selling season I mean and you had some bullish commentary on January.
I mean does anything absent Houston is there anything you are seeing a broad footprint that would suggest that there's any kind of creep in [indiscernible] from whats happening in the broader markets to traffic or demand based? Jack we are watching it very carefully candidly we havent seen the impact yet.
And it is interesting to kind of understand that but I would say its really too early for 2016.
Now spring selling season kicks off typically Super Bowl will get a good read on it.
But look we can only say we like what we see so far.
So we are optimistic you factor in the combination of low supply in the space in general still five months supply plus or minus low rates a jobs picture that I would say is good not great yes there is some macro volatility but so far we like what we are seeing.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you first could you let us know how many active communities are at Wieland? Approximately 40.
40 great.
And then I think the original expectation was going to be earnings and cash flow accretive in year right from the back.
I think today you indicated by next year is that  can you just clarify that first? Yes we still believe its earnings and cash flow accretive the year one.
It is return accretive year two.
That was the comment that we made today.
So yes weve laid out significant cash position and weve talked about.
We need to start up some of these activities that we think drive higher paces and margin and it will take us some time.
So we think it becomes accretive in year two.
Great.
Then lastly can you bracket expected land development spend for 2016? I think you have seen from us over the last two years that it is roughly 50/50.
And that is probably not out of the range of reasonable.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Gilbert from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning thanks for taking my questions most of them have been answered.
But just really quickly on the backlog conversion year-over-year improving the gap in the year-over-year decline.
Can you talk I guess specifically about the processes or specific steps that you took in the quarter to generate that improvement? And then how you expect that to trend in 2016? I think just given that it seems like your growth rate is going to accelerate.
Interested in hearing how you think that you can continue to close the gap? Thanks.
Yes Bob go ahead with that.
Im sorry just the first and the only comment I wanted to make to that is our spec strategy is going to help there.
We shifted starting in late Q3 into Q4 building a few more homes on spec in order to give us an opportunity sort of mitigate some of that decline.
Having said that its going to be a gradual process of as Bob indicated on one of the questions earlier more even production cadence giving the contractors better visibility into whats coming at them.
Overall we think thats the primary vehicle that we are going to use to help.
Clearly we are paying market rate Bob indicated that were going to expect a little bit of cost inflation this year on the labor side and thats to be expected.
So those are the primary areas Ryan.
Okay great and you are seeing positive feedback from your sub-contractors on the increased spec levels? Well what they like we already have quite a few lots in front of them they like visibility into the production side.
So yes to the extent that we can build on a more even cadence sprinkling and specking inventory as we have thats more predictable for them allowing then to keep the cruise dedicated to our jobs.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Alright thanks for taking my follow-up.
I just wanted to get drill down I think you kind of addressed it a little bit with Wieland about 40 communities which would kind of suggest that at least in the first half for the year will be the bulk of the community count growth but maybe you are expecting a little bit on an organic basis is that fair? And then the organic growth ex-Wieland would check in a little bit more in the second half.
Is that the right way to think about it? I think it is Mike yes.
Okay.
And then in terms of the absorption impact of Wieland in the first half obviously you had a nice acceleration into this most recent quarter in terms of sales pace.
Are you talking about maybe expecting overall company-wide absorption to be down low single-digits or would it be a greater type of number than that? Mike we didnt give any specific commentary on that.
We just wanted people to appreciate the fact that absorption rates are going to be slowed by the impact of all these new Wieland communities and their typical model of say selling one or two a month in each community versus three or four in typical Pulte community.
How many  exactly what that impact is overall on absorption rates is hard to tell.
We just wanted people to factor that in.
We dont forecast overall sales as you know.
We just wanted you to keep that in mind in your models.
Okay all right great thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Buck Horne from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Sorry guys I know the call is going long right now but I wanted to talk just minute about Del Webb and just the active adult business.
I think the absorption rates in active adult seem to be improving but still lagging some of the other buyer groups.
And just wondering if you noticed any performance differentials between say newer Del Webb communities versus kind of the flagship communities and what else you can do to improve or accelerate active adult absorption? That is a good question this is Richard.
The flagship communities if you will we have really maximized the opportunity there some time ago.
So those are kind of our steady run rate basis.
The newer Del Webbs that we bring on though typically are closer to the core center 500 to 1 000 lots I would say overall better locations and we are really pleased with the results there.
So the way I look at it Buck would be as active adult communities cycle over time for us to be concentrating on opportunities that are closer to city core vis--vis the larger kind of big cruise ship Del Webb operations of the past.
Those are probably not going to happen again.
Having said that we are pleased with the absorption rates we continue to see.
You are right they are typically lagging the others but not by much.
And we love the financial performance of those communities with strong margins and good returns.
Okay thanks and on the West Coast you see in the strength in the west.
I mean is there any noticeable differences between maybe California versus some of the other West Coast markets.
Any granularity you can give on just the west region will be helpful.
Buck it was pretty broad based strong candidly some of thats given community count changes for us overall.
But we like our position our northern California operation as an example has fantastic land positions we are continuing to show strength.
Weve got a relatively small business up in Washington but its getting better.
And Phoenix is doing quite well for us.
So we have a big position in Phoenix and we have an excellent team in Phoenix and they do a great job.
Were driving quite a bit of volume at very good margins there.
This concludes todays Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Mr.
Zeumer I will turn the call back to you.
Thanks John thanks everybody for your time this morning.
We are certainly around all day if you have any follow-up questions and we look forward to talking to you on our next quarterly call.
And this concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.