Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America’s First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kowlzan.
Please go ahead when you are ready.
Good morning.
And welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's first quarter earnings release conference call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther who runs our Corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call and after the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported first quarter record net income of $37 million or $0.37 per share which included after-tax noncash charges totaling $2 million or $0.02 per share from asset disposals related to major energy projects.
Reported results for the first quarter of 2010 were $19 million or $0.19 per share which included income of $9 million or $0.09 per share from alternative fuel mixture tax credits and asset disposal charges of $2.5 million (sic) [$3 million] or $0.02 per share.
Net sales were a first quarter record $630 million up 14% compared to first quarter 2010 net sales of $551 million.
Excluding income from asset disposal charges net income was $39 million or $0.39 per share versus the first quarter of 2010 net income excluding both income from fuel credits and asset disposal charges of $12 million or $0.12 per share.
This $0.27 per share increase in earnings was driven by higher containerboard and corrugated products mix and price of $0.35 per share and higher volume of $0.06 per share.
These increases were partially offset by lost volume and higher costs from severe weather of $0.02 per share and by increased costs for: Transportation of $0.03 per share; chemicals $0.03 per share; medical and workers' compensation cost of $0.02 per share; labor of $0.02 per share; and incentive compensation accruals of $0.02 per share.
Our first quarter earnings were $0.03 per share lower than the guidance we provided on January 24 due in large part to unusually severe winter storms that impacted both our mills and box plants.
These storms which involve heavy snow ice and rain caused the facility equivalent of one work day during the quarter across the entire box plant system.
Wood harvesting cost and energy consumption in our mills were also higher with the extreme cold as well as heavy rain in the south.
Finally at our Counce Tennessee linerboard mill severe storms disrupted the supply of purchase electricity from TVA to the mills resulting about 1/2 day of lost paper machine production.
Once the major energy project is completed later this year at Counce we will be able to sustain operations without purchase power from TVA.
Operationally even with the exceptionally bad weather and two annual maintenance outages we performed quite well during quarter.
Our corrugated product shipments were the highest since our record first quarter of 2006 shipments up 3.1% over last year for total shipments and up 1.5% per workday with one more FBA workday this quarter.
However as we said during our fourth quarter earnings conference call on January 25 most of our box plants did not work on January 23 which is counted as a workday by the FBA.
And as mentioned earlier we lost the equivalent of 1 additional workday in our box plant system due to severe snow ice and rain storms.
First quarter 2011 volumes were also up against a very tough comparable with total shipments of 14% in the first quarter last year.
The quarter end is strong with March setting a new total shipments record for any month outperforming August of 2005 shipments by about 1%.
As reported by the FBA last Friday industry corrugated shipments for March were also up 4.1% in total and per workday and industry containerboard inventory dropped 166 000 tons to 2.3 million tons which is the second lowest level in 30 years.
Our outside sales for containerboard compared to last year's first quarter were up in total about 1%.
Increased volumes in both containerboard and corrugated products improved earnings by about $0.06 per share compared to last year's first quarter.
All of our mills had an outstanding quarter producing 602 000 tons of containerboard up 33 000 tons over the first quarter of 2010 driven by strong productivity lower annual outage production losses and no wood fiber shortage downtime.
We did have production losses of about 22 000 tons due to annual maintenance outages during the quarter with both of our linerboard mills in Counce Tennessee and Valdosta Georgia each down for five days.
The Valdosta annual maintenance outage continued into the second quarter and work was scheduled to be completed on April 6.
However due to an electrical outage the mill did not start back up before April 11.
The outage resulted from a fire of the mill which was confined to wiring in the ceiling of the turbine generator  room.
There was no damage to major equipment or other areas of the mill and the fire had no impact on the major energy project at Valdosta.
We will be filing insurance claims for the total cost of fire including asset write-offs repair costs and production losses which will be subject to a $3 million deductible.
We expect to settle the claim in the second quarter and report a charge of $0.02 per share for the deductible.
We ended the quarter with our inventory down by 8 000 tons below 2010 year-end levels which is lower than what we would've liked considering the production downtime we have scheduled in the second quarter.
Looking at pricing our containerboard and corrugated products prices were up significantly year-over-year reflecting higher containerboard prices both domestic and export plus a full pass-through to boxes of our containerboard price increases which along with mix improved earnings by about $0.35 per share compared to last year's first quarter.
With regard to costs we are seeing inflationary cost pressures continue in several areas.
Caustic soda is up about $200 per ton since the first quarter of last year which together with other chemicals reduced our range by about $0.03 per share.
Outbound transportation costs were also up about $0.03 per share compared to last year's first quarter driven by higher diesel prices as well as increased demand on nationwide truck fleets and rail systems.
On average for the quarter diesel costs were up about 25% over last year's first quarter and exiting March up an additional 10%.
We currently expect these costs to continue to increase and be higher than the first quarter average cost.
Other significant year-over-year cost increases included medical and workers' compensation costs which can fluctuate based on the timing and nature of the claims of about $0.02 per share and higher incentive compensation accruals of $0.02 per share.
We accrue and estimate our annual incentive cost based on quarterly earnings and with significantly higher earnings this quarter than last year's first quarter accruals were higher.
Labor costs were also up $0.02 per share over last year as a result of annual wage increases.
Industry-published prices for old corrugated containers or OCC excluding delivery cost were up about $25 a ton in the first quarter of 2011 compared to the first quarter of last year.
The higher recycled fiber costs reduced our range by about only $0.01 due to our relatively low usage of OCC.
And that was offset by wood fiber costs which were down by about $0.01 per share compared to last year.
We were able to reduce the normal winter wood increase by building additional wood inventory during the second half of 2010.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who will give you an update on our cash position and our bio-fuel tax credits.
Working at cash PCA generated cash from operations of $64 million.
Cash from operations was seasonally lower with about $44 million in beginning-of-year payments including incentive bonuses and our semiannual interest payments on our notes.
Capital expenditures were $65 million during the quarter which included $25 million for normal capital expenditures $33 million for the Counce and Valdosta energy optimization projects and $7 million for strategic projects at our box plants.
During the quarter we repurchased 618 000 shares of our common stock for about $27.88 per share or $17 million and paid our regular common stock dividend that amounted to approximately $15 million.
We ended the quarter with $173 million cash on hand.
On April 14 we acquired Fuel [ph] Packaging Group a Chicago-area corrugated products manufacturer with sales of $35 million in 2010.
The acquisition was made with cash on hand.
Our total long-term debt at quarter end excluding capital leases was $658 million.
On March 1 we extended our credit agreement for our receivables securitization program to February 28 2012 at a slightly lower interest rate.
During the first quarter we did not utilize any bio-fuel tax credits to offset federal cash tax payments as no tax payments were due until April 15.
At quarter-end we have estimated tax credits remaining from between $100 million to $200 million with the final amount to be determined based upon the IRS review of our amended 2009 tax returns which was filed in December 2010.
The review of our amended return began this quarter.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Looking ahead the second quarter will be difficult from an operations standpoint.
This is the first time I can recall that the annual maintenance and capital project correlated work we'll need to do requires us to have all four of our mills down for planned outages in the same quarter.
The portion of Valdosta annual maintenance outage completed in April reduced production about 8 000 tons.
Our Tomahawk Wisconsin and Filer City Michigan medium mills are planned to be down for their annual maintenance outages which will reduce production by 12 000 tons.
Our #1 paper machine accounts is planned to be down for a week in June to install a new electrical drive and the mill will be slowed back after that as we start rebuilding 2 recovery boilers which together will reduce production by 19 000 tons.
Total planned downtime and slow backs in the second quarter will reduce production by about 39 000 tons or 17 000 tons higher than in the first quarter and will also increase production costs and annual outage-related maintenance costs.
We expect inflationary cost pressure to continue as chemical transportation and energy costs are currently higher than the first quarter average and we expect them to increase further.
Our corrugated shipments are expected to increase and we also expect a richer mix.
Energy usage should decrease with the warmer weather.
Considering these items we expect second quarter earnings of about $0.35 per share.
With that we'd be happy to entertain any questions.
But I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on the call this morning constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risks factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that we'll be happy to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question or comment comes from the line of Mr.
George Staphos from Bank of America.
A couple of quick questions to start.
Was there any effect at all from the project outages in the first quarter? And as you look to the second quarter guidance and the 39 000 tons do you still expect outages to be -- the project-related outages to be roughly around $0.10 as I recall from the prior quarter’s conference call? During the first quarter the work that was done was just the normal annual shutdown work some tie-ins related to the Valdosta new boiler.
But the second quarter we'll see the remainder of the annual shutdown work and then the beginning of the Counce recovery boiler work.
And again we saw the 22 000 ton impact in the first quarter from annual shutdown work.
And going into the 39 000 tons for the second quarter up 17 000 tons over.
But again primarily the annual energy project work at Valdosta and Counce will be the second third and finally the fourth quarter impact.
George this is Paul.
There's another little wrinkle here that we might not have made perfectly clear in the last earnings call.
Although we've talked about it in the past and the change in the way you amortize for maintenance cost or the annual outages in the first quarter cost us $0.06 a share.
That was the hit.
In the second quarter this annual maintenance outages and the major energy project work is going to cost us $0.13.
So that's a $0.07 differential and that's broken into 2 pieces.
And I think that may be 1 of the pieces isn't well understood.
The first piece is simply the effect of the more tons and the normal maintenance costs.
That would be $0.04 more.
And that's in proportion to say 22 000 tons of downtime in the first quarter compared to 39 000.
But there's another $0.03 of maintenance that we also take in the quarter because we have to then amortize the first quarter maintenance cost over the entire year and then we'll have to amortize the second quarter maintenance costs over the entire year.
And since we did the first quarter maintenance so late in the quarter there was hardly any maintenance hardly any amortization.
So we really get a double hit this quarter the normal $0.04 plus we pick up $0.03 and we will so each subsequent quarter for the amortization of earlier maintenance work.
So really it's a $0.07 hit compared to the first quarter as a result of these shutdowns.
Okay.
That's very helpful Paul.
I guess the second question I had when I looked at the first quarter results and I look at the -- if you will the revenue benefit that you called out on an EPS basis.
If I multiply by the share count and gross up by the after-tax math it want of being around I guess $65 million or so yet the revenue grew by a greater amount.
I was wondering if you could remind us what might drive that variant? And similarly cost of goods moved more than the line items per share that you called out.
Again could you remind us what might cause that variance in the quarter? George it's all related to the volume.
So I mean that's the key.
Okay.
Yes pricing was pretty stable as you would expect quarter-over-quarter and we had one terrific quarter volume-wise.
And the cost of goods sold line will also get the impact of inflation in addition to the higher volume.
Okay.
Last one then I'll turn it over.
To the extent that you could go back say three months ago and look out to the second quarter what your inflation expectations were how much more negative is inflation running right now on input cost and freight relative to what would have been in your guidance coming out of fourth quarter? Thanks guys.
Good luck in the quarter.
Well let me just say it another way.
In terms of inflation inflation is higher than we thought.
In fact if you look at our $0.03 miss in the earnings compared to our guidance $0.02 was the bad weather that was obviously unprecedented and unpredictable.
The other $0.01 came from inflation about $0.005 in transportation and $0.005 in medical.
So if you look at it that way you could say we missed the inflation by only $0.01 but we actually missed it more than that because chemicals were higher.
And we offset some inflation with higher volume.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Chip Dillon from Crédit Suisse.
As we look at the next -- beyond the second quarter and we look at the second half obviously it's going to be -- we're coming to a head here on the energy projects and I thought maybe given that we're getting close could you give us sort of your latest on how we'll see both the expenses in the third and fourth and maybe even the first quarter flow and how the benefits and how you expect them to start...
A bit of second quarter will play into the third.
All the annual shutdowns are done but we're right into the Counce recovery boiler rebuild.
And again that will impact us roughly 14 000 tons in the third quarter and 14 000 tons going into the fourth quarter.
So we will have the impact of the weather rebuild.
Now that being said the first recovery boiler goes down in June.
That will be completed by the latter part of July into August.
So August will be a month that we will have an opportunity to run hard and take advantage of that clean running if you will.
And then the second recovery boiler goes down in September.
Now the other point is the turbine generator was completed in December and that also will receive the benefit of the incremental steam from the recovery boiler once it's completed at the end of the July.
So there'll be incremental benefits there.
And then again with the fourth quarter work wrapping up we'll see the number 2 recovery boiler completed and then the start up of the Valdosta [indiscernible] boiler.
And that's going to be like in October November? Paul would you like to elaborate on that? Well yes.
I think you've cover it quite well.
But the thing I would point out is Chip -- and I know you like to model things.
Everybody likes to model things.
It is an incredibly difficult year to model even for us because of the annual outage and the timing effects.
You do something that you get a benefit for but you may not get it today.
And let me give you an example because Mark alluded to it.
In order to balance our inventory we're going to take that recovery boiler down at Counce in June.
It will be down at the last half of June all of July and for the rebuild.
And that will cost us maybe 300 350 tons a day.
And then we're going to -- then we have no downtime of any type in August 31-day month.
And we have the ability since it's so close to the shutdown to run beyond our rated capacity when equipment's that fresh.
So let's say we can run it 104%.
That certainly would be our goal to balance our inventories and run like crazy in August.
The problem is we'll just be building inventory with those tons and we won't get the benefit of those tons until we sell them over the busy fall season.
So although we made the tons we'll get the fixed costs part of it.
That will flow into our results but the profit will be delayed.
A similar concurrence in building this inventory plan for the year is we trade for tons and we have the ability to vary the tons during the year.
In other words throw our tons out of balance early in the year to pay the tons back later when we've got the production capacity.
So for every ton that trade ton we took in now we don't make any money on it.
It doesn't cover any overhead.
But when we pay those trade tons back in the second half of the year we'll get both the LIFO benefits from reducing the inventory and to get profit on those tons.
So it's hard to model on exactly when all these things going to happen.
But it's got to happen by the end of the year.
So we got to zero these balances in and balance our inventory.
So it's a quite a complicated story and I'm just really trying to give you a little perspective on it.
That's very helpful.
And just real fast shifting gears.
As you look at the OCC market I can't remember it being sort of stable at such a high level for so long.
And it seems like maybe my perception is wrong but it's a little bit tighter or stronger in Europe than it is here.
Do you think that the inability or the challenge in getting ships and containers is influencing the market whereby -- we are long OCC here so there's sort of a plenty here but there's not plenty other places? I really don't have any knowledge.
I mean that's a good question but...
Chip there's two things that are unexplainable the Cubs and the OCC markets.
And I'm not going to even attempt the Cubs.
But OCC you just can't seem to predict it.
My own gut feeling I have just anecdotal evidence that the Chinese they are trying to throttle slow back a little bit.
And the one thing that drives the OCC market than anything else is how much the Chinese are buying.
So they obviously have backed off a little bit.
And I think the thing that's certain is just a matter of time that they're going to pick it up again.
When they do is who knows? Got you.
Well thank you very much.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mr.
Rick Skidmore from Goldman Sachs.
Could you just maybe have Rick talk to when you'd expect the tax credit resolution to come through? And then on the recovery boiler spend does that end in the fourth quarter? Or will you have some carryover into 2012? On the second question for the most part all of the capital spending related to the major energy project will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter.
And I would say anything that would be going into the first quarter of 2012 would be minimal Rick.
As far as the resolution of the tax situation as far as the bio-fuel credits I really can't give you an answer.
It will depend upon the IRS.
I can tell you that we're already working with the IRS to review the amended tax return for 2009 and we hope that it will go expeditiously.
But that will be based on the IRS's timeline.
Just one other question in terms of just your normal seasonality in the business.
If I recall usually second quarter is better than the first quarter because you use less energy and other things.
What's that normal seasonal change historically? Is it about $0.04 to $0.05 from the first quarter to second quarter? Not that much.
It really depends.
One of the things that -- if you look at seasonality you normally see some better wood costs in the second quarter third quarter.
But fortunately for us we didn't have an increase in wood costs.
So it's not as much as you would have normally had in the past.
Second we do expect energy usage to go down with warmer weather.
But that's more of a $0.01 to $0.02 per share item.
But on strictly volume I think you're thinking of volume Rick we're usually up $0.02 on volume first quarter to second maybe up $0.02 to $0.03 on volumes second quarter to third as the volume builds.
And so business does get better volume-wise and our expectation as Mark reported is for higher volume in the second quarter which we think will be the case.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mr.
Anthony Pettinari from Citigroup.
Can you elaborate a bit more on your current inventory situation? You drew inventories down in the first quarter.
Are you comfortable with where you are? And I guess what steps do you need to take to make sure you're supplying your box plants ahead of the rebuilds in the summer? It's a good question.
We had planned to build inventory ahead of the shutdowns.
As we went into the January February period obviously volume was very good.
Mills ran strong but box plants also ran well in spite of the winter weather issues.
And so we actually drew down some of that inventory.
That being said we've got to run well and continue to take care of business in order to meet the demand.
But to your point we were anticipating to build.
We're instead we actually drew it down 8 000 tons.
So as we also mentioned in the call in January we have some options.
In fact our domestic volume is that strong as far as cut up.
We continue to have the ability to take tons out export as an example in order to supply our own needs.
So again right now tight [ph] class situation with higher volume in the box plants will set the pace for us and the mills will have to run to meet that.
As I said earlier -- this is Paul -- our basic plan now -- we're pretty close to where we want to be.
The key is when we got that five- or six-week period in August our plants are run at 104% of capacity.
If we do that we're in good shape.
If we don't then either have to cut back in some areas primarily export.
But our track record shows that we can do it.
We said we had about 50 000 tons related to the shutdowns.
We have pre-built 25 000 tons.
That's 25 000 above our optimum inventory level.
Now we can run lower than optimum 15 000 tons or so.
It costs you a little more money to do that because of freight cost but that's also a solution.
We'll just run a little leaner and this can cost us.
And then if we really had a problem which we're not anticipating we can always push that second recovery boiler shutdown out another two three four weeks and build more inventory.
But we don't think it will come to that.
Thank you.
That's very helpful.
And Rick you would confirm that the energy project capital spending would basically conclude at 4Q.
Are you still targeting about $295 million and with the 25% return? Thank you.
Yes that's still in the ballpark for both capital as well as return.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
First question was just -- you referenced Mark I think $0.06 and $0.13 for the impact from both the annual maintenance and from the energy projects in the first second quarter respectively.
Roughly how much of that would be the energy versus the annual maintenance? The third item too in the second quarter which is the #1 machine being down at Counce for the drive replacement Mark.
So we really haven't differentiated it.
But normally we said the first quarter was about $0.06 where the Tomahawk and Filer outages are much smaller outages.
So they would probably be about $0.02 and then the remainder would be the extra energy work in the Counce.
Inc.</strong> And in the second quarter how much would your normal annual maintenance charges? Would it be $0.04 or $0.05 typically than the average year? Including the annual outage repair cost amortization yes.
Inc.</strong> And then just -- so we should figure April can you give us a sense as to how the first few days in April have stacked up? Yes if you'll hit our first 10 days of shipments have been very good.
We're up about 1% over March which was an all-time record and actually up 3% over last year's April which was also a record.
So we're feeling pretty good right now with what we're seeing in the market So that's pretty tough comparables being up over your all-time records.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mr.
Phil Gresh from J.P.
Morgan.
Most of my question has been answered.
But I just want to follow up on the acquisition.
What was EBITDA contribution? Just trying to get a sense of the multiple.
And kind of any kind of synergies you would expect from that? We don't typically get into the financials when we disclose an acquisition.
Rick do you want to add any more? No.
At this point we don't have anything to add related to the acquisition.
Of course the sales are about $35 million.
If fits all of our criteria.
As we said earlier and it's going to be beneficial to us and accretive to earnings from the first day.
And basically we're not trying to be evasive.
But anything we shared with you on that would be sharing with our competitors.
And that's just not something we like to do.
Okay fair enough.
And then just to clarify the guidance for the second quarter.
I assume it does not include the insurance deductible charge of $3 million? Yes that's correct.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Mark just coming back to the comment about being able to move back from the export market.
How much tonnage is going into export right now? I'm just trying to get a sense of how much leeway you have on this inventory situation? And then second as you look at that laundry list of incremental costs this quarter as we look through our model how many of those costs were incremental to your expectations? I mean obviously some of it is related to the operating issues and the tons you produce.
But how much of those costs were a surprise to you in the quarter? On the first question on exports we are down 3% on the first quarter.
And again that was planned.
Again as we finished up the year 2010 and went into the first quarter.
We have mentioned that on the January 25 call.
The next question… I think we were down from about 10% to 7%.
So you've got a couple of hundred thousand tons to play with Mark which is a lot of tons.
Yes exactly.
And then the second question was just on cost.
Just trying to get a sense of how many of those things caught you by surprise in the quarter or weren't something that you could predict based on the operation issues you had.
Very little.
As we said earlier we missed our guidance by $0.03.
$0.02 of it was in severe weather both in terms of volume and increased costs when you've had people working but you were not shipping.
The other $0.01 was essentially in transportation which was inflation-oriented with a higher diesel cost and the other $0.005 was in medical which it was either a combination of claims or increased costs for the benefits that were rendered.
So from our guidance it was not that much that we didn't expect.
But it did go up during the quarter which leads to the fact that for many items the first quarter average is lower than what we had exiting the quarter which has more impact in the second quarter.
And to be fair Mark we probably missed inflation by another $0.01 but that got wiped out by $0.01 of volume was better than we thought.
So we had two misses that offset each other which happens every quarter.
Sure sure.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mr.
Andrew Feinman from Meridian.
Thanks.
So I just would like you to tell us a little bit more about the acquisition not the numbers.
I know you don't want to talk about the numbers.
But was it a box plant or how many box plants? What does it do to your integration? I think you said something about a manufacturer.
So do they have any paper...
All we're prepared to release today is we bought a box plant located in Chicago which is a big market where we need capacity and it has about $35 million in sales.
And you can do math and make an estimate yourself on how big that might be in terms of tonnage.
But again we don't normally disclose this information down the road.
Once it's integrated then we talk more about it.
Are they capable of doing the hard stuff? You didn't hear my first answer apparently.
I'm sorry.
Okay that's good enough.
Thanks.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mr.
Eric Seeve from GoldenTree.
I was wondering if you could provide a little more color on the expected timing of the ramp up of the energy projects.
And also you've talked about what the returns will be.
Are those returns that we should expect in year 1 of the projects being operational or is there a ramp-up period? As an example when we complete the recovery boiler rebuild at Counce into the fourth quarter we expect to see the benefit taking place during that fourth quarter.
And then Valdosta with the new recovery and turbine generator we expect to see that benefit beginning at that point in time and then seeing full benefits go in the first quarter of 2012.
So again there will be some start up but full benefit first quarter of 2012.
The question is we're not sure when we're going to start up in the fourth quarter.
I mean it's planned for December 1.
You never know.
If I had to make a big bet I'd bet that we'll probably be two weeks early as opposed to two weeks late.
The project is going well but we don't want to jinx it.
But in terms of 2012 yes this thing -- we get the benefit in 2012.
The only other thing I would say on return is that we're confident at the return.
Whether we get it above the line or below the line is yet to be determined because part of the return involves credits energy credits and we can take those in various forms some of them in revenue or we can opt to take if approved investment tax credits where you get the cash up front.
And so that's the -- but they both will translate into the same return.
But the complete nature of the return hasn't been defined because there's still energy legislation going on that we will participate in and we're just trying to find out the best way to participate.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from the line of Mr.Joel Lekerski[ph] from BMO Capital.
It's Stephen Atkinson actually.
In terms of the Tomahawk and the Filer City where the energy balance obviously is not as good is there anything you can do there? We always have plans in our portfolio as we look forward at opportunities.
But currently again the bigger projects obviously are at the southern mills.
But we have the bio-fuel process at Filer City which was started up in 2008.
And so again when you look at Filer we've significantly improved the energy position and eliminated the use of natural gas in our boilers which we supplemented that with methane gas that's generated on-site from the bio processing.
Okay.
And the other opportunity we also have at Filer -- it's not on the immediate drawing board but it's a down-the-line consideration if electricity costs do what we think they're going to do we could instead of burning that in a boiler we put it through a gas turbine and generate electricity – it would be a small investment.
And that's something that we'll look at down the road.
And in terms of the share buybacks what is your status? And what is still left? Well we're finishing up essentially the last part of what we had.
But we just had another authorization last quarter for $100 million.
So we've got $100 million left and a little bit from the previous authorization.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
[Operator Instructions] I'm showing no additional audio questions at this time sir.
With that operator we'll conclude the call.
And thank you appreciate it very much.
See you on the next call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating on today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kowlzan.
Please go ahead when you're ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther who runs our Corrugated Business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call.
After the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported second quarter net income of $39 million or $0.39 per share which included after-tax income of $1 million or $0.01 per share from an adjustment to reserves related to medical benefits and a $1 million or $0.01 per share charge from asset disposals related to major energy products.
Reported results for the second quarter of 2010 were $38 million or $0.37 per share which included an after-tax charge of $1 million or $0.01 per share from energy project asset disposal charges.
Net sales were a record $665 million up 8% compared to the second quarter of 2010 net sales of $615 million.
Year-to-date sales were $1.29 billion compared to $1.17 billion in 2010.
Excluding the reserve adjustment and asset disposal charges second quarter 2011 earnings were $40 million or $0.39 per share.
Second quarter 2010 earnings excluding asset disposal charges were $39 million or $0.38 per share.
Earnings improved compared to last year from higher containerboard and corrugated products mix and price of $0.09 per share and higher volume of $0.06 per share.
These improvements were essentially offset by increased costs for chemicals at $0.04 per share transportation of $0.03 per share; labor of $0.30 per share energy of $0.02 per share recycled fiber of $0.01 per share and legal cost of $0.01 per share.
Operationally this is probably as difficult and as successful a quarter that we've ever had considering the planned outages at all four of our mills and continuing energy project for Counce and Valdosta.
These outages went remarkably well and the mills started up and run very efficiently after the outages.
As a result our productivity and our costs were better than forecasted which coupled with higher than anticipated box volume and containerboard sales produced earnings of $0.04 per share above our previewed guidance.
Looking at the specific details of operations our corrugated demand was strong throughout the quarter setting an all-time record for both total corrugated shipments and shipments per work day up 3.2% over last year's second quarter.
This was a tough comparable considering total shipments in the second quarter of last year were up 8%.
The quarter also ended very strong with June total and per work day shipment up 5.9% over last June.
Our outside sales of containerboard were also very strong up 22 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter.
With the mills running so well we are finally able to release more tons to the export market.
I should also point out that last year our second quarter containerboard sales were unusually low because of our precarious inventory situation.
Increased volumes in both containerboard and corrugated products improved earnings by about $0.06 per share compared to last year's second quarter.
Our mills produced 606 000 tons setting a new second quarter daily production record based on actual days operated.
In total we had about 40 000 tons of maintenance and project downtime during the quarter.
We ended the quarter with our containerboard inventories down 18 000 tons below the end of the first quarter and about 25 000 tons below 2010 year-end levels.
As you recall we built about 25 000 tons of additional inventory at the end of 2010 to get us through planned outages this year and energy project slowbacks throughout the rest of 2011.
Most of the planned downtime is now behind us with only slowbacks related to the rebuild of the 2 recovery boilers at the Counce mill remaining.
Our inventory levels at the end of June were right on plan which was no small accomplishment considering the higher-than-planned volume.
Our energy projects remain on or slightly ahead of schedule but the time to complete a rebuild of all recovery boiler is difficult to predict.
I'd also note that our second quarter results included about $0.03 per share in earnings benefits from the project from increased productivity at Valdosta lower purchased electricity from the pressure capacity utilization of the new Counce turbine and lower electricity prices from TVA Green energy and center payments.
Industry-wide corrugated products shipments for June as reported by the FBA yesterday were essentially flat with last year and industry containerboard inventory decreased 39 000 tons to 2 155 000 tons which except for last year is the lowest level in 32 years.
Looking at pricing.
Both our containerboard and corrugated products pricing were up over last year's second quarter improving earnings by about $0.09 per share.
Pricing remains steady compared to the first quarter and mix was seasonally richer as expected.
On the cost side inflationary cost pressures continued however and remain a concern with higher cost reducing our earnings by about $0.15 per share compared to last year's second quarter.
Chemical cost increases reduced our earnings by about $0.04 per share compared to last year's second quarter.
Caustic soda prices experienced the largest increase and were up about $130 a ton or 45% compared to the second quarter of last year.
Outbound transportation costs were up about $0.03 per share compared to last year's second quarter driven by higher diesel prices and fuel surcharges as well as increased demand on the nationwide truck fleet and rail systems.
On average for the quarter diesel costs were up about 35% higher than last year's second quarter.
But exiting June they were down about 5% from the peak levels in May.
Labor-related costs were $0.03 per share above last year's second quarter driven by annual wage increases and higher fringe benefit costs.
Energy cost increases reduced earnings by $0.02 per share compared to last year's second quarter as cost for coal and purchased bark increased and electricity rates were also higher.
I should note that the energy project at Valdosta will essentially eliminate the need for purchased bark at the mill as higher efficiencies will allow us to run our boilers with only wood waste from our own wood yard.
Recycled fiber prices continued their upward trend with industry-published prices for old corrugated containers or OCC excluding delivery costs up about $30 a ton in the second quarter of 2011 compared to the second quarter last year.
The higher recycled fiber cost reduced our earnings by a very modest $0.01 per share with our relatively low usage of OCC.
July published OCC prices rose another $10 per ton and are now $15 a ton above the second quarter average price.
In fact the current July price of OCC is almost 50% higher than last year's third quarter average of $115 per ton.
While we are not immune from this large increase it will affect most others in the industry much more than PCA.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who'll give you an update on our cash position and the bio-fuel tax credits.
Looking at cash PCA generated cash from operations of $101 million.
Capital expenditures were $80 million during the quarter which included $35 million for normal capital expenditures $38 million for the Counce and Valdosta energy optimization projects and $7 million for strategic projects at our box plants.
During the quarter we repurchased 935 000 shares of our common stock for about $28 per share or $26 million and paid our regular common stock dividend that amounted to approximately $20 million.
We ended the quarter with $119 million cash on hand.
Our total long-term debt at quarter-end excluding capital leases was $658 million.
We utilized bio-fuel tax credits totaling $27 million to offset federal cash tax payments.
At quarter-end we have estimated tax credits remaining from between $77 million to $179 million with the final amount to be determined based upon the current IRS review of our amended 2009 tax return which was filed in December 2010.
During the quarter we filed an insurance claim for the total damages related to the April fire and electrical outage at our Valdosta mill.
The claim included amounts for production and sales volume losses of about 11 000 tons repairing demolition expenses to affected buildings and equipment and the capital expenditures to replace the turbine building roof and affected electrical cabling.
We settled the claim during the quarter and recorded the income the insurance proceeds subject to our $3 million deductible for the tons lost and repair and the demolition expenses as well as capital expenditures during the quarter.
We expect to receive additional insurance proceeds for capital expenditures as work is completed.
Also I should point out that our earnings of $0.39 per share included income from insurance proceeds for the capital expenditures which was offset by the charge for the insurance deductible.
So from a recurring earnings standpoint no add-back is required for the deductible.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect higher sales volumes and increased mill production with less downtime than the second quarter.
But Counce will be slowed back as a result of the recovery boiler rebuilt.
Cost for recycled fiber fuels and electricity are expected to be higher.
Considering these items we expect third quarter earnings to be about $0.43 per share.
With that we'd be happy to entertain any questions.
But I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on the call constituted forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risks factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
With that we would open up the floor to questions.
Go ahead please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Can you give us your latest take on how we'll see the costs and benefits of the energy projects kind of flow through into the third and fourth and maybe even the first quarter? And can we assume you're still on track for the boiler rebuild impact volumes? I think by 14 000 tons in the third quarter and then like another 14 000 tons in the fourth quarter? Starting with the last part of your question we're expecting for the third quarter the impact of the boiler rebuild at Counce roughly 10 000 tons for the third quarter and 10 000 tons into the fourth quarter as far as boiler impact at Counce.
Regarding how the megaproject energy project will flow into the earnings we talked over the last two quarters that we were anticipating somewhere $0.10 $0.11 this year.
So for the second quarter we saw roughly $0.03 of benefits flow into the earnings and again that's what we're typically going to see through the rest of the year to third quarter fourth quarter to get us that $0.10 $0.11 benefit for 2011.
Okay.
And on the previous call you talked about the boiler rebuild being completed kind of end of July and then running full out in August.
Can you just give us an update in terms of your kind of ability to run above your rated capacity and what August is going to look like from a production standpoint? It appears right now that the first recovery boiler is going to be completed by the end of this month and we should theoretically be burning liquor in that boiler in the first week of August which would allow us then to run full out during the month of August.
And then the second recovery boiler is scheduled to go down now towards the latter part of September which again allows us to have almost three full weeks of September of full running at Counce.
And then we take it down the last week of September and it'll be down the entire month of October into November.
So that's why we're still looking at the 10 000 tons of impact this third quarter and then 10 000 tons into the fourth quarter.
But the project is on schedule and the boiler work that's been completed on the first boiler is done very well.
We're very pleased and anticipating a good start up.
Yes.
Anthony this is Paul.
I'd add one thing to that.
One of things that Mark did say that we came out of this quarter with our inventories exactly where we wanted them to be because of their great productivity in the second quarter.
So the pressure is off a little bit.
We just have to run in August have another normal good month.
We don't really have to run above capacity which is a relief because that's a difficult thing to do.
But what will happen as the recovery boiler reduces as we're working on a recovery the capacity reduces at Counce we'll start to eat a little bit into our inventory.
And then the month of August is going to make that up and then sustain us through the second recovery boiler outage which starts in September and goes for about 40 or 50 days.
So we think the good news for us is that we are back to being able to run the mills normally and not have to push to extreme levels of production which I'm sure as you know you can't sustain for any length of time.
Our next question is from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Two quick ones if I could.
One is if you could please help us in bridging the third quarter forecast that you have for this year of $0.43 with the $0.60 that you made last year.
What would the big drivers of that delta are as you see it? And then second if you could just let -- you mentioned you'd been exporting a little bit more where are your mill nets in the export market versus domestic? On the first part of your question Mark if you look at 3Q 2010 to 3Q '11 on what we're expecting we've got approximately $0.19 of inflationary impact year-over-year.
I'll give you an example.
Year-over-year just on recycled fiber you're looking at about $0.05 impact transportation $0.04; chemical cost $0.03; electricity $0.02.
So all of these type of cost inputs rolled in make up that differential between the $0.60 earnings last year to where we're expecting to be this year.
And of course netting out the benefits from the improved volume that we expect to see.
And then regarding the...
Net on export versus -- I think your question Mark was exports versus domestic nets? Inc.</strong> Yes.
It's same as last time it varies by market.
There is some export nets that are better and some that are worse depending if you're in South America China Europe et cetera.
And of course the dollar is certainly helping the thing.
So that's about all we can say on that.
Inc.</strong> Would it be fair to say relative to historical norms that the mill nets in the export markets are stacking up better relative to domestic again relative to historic norms? Without question.
Our next question is of Chip Dillon of Vertical Research.
On the downtime -- well not the downtime the slowback at Counce you mentioned the 10 000 tons.
And not really knowing how much strain that's putting on normal operations I would guess that's about a $0.02 or $0.03 hit.
Is that the right neighborhood? And then I guess the second question is it seems like you benefited to the tune of about $0.03 already in the second quarter from the energy projects and that I believe you mentioned when it's all said and done you might see $0.10 to $0.11 per quarter starting early to mid next year.
Could you just clarify those? Yes.
On the last question first we expect for the full year to see $0.10 or $0.11 benefit from the projects for 2011.
And so for the second quarter we saw about $0.03 of that benefit roll in for the year.
And then as far as the first part of your question the $0.02 is a good number $0.02 to $0.03 $0.02 you're right in the ballpark.
That's more than just volume too Chip because obviously without a recovery boiler your cost is going to go up a little bit too.
Exactly.
And...
But $0.02 is good.
As Mark said $0.02 is a good number.
And on the '10 to '11.
I totally get you for the full year '11 but it would seem like that is probably a ballpark run rate from the entire program when it's all said and done and up and running completely is that fair? Yes.
It's fair if nothing changes Chip.
By that I mean -- I think we've talked on a previous call about we may have the potential to -- and we have -- we are in the process of filing for a grant from the Treasury Department that would substantially lower the cost of the project.
And when you do that you give up some ability in other areas in terms of savings.
So we may have the opportunity to take the return a little more in savings or in capital reduction vis-à-vis a grant.
So that will determine things.
But in general our savings is still estimated at about $90 million.
And how that will flow into EPS will be determined again in part by how this grant turns out.
Got you.
That's $90 million pretax? [indiscernible] Say the $90 million is still it's in the right ballpark might be a touch lower or a touch higher.
Electricity cost had moved up and so the savings we thought might be a little lower on that one element of the project but now they're starting to move up with a vengeance.
So by the time the project moves we may even be higher in that regard.
It's going to depend in that one area on electricity prices.
And that's a pretax number right $90 million? Yes.
And that's EBITDA not EPS.
I mean we're talking about $90 million of EBITDA.
And so that [indiscernible] goes against the book earnings but it helps your cash flow as you know.
Of course.
And just last quick question as you look into 2012 how much do you see CapEx at this point dropping? I know we expect it to drop off quite a bit.
What's your latest read on that? Yes.
As we've said the last couple of quarters we'd fully expect capital to get back to the norms in terms of $110 million total company capital spending from mills and box plants and so that's what we're planning for next year as we speak to the facilities.
Our next question is from George Staphos of Bank of America.
Maybe segueing on that question.
As you think about capital allocation going forward how would you have us think about how you're prioritizing out your allocation of excess capital in the future? Do you anticipate it'll be still largely aimed at return-based projects? Do you think M&amp;A is ahead of that? Or is it value returned to shareholders whatever form that might be? How would you have us consider that disjuncture guys? Again I think reiterating what we've talked about in terms of capital again.
If you look at that we're planning on $110 million of capital which of the $110 million $70 million would roll into maintenance type capital $40 million would go into the various high return opportunity type spending.
And then you have to look at the dividends and stock buyback which again -- but as far as the capital $110 million it's historically what we're planning on.
Okay.
It would seem that barring nothing else it'd seem like debt you really don't need to do much there and value return barring anything sizable an investment that would tend to be the priority would that be fair Mark? Yes.
Second question.
As we think about you running relatively full out in August trying to get ahead of the last remaining outage in Counce.
How should we think about how those tons as they're produced and ultimately sold into the market may or may not affect your margins relative to what would be the normal seasonal pattern? Should we discern any change 3Q versus 3Q or 4Q versus 4Q? And then certainly it may be good time to talk about how is your early-July-shipments? How are they trending? Let me answer that last part first.
If you look at the first 8 days of cutup we're having a good start.
We're on a similar trend that we were in June we're up about 5% which we're pretty pleased with.
So all in all the good trend is continuing right through into July for the first 8 days.
Yes.
The one caution I'd throw out we're happy with the numbers don't get us wrong.
But when you got a Fourth of July weekend starting off the month that does disrupt things.
Of course we had the Fourth of July starting the month last year too every year.
But we've only got 8 or 9 days worth of data but it's pretty positive.
But I must caution you the Fourth of July events 2 days off some people only take one day off.
So I wish I had 5 more days of data before we answer that question.
But at least through 8 or 9 days we're up almost 5%.
And as far as the first part of your question with the volume and how we're running Counce and bringing the tons on again I think it is just as we've said that the forecasted guidance of the $0.43 is based on the higher volume we expect to see from the mills running now but obviously offset by some of the inflation.
So the fact that we're getting ready to take the number 2 recovery down at the end of the month it plays right in with the expected volume benefits.
Last one guys on turnover.
I'm realizing that you're guiding at 10 000 tons worth of outages in the quarter.
Is there any way given how well you're running right now that you could approach the tonnage you put up in the third quarter last year which was the peak of the year? I think it was like 645 000 tons? Well we've got to run to demand.
And if you think about the capabilities where we ran last year if I recall about 104% of capacity and second quarter we had an exceptional run also.
And so depending on how the mills run we've just come out of our annuals the equipment's in tip-top shape.
But again if the demand is there then we will have an opportunity to run to that demand.
Our next question is from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
So as you guys think about kind of the current run rate of labor and input cost trends that you're seeing right now and you kind of look ahead I mean do you think that those costs could potentially offset the majority of the benefits you're seeing in the energy savings? No.
You're talking about the energy projects savings? Yes.
Do you think about -- if you just kind of run rate right now and think 2012 in the year-over-year costs that you might see next year I mean how much of that $90 million minus whatever you're getting in 2011 would get offset by higher costs? We're not going to speculate about next year.
Yes I mean who knows? I mean right now with very tough inflation...
We're offsetting it with increased volume productivity et cetera.
And where inflations are going to go from here who knows? The one thing that we would add is that the biggest single source of inflation at least for most people has been OCC.
And where that's going will drive a lot of things.
And we expect OCC -- we're hearing reports from the field now that it's going up again in August.
Now that remains to be seen but we're hearing that.
And because of the high mill operating rates and we're at a low generation time of the year.
And a lot is going to depend on how strong this industry is and how strong China performs.
But inflation is obviously it's tough to predict.
There is a plus side of inflation however.
It's said that economic activity is picking up everywhere and that's a good sign we think for volumes.
So inflation's bad but it ain't all bad.
Understood.
So and then just on the OCC side would you say that you at this point have minimized the amount of OCC you can use in your own system and in terms of the flexibility of certain machines? Or would it require further investment if you wanted to go more to the version side at this point? Historically we've been right on the low end and we use just as much as we need to.
On the medium side of the business obviously we need to have some recycled fiber in the sheet.
And again we're using the minimum amount.
Counce again we're flexing that amount to meet our requirements but again in that 22% type of total usage range for the company.
So we're essentially right at the minimal end of demand.
What we said for years is we could run basically between 20% and 33% OCC.
And if OCC ever got cheap which doesn't appear to be the case we could flex up.
But we can't flex down we're as low as you can go primarily because when you make semi-chemical medium you need some source along fiber in that and people use OCC to satisfy that need.
At Valdosta for example we use no OCC at all.
That's 100% pine sheet.
Our next question is from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Mark as we think about the energy benefit next year is it fair if we just take that $90 million number pull out the $0.11 on a pretax basis that you've talked about for this year and the remainder would be what we should see next year? Or there is some other issues that we ought to be thinking about? I think at this point Mark we've said the benefits for the project are going to be close to even when we've tried to get it back to an EPS range.
With the depreciation deduction maybe about $0.40 maybe a little bit lower maybe a little bit higher.
And we've said we're going to get about $0.10 this year.
So I think at this point we would prefer to wait to see what happens with different cost inputs and other things before we give guidance or discuss how earnings will flow into 2012.
That will be something that we'll do later as we get into the fourth quarter and first quarter guidance.
Okay.
Couple of other questions for Mark Kowlzan.
How would you have us think about sort of the annual capacity mill capacity of the company at this point? It seems like if you're running really really well and we're not having to take any maintenance outage you're doing somewhere around 650 000 tons a quarter should we think about sort of 2.5 million 2.55 million tons as your sort of annual practical mill capacity? I think just as we did last year Mark I think your number is correct.
650 000 tons with no downtime no impact is a run rate.
But when you take into account shutdowns and monthly outages and then as the year goes on when the equipment is getting worn out and you get further and further away from your annual shutdowns and the cycle is continuing the efficiencies get less.
And so I think the number we've been using that 2.5 million tons 2.45 million is still a good range.
And again coming out of the annuals we always run better.
Yes Mark.
It's like if you've ever been to an auto race.
When they change tires the cars run faster for a little while.
And then they slow down because of tire wear.
Mills are the same way.
When you come out of an annual shutdown you can hum because everything's perfect.
But as you get wear you get more increased mechanical breakdowns your productivity will decrease over time.
And that's one of the reasons that we take our outages in the first quarter and beginning of the second quarter as the lowest demand season.
We don't have as much capacity in the first quarter or December as we do the rest of the year.
So this capacity is not a linear thing.
It is a function of weather.
You don't run as well in cold weather as you do as warm weather.
And it's a function of the equipment.
And so you can't take a number and multiply it by 4 because that's not the way it works in a paper mill.
Okay fair enough.
On the cost side I'm just curious what are your virgin fiber costs doing in the second quarter in kind of year-to-date? Because they were pretty high as I recall in the first half of last year.
In 2010 when the industry was still struggling with wood supply because of the fall of 2009 into the wet winter weather of 2010 inventories were low.
When mill is running out of wood prices were high.
But then prices came down last year and they've been stable since then.
So virgin fiber costs related to wood has remained very very stable.
Is that back -- has been a positive at all in the first half? No no positive.
But again just stable relative to OCC.
Okay all right.
Then my last question just for Tom.
I wondered if you could give us some color on what field might have added to your converting volumes in the second quarter.
Field added about 1% Mark.
Our next question is from Joshua Zaret with Longbow Research.
Can we just look end-use demand for a little bit? What was your star area was it food and ag? And can you just sort of give us a rundown there? And then as it's typical you looks like your shipments which you said your box shipments were up 3.1% outpaced the industry again.
Can you sort of give us what in your profile allowed you to do that? I will let Tom take that question.
Joshua I would say that we have been very fortunate that our existing and new business growth has remained about the same quarter-over-quarter.
So we've done a good job in that area.
And I think we've been extremely fortunate that we've had very little attrition within our existing account base.
And we've been able to grow with our existing customers.
I'd like to think that that has a lot to do with our skill but also a little bit of luck is involved in that.
We selected our customers and we've managed to align ourselves with customers who have fared pretty well in this difficult economy.
I think some of that has to do with the fact that they're very demanding of their suppliers like ourselves require the hard-to-do as we talked about because they do a lot of that themselves in their marketplace.
And we've also been fortunate because some of our customers have had some very healthy export growth.
And as I talked about earlier I said the field acquisition that we did that added about 1% to our numbers.
So all in all across the board our customer base has done fairly well in this difficult environment.
So you're seeing a broad-based recovery across all your markets? Is what you're saying? Yes.
A fairly broad-based recovery yes.
Now given -- just to finish this up.
Given the weather and the droughts we're seeing -- we're seeing images of dried-up cornfields all over the country is that something we need to worry about in terms of third quarter demand that could affect your guidance or is it not that important? No I don't think so.
I mean I think that some of that news is always reporting the bad news not the good news a lot of times.
But I think that food prices could be affected by the corn and some other things.
Obviously our starch prices are affected by corn.
But all in all I think that from what we hear from our customers they would like it to be more robust but it is what it is and they're continuing to do fairly well.
Let me ask one more question.
The FBA came out with your weeks of supply of containerboard at 3.6 weeks which is typically a very tight number.
We do a survey and with people out there don't see -- it seems like a balanced market when we talk to people in terms of supply yet the 3.6 number would apply otherwise.
Do you feel it's as tight as that 3.6 number implies from your advantage point? From our advantage point Josh we've been on a roller coaster.
I mean we have struggled to keep up for the last year.
And so it has been extremely tight for us to the extent that unfortunately we had to pull some tons out of the export market just to keep our domestic customers supplied.
And we now again have struggled back to get to an inventory level that we can manage at a reasonable cost as opposed to shipping things like truck and doing things just to keep up.
So from our perspective it's a very very tight market.
Okay and that -- and so I guess the way I would ask this are you seeing more phone calls from customers for containerboard supply? Which I guess would indicate a tighter market.
Well people kind of know that we have a set of customers and that we are full.
And so yes we get calls but I wouldn't say the number of calls changed dramatically one way or the other.
Our next question is from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
This is Curt filling in for Mark.
First question can you tell us whether you think you've benefited in terms of the strength of the customer relationships that whole soggets marfit [ph] first the bankruptcy then the change in ownership? And do your higher value customers have more choice or less choice in suppliers than they did 5 years ago? Yes.
We're not going to comment on that in terms of what we benefit from other activities going in the industry.
If we did we'd keep it quiet anyway and if we didn't we wouldn't say anything anyway.
So it's really not something we want to address.
Okay.
Secondly when you look across your box plants have you seen customers pulling back lately in terms of what they're willing to pay for and has the new round of economic concerns showed up in the kind of orders you are getting? Let me answer that question a little broader.
There was speculation and I use that word speculation at least in one publication that there was a large fall in box prices last quarter.
And we will not comment on our own box prices because we usually don't.
That's between us and our customer.
But when all else fails as they say you look at the data.
And the FBA does publish to its members the average box price for the entire industry month-by-month.
And what I can say is that box prices rose April from March they rose again May over April and they rose again June over May.
So 3 months in a row they've continued to move up a little bit.
And of course there's some element of mix in that number because you really can't separate.
So the data would indicate that box prices are pretty stable and if anything with increasing mix pricing gets approved over the last 3 or 4 months.
And as you know our margins EBITDA margins have continually outpaced the rest of the industry and so that would indicate that obviously there are box prices that moved in the same direction.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Andrew Feinman with Iridian Asset.
I think I heard you say when you answered Willy's first question that out of the $0.90 of benefits D&amp;A was $0.40.
Did you say that? And if not...
No.
Andy what we said was the EBITDA benefits were about $0.90.
But as we said earlier when you go through everything and convert that back to an EPS number after depreciation you're looking at about $0.40 per share on a $0.90 base.
And then I said this year we expect to get about $0.10 of those EPS benefits from the project in 2011.
Now where that ultimately will turn out as the total benefit for the entire project once it's totally completed is something we'll look at and give you an update later in the year as we get further along with project completion.
And most likely the other things will change which will impact benefit.
Okay.
So the D&amp;A you haven't given that number yet? With depreciation and ...
Well basically if you take the project and we're looking at about the $300 million it's about 20 years I think that equates to $15 million to $20 million of the D&amp;A.
Splendid.
Good estimate.
Okay.
So you have $102 million on the table with the government.
Do you think you'll find out about that this quarter? For the receivable? Not $102 million.
What we said Andy was on the bio-fuel credits that are in question we have remaining -- yes I guess it is $102 million the way you did your math.
$77 million receivable versus the potential of $179 million.
And quite honestly you can't predict when they'll be finished with their work.
We are working we have provided them what they need.
They're in the process of reviewing it and the extent to which they will need to do additional work that will be left up to them.
Hopefully we'll have this completed by the end of the year but earlier hopefully earlier.
But who knows at this point? And so when Paul said that you have filed for a grant from treasury to lower the cost of the project that's separate and unrelated to this $102 million am I correct? We have not filed for the grant.
It is separate and distinct from that.
It's a 30% Department of Treasury grant that would be applicable to a portion of the capital related to the project.
You cannot file for the grant until the project is completed which would be in the fourth quarter.
However there's a lot of preliminary work that you have to do to substantiate the project cost to which we are actively involved not only internally but with others outside and doing the preparation work for the application.
So the grant would be filed once the project is completed in probably 30 to 60 days to determine if we have been approved by the grant which from everything we see we should be.
Our next question is from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research.
Yes.
We've spent a lot of time on energy projects but let's don't shortchange the strategic box plants initiative you all have.
And you mentioned spending $7 million this quarter.
Could you just lay out for us how much more -- and I know that might be kind of open-ended but roughly say in the next year or so how much more you see for this? And what kind of benefits whether on an EBITDA or an EPS basis we could see as we go through '12 and '13? Yes Chip.
We're pretty well wrapped up on the spending activity.
Last year we spent about $40 million in 2010.
This year we're going to spend another $40 million.
And this is in the handful of the box plants installing both on new technology to enhance their capabilities to service our customer base.
And then we're pretty well wrapping up that business this year.
And what would you say the ultimate EPS benefit would be and how would you say it flowed? Well on that spending the $40 million and $40 million we're anticipating about a 30% return the way we look at our projects on a discounted cash flow basis.
Chip the problem with giving a straight answer to that question unlike the energy projects when they're completed you turn on a switch and you get the savings.
It's instantaneous.
With these projects you'll get these returns over a longer period of time because they're driven by volume not cost-reduction.
So in some instances where we're totally out of capacity then you'll get the savings earlier than in some markets where we've got to get that capacity now.
And I think as Tom will bring you up-to-date I'll let him do that we're already getting benefits from the project.
That's one of the reasons our volume is outpacing the industry.
We have invested to expand our capacity and we're getting early benefits there.
Chip I might add that -- and I want to make this clear that where we have added capacity it's driven by customer demand.
We're not a "build-it-and-they-will-come" investment house here.
I mean we do what we need to do base on customer demand.
And we've got a lot of small footprint plants in some markets and things like that where we just need some additional capacity driven by customers.
So with those type of projects they tend to be very accretive to earnings and start to give you return right away.
And that's why we expect the 30% return as Mark mentioned.
Got you.
And real quickly on the export market.
If you look at the last few years where have you seen the greatest change in demand? Maybe not so much for you but for the industry.
And is it fair to say the mill nets are probably a better say for Europe than they are for Asia just in a very general sense or not? We're not going to comment on where there are the best.
We don't want to give any people any clues where to go fishing.
But with the weaker dollar that's always helped everywhere.
And where they are is really a function of 2 things: what's the current price in that market? And they vary; and how much currency benefits you in that market? It benefits you in some markets than others.
And so that's a question that it's difficult to answer.
But overall we're at good levels in all markets compared to say where we were 5 years ago.
Our next question is from George Staphos of Bank of America.
One last final one quick one.
Just back to the energy product and the potential bridge if you will to '12 versus '11.
If you're getting whatever $0.10 to $0.11 of benefit this year I remember from your past comment that the incremental project outage expense if you will was also roughly in that range.
Is that a fair assessment? So that whatever benefits you get next year it's really a true incremental benefit relative to what you netted this year.
Of course it will depend upon demand George as to the number of times that we can produce but what we said was that we're going to lose about 50 000 tons more maybe 40 000 the way we're looking at this point on a normal year.
So it's maybe a little less than the $0.10 that you talked about that would be offset but it's close.
But it will of course depend upon the demand next year and what we need to run.
[Operator Instructions] Moderator we'll go ahead and end the call if there appear to be no other questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
That concludes the conference.
You may disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Your host for today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan.
Please go ahead when you are ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther who runs our corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call and after the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported third quarter 2011 net income of $42 million or $0.42 per share which included after-tax charges of $1 million or $0.01 per share from asset disposals related to major energy projects.
Results excluding these charges were net income of $43 million or $0.43 per share compared to the third quarter of 2010 net income of $62 million or $0.60 per share which excludes income from cellulosic biofuel credits and asset disposal charges.
Higher volume improved earnings by $0.04 per share compared to last year's third quarter but was more than offset by inflationary driven cost increases totaling $0.18 per share sales mix of about $0.02 per share and price changes of $0.01 per share.
The cost increases were in transportation $0.04 per share; recycled fiber $0.04 per share; labor and benefits $0.04 per share; energy $0.02 per share; chemicals $0.02 per share; and other items $0.02 per share.
Excluding special items net income for the first 9 months of 2011 was $122 million or $1.21 per share compared to $113 million or $1.10 per share in 2010 an $0.11 per share increase.
The earnings increase was driven by pricing mix of $0.41 per share increased volume of $0.15 per share lower interest expense of $0.03 per share and lower energy usage of $0.03 per share.
These items were partially offset by inflation and other cost increases of $0.51 per share for essentially the same areas noted in the third quarter.
Net sales in the third quarter were $671 million up 4.4% compared to the third quarter of 2010 and year-to-date net sales were a record $2 billion up 8.7% over 2010.
Overall we had a very good quarter operationally with record corrugated shipments and mill production and we continue to make significant progress on our major energy projects at our Counce Tennessee and Valdosta Georgia linerboard mills.
Higher input costs however continued to be an issue significantly reducing earnings.
Looking at the specific details of operations our corrugated demand was very strong throughout the quarter up 6.6% over last year.
Acquisitions added 1.4% of the 6.6% volume improvement.
But even after adjusting for these acquisitions we still had record shipments.
Our outside sales of containerboard also remained strong equal to last year's third quarter and up 3 000 tons over the second quarter of this year.
Increased volumes in both containerboard and corrugated products improved earnings by about $0.04 per share compared to last year's third quarter.
Our mills produced 650 000 tons setting a quarterly production record up 4 000 tons from the third quarter of 2010.
Each of our 4 mills ran extremely well taking advantage of the normal efficiencies following an annual outage.
We ended the quarter with our containerboard inventories down about 22 000 tons below the 2010 year-end levels.
So you can see we're in good shape here.
Moving to price and mix.
Our prices were down slightly compared to last year due mainly to changes in our sales mix.
The change in mix reduced our earnings by $0.02 per share and other price changes reduced our earnings by about $0.01 per share.
As stated earlier higher input costs and other inflationary cost pressures reduced our earnings by about $0.18 per share compared to last year's third quarter.
Looking at these cost increases higher outbound transportation costs reduced our earnings by about $0.04 per share compared to last year's third quarter.
The increase in costs was driven by higher diesel prices and fuel surcharges as well as increased demand on the nationwide truck fleets and rail systems.
Published prices for recycled fiber or old corrugated containers excluding delivery costs were up about $55 per ton compared to the third quarter of 2010.
The higher recycled fiber cost reduced our earnings by about $0.04 per share.
Last year's third quarter was the low point of recycled fiber prices in 2010.
And since that time prices have increased above 50%.
Recycled fiber prices in the third quarter were also up about $15 per ton over the second quarter of this year.
Prices for recycled fiber fell in October and are now about $5 per ton below the third quarter average.
We do expect recycled prices to fall further in November.
Labor costs were $0.02 per share above last year's third quarter driven by annual wage increases and fringe benefit costs were $0.02 per share higher primarily in medical and workers' compensation costs.
Energy cost increases reduced earnings by about $0.02 per share compared to last year's third quarter as costs for coal and purchased bark increased and electricity rates were also higher.
Chemical cost increases reduced our earnings by about $0.02 per share compared to last year's third quarter.
Caustic soda prices experienced the largest increase and were up about $70 per ton or 20% compared to the third quarter of last year.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who will give you an update on certain financial matters.
Thank you Mark.
Capital expenditures were $70 million during the quarter which included $31 million for normal capital expenditures $31 million for the Counce and Valdosta energy optimization projects and $8 million for strategic projects at our box plants.
On September 10 we also acquired with cash Packaging Materials Company a corrugated products manufacturer in the Huntsville Alabama area with sales of $20 million in 2010.
During the quarter we repurchased 2 million shares of our common stock for about $24 per share or $48 million and paid our regular common stock dividend that amounted to approximately $20 million.
Our diluted shares outstanding at the end of the quarter were 98.7 million down from 105.2 million at the beginning of 2008.
As we reported on October 12 we made some significant changes to our credit agreements.
We increased the line of credit under our existing asset securitization or receivables revolver from $150 million to $200 million of which only $109 million is drawn.
We entered into a new 5-year bank credit facility which increased lines of credit under our undrawn bank revolver from $150 million to $250 million.
And we also borrowed $150 million in a 5-year term loan at a current interest rate of less than 2%.
We elected to replenish our available cash now with a very low cost term loan and also increased our available liquidity giving us significant financial flexibility.
As of October 17 cash on hand including the proceeds from the term loan was $160 million and our total debt was $808 million.
During the quarter we utilized $4 million of our available biofuel tax credits and at quarter end we have estimated tax credits remaining from between $73 million to $175 million with the final amount to be determined based upon the current IRS review of our amended 2009 tax return which was filed in December 2010.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Before moving to the fourth quarter outlook I want to update you on the status of the energy project at our Valdosta Georgia and Counce Tennessee linerboard mills.
We completed the rebuild of the Counce #1 recovery boiler as planned with no major issues.
The rebuild of the #2 recovery boiler at Counce began on September 27 and is expected to be completed in mid-November.
Work is proceeding on the recovery boiler and turbine at Valdosta.
And if everything goes well as we expect the energy projects at both Counce and Valdosta will be completed and operating as intended no later than December 1.
We expect final project capital expenditures to be at our original approved amount of $295 million.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect lower corrugated product shipments and mill production compared to the third quarter as a result of normal seasonal changes in demand plus 4 less corrugated product shipping days.
The last time there was a 4 day difference in shipping days between the third and fourth quarter was in the fourth quarter of 2005.
The lower corrugated shipments and mill production will increase production costs and there will be the normal seasonal increase in costs with colder weather.
Our interest expense will also be almost $0.02 per share higher with our recent refinancing and reduced capitalized interest with the start up of the energy projects.
Recycled fiber costs should be lower and we should receive additional benefits from the energy projects assuming that we start up without incident which we expect to be the case.
Considering these items we currently expect our fourth quarter earnings to be about $0.37 per share.
With that we'll be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on this call constituted forward-looking statements.
These statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
Operator you can open up the call for questions please.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question comes from Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> What was the downtime in the quarter? And are you still expecting -- I believe you said a similar amount would be in the fourth quarter so I just wanted a quick update on that.
Yes Phil as we've talked about all year long we anticipated about 10 000 tons in the quarter which was pretty much right where we were right at the 10 000-ton mark with the Counce slowed back with the recovery boiler rebuilding activities.
In the fourth quarter we expect the same amount.
Research Division</strong> And then I know your volumes typically outperform the industry but just kind of looking at the organic volume outperformance it's really accelerated these past 2 quarters.
So I was wondering if you could talk about -- give any color about what's driving that.
Yes.
Tom's with us.
I'm going to let him go ahead and shed some light on that.
Phil let's just go through the math first I think just to make it a little easier.
We're up 6.6% for the quarter.
Acquisitions as Mark mentioned added 1.4% to our quarterly results.
The remaining 5.2% of growth came from our existing plants.
Now as I mentioned in previous calls we've been out of capacity at numerous plants where we have additional business available.
We've made the investments in those plants as part of our integration strategy and we now are able to handle that business and we're seeing the results from those investments.
In addition to growing with our long-term customers we have added some new customers as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give any color around maybe specific end markets that you're targeting for these businesses? No.
No by that I mean it's pretty broad-based.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the price mix issue in the quarter what was the driver of that? Was some of that seasonal or was there anything in particular there? Phil there are a number of items which impact our mix: changes in customers and product mix export versus domestic linerboard sales big swings as well as the percent of value added products.
I think when you're growing the business as fast as Tom's been growing it from both the acquisitions and the organic growth the $0.02 change in mix is not really large.
It represents only about 0.5% of the total sales.
And on the price side our prices were down slightly primarily in the export market plus we did have some timing impact quarter-over-quarter in the domestic containerboard prices as a result of pulp and paper rescinding last year's August price increase in September.
Other than that prices have remained very stable.
This is Paul.
On the price the biggest price changes very small if any but pulp and paper did raise the price.
We announced price increases.
We got price increases last August.
Pulp and paper came out with only 40 instead of 60 and then at the end of September they rescinded to 40.
But we had that bubble in there in August and September when we got higher prices.
And back to October it went back to the original price.
So you see that in this year-over-year comparison and that's the biggest difference.
That's the biggest contributor to that $0.01 difference.
But again $0.01 is a pretty small number.
Our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I have as we think about the remaining work you have to do on the projects and the downtime that you need to take do you have a peg an estimate thus far on where inventory might be for the fourth quarter either up or down? It looks like from my math third quarter you're up a few thousand tons versus 2Q sequentially.
Would you agree with that as well? Yes we're up to 3 000 tons.
We're right where we wanted to be and we're down 22 000 tons from the beginning of the year.
And we expect the inventories to remain at this level so ending up the year flat from where we are right now.
Yes the other thing I'd add George is we're going -- we're up about 3 000 and I wish we were up 5 000 because we're going into October first half and November which in a six-week period is a busy six-week period of the year.
And so we're really pretty close to where we want to be on inventories especially for these next 6 weeks [indiscernible] about 3 to go.
Research Division</strong> I guess the next question I had Paul or Mark as you look at the projects I know you've been asked this question before but do you have any further update on what return you expect from Counce and Valdosta? Do you still think you're trending at 20% after-tax? And related point as I look out to next year it looks like input cost could be a tailwind for a change for you.
Would you agree or disagree with that past fourth quarter? Well we think the original project returns in the same category in the same area 20% to 25%.
And in terms of tailwinds and costs who knows.
I don't think we can speculate at this point.
The economy seems to want to change on a dime either up or down.
We are going to have to wait for that.
But I think Mark is prepared to give you an update on the project so why don't we let him do that.
Yes.
If you assume the normal growth in volume and the current energy crisis we expect the total benefits from the project to be about $0.35 per share impact.
And the number is lower than the original estimate from a -- when we talked about the project the $0.40 per share because energy costs has not risen as much as we originally estimated.
However we do expect energy prices to increase as we go forward.
We did realize $0.03 per share of benefits from the project last year in 2010 and we expect to realize an additional $0.11 this year 2011 as we've talked about during the year.
The remaining benefit is $0.21 per share expected next year as the year unfolds from projects at fully running capacity.
In addition the project downtime we incurred this year would be eliminated which would contribute an additional $0.10 per share to the earnings in 2012.
And that will partially be offset by the $0.05 per share non-cash increase to interest expenses.
And then in accordance with accounting guidelines a portion of that 2011 interest costs were capitalized in relationship to the energy project.
And finally if the energy project qualifies for energy reinvestment grant we would receive about $60 million in 2012 after-tax which would reduce the cost of the project from $295 million to about $235 million.
Research Division</strong> I guess last question I had and I'll turn it over after this if we look back over time Packaging Corp.'s had a great track record both in terms of absolute and relative in terms of capital returns and relative performance versus your peers in the market although the last few years that relative gap has not really widened much.
It's been relatively flat.
Maybe the answer is the returns in aggregate that you expect to get from the Counce and Valdosta projects but Mark what are you and the team think from your strategy in operations that's kind going to lead to sort of a reemergence if that's the way you'd put it in terms of your relative returns versus other paper and forest stocks and cyclicals more broadly.
I think the answer to that question is we've always invested for the long term.
There will be ups and downs.
We widen our lead at times it shrinks at times.
We had a very strong quarter volume-wise this term because of investments and those investments are just starting to pay off in the box plant.
So there's not a knee-jerk answer to that question.
It's just that our focus has always been the long term.
We think over the long term.
We have a superior strategy and the results will speak for themselves kind of like the stock market.
It always gets it right in the long term but it's wrong a lot of times in the short-term.
Our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Following up on your box plant performance and the investments you've made there I think you spent about $40 million in 2010 and plan to spend about $40 million in 2011 on planned improvements and bolt-on technologies.
As you look forward to 2012 are there comparable opportunities for box plant improvements? And would they require kind of a comparable level of capital spend or how should we think about that? Yes Anthony.
This time I'll answer that question for you.
It's -- things are -- we take advantage of the opportunities when they present themselves.
And last couple of years we've had those kind of opportunities.
Now 2012 I expect it to go down a little bit in terms of our capital expenditures.
The opportunities aren't there.
And plus we really have a job to do with the investments we've made and taking advantage of the opportunities that that's presented.
So if things change then we'll change accordingly.
But right now I think it's going to go down a little bit.
Yes I think Tom has put it quite well.
We don't let the money burn a hole on our pocket CapEx-wise.
If we had an opportunity we spend it.
But we don't feel compelled to spend capital in the hopes of growth.
When we see an opportunity we jump on it.
And I think the illustration to that is our CapEx next year is going down from $260 million this year back to $110 million which is our normal CapEx.
And so the other thing we've done long term has been be pretty disciplined about our capital spending because that's something in this industry if you're not careful you really don't create shareholder value.
So capital discipline is still important to us and that's why we'll only be at $110 million next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind of following up on the capital allocation I mean for M&amp;A clearly your focus has been on box plants.
But given the shape of your balance sheet are there circumstances under which you'd consider looking at mill assets in the future? Or is that not really on the table? That answer has not changed in 10 years.
We always are open to any deal that would produce a lot of shareholder value.
And where we have been finding deals that produce the most has been on the box plants side.
If things change then we'll obviously be willing to look on the mill side.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> You noted that your cap spend is going down $110 million this year and obviously benefits from the energy projects are going to start kicking in.
So presumably you're going to be generating hopefully a lot of cash in the coming year.
At the same time if I caught you right I think you said you now have $160 million of cash on the balance sheet with the new financing that you've put in place and a lot of additional liquidity too.
And I guess the question is first are you intending to run with a lot more cash on the balance sheet or are you likely to be targeting that cash for either M&amp;A and/or share repurchase or some other use? If you could kind of help us understand the thinking there please.
If you looked at the cash Mark that we generate fourth quarter is a very good quarter for cash generation.
And when we looked at the refinancing at the end of the quarter we were down to $40 million and then we had a dividend payment of $20 million the first week.
So we had to look at it at that point but we do expect our capital expenditures in 2012 with our energy project behind us to go back as Paul said to $110 million which is a $150 million decrease.
But until we complete the energy project in the fourth quarter and also make our normal beginning of the year payments in the first quarter of 2012 when we have the most cash drain our significant cash generation will not start until the second quarter of 2012.
And we did take the opportunity to buy back the stock as I said which brought our cash down to $30 million -- $40 million at the end of September.
But we felt it was more important to keep more cash on hand right now to give us more immediate financial flexibility and that's why we took out the term loan.
Also the term loans facilitated getting a higher bank revolver.
You really -- in this market it's hard to get an increase in your bank revolver unless you take out a term loan at a reasonable rate.
And so we did that also.
So when you combine the liquidity on the balance sheet from the revolvers as well as the cash we think we're in very good shape with long-term financial flexibility whatever opportunity avails itself.
Mark to say it even simpler you can buy a lot of financial flexibility for very little money these days.
That term loan after tax is about 1% interest.
We bought back 2 million shares during the quarter right at $24.
So we're getting the 3% savings there on the dividend.
That's our dividend paydown and it's only costing us 1% for the interest expense.
So the world is a tricky place.
Things are difficult to predict and we've always believed in flexibility.
And what we've been able to do with this refinancing is put ourselves in a position if we want to accelerate a share buyback if we want to make some acquisitions we can.
But with the increase in the revolver we also protect our financial well-being going forward.
So this is a very unusual period where you can borrow money this inexpensively and increase your financial flexibility and give you the ability to take advantage of certain things if they happen.
Inc.</strong> That makes a lot of sense.
And I guess the follow-up given that you now do have the liquidity in place and you pointed out that your cost -- the cost of debt has come so low relative to the cost of equity.
Has that caused you to rethink the amount of financial leverage that you think is optimal to have all else equal? And would that direct you to potentially be more aggressive on share repurchase? I wouldn't read that into it.
We just thought that this was a good value at this time.
As things evolve we may move more conservative less conservative but what's happening in the world will determine that more than anything else.
Inc.</strong> And one last real quick follow-on.
I think Mark when you were running through the effects from the energy project if I did my math right it was $0.21 and then another $0.10 with less downtime and then you said an offset of $0.05 from interest expense so the net effect was $0.26 is that right? Yes that's correct.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon from Vertical Research.
My first question is on the EBITDA from the project.
I know that obviously there's going to be some step-up in depreciation and I think on the last call Paul you mentioned it was about $90 million all in.
And with the guidance that it's going to be $0.35 versus $0.40 does that mean that EBITDA -- is that a new -- first of all is that a new number? And so should we take our EBITDA I guess down $7 million $8 million for that? What we said on the last call the $90 million was the original and I think I did mention energy costs had not moved up as much.
And so as things evolved where we stand right now is that that EBITDA is probably going to drop down if you just do the math somewhere around off the top of my head $75 million from $90 million.
Got you.
That could vary a little bit if we get the energy grant because it's less capital that means less depreciation.
But you're talking maybe $2 million $3 million $4 million $5 million there but we'll have to wait and see.
And that will come through on the per share number of course.
With EBITDA it doesn't impact with the -- less depreciation but it would give you a little bit more on EPS from the project that grant comes through.
Got you.
And I think Rick you mentioned something about $60 million.
Did you say that was the amount of tax credit you expect to get realized next year or did I miss that? Well the grant is about anywhere from $55 million  to $60 million is what we're looking at.
You don't pay any taxes on the grant.
In fact you don't reduce your taxable depreciation by the full amount of the grant.
So you get a little bit of more benefit on the tax side even above the amount of the dollar grant that you receive.
So it nets out to about $60 million of benefits to the bottom-line in cash.
But you get it right away.
And you should get that next year? Well if we applied for the grant and if it's approved.
We expect to apply for the grant in the fourth quarter when the project is completed.
And of course it'll depend upon the Department of Treasury approving the grant.
But from everything we can see we think we fall within the guidelines for approval and we'll know that hopefully by the end of the first quarter.
Okay.
And then 2 more quick ones.
I know Paul you did a good job of sort of explaining to us how the biggest bang from the energy project could be if energy at some point really takes off.
And as we think about the future sort of where -- how should we think of the relationship there? Let's say for example oil hit $120 or $150 and maybe you have a number in mind when you did the project and I guess gas goes up to $7 $8 $9 is there sort of a relationship where we see how much you feel you'll benefit versus the competitors and that you wouldn't expect prices to go up to reflect what the pain that competitors would feel that you would not feel? Well Chip as I said on earlier calls we thought going forward that the biggest inflation liability in energy lie in electricity because there's not many coal-fired power plants being permitted -- although it looks like the EPA is loosening up there a little bit -- and the grid is going to be stressed over time.
And so purchased electricity is the thing that we think will escalate the most over the next 5 to 10 years.
And of course we went from basically 50% self-generation to 100%.
So that's the number one driver.
We don't burn much oil so we're not that affected by that.
And the second thing in line would be natural gas.
But again we don't burn that and that leads you to the third energy source purchased wood waste bark and we eliminate -- we don't buy any purchased bark.
We basically eliminated all of that at Valdosta.
So when you really get down to it electricity is by far the most important variable in our energy savings.
Got you.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And the last thing for Rick is Rick could you just remind us how much is left on the repurchase authorization? I see it's 2 million shares.
That's a big chunk for one quarter.
That's good.
And also if you could just give us some guidance on interest expense next year in terms of the swing and capitalized interest.
I would imagine there's -- I don't know if it's a couple of million a quarter now and that obviously goes away but if you could verify those numbers.
Okay.
As far as the first thing we have about $33 million left on the existing share repurchase authorization.
And our total interest expense next year will be about if you take into consider no capitalized interest plus the refinancing about $38 million.
Our next question comes from Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
Curious what you think you're seeing in virgin fiber costs for the rest of this year.
I mean obviously it has a lot to do with the weather at this part of the year but with housing not coming back I'm wondering if you're seeing any structural changes in your chip supply or if you're thinking about sourcing fiber differently for 2012? Mark right now we're seeing virgin fiber say in the southern sector flat due to summer into the fall.
Barring any unforeseen weather phenomena as far as winter weather we're seeing everything pretty stable.
Research Division</strong> So no changes that you'd expect in where you're getting your chips from? No.
Again the supply is still down considerably and so we really don't depend on the outside market for a very big volume of our chips a couple of percent at the end of the day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Mark just one more question.
When you look across your box plants I'm trying to get a sense of whether customers are pulling back.
And Paul used to say "You don't paid for easy." So are clients asking you to make easy or hard stuff these days? As we've said before I mean we've talked many times about our strategy around customers and our willingness to do the hard to do.
And I would say at this stage of the game the hard to do is what customers are demanding of us virtually every day.
And we're fortunate to be positioned with customers who are also willing to do the hard to do on their side and I think they benefit from that as well.
Our next question comes from Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wondered Mark is it possible to get from either you or Tom just get a sense of kind of how box volumes seem to be moving here in October? And also with boxes are you benefiting at all from a little of this consolidation that's taking place among the bigger guys? Yes.
For the first 8 days as we always talked during the call we're up 9% in our box volume.
And so again having a great start for the quarter and so we don't see anything changing.
We had the same trend develop in the third and again October is very strong.
Tom do you want to add anything to that as far as...
No.
I would just say Mark that do we benefit anything from the consolidation that's going on in the business? I mean there may be some but it's early to tell I think certainly regarding the IPM with the potential merger.
But it's one of those things that I think we're well positioned in the marketplace for the things we do very well.
And as we talked about we made some investments with especially with current customers that allowed us to take advantage of the opportunities that they presented us.
And that's primarily what's driving our growth.
And the one benefit that you do get Mark is that if a particular customer usually this is mostly the bigger customers if they have supplier a and b as their 2 suppliers and a and b merged and the company still had the purchasing philosophy that you need 2 suppliers then you have an opportunity to pick up some business that you might not have picked up because they already had 2 suppliers in the past.
But there aren't that many of those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right one other question.
Mark I'm just curious with the energy projects.
You've given us already the $110 million capital number for next year but I just -- I wondered whether these energy projects have opened up any other options for either kind of cost savings or ultimately moving up volume at either Valdosta or Counce? Nothing that -- as far as anything new we're talking about mill production.
We're on track to have a record production year this year if you include the extra downtime we took because of the energy projects.
But the year has been driven by exceptional performance in the 4 mills and also we did receive the benefits of the energy project.
Part of the project at Valdosta was the dryer efficiency improvements which was done in 2009.
And so we've been seeing that benefit.
But all in all nothing is changing as far as capacity and so...
Our next question comes from Steve Chercover from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> First of all could you please elaborate on the Alabama assets that you purchased? How will they impact your integration levels and would they be accretive by $0.01 or $0.02 next year? It's way premature to comment on that when -- we own the assets for a couple of weeks now so -- we think that we bought the assets at a price that is accretive to earnings yes but that's about all we're going to say.
We're not going to quantify that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well if I could push you to look perhaps at a 5-year perspective where do you see growth coming from? Because obviously you'll hit your integration target of 90% within the next 2 years or so.
We'll cross that bridge when we come to it.
To be honest with you we're not big believers in looking out 5 years.
We're just not that smart to be able to predict the future so we concentrate on the next 2 and that's a tough target getting to 90% integration level in 2 years.
So we get to that we'll comment beyond that at that time.
Our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> One last follow-on just a technical question.
Thinking about the price rescission and the trade publications from last year and realizing this is only a small amount less than $0.01 of impact the fact that the rescission occurred within the quarter would you have -- wouldn't you have rebated that amount so it really wouldn't have been in your revenues last year? I was just thinking about that out loud during the Q&amp;A.
Well if you were on pulp and paper you would've gotten rebated.
But if you were not and we had raised prices then those prices stop.
But eventually you have to give it back because you want to treat all customers fairly and that's why it's not the full amount it's a much smaller number but that's basically the number that the price is off by.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Andrew Feinman from Iridian.
So just talking about the earnings numbers you mentioned $0.21 from the project $0.10 from last downtime.
So that's $0.31 and then minus $0.05 for higher interest so that's a net of -- improvement of $0.26.
So if I assume that the price of containerboard doesn't change then the only other things I got to estimate in here are the increase of all your other costs and the returns that you're getting on all the box plant money that you spent.
Maybe I could call those 2 things a wash and just say that you're going to have $0.26 of improvement next year.
Andy we don't give forecast for next year.
I think the 2 other factors you have to look at is inflation and demand but we're not going to comment on next year's earnings.
What we will comment on for you Andy is that if you look at the last -- and I don't disagree with anything you've said in terms -- you've added the numbers up to get to $0.26 and that's correct.
If you look at last 10 years -- and it varies -- but because the first quarter is a shutdown quarter it's our biggest shutdown quarter and it's the coldest weather quarter historically our earnings fall about 7% going from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
Okay? About $0.07 a share from first -- from fourth to first.
And so in addition to looking at what you think we might be able to make you have to factor in seasonality which means that the first quarter-- has always historically been our lowest and the third historically our best quarter.
That's no prediction for next year but it's happened the last 10 years in a row is all that I can tell you.
So you need to factor that type of thing in also in your thinking.
This is a seasonal business exacerbated by the fact that maintenance downtime is seasonal also.
Great.
I appreciate that.
I have one last -- one other thing and that's just to say that if you get the $60 million grant and you get the $175 million of receivables and my estimate for your free cash flow next year is about $250 million.
So if I'm right and you get those other things then you're going to be getting close to $5 a share of cash coming in.
Am I doing that right? Andy you know we don't give yearly estimates.
And so I just want to say for the record on this call we're not validating anything you said.
If anybody's misled you misled them not us because we only give quarterly forecasts.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon from Vertical Research.
Just a quick clarification I guess for either Mark or Rick is you mentioned the CapEx was $8 million in the quarter for the box plants I believe.
What was the amount -- I think you said it for the energy projects in the third quarter and for the year-to-date? For the third quarter for the energy project was $31 million and of course $8 million for strategic to the box plants and then our normal capital was also $31 million.
Got you.
And do you have those numbers for the fourth quarter? For the fourth quarter we expect to spend about on the energy project about $20 million.
And then our normal capital if I remember correctly it's about in the third quarter about $30 million to $35 million which includes any additional for the box plant integration also.
So we're looking at capital in the fourth quarter of about $60 million.
Our next question comes from Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I don't think anybody asked about the export markets so I just want to get your thoughts there in terms of what trends you're seeing in light of some of the pricing weakness in Europe and Asia right now.
And obviously the trends with the dollar have you seen any uptick in the fourth quarter given the re-weakening of the U.S.
dollar? Phil this is Tom.
I'll just comment that it has weakened a little bit over in Europe both in demand and price and that's all we see right now.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Phillip Marriott from First Eagle.
LLC</strong> Just given your expected reduction in CapEx of $150 million and the other comments about cash I'm just wondering if you could at least give us some indication of your priorities for the use of cash going forward? Are you comfortable with your -- the debt on your balance sheet? Do you need to prioritize paying that down or would you put more emphasis on either a dividend increase or incremental share repurchase? Well the -- as we've said in the past really we got 3 uses for cash: dividends share buyback and acquisitions and they're interrelated.
If you have a lot of good acquisition opportunities that affects how much you have for share buyback and dividend.
This past year we've put obviously more money into share buyback than we have the dividend increases.
And that's a function of a lot of things including where your stock is trading.
And obviously if you think your stock is undervalued that seems to be a good investment as opposed to dividend increases.
But all 3 of those things are in play.
And it changes but right now we've obviously put more emphasis on share buyback over everything else.
[Operator Instructions] If there are no other questions I would like to thank everybody for participating in today's conference and you may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Your host for today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan.
Please go ahead when you are ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther who runs our Corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call and after the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported fourth quarter 2011 net income of $39 million or $0.40 per share.
Reported results for the fourth quarter of 2010 were $53 million or $0.52 per share excluding income from biofuel tax credits and asset disposal charges.
The reduction in earnings per share compared to last year's fourth quarter were driven by cost inflation $0.10 lower containerboard export prices $0.03 increased depreciation $0.02 and higher taxes and interest expense $0.02.
These items were partially offset by lower energy and chemical usage $0.03 related to the energy project and higher corrugated products volume of $0.03.
Excluding special items full year earnings were $162 million or $1.61 per share compared to 2010 earnings of $166 million or $1.62 per share.
Price and mix $0.38 higher volume $0.17 and cost reduction benefits $0.06 improved earnings but was offset by cost inflation of $0.56 and higher depreciation expense of $0.05.
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $654 million up 4% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 net sales of $627 million and full-year net sales were a record $2.6 billion up 8% over 2010.
Regarding operations we had an exceptional quarter with record mill production and corrugated product shipments.
In addition we also accomplished several strategic objectives.
We completed the major energy projects at our Counce Tennessee and Valdosta Georgia linerboard mills as scheduled and on budget started up a new corrugated products plant in Reading Pennsylvania and acquired a box plant in Denver Colorado.
Looking at the specific details of operations our corrugated demand was very strong throughout the quarter with shipments per workday up 9% over last year and total shipments up 7.2% with 1 less workday.
The 9% per workday improvement and 7.2% increase in total shipments included 2.3% from 2011 box plant acquisitions.
Excluding these acquisitions we still had record shipments.
The increased corrugated products volume improved earnings about $0.03 per share compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Outside sales containerboard also remained strong equaling last year's fourth quarter.
Our mills produced 640 000 tons up 2 000 tons from last year.
All 4 of the mills ran extremely well especially our Counce and Valdosta mills considering the start-up of the new recovery boiler and turbine at Valdosta and also the #2 recovery after the rebuild at Counce.
We ended the quarter with our containerboard inventory down about 11 000 tons below 2010 year end levels and on plan to support our containerboard needs during our annual maintenance outages at both Valdosta and Counce in the first quarter.
Valdosta will be down for about a week in February for their outage and at Counce one machine will be down for 4 days in March with the shutdown continuing into April.
Moving to price our domestic pricing for containerboard remained essentially unchanged from last year's fourth quarter and this year's third quarter.
But pricing for export linerboard did fall during the fourth quarter with reduced earnings by about $0.03 per share.
As stated earlier higher input costs and other inflationary cost pressures reduced our earnings by about $0.10 per share compared to last year's fourth quarter.
But on a positive note the rate of inflation was less than in previous quarters.
Higher outbound transportation costs reduced our earnings by about $0.03 per share labor-related costs including fringes by about $0.025 per share chemical cost increases $0.015 per share energy cost increases $0.01 per share and other cost increase items by $0.02 per share.
Published prices for recycled fiber or old corrugated containers excluding the delivery costs were down about $15 per ton compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
The lower recycled fiber costs improved our earnings by only about $0.01 per share with our low usage but was essentially offset by lower recycled fiber sales prices out of our box plants.
I'm now going to turn it over to Richard West our CFO who will give you an update on financial matters.
In the fourth quarter PCA generated cash from operations of $109 million our uses of cash included total capital expenditures of $65 million $18 million for the Counce and Valdosta energy projects $13 million for strategic projects at our box plants and $34 million for normal capital expenditures.
For the year cash generated from operations was $346 million total capital expenditures were $280 million including $120 million for our major energy projects $35 million for strategic box plant projects and $125 million for normal capital expenditures.
During the quarter we also repurchased 1 271 000 shares of our common stock for about $25 per share or $32 million and paid our regular common stock dividend that amounted to approximately $20 million.
For the year we paid common stock dividends of $76 million and repurchased 4 824 000 shares of our common stock at $25.50 per share or $123 million.
As of December 31 2011 our diluted shares outstanding were 97.6 million shares.
On November 30 2011 we acquired with cash Colorado container a corrugated products manufacturer in the Denver Colorado area with annual sales of $27 million in 2010.
We ended the year with $156 million cash on hand and total debt of $808 million.
During the fourth quarter we used $8 million of our available biofuel tax credits to offset cash taxes; and as of year end we had estimated tax credits between $65 million and $167 million with the final amount to be determined based upon the current IRS review of our amended 2009 tax return which was filed in December 2010.
We also applied for a Department of the Treasury Energy Reinvestment grant of $57 million last Thursday.
If approved we should expect to receive the funds in the second quarter.
In terms of 2012 guidance for taxes we expect our effective combined federal and state tax rate for income reporting purposes to average 36% for the year and our cash tax rate to average about 21%.
The difference driven by fuel tax credits and other tax deductions.
Depreciation expense for 2012 is expected to be $170 million up $6 million from 2011.
A preliminary estimate of pretax pension expense and funding for 2012 is $39 million and $32 million respectively.
With pretax pension expense up $10 million over 2011 and funding up $10 million driven by both expected lower discount rates and asset rates of return.
With that I will turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Before I move to the first quarter outlook to sum up 2011 we knew it would be a difficult and challenging year.
Our entire organization responded well to those challenges.
At our mills we set an all-time production record despite having about 40 000 tons of project-related downtime and machine slowbacks during the year.
And we completed our energy project on schedule at our original estimated project capital of $295 million.
In corrugated products we set an all-time record for corrugated product shipments plus we acquired 3 box plants started up a new box plant and completed major equipment installations and start-ups at 3 other box plants.
Despite significant inflationary cost pressures our earnings of $1.61 per share were only $0.01 per share lower than our all-time record results set last year.
Entering 2012 we are well positioned to benefit from the strategic efforts we completed in 2011 both in terms of earnings and reduced capital expenditures.
From a cash standpoint capital expenditures for 2012 are expected to be about $110 million down $170 million from 2011.
We plan to continue to make strategic box plant acquisitions and also return excess cash to our shareholders through both common stock dividends and share repurchases.
Moving to the first quarter outlook corrugated product shipments should be higher with 4 additional workdays compared to the fourth quarter and we also expect a full quarter's earnings benefit from our major energy projects.
We expect normal first quarter cost increases from colder weather annual maintenance outages at our Counce and Valdosta mills timing-related employee benefits a higher tax rate and pension expense.
Average export container board prices are expected to be lower reflecting the full impact of the fourth quarter price changes.
Considering all of these items we currently estimate our first-quarter earnings at about $0.40 per share.
With that we'll be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we made on this call constitute forward-looking statements.
The statements are based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that operator I'd like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Just one question on the energy projects.
It sounds like they've gotten off to a very good start.
So does that mean that in the first quarter we will see all of the benefits kind of on a run-rate basis showing up? Or would there be potentially be incremental benefits as the year progresses? As the year winds on we'll see the continued benefits accumulate.
The projects are complete and everything is running as we expected.
So from that point of view the first quarter benefits that we would expect will be there.
But again as the second and third quarter are compiled we'll see the biggest benefits from the project through the summer months into the early fall.
Those being our best months in terms of the shutdowns are behind us all 4 mills are running.
But in respect to Counce and Valdosta theoretically they'd be in their most optimum run position.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So operationally everything is in place and it's just because second and third quarter you've got more volume and so there is more benefit? Yes.
Mark this is Paul.
What I said on the last call when we got through everything we gave what we thought the benefit would be but it's not linear.
I think when you net-netted everything between the project and the increased and lack of shutdown we got to about a $0.26 number but it's not linear because it follows volume.
The more you make the bigger the benefit because you need more energy to make it you need more chemicals and that's what -- and more electricity and that is what the projects saves.
And so our biggest production quarters has historically been the second and third quarter you'll get a bigger benefit from the project there than the first quarter.
But we're up and running we expect the full first quarter's benefit because we've come up so well and -- but as I said and Mark said the benefits are not linear.
They are a function of the total production that's made in that quarter.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And one other the share repurchase authorization obviously you're generating lots of cash.
Where are you in terms of how much you have left on that repurchase authorization? Mark we have $1 million left from our prior authorization plus the full 150 from our current authorization.
So in total we have $150 million -- $151 million of share repurchase authorization remaining.
Our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari from Citi.
Research Division</strong> You referenced weaker export markets throughout the quarter.
Can you talk about what you're seeing in January whether you're seeing any kind of stabilization there? And then with domestic demand how has the market shaped up so far? Tom go ahead and why don't you shed some light on that.
Okay Anthony let me first mention export.
I think both in demand and pricing it's pretty much bottomed out.
Now of course currency has a lot to play in that role so we'll just have to see what happens.
And on the domestic side I mean things are relatively stable.
And it's you see the numbers that's happening in the industry.
And our domestic customers have fared quite well with the economy moving forward although at a slower pace than we'd like.
The only thing Anthony that I would add to that Paul mentioned currency and that's very important.
But it's most important in Europe where the euro is as you know because of the banking crisis over there the debt crisis their currency has really come down against the dollar.
Rest of the world currency is not as big a concern as Europe.
But the euro has gone from roughly 145 at a high to 125 that's a huge swing.
And that affects the price realization.
So that's the most important market in the world currency-wise.
Research Division</strong> And can you remind us roughly how much of your exports are going to Europe? Or are euro-based? What we've said basically historically 1/3 of our -- we have 3 big markets in the world.
Europe South America and China and it'll vary year-to-year.
But 1/3 1/3 1/3 and that can vary up or down but that's the order of magnitude description of our export business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thank you and with the Reading facility on line and your recent acquisitions can you estimate roughly what your current box plant integration level is? And if 90% is still the target what is the bridge that kind of gets you from here to there looking at expansions versus acquisitions versus outperforming the industry? With the current status with the success of the energy projects and the mill's performance we're still at the 80% level of integration even with the 3 acquisitions and the Reading plant.
So the goal is still 90 and so that's the goal.
But we're still down at that lower 80% area on integration.
But we didn't get of course the full benefit of the acquisitions nor the Reading plant in 2011 which will help us going into 2012.
If you think about 2011 of the gains that were made on the corrugated products out of the business a little more than 1% for the full year was contributed from the acquisitions.
So about 1% out of the 5% improvement for the year.
It's Tom Hassfurther's job and it's his job to increase the integration level by selling more boxes.
It's getting increasingly difficult because our mills continue to be more and more productive.
And so doesn't -- not only does he have to gain he has to also offset the increased production of a couple of percent a year that we usually get out of our mills.
We've got his treadmill on about a 45-degree angle but he's hanging in there.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon from Vertical Research Partners.
One thing that I noticed that -- seems quite impressive and just wanted some color on this is if you look at your corrugated shipments in the fourth quarter this year just looking at the percentages over the 4 years it's about 10% above what it was in the fourth quarter of '07 when we started to really step into the great recession.
And I noticed that most likely depending on what they report for December that we're probably down 7% over the same period for the industry.
So that's quite a phenomenal difference that you guys have generated.
And I was just wondering simply is this only because your customers are growing faster than the more national account-oriented customers at your competition or is there something more going on here? Do you feel you might be actually taking some customers from other people and that might account for it as well? If you look at the last 10 years you will see the trend that has built that performance.
And then also as we've spoken for the last 2 years the strategic activity in the box plants with the -- where we identified about a half dozen of our key box plants that could utilize capacity enhancements.
We've concluded all but one of the box plants.
So last year we completed 3 of those strategic upgrades along with the Reading plant.
So we've enhanced over the last 2 years 5 out of our 6 box plants to take advantage of demand that was there that we could never fulfill.
And with that Tom why don't you shed some light on some of the details across the board because I think we've got -- again this is a nationwide volume.
Well Chip I would just add that when our sales approach is really a -- really requires a long sales cycle because we're out selling value as opposed to price.
And it takes quite a while to get those accounts and prospects online.
And we've been very fortunate that many of those opportunities have come together.
And of course as I mentioned before we've spent a lot of time selecting our customer base and who we're going after so that we can grow with them over the long haul.
And yes in fact they did weather the recession and the downturn better than some of their competitors.
And as a result of that we've been able to take advantage of some of the opportunities that they've allowed us with regard to growth.
And of course they've grown their export markets and they've grown their domestic markets.
And as Mark mentioned we have spent our capital and strategic investments including the Reading plant in areas where we were literally out of capacity and we needed to add capacity to be able to take advantage of that.
And of course -- and then finally of course this year and going into 2012 the addition of the acquisitions will give us a 2% to 3% bump and we're -- and they've quite frankly exceeded our expectations.
So I think as long as we continue down this path of hard work we're well positioned for the future.
And this is Paul.
Just to amplify give you some numbers on the comment Mark made.
What you cite is true since 2007 and those numbers we're obviously pleased with.
But this has been a decade-long phenomenon.
If you go back 10 years the beginning of the decade to the end of the decade basically our volume these are rough numbers are up 30% and the industry was flat over that same time period.
So this is not a recent phenomenon this has continued for long time and I think it's a testament to what Tom just said our business model is finding customers who appreciate value and who we think will grow and then we work very hard to give them value which in the end is more important than anything.
Got you.
Also one could say it even might have accelerated some in recent years versus the progress you had early on.
So congrats on that.
And then just I would ask secondly as we look at 2012 and you look at the various cost items it would seem like obviously you're not buying really that much natural gas any more which is going to help people.
But what about wood costs? Are you seeing a continued sort of edging down of wood cost especially in the south or are there other factors that might cause that to reverse or head back up? Wood cost has been flat.
And I think again everything you read supports that.
But 2011 was from a weather point of view was pretty tame so as we finished up the year wood stayed in a relatively close trading range.
And with regard to natural gas we have taken advantage of some below spot prices over the last couple of months now.
And one example of that was at Counce mill during the Christmas holidays we had a boiler outage on the big power boiler.
And we were able to burn that natural gas in the newly rebuilt recovery boilers and take advantage of that.
But again we do have that flexibility just to remind everybody in many of our locations.
And Chip just to amplify a point Mark brought up a very important point about our energy project.
We've given guidance on how much it should contribute to EPS over the year.
And that comes in the category of cost savings that the project is saving us money.
But there's another category and we had a really -- Mark just brought up a very good example of it called cost avoidance.
Now cost avoidance doesn't contribute to EPS but it prevents it from going down.
And we had a tube failure in a power boiler in December and we had planned to replace some panels during the annual shutdown and unfortunately we didn't make it all the way we missed by a couple of months.
And when it's our biggest power boiler burns wood waste and when we lost it normally in the old days we would have to run the mill at half capacity.
One machine.
And we needed tons but with the rebuilt the recovery boilers their steam generation capacity is a lot higher.
We actually put load burners in that recovery boiler and we burned liquor and natural gas at the same time.
And instead of losing 1 500 tons a day of production we only lost 300 tons a day of production.
And so that roughly 7 000 8 000 tons of production that we made probably prevent -- if we figure out what it's worth it probably prevented earnings from going down $0.03 a share.
It didn't improve them but that's the other big benefit of this new project.
We have a lot of flexibility now that when you get into upset conditions or maintenance outages you're much better able to cope and offset cost that otherwise we could not have done in the past.
So we were very surprised how well we could run that mill without that big power boiler.
Our next question comes from Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mark I'm just curious with these energy projects finished now.
Does that debottleneck these mills at all and really give you the opportunity over the next few years to look at actually increasing capacity at either Counce or Valdosta? Yes and a good example of that Mark as the projects were coming to completion through the fall in parallel we had been performing other capital work projects in the pulp mill caustic plant at both Valdosta and Counce.
And when the boilers were completed we were able to take advantage of a new level of optimization in the pulp mill and caustic plant areas that give us more pulping capabilities.
And so the paper machines are able to take advantage of that.
So I think to answer your question yes we are in a position now to take the mills to a whole different level of optimization.
And continue to creep that capacity with minimal expenditures.
Research Division</strong> Mark can you give us any sense of sort of what a timeline might look like on that or what the incremental volume might be over the next few years? Well again if you look at 2011 we produced 2.5 million tons in a year that we actually had about 40 000 tons of extra planned outage capacity out.
So we did have productivity improvements during the year from the energy projects and the efforts.
But based on current machine production capabilities if you think about it the capacity is probably 2.575 million tons or up about 3% from the 2011 production.
And if you think about where we go from there 2% to 3% productivity improvements per year is not to be -- that would be expected from the activity we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very encouraging.
Second question I had.
On the export side of the equation can you just ballpark for us how much of your open market sales go into the export market? And then also give us a sense of whether export pricing kind of is varying by those different markets you talked about.
Because I was always under the impression that that heavyweight product you sold into places like Latin America might be a little more stable versus some other export markets? Yes.
I think traditionally if you look at our volume about 20% of what we produce in the mills goes to outside sales.
And of that 20% historically about half 10% is going offshore and 10% is staying domestic.
That number has been pretty consistent.
On the second part of your question I think you are -- with the issues in Europe we saw bigger declines of pricing in Europe.
But some of the regions such as South America and Central America prices have been more stable relative to that.
Yes.
But Mark I would say that that's not correct that you're assumption is not correct.
Our demand in Europe and South America I would say the stability has been the same historically because we're not really spot players.
We've had long-term customers long-term relations in both Europe and South America.
Wood cost is the volatility now and in Europe it's this huge swing in currency.
And I would have said that without the currency swing Europe is just as stable for us as South America.
And the market that was the more volatile of the 3 was the Far East.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's both from a volume and from a pricing side? Yes.
Our next question comes from Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Mark I'm just wondering if you could help us -- remind us what your strategic view of integration levels really is.
Your capacity is growing you're struggling to keep up there but you are going out and picking up new box plants on the outside.
You've always talked about sales into the independent market being a strategically important piece.
Can you give us a sense of what those targets are as you think about buying new box plants? Well the target remains 90%.
And as we've spoken at different times over the last 2 years part of the effort to get to the 90% included at least one acquisition a year.
So it's interesting that Tom was able to accomplish 3 acquisitions last year plus the start-up of the new Reading plant.
So we added 4 new box plants last year.
And still with the dramatic improvement seen at the mills we held at that lower 80% integration.
But still to answer your question the target remains 90%.
We're going to continue as we are right now looking at opportunities for acquisitions and continuing to enhance the existing box plant capabilities.
And Mark this is Paul.
There's nothing magic about 90%.
We kind of picked that number because it's higher than 80% and it's less than 100%.
But there's a reason for that.
As you know we make money at both our box plants and our mills.
So every time that we sell into the outside market does not avail us the opportunity to make money in the box plant on those tons.
So we don't like to lose that piece of the profit.
So you can then say well why not go to 100%? And the reason for that is as Tom has further pointed out we're outselling value to our box customers and there's a lot of things that constitute value from performance of the product to service but also on dependability of supply both when things are good and bad.
So we would never get to 100% because our customers know that we offer them supply assurance and that 10% buffer is sufficient to be able to always make that statement that we can supply all of our domestic box customers.
And that's why it's 90%.
Now if it ends up 88% or 92% there's really not that much difference.
Research Division</strong> So presumably you don't have a specific export target because you think of it in terms of every individual piece of business and whether it makes any money? That's right.
That's exactly right.
We're very customer-centric.
Our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America Securities.
Research Division</strong> I just want to continue on that last sort of line of questioning.
As you look at the strategy over the last 10-plus years it's clearly been successful at least looking at your returns.
And you continue to have the opportunity to grow your mill production apparently at very high margins.
How long do you think you can continue with the existing strategy Paul or Mark in a containerboard market that overall remains flat? What hope do you have? What signs do you see that perhaps kind of domestic manufacturing will be rebounding in the next few years such that the containerboard market overall which has been flat over the last 10-plus years actually sees some growth in the upcoming years which would help you in turn grow even more profitably? The first part of your question we believe that our strategy can continue on where we're looking at opportunities within the box plants that are available to us.
We continue to believe that we can make good acquisitions as we go forward.
And along with that support those acquisitions with volume improvements within the mills.
And we think that the market as far as whether it's -- you're saying flat we don't think it's flat.
We think there is improvement in the North American footprint.
So we're encouraged and we think we can continue on with this trajectory.
Back on that point about growth it has been flat for a decade.
But we think with what's happening in the world some of the perils of doing business in China and Mexico is forcing some business back to the U.S.
I think if the U.S.
is to solve its deficit problem there will be some recapitalization of American enterprise involved.
And we think the fundamentals for corrugated growth as we enter the new decade appear a lot better than entering the previous decade once we get through the volatility of the financial situation in Europe and the deficit.
But our prognosis is long-term.
This next 10 years is going to be a lot better than the previous 10 years.
And now of course you can say anything's better than 0 and you'd be right.
But we are optimistic about the future.
Research Division</strong> Paul I know it's hard to project this sort of thing but if we think about the next 2 to 3 years on the one hand for now anyway it sounds like you have completed most of the strategic investments that you had expected to do within your box system.
On the other hand you may have a domestic market that's recovering.
Do you anticipate the use of cash being more or less balanced as it has been in prior years? Or do you think you have the opportunity to do more buyback since the strategic investment cycle maybe is decelerating for you? Well this is Paul let me take that question.
Mark and Tom Hassfurther their primary job is to generate as much cash as possible.
And I let them do that for the last couple of years and they're doing well.
Me and Rick we look at how we're going to use that cash.
So not that they're not involved but they got to make it and we got to figure the best use of it.
And we had a terrific year cash-wise as far as I'm concerned.
We purchased almost 5 million shares of stock and it gets us down to 97 million and change in the number of shares.
We've paid out almost $80 million in dividends and we've made 3 very good acquisitions.
And what we've said is that once we feel more certainty about the long-term prospect for earnings the projects are online we'll see what happens with this debt crisis in Europe and how it might or might not affect the economy in the U.S.
and where's the next move on pricing in this industry has it stayed the same is it up it's down.
The next thing we got to take a hard look at and we're already taking a hard look at is where we move the dividend.
And that's something that we will evaluate on a continuing basis because as we said last year we see both share buyback and dividends as the 2 primary vehicles to return value to shareholders.
And we still think that while we're adding box plants the capital required for box plants is modest compared to these megaprojects in the mills.
And the good news is we're done with the big CapEx in the mills.
This energy project as Mark said puts us at a new status and his conversation with a previous questioner it gives us some flexibility in the mill in terms of productivity improvement.
So we're really down to 3 things.
Share buyback which we've done a lot of.
Dividends which we raised once since the recession and that's something we're going to look at.
But there's the 3 primary vehicles for cash usage.
Research Division</strong> Paul just last one.
Early January trends if you can comment on that that'd be great.
Yes.
If you look at the first 12 days of the box plant cut of activity on a bookings and billings point of view we're up a strong 10% on both bookings and billings for the first 12 days.
So things are looking very good for January and trending along with the same pace that we ended the year.
Our next question comes from Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow on George's question about return of cash to shareholders.
Would you say at this point you guys are at an optimal leverage? Or would you consider raising the leverage to return more cash to shareholders? Or would it have to be perhaps for some other kind of opportunity? How are you thinking about that? Well I think most people -- we think we're leveraged about right.
And of course we've said that for the last 5 years.
And I would say a lot of the people that follow us probably would say we're under leveraged that we could take on more leverage.
But we do have a conservative bias to us.
So we don't see our leverage changing very much.
And so that's one thing I didn't mention that we had no plans to take on debt or pay down debt.
We're kind of happy with where we are which means that the decision with regard to box plant acquisitions against small capital debit increase and share buyback won't be affected by our leverage.
They will be more affected by external factors in terms of how much cash we think we can generate going forward.
But the debt doesn't play virtually any role at all on those decisions.
Research Division</strong> And then just the second question is could you share with us your maintenance downtime plans kind of by quarter for this year? Well we only give one quarter at a time.
But if you look at the first quarter we're taking Valdosta down for about a week.
And then one of the machines at Counce the #2 machine will be down in the second quarter.
But the first machine will be down #1 machine at Counce for approximately 5 days.
But the tonnage impact for Valdosta and Counce for the first quarter is a little over 17 000 tons.
So it's a little lighter than normal first quarter because we had shifted part of the Counce effort into the second quarter.
But that's the impact.
A little over 17 000 tons of planned outage for the first quarter.
Yes.
And when we talked to you on the last call we had planned to take the full Counce downtime in the first quarter as is our normal practice.
But when we had that power boiler tube failure in December we had had a plan to continually to replace panels in that boiler.
But when we had a tube failure we decided to pool up next year's replacement into this year and not take any chances.
And so we had to get a few more extra panels and we couldn't get them delivered until the beginning of April.
And so we simply then extended that shutdown half in March or so and half in April.
And that's why it got pushed to the second quarter to best maximize the use of downtime with regard to that boiler.
And so that's why it's a little different this year.
There'll be a touch more downtime in the second quarter than normal and a touch less in the first quarter than normal.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Just one last question.
I think you said in the fourth quarter the year-over-year impact of labor and benefits was about $0.025.
So if I annualize that that'd be about $0.10 annually.
Is it fair to say that's kind of the right run rate this year and then you have pension on top of that in terms of the incremental $10 million expense that you talked about? Is that the right way to think about that? That is combined.
It includes both labor and fringes and we would expect essentially the same thing going into 2012.
However you never know what's going to happen to medical.
That's the real one that could be anywhere an increase from -- it can run anywhere increasing from 10% to 20% in a given year.
So that's just -- that's the open.
But in general I would expect it to be about the same going into '12.
Our next question comes from Al Kabili from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little bit on the box plants.
And you mentioned you were able to do kind of an above trend 3 acquisitions this year.
What are you seeing out there? Is the pipeline and what you're looking at indicative that you can continue to go above trend this year? Well understanding it's hard to predict? And the follow on to that is at the current stock price do you have sort of a preference in terms of share buybacks versus acquisitions incrementally which way you want to lean towards? Well let me answer the first question regarding acquisitions and that predictability going forward.
I can tell you it's not predictable.
These things when they present themselves you have to be prepared to be able to take advantage of it.
And some of them we even try to create on our own to some extent.
But we're very disciplined in terms of what we want from an acquisition.
We obviously want very talented people.
We want a great customer base and we want to have them immediately accretive to earnings.
So it's a pretty high standard for what we set regarding acquisitions.
And if enough present themselves and it's the right opportunity we take advantage of it.
So it's very difficult to predict.
And the second part of your question the amount of capital in the box plants really is not -- we figure $40 million a year we'd be happy if we could get that much done on box plant acquisitions.
And we did a little better than that this year.
But that's normally -- you find 1 in a year or 2.
Good ones they're hard to find because of all of the reasons that Tom talked about.
But that does not really affect the biggest piece of the cash which has been going to share buyback and dividends.
And in terms -- both share buyback and dividends have advantages.
And our share count's now down from 104.5 million shares to 97 million in change.
That has a nice effect on EPS.
It gives us more leverage if you've got faith in the business going forward.
The fewer the shares the more leverage.
And we like that at dividends.
And if you feel that your stock is undervalued then it's a good deal for shareholders.
And so that all plays a part in it.
Dividends on the other hand shareholders like dividends.
Successful companies pay dividends.
And even though our return is one of the higher in our industries right now I would argue that a higher return is good for shareholders.
And so it's a balance and the answer changes at different times.
It depends where your shares are valued et cetera.
But the dividend is important to shareholders and we recognize that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I was trying to get a sense of which way you're leaning towards right at this moment.
If you have a view.
When we have a view on that we'll make an announcement.
That's not something we normally discuss at an earnings call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to also follow up and clarify the energy project.
Are you still looking at an incremental $0.21 for 2012 if I have that right? Yes.
What we said at the end of the -- at our third quarter earnings release conference call we said we would have about $0.21 per share and direct benefits from cost reduction as well as some productivity.
Then we would expect -- if we do not have the downtime and slowbacks that we had in 2011 for project-related activities which would add another $0.10 to get us to $0.31 and then we would not be able to capitalize interest as it relates to the project.
So that would take away $0.05.
So we gave an indication of about $0.26.
Of course the $0.10 on the demand will depend upon demand going throughout the rest of the year.
The $0.21 in direct cost reduction and productivity we really still -- we feel good about that might be a little bit higher.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And to clarify that I know that -- you noted earlier it wasn't linear.
Is there a way to think about the first quarter what we're getting on energy project if there's a way to quantify that? No we're not going to get into that.
There's so many factors that can influence how much the energy project benefits are whether it be prices fuel prices whether it be production.
That's not something Al that we'd like to get into.
We do think we're getting good benefits especially by the fact that you don't have to buy as much fuel in colder weather.
And that's a real positive.
Bottom line on that question with the number we think if everything continues to run as well as we're seeing it run there's actually upside to that number as we go forward.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Inflation was obviously a headwind for you guys in 2011.
It looks like the rate of change is declining and certainly what is working in your favor.
How should we be thinking about inflation for 2012? Well it's hard to say.
Who knows what's going to happen with weather conditions and how it impacts starch? That's a big component of our chemical cost so that's going to be a big factor.
Whatever happens to recycled fiber is going to be a big factor.
And I would say third transportation what happens to oil prices can really impact our transportation costs.
All I can say is from the cost that dropped significantly during the economic downturn they're back from our standpoint more in line with pre-economic downturn levels.
So intuitively you would not expect the inflation to be as much in 2012 as you had in 2011.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then some of the other paper packaging companies not necessarily in containerboard have set a de-stocking.
It doesn’t seem like you saw any of that impacting Q4 but just want to get your -- any incremental color on that.
And it looks like demand is off to a good start the first quarter.
Are you seeing any restocking from your customers? No.
I mean we're not seeing anything to that effect.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you quantified the export impact -- export price incoming impact for Q4.
I think it was a $0.03 number.
Can you quantify what the full quarter impact would be in Q1? No.
We don't break out the differentials.
We'll report on that after we get our results.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from John Tumazos from Very Independent Research.
LLC</strong> The recent natural gas prices in the low $2 are a big surprise.
Would your energy-saving investments have paid off at current gas prices? And presumably those investments are a necessary state in business replace and update equipment nonetheless? I think even at the lower natural gas prices the fact that the recovery boilers have improved their efficiency to convert liquor into chemicals and steam have improved so dramatically the benefits still far outweighing the lowering gas price.
So lower gas prices is just an incremental benefit in the entire picture right now.
But the projects are still generating the returns that we would have expected.
Yes.
Because you can't burn -- you'd have to burn so much liquor.
You can't replace liquor with natural gas or you couldn't make paper because you've got to recover the chemicals.
And so the heart of our project has been in the recovery boilers and we're just simply generating twice as much steam with the same amount of liquor.
Now to make it -- and we're making electricity out of that steam so we get another benefit.
But the savings would have been less because we theoretically could have bought a turbine and made that electricity.
But that remains to be seen because when utilities start burning gas well that means electricity prices are going to go up or down and that natural gas is going to stay where it is.
So it's a complicated question.
But I would say if we were on 100% gas the return would have been less.
But it's academic as we burn very little gas to start with.
So we wouldn't have saved that much because we weren't burning gas anyway.
You have a follow-up question or comment from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Just one clarification.
Totally understood on the energy reinvestment grant that that could come in the second quarter.
In terms of the Black Liquor credits does -- if that money comes to you is that by way of lower cash taxes? Or is that additive? Is it a payment that you would get that would be separate from the cash tax rate being at 21%? Or what have you? Yes.
Rick why don’t you go ahead? Yes.
It's not additive.
What's built into the 21% cash tax rate is the continuing usage of the biofuel credits getting from whether it be the 65 to the 167 dependent upon the IRS audit it would just mean a continuation of that 21% cash tax rate longer.
So it's just an additive amount to the amount of funds that we would have available to retain the 21% cash tax rate over time.
Now that -- once again just for clarification the grant is separate.
That is a cash payment from the government that we would receive all at once.
We have a follow-up question or comment from Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes just 2 real quick ones.
Rick that grant you said you'd find about it in the second quarter.
Is that also when you would receive the cash in all likelihood? Yes.
If it is approved we would receive the cash hopefully in the second quarter.
That's not a guarantee but that's what we're looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question.
Tom Hassfurther I think you mentioned the you thought that the export volume and export pricing had bottomed or was bottoming and I wondered if you could put any color around that? Well it's really hard to put a lot of color around that.
It's just speculation based on what we hear and that sort of stuff.
Now keep in mind though that as Paul mentioned earlier our target markets in export have to do with long-term relationships some specialty markets heavyweights some other things like that.
So we're basing it on a customer base that we have and what we see going on with our customers.
But of course the big wild card as we mentioned earlier is currency.
And depending on what goes on with the currency and the stability of the currency can dramatically impact what goes on certainly in Europe especially but also obviously in South America and Central America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And I had been picking up a little  bit recently that maybe there were some moves afoot to try to start to restore export pricing later here in the first quarter? Well we don't comment on quotes.
[Operator Instructions] If there are no more questions thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to seeing you on the next call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corp.
of America's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corp.
of America First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA.
And with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther who runs our Corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call and after the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported first quarter net income of $18 million or  $0.18 per share which included a noncash after-tax charge totaling $23 million or $0.24 per share from an amendment of our 2009 federal income tax return to reallocate gallons between alternative fuel mixture credits and cellulosic biofuel producer credits.
This  charge is a reversal of income that was previously reported as a special item and not included in our recurring results and is further detailed in the notes to our consolidated earnings results included as part of the press release.
Excluding this charge adjusted net income was a first quarter record $41 million or $0.42 per share compared to the first quarter of 2011 adjusted net income of $39 million or $0.39 per share which excludes a $2 million or $0.02 per share asset disposal charge.
The increase in adjusted net income was driven by higher containerboard and corrugated products volume of $0.09 per share; lower cost for energy of $0.04 per share; and lower recycled fiber cost of $0.02 per share.
These increases were partially offset by lower export containerboard prices of $0.03 per share; and increased cost for depreciation of $0.03 per share; transportation $0.02 per share; labor costs $0.02 per share; and also higher interest expense of $0.02 per share.
Net sales were a first quarter record $671 million up 7% compared to the first quarter of 2011 net sales of $630 million.
Operationally our business remains strong throughout the quarter with record corrugated product shipments and record mill production despite having 2 of our mills down for annual maintenance outages.
The new recovery boiler and turbine at our Valdosta mill and our 2 rebuilt recovery boilers and new turbine at the Counce mill were instrumental in lowering our energy chemical and repair cost and also increasing our productivity.
Looking at the specific details of operations higher mill production and corrugated products volume improved our earnings by $0.09 per share compared to last year's first quarter.
Our corrugated shipments were up 8.3% both on a total and a per-workday basis compared to last year's first quarter.
Excluding our 3 box plant acquisitions in 2011 corrugated product shipments were up 5.4%.
Outside sales of containerboard both domestic and export remains strong essentially equaling last year's first quarter and just slightly below fourth quarter shipments.
All of our mills ran exceptionally well producing 640 000 tons of containerboard up 38 000 tons over the first quarter of 2011.
This performance was driven by improved productivity lower annual average downtime and an extra mill production day in February with leap year.
Annual mill outages reduced linerboard production by about 18 000 tons during the quarter.
Our mill in Valdosta Georgia was down for 8 days and the No.
2 machine at Counce Tennessee was down for 4 days.
We ended quarter with our inventories as planned about 11 000 tons above year-end levels.
This level of inventory is required considering our anticipated demand and to offset lower production due to the 3 mill maintenance outage scheduled in the second quarter.
The No.
1 machine at Counce will be down for 5 days.
The Tomahawk Wisconsin medium mill will be down 5 days and our Filer City Michigan medium mill will be down for 6 days.
In addition to normal planned annual outage work at these mills a Counce outage in April included the lengthy and extensive overhaul of our 50-megawatt No.
1 turbine generator.
This type of inspection and overhaul is performed every 6 years and will take about 16 days to complete.
During the turbine generator outage the mill will purchase additional electricity to support mill operations.
We will also have our large C2 power boiler down at Counce for the 16 days to make planned repairs to replace boiler wall panels.
We generally make major repairs of this time every 15 years or so.
After the No.
1 machine starts up the mill will run at reduced capacity for about 11 days until the boiler work is completed.
Compared to the first quarter the planned annual outage work will result in lower mill production increased mill shutdown and startup costs as well as higher amortization of outage repair costs.
All in all we expect lost production due to maintenance outages to be about 25 000 tons in the second quarter compared to 18 000 tons in the first quarter.
This will complete all our annual maintenance outages for the year.
Looking at pricing.
Our domestic pricing for containerboard and corrugated products remained essentially flat compared to both the first quarter and fourth quarter of last year.
Export containerboard prices declined during the fourth quarter of 2011 but stabilized in January of 2012 and then were essentially flat the remainder of the first quarter.
The lower export pricing reduced earnings by about $0.03 per share.
With regards to costs energy costs were down $0.04 per share compared to last year's first quarter driven by major energy projects at Counce and Valdosta.
In fact our energy cost per ton at Valdosta is now a negative number considering all energy items including purchased fuels electricity and sales of energy-related byproducts such as tall oil.
Lower recycled fiber cost improved earnings by $0.02 per share as industry published prices for old corrugated containers or OCC excluding delivery costs were down about $25 per ton in the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of last year.
Although the average price for the first quarter was lower than last year OCC price did increase in each of the 3 months of the first quarter and April published prices are about $10 per ton above the first quarter average.
We have seen more moderate inflationary cost pressures than we did last year with the exception of outbound transportation costs which were up about $0.02 per share compared to last year's first quarter driven by diesel prices which increased about 10% on average.
Diesel prices also trended higher during the first quarter and exiting March were up an additional 5%.
We currently expect diesel costs to remain at their elevated levels and possibly even go higher as we move into the summer months which could result in increased transportation cost.
Labor and benefit costs were up $0.02 per share over last year as a result of increase in pension costs and normal annual wage increases.
Depreciation expense was up $0.03 per share compared to last year's first quarter driven by the completion of our energy projects corrugated projects strategic capital expenditures and newly acquired box plants.
Interest expense was up $0.02 per share driven by non-capitalization of interest with our energy project completion and higher debt.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who will give an update on our cash position and biofuel tax credits.
Thank you Mark.
In the first quarter PCA generated cash from operations before working capital changes of $98 million.
Working capital increased by $63 million driven by about $45 million in beginning-of-the-year payments including incentive bonuses and our semiannual interest payments on our notes increased inventory levels and other normal seasonal changes in working capital.
Capital expenditures were $35 million during the quarter.
We paid our quarterly common stock dividend of approximately $20 million and repurchased 781 000 shares of our common stock for about $29.75 per share or $23 million.
As of March 31 2012 our diluted shares outstanding were 97.4 million shares.
On March 16 2012 we acquired Packaging Specialists a corrugated products manufacturer located near Pittsburgh Pennsylvania with sales of about $50 million in 2011.
At quarter end we had $84 million cash on hand and our total long-term debt excluding capital leases is $805 million.
During the first quarter no federal cash tax payments were made and no alternative fuel mixture credits or cellulosic biofuel producer credits were used as our first federal tax payment is not due until April 15.
With the amendment of our 2009 tax return we have estimated remaining fuel tax credits totaling $42 million to $144 million.
This amendment should also allow us to reduce our 2012 federal cash taxes well below our original estimate of about 20%.
The final amount of the available fuel tax credits and the final cash tax rate is contingent upon the conclusion of the IRS audit currently underway.
Finally we are very pleased to report that our application for an energy investment grant from the U.S.
Department of the Treasury for our Valdosta Georgia energy project was approved.
And on April 11 we received $57 million in proceeds.
With that I will turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Looking ahead our cost per annual maintenance outages will be greater in second quarter than in the first quarter with less tons produced and higher amortization of repair cost.
This will reduce earnings by about $0.03 per share compared to the first quarter.
We also expect slightly higher cost for transportation and recycled fiber.
Higher corrugated product shipments and a richer mix are expected as we move into a seasonally stronger period.
Energy usage should be lower with normal weather and natural gas cost particularly in our box plants will be lower.
Considering these items we expect second quarter earnings of about $0.45 per share.
With that we'd be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on this call constituted forward-looking statements.
These statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that operator we'd be glad to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] I am showing our first question comes from Chip Dillon from Vertical Research.
I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit about the thoughts behind switching -- reversing if you will looks like roughly almost half of the cellulosic biofuels category of credits back into the alternate fuel mixture credit.
I know that there's about a 30% higher recovery with the cellulosic at least if you have the confidence that you'll be able to get it.
And I'm supposing I guess either maybe your depreciation analysis going forward or maybe even some political uncertainty could have been part of it.
But I'd love to hear why you made that switch.
Rick why don’t you go ahead and get into the details? Yes Chip.
From the 2 credits you referenced the 30%.
Of course the benefit from the cellulosic biofuel producer credit after tax is $0.62 and the alternative fuel mixture is $0.50 per share so it's not a total difference of that amount.
But basically it was a very complex issue.
There were a number of factors that we considered both from a tax and a benefits utilization strategy.
It's really not something we'd like to get into in the call and we discuss normally our tax strategy.
As I said earlier in the call we do have the benefit of now being able to take the credits in a more rapid basis and that our cash tax rate could go down significantly from 20% much lower as we go through the year.
But we need to see what's happening with the IRS audit underway before I can give you a definitive on a number of things including the range that we gave as well as what the cash tax rate would be.
Yes.
Another way to look at it -- Chip this is Paul.
We basically reduced the range from 60 to 160 to say 40 to 140 so the number may not even change when we get done with the whole thing.
It's just the range that's changed.
And that thing is still a moving target.
And as Rick said until we get the audit completed we're not really going to offer any more information on that subject.
Totally understand.
And then just a quick follow-up.
When you look at the -- this is becoming a routine where you guys seem to be doing much better on the volume front.
I know you're adding 2 conversion and you just mentioned the acquisition but could you talk a little bit about what you see as the reason you guys are growing so much faster than the market and also any thoughts as to why the market looks like it's actually slowed down a little bit versus GDP compared to say what were seeing a year or so ago? Chip again when you look at our strategy over the last 2 years to enhance 5 of our box plants and help take care of their capability to service customers that was the $80 million over 2010 2011 at 5 of the plants.
But also Tom was very successful in executing 3 acquisitions last year and then the one that we just announced.
So when you think about the capabilities from a revenue side of the equation that the box plants now offer it's quite a different footprint.
So Tom if you want to add and elaborate to that.
All right.
Yes Chip let me just add a little clarity to this thing and go back in time a little bit and refresh your memories about what our strategy was and continues to be starting with the fact we want to become 90% integrated.
And we wanted to do that 3 different ways: one was organic growth; the other one was strategic capital investment and that was specifically in plants where we were at or near capacity; and the third way was through acquisition.
And of course we talked about the acquisition.
And we made 4 acquisitions in the past 15 months and that's resulted in approximately 3% additional growth for us.
We also completed much of the strategic capital investment currently north of about $40 million and that of course relates to capacity needs driven almost exclusively by customer demand.
And then the remaining is the organic growth which we've talked about for a long time.
It's a long-term strategy requires a very long sales cycle.
It involves hundreds maybe thousands of accounts that have allowed us opportunities to grow.
They're either growing or we've got opportunities with them to add value or earn a larger share of the market.
And so that's -- we continue to do that.
And of course I'd be remiss if I didn't give our people a lot of credit for executing a very aggressive plan and they're doing an incredibly good job.
So that's where we stand with that.
Relative to "Is the market slowing down and why is it not tracking GDP exactly?" well if you follow any of the trends that have gone on and certainly FBA statistics and that sort of thing you know that we kind of separated from GDP as an industry quite a while ago and track probably more closely nondurables today than we do anything else.
But I think we're still fairly bullish on what's going on with the economy.
There'll be some ups and downs and I still say that customers watch their inventories very very closely.
So we're seeing a few more swings one way or the other that maybe we wouldn't see in a more traditional economy.
And Chip this is Paul.
Let me just add one thing to what Tom said.
I think he put everything in pretty good perspective but when it comes to organic growth we have outgrown the industry for over the last decade continually.
And we think the reason is that our basic sales proposition is we sell value not price.
And if you can provide a customer more value than anybody else we think that's what makes you successful.
And you can provide value in a lot of ways.
Now we can spend 2 hours on talking about how you provide value.
But that more than anything else in my opinion is what's driven our success with regard to organic growth.
Our next question comes from Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just on the maintenance cost for the quarter.
Obviously it's up $0.03 from the first quarter.
As we just think about the rest of the year I know that sometimes there's the amortization cost that continues throughout the year.
So I was just trying to calibrate how much we would add back given that there's no more downtime for the rest of the year.
Is it -- would it be the full $0.03 plus the first quarter amounts? Or is there amortization we need to factor in as well? Rick why don't you go ahead and get into the details? Yes.
You really had the right point with the amortization of the repair cost.
That is the one thing that you will continue to have.
And so when you look at the second quarter to the third quarter you will continue to have the amortization of repair cost and it will go up from the second quarter.
So net-net between the second quarter and the third quarter I can't give a number but you will have a higher repair cost compared to the second.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the energy projects I think Mark you had mentioned in the last call that it is possible you might see the saves exceed the $0.26 that you talked about.
I just want to get a sense of how that's progressing at this stage.
Everything we've talked about as far as -- I think we summarized and said all in net about $0.26 benefit.
We said $0.21 from the direct energy pieces themselves and then with the increased volume that we added back net of the capitalized interest that was netted against that we still feel comfortable that that 26% -- $0.26 per share number for the year is still good.
Everything we saw in the first quarter coming out of the Valdosta and Counce indicated that the boilers and turbines are doing exactly what we expected and have enhanced not only the energy picture but our capabilities to just run the mills more effectively and efficiently.
So we still feel good with the numbers we've talked about.
We're comfortable with the number as we run this equipment.
I guess our feeling is there may be a little more upside than downside to that number but only time will tell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just had to say on the export markets you talked about stabilizing pricing early in the first quarter but you didn't really talked about anything about it picking up here at all in the second quarter.
So I just want to know what you're seeing out there for the export markets in general.
And obviously there was a mill closure in Europe as well so wondering how that might factor into your thinking about the opportunities on the export market.
Well from a volume point of view again we said we're pretty well flat on volume.
But Tom do you have anything to elaborate on what you're seeing? Yes I think all I can tell you is Phil we've -- we have advised our customers that prices will be going up in the second quarter.
That's all I can tell you on the -- on that side of the business and I think it's driven by a lot of different normal factors.
I'm showing our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on Chip's question on volumes.
You referenced the 90% integration level goal.
Are you at about -- or is it safe to say you're about 80% now? And in terms of the 90% goal when do you think you can get there? Is that a 2-year goal or a 3-year goal? Currently we're at that 81% level with the -- again as the mills have continued to perform well that's been the factor there.
But the goal would still be to go out to the end of 2014 2 3 years and with acquisition activity that we have in growing the organic side of the business to continue to achieve that 90% target.
So yes that's still the plan.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of a budget or a range that you would set aside for box plant acquisition is there any kind of color that you can give given the 3 that you picked up recently? On a range per year of spending? Research Division</strong> Yes yes over the next couple of years.
Well just to go back.
Last year's 3 acquisitions we spent $57 million.
And so around $50 million a year would probably be a good number on average.
Yes.
That's been our historic average if you go back a decade about $50 million in box plant acquisitions.
Now that can vary from 0 to 100 depending on the year.
You could have a year when you really can't find anything that really fits your model but the next year you'll find a lot.
But I think it would average $50 million a year going forward and that's not cast in concrete but that's kind of our calibration.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Just one clarification.
When you were talking about the downtime costs maintenance et cetera third quarter versus second quarter I think Rick you focused on the repair expense.
That would go up a little bit.
But presumably you don't have the 25 000 tons of lost production and so you have that as a positive 3Q to 2Q.
And so if you net those 2 I would assume that your maintenance/downtime costs would be lower in the third quarter than the second quarter.
Is that a fair assumption? That is fair.
We would not have the norm in the second quarter.
We have the lost production plus you have the increased cost while you were down as well as starting up and shutting down the equipment.
So in the third quarter you would not have the first 2 items but you would have a higher amortization of annual outage repair cost in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
And Mark just to put it another way the highest headwinds with regard to maintenance is in the second quarter this year.
Those headwinds subside in the third and fourth quarter because we're not going to -- no downtime related.
As you've said the only point was it all doesn't go away because we amortize shutdowns over the rest of the year after they occur.
So you can't take everything out but you take out the piece that you just said.
So from an earnings point of view and we don't give guidance more than one quarter in advance the situation gets better third quarter over second.
Okay.
And maybe I'm jumping ahead too far here.
But -- so kind of order of magnitude about a $0.04 $0.05 -- $0.04 type of improvement 3Q versus 2Q? Yes.
We only give guidance once and we try to be pretty disciplined about only going out one quarter at a time.
Sure.
And just one quick other one.
You continue obviously to  generate lots of free cash flow particularly as your cash tax rate is going to be even lower.
You have the box plant acquisitions.
Is much of the remainder going to be focused on share repurchase? Or could you potentially even contemplate revisiting the dividend again sooner rather than later? I think as we've said in the past week we continue dynamically to look at where our cash needs to be deployed whether it's a balance of dividends share buyback and reinvestment in the assets and the acquisitions.
So we'll continue that process to evaluate as we go quarter to quarter and look at our cash accumulation and cash position.
So again that just remains a dynamic discussion amongst ourselves.
Yes.
If somebody tries to support [ph] it we think $50 million is a number for acquisitions.
I mean we're very diligent in the way we pursue acquisitions because in our business there are very high return but very high risk depending on a lot of factors so we take our time.
But that just leaves dividends and share buyback.
And share buyback is the most obvious vehicle because dividends involve a longer period of time.
You have to be sure that you can sustain that dividend.
So both are always in our mind.
But obviously we had a $150 million share buyback authorization.
We're proceeding to spend that at an appropriate rate.
Our next question comes from Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Mark 2 things.
So you mentioned higher OCC costs this quarter but are you seeing anything picking up in virgin fiber cost? We're starting to see wood products cost rise.
In some regions that helps sometimes it hurts so I'm just curious whether you're seeing any movement on your cost on the virgin inside? No.
As a matter of fact the virgin fiber side especially in the South remains really flat.
And so we haven't had any of the weather extremes in the South this past -- from the fourth quarter going into the first quarter.
So virgin I guess we've talked about that before I'd say it's trending pretty flat.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a view that if lumber does start to pick up in the South whether that's going to actually help you or hurt you? Because of the residual chip volumes that would become available on the market that would help.
We've seen some of that activity actually in Michigan at our Filer City mill with some sawmills producing more through the fall into the winter.
And so there were more chips available on the market.
So we've seen some of that activity starting to take place.
Mark in the lumber market they cut big trees as opposed to smaller pulpwood trees and they're going to make residuals as they cut those trees.
And that waste wood has  got to find a home and if that -- and we're hoping that the wood products business does pick up because at one time for example at our Counce mill we got 1/3 of our wood supply from sawmill residuals.
We're down now to maybe 10% 12%.
And so when and if it picks up we think it's a plus.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
Just one last question.
You mentioned the rise in transportation cost.
Is that making you  think differently about the inventories you want to carry? No.
Right now the diesel is always a factor in the transportation cost.
But also with the 4 acquisitions we have behind us and also the new Reading plant the question of inventories and how we manage inventories is again dynamically changed in how we service the bigger fleet of box plants.
So I think going forward our inventory model will remain somewhat the same but we do need to consider how we service the additional plants we have.
Our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to piggyback actually off of Mark's question there.
As you look at the acquisitions that you've made and now the most recent one should we assume that at least initially you have a somewhat more challenging logistical situation to make sure that you keep the customers that you acquired through these acquisitions? And as we think -- take a step back think more broadly about the acquisitions that you've made is it possible to perhaps peg what kind of accretion either to earnings or cash flow returns they can have when we look out say a year or so? On the first part from the logistics and how we service the customer base no that's not an issue.
As a matter of fact in many cases our capabilities are enhanced with a bigger footprint.
On the second question Rick do you want to talk about the accretion? No that's not something we would get into Mark -- I mean George trying to isolate profitability by an individual unit.
Research Division</strong> Would it be fair though Rick that you would have made these acquisitions with the assumption that it's enhancing to whatever relative level of return or free cash flow generation you had previously? Would that be fair? Well I think you can look at the volume.
We said with the volume we were up 8.3% and without acquisitions we would have been up 5.4%.
So you're getting the throughput of the mills plus the box plant shipments of about 3%.
So intuitively those acquisitions are generating additional earnings for us.
We just don't want to get into the specific numbers.
And George as I said earlier we view this endeavor as a high-return high-risk endeavor.
High risk for the reasons you elaborated on but high return for a lot of reasons if you can make sure that you're not going to be encumbered by some of the potential downfall of making these acquisitions.
And that's why we're very deliberate in the way we approach this.
And so we've been extremely pleased with the returns we've gotten on these.
That's not to say over the last 15 years we haven't been burned a few times for the reasons you elaborated on but overall we've been pretty successful in this regard.
And Tom I think you want to say something.
Yes George this is Tom.
I'd like to also add that in order to mitigate those risks as I've mentioned one of our key criterias in the acquisition process is a great management team and very talented people and to make sure that they stay on board.
That really helps mitigate that risk of losing customers or anything like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate the color there.
If we can switch topics to maintenance and the projects that you have underway.
One of the things that you mentioned as part of the second quarter program is maintenance of the boiler walls.
And I remember from one of the last calls -- perhaps incorrectly so but I think this is true that you're accelerating to some degree the maintenance on boiler walls.
If that's true can you elaborate a bit on that? And if it's true should we expect perhaps a bit more than historically normal maintenance expense during the first half of the year on a going-forward basis? The work that's underway right now at Counce again we were taking advantage of the very fact that we had the annual shutdown and some of that work could've been done over the next few years.
But again we had the ability to execute that work now and get that behind us.
So in that regard it's an isolated opportunity to upgrade and update the water wall on the boiler so...
Just to amplify on it every 6 years as Mark said we have a major turbine overhaul and we decided since the turbine was going to be down 16 days why spread the boiler work over a couple of years? Hide the boiler work behind that turbine downtime.
And that in the long term eliminates mill downtime and you save a bunch of money although -- as you do the repair all at once.
And so we took advantage of that fact that this only comes up once every 6 years and we took advantage of it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My last question I'll turn it over.
Can you comment at all about early second quarter volume trends? If you'd mentioned before I missed it.
On the first 8 days of cut-up [ph] for the month we're seeing bookings up 10% and shipments up 6% so all in all the trend continues with what we saw in the first quarter so we're still feeling pretty good about where our business is.
Our next question comes from Al Kabili from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess Mark maybe you could talk about -- you mentioned a richer mix that you see in this upcoming quarter.
Is that just seasonality or is there something else driving that? I wonder if you could just elaborate a little more on that.
Yes.
That's pure seasonality taking place.
So again we see this every year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question I had along the export markets you mentioned you're telling your customers price increases.
Is that across all the major geographies or is that primarily Europe? Or is that spread across Latin America Asia as well? Well again in general we told our customers in the export market that prices will be increasing in the second quarter.
And that's really all we want to comment regarding pricing.
It does vary by market by geography.
And we're really not going to get more specific than that.
We give that information to our customers.
And that's always been our plan to share that with customers and go no further.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then also relative to the growth rates you're seeing is there any particular end market that stands out directionally one way or the other that you're seeing? Or is it pretty broad-based in terms of the end markets and in terms of your shipment growth? We continue to see a broad-based growth across our footprint in North America.
So again it's nothing in particular.
All of our segments are continuing to move in the right direction.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Production levels were actually very strong during quarter.
I would imagine you're obviously benefiting from some of your recent investments.
But what's a good run rate for production capacity going forward? I know historically 1Q has been little lighter.
Yes.
We don't get into forward quarters of production.
So again I think if you know what we've produced in the first quarter and what last year was so again I think that's all we want to say about the quarter.
We basically run to demand and that will determine our production level.
The only thing that Mark did said earlier is that at the end of the second quarter all of our maintenance outages will have been completed for the year.
And -- but again we don't -- we run to demand and we don't give projections more than one quarter out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I mean historically speaking since most of your maintenance  is done in the first half if demand is there production is usually a little stronger in the back half right? Is that fair? That's very fair.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then a question for Rick.
The CapEx for this year I think it's in that  1 10 ballpark.
Is that sustainable over the next few years? And do you have any other major projects on tap? We do not comment on CapEx but one year in advance.
That's been our historical norm 1 10 but we'll have to look at it each year.
And that's all I could add on that Phil.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final question on the inventory.
It seemed a little higher 1Q than years past.
It sounds like you're taking a little more downtime and you're expecting strong demand.
One is that the biggest reason? And two is the expectation for inventory to come down over the next few quarters? I just want to get your view on the inventory level for the industry.
As usual we had the shutdowns planned for the first and second quarters so it was in our best interest to build inventory and plan to take care of and service our box plants as needed.
So the 11 000 ton increase was actually necessary to take care of our business.
So other than that we also as I'd mentioned earlier with the new acquisitions and the new Reading plant 5 additional plants to service so nothing's changed there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on the inventory level for the industry.
No comment.
We don't comment regarding that.
Our next question comes from Joshua Zaret from Longbow Research.
A quick question.
With the huge consolidation trend we're seeing 4 major players of the past now involved in consolidation is that benefiting you in terms of customer churn and people coming your way? Are you seeing anything in that direction? The only thing we'd offer on that is that every time anything happens in the industry there are pluses and minus.
And one plus of it is that if 2 people got together as a result of a merger and they were the 2 suppliers to a company that wanted to have 2 different suppliers then that company the buyer would have to seek another supplier because the 2 suppliers they had now became one supplier.
Right.
That's what I'm getting at.
So is that benefiting you? That benefits us.
That's correct.
Okay.
And then to change quickly can you remind us what percentage of your box shipment and market is agriculture? Tom do you want to take a shot? It's a low number.
It's a very low number.
We're not very high in ag.
Okay that's what I thought.
And so then the final question when you're purchasing your corrugated  [ph] box plants is there a theme in terms of end markets that you're focusing on or technologies or anything in that respect? No not really.
If you really look at our spread of business and I think that's what gives us some tremendous strength you're talking about thousands and thousands of accounts spread over all sorts of different industries.
And we try to obviously pick the winners in those industries if we possibly can because they're going to have the best opportunity to grow.
But with regard to acquisitions it's more built around relationships their ability to add value how well they fit into our model.
Are they willing to do the hard to do? Have they earned the right to have that long-term reputation with the customers? And of course are those customers in industries that are going to survive? I mean that's obviously one of the things we take a look at.
But for the most part if there's -- any of those acquisitions their customer base is spread very much like ours is.
Our next question comes from Steve Chercover from D.
A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I was surprised it took so long to get to the question as to the implications of the recent consolidation.
And I heard your answer.
Does the consolidation spur you to expand to any U.S.
geographies where you're not currently exposed? We've said for a long time we're in every major market except the Pacific Northwest.
And so we don't feel the need to be in every market in that we're not in one because we're geographically disadvantaged and so far away.
So we look for box plants that as Tom just elaborated on the detail meet our criteria and not generally focus on a specific geography where we need to be.
Research Division</strong> [Operator Instructions] I'm showing our next question comes from Scott Gaffner from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping if you could dig a little bit deeper into your response to the 2Q positive mix shift.
You mentioned seasonality but does seasonality drive higher-value products? And if so what are we talking about here? The seasonality does drive some of the higher-priced products that's true and demand starts to typically starts to ramp up a little bit.
And that's why if you look at our comparables last year we were up.
This year we're saying we're going to be up again.
That's pretty much the trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at the transportation cost it's been a headwind all of 2011 obviously starting off again as a headwind this year.
I think before you talked about 50% of your shipments are rail versus truck.
Is there anything that you can do to sort of manage the outbound transportation cost? Well again because of the diesel factor you have your trucking and your rail available and you optimize that mix.
And so on any given week any given month it's an optimization question on how you take advantage of that.
You misquoted you misquoted us just a little bit.
I think it's good that we correct that.
50% of our shipments are roughly truck/rail that's coming out of our mills.
Out of our box plants it's virtually 100% truck.
So it's very skewed to trucking when you throw in the box plant.
You can't ship boxes by rail.
The rail system doesn't operate that way.
So most of our shipments are trucked and that's why diesel is such an important variable.
And the one thing on the box plant side Scott is that we can -- we obviously focus very much on cubing the trailers because we can't  weight out trailers in the box business so you focus heavily on cubic miles.
Our next question comes from Stephen Atkinson from BMO Capital Markets.
It's Joe Licursi.
I don't know if you've covered this but when you talk about the Counce turbo generator overhaul do you expect any benefits like in terms of additional production or lower cost like incremental to what you're planning? No this is just a 6-year routine overhaul with the turbine going through all its maintenance requirements just to maintain it.
Just like your car when you overhaul you hope it runs good for another 6 years.
Okay so it's just maintenance right? Yes.
Our next question comes from John Tumazos from John Tumazos Very.
LLC</strong> In the $0.45 guidance for the second quarter what is your estimate of natural gas prices? And are there any other ingredient price estimates of note? What we're seeing with natural gas what we estimate is that natural gas remains flat at that low level we're currently experiencing.
And John we don't use much gas in our mills to speak of but we do get a big savings in our box plants because most of our box plants' boilers are fired with natural gas so the bulk of the savings will be in the box plants not the mills.
LLC</strong> So does flat mean the same price and volumes used as the first quarter or as a year ago? Well again you're going from winter season into a spring summer season period.
So typically your usage volume does fall going into the warmer climate warmer season.
One other thing we did have some physical contracts purchased out in advance but those did expire in the first quarter so we will get a little bit of benefit from the  fact that we'll be buying at the market price now versus the physical contract price.
But it's not a huge number.
Our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Quick one.
We hear a lot about manufacturing perhaps seeing a renaissance here in the United States over the next number of years given what's transpired in the emerging markets given the cost position.
Are there 2 or 3 concrete tangible evidences from what you see that that's in fact happening? Or from your vantage point it's a lot of discussion but really without a lot of reality at this juncture in terms of manufacturing we're covering here relative to where it had been in the U.S.
Yes.
George let me take that.
We have some tangible results but we're not going to share them with our competitors on this call.
But there's a lot of tangible examples have been published in the Wall Street Journal over the last 2 months.
So I think there's a lot of anecdotal evidence very specific that that indeed has started to happen and we certainly hope that it continues.
Research Division</strong> Paul if that's happening how long do you think it takes for the supply chain around manufacturing to build out right? If manufacturing say of washing machine -- I mean that's not the right example is improving your fabricators your tool and die guys all these guys have to start building back up again.
Is that a 1-year or a 3-year phenomenon? Or how would you think about it? The short answer is "I don't know." I've never manufactured washing machines.
But there are better people that you can ask than us.
We simply don't know.
[Operator Instructions] With no more questions thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to seeing you at the next call.
Have a good day.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mr.
Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko our Executive Chairman; Tom Hassfurther who runs our Corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in the call this morning and after the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported second quarter net income of $45 million or $0.46 per share which included after-tax debt refinancing charges of $2.5 million or $0.025 per share.
Excluding the refinancing charges earnings were $48 million or $0.49 per share which is the second quarter record compared to the second quarter 2011 net income of $40 million or $0.39 per share.
Net sales were a record $712 million up 7% compared to the second quarter of 2011 net sales of $665 million.
The $0.10 per share increase in net income excluding the refinancing charges was driven by higher containerboard and corrugated products volume of $0.07; and lower costs for energy $0.05; recycled fiber $0.02; chemicals $0.02; and maintenance $0.02.
These items were partially offset by higher costs for transportation of $0.02; medical $0.02; depreciation $0.02; and interest expense $0.02.
Excluding special items net income for the first 6 months of 2012 was a record $88 million or $0.91 per share compared to the net income for the first 6 months of 2011 of $79 million or $0.78 per share excluding special items.
Year-to-date net sales were record $1.4 billion compared to the $1.3 billion in 2011.
Overall we had another strong quarter setting several records and generating earnings excluding special items $0.04 per share better than the earnings guidance we provided on April 17.
The higher earnings came from better-than-forecasted mill cost and better-than-expected export prices and better-than-expected mix improvement in the corrugated business.
We also achieved all-time record corrugated product shipments and record second quarter mill production despite having 3 of our mills down for their annual maintenance outages during the quarter.
In addition to strong operations we completed important strategic action during the quarter the refinancing of $400 million in notes due in 2013.
Considering the risks and uncertainties in the debt market we're very pleased to have this refinancing behind us and Rick West will provide more details on the refinancing later on the call.
Moving to operations.
Higher mill production and corrugated products volume improved our earnings by $0.07 per share compared to last year's second quarter.
Our corrugated shipments were strong up 6.6% both on a total and a per day workday basis compared to last year's second quarter.
This increase in shipments included 3.6% from our box plant acquisition in 2011 and our first quarter 2012 acquisition.
Even excluding our recent acquisitions total shipments were a new all-time record for any quarter.
Our corrugated shipments volume also improved compared to the first quarter of this year with total shipments up 2.7% and per workday shipments up 4.3% with 1 less workday in the second quarter.
Domestic and export containerboard demand remained steady compared to the first quarter.
With the higher containerboard consumption at PCA box plants from increased demand and considering that 3 of our mills will be down during the quarter for their annual maintenance outages we made a decision to sell fewer containerboard tons into the export market.
As a result our export shipments of containerboard were down about 13 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter.
Our mills produced 638 000 tons of containerboard a second quarter record up 32 000 tons or 5.3% over the second quarter of 2011.
The increase in production was driven by strong productivity and no energy project-related downtime this year.
In total annual mill maintenance outages including an overhaul for the 23 days of our 50-megawatt turbine generator accounts and major wall panel replacements to the large T2 boiler accounts resulted in lost production of about 23 000 tons during the quarter.
Pricing for corrugated products and domestic containerboard remained steady.
Export prices for containerboard were higher and our corrugated products mix improved compared to the first quarter.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 corrugated and domestic containerboard pricing was essentially flat and export containerboard prices were lower.
The lower export prices reduced our earnings by about $0.01 a share compared to last year's second quarter.
With regards to cost energy costs were down $0.05 per share compared to last year's second quarter driven by major energy projects at Counce and Valdosta and by lower natural gas costs in our box plant system.
In addition chemicals and maintenance costs were each down about $0.02 per share driven by completion of the energy project and reduced spending.
Lower recycled fiber costs improved earnings by $0.02 per share in industry published prices for old corrugated containers or OCC.
Excluding our delivery costs we're down about $25 per ton in the second quarter of 2012 compared to the first -- second quarter of last year.
We continue to see more moderate inflationary cost pressures than we did last year.
However some costs did increase compared to last year's second quarter including outbound transportation costs up about $0.02 per share; and medical costs up about $0.02 per share.
In addition depreciation expense was up $0.02 per share compared to last year's second quarter driven by the completion of our energy project corrugated products strategic capital expenditures and newly acquired box plants.
Interest expense was up $0.02 per share driven by non-capitalization of interest with our energy project completion.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who will give you an update on our cash position and our biofuel tax credits.
Thank you Mark.
In the second quarter PCA generated cash from operations of $115 million.
Capital expenditures were $35 million.
We paid our quarterly common stock dividend of approximately $25 million and repurchased 371 000 shares of our common stock for about $27 per share or $10 million.
As of June 30 2012 our diluted shares outstanding were 97.1 million shares.
During the second quarter cash tax payments of $5 million were made and fuel credits of $44 million were used to offset federal taxes.
We have estimated remaining fuel tax credits of up to $100 million.
The final amount of the available fuel tax credits and the final cash tax rate and taxes paid in 2012 is contingent upon the conclusion of the IRS audit currently underway.
As Mark Kowlzan spoke about earlier we completed a public offering of $400 million up 3.9% senior notes due in 2022 on June 26.
In connection with the offering we also made a $65.5 million payment to settle an interest rate protection agreement.
The net proceeds -- or the note proceeds excuse me of $397 million net of fees will be used to complete the redemption of our 5.75% notes due in 2013 on July 26 with an estimated redemption premium payment of $21 million plus an additional $11 million for accrued and unpaid interest through the redemption date.
We currently estimate third quarter after-tax charges of $13 million or $0.14 per share related to the debt refinance.
Our June 26 2012 press release provides more detail of the refinancing.
Excluding both the proceeds and the debt from the senior note offering we ended the second quarter with $118 million in cash and debt of $801 million.
With that I will turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect seasonally higher sales volumes increased mill production and lower mill costs.
With an added note on mill costs we do expect prices for purchased electricity and chemicals to increase and prices for OCC to decrease compared to the first quarter.
Considering these items and excluding the estimated debt refinancing charge we expect third quarter earnings to be above $0.54 per share.
With that we'll be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we have made on this call constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors on our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
And finally we will not comment or respond to any questions concerning forward pricing on today's call.
Thank you.
With that operator I'd like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
First question is it looks like Rick you were saying the net debt ended the quarter at about $683 million which I believe is about $38 million below the first quarter level.
Should we sort of -- I think one element of the numbers that you've laid out I don't believe included unless you said upfront the -- I think it was $57 million in credits you got based on I guess the energy projects you did.
Did that also come in? And should we view that sort of as an offset to the hedge? That is correct Chip and you're correct on your numbers.
For the second quarter the net debt was $683 million with the increase in cash.
We did pay down $4 million in debt in the second quarter on our term loan.
Chip before we go any further I just want to correct one of the pieces of data where I commented about OCC prices.
Prices for OCC are expected to decrease compared to the second quarter not the first quarter.
So I just wanted to correct that.
Got you.
And then when we look at what's left with the black liquor credits if I'm not mistaken if -- let's say that you -- that Filer City doesn't go your way I'll put it that way the way you view it then basically it's -- you're done on the black liquor credits.
And -- but if Filer City gets viewed the way you view it then that would be the $100 million.
Is  that -- or some percentage of that in other words it all hinges on Filer City at this point.
Is that fair? That is a fair statement.
Okay.
Got you.
And then last...
Chip this is Paul.
The comment I'd make when you said the way you view it versus the way somebody else views it we expect there's only one way to view this thing.
And that is that although the process was different in Filer City in terms of how black liquor's -- to how the liquors converted that doesn't mean that there's anything out of the ordinary here.
Got you.
Got you.
And then as we look out at the second half of the year any major changes either in CapEx or your view toward buybacks? Chip we've stated as far as the capital for the year $110 million was the target and we're still on target for the $110 million.
But we've also commented that we were setting aside approximately $60 million for the acquisition side on the box plants for Tom to work with.
And year-to-date with the box plant acquisition that was completed in February in the Pittsburgh area we've spent roughly $30 million of that $60 million.
So we do have some room left on the acquisition side.
So Tom do you want to comment at all about where you stand this year on some of the opportunities? Well I would just say on the acquisition front Chip we constantly look at opportunities.
We turned down a much higher percentage obviously than we pursue going forward and we continue to review opportunities as they exist right now.
We have however taken some of that money out of the acquisition area and plowed it into some strategic capital investments within the box plants which have some returns that are essentially equal to what an acquisition would give us and that's primarily based on customer demand.
Got you.
And any update on where you stand on the buyback how much is left? There is $117 million left on the buyback.
Our next question comes from Phil Gresh of JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on the OCC comment I'm just wondering are you basically just kind of run rating what we're seeing here in July in saying it's going to be lower? Or do you actually think from here it actually might take another step down? Run rating what you've seen published and what the data is telling us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just on the export pricing is there any more color you can give us on where you saw the outperformance there versus what you're expecting? Is it a specific region? Or what were you seeing there? Yes this is Paul.
I'll take that.
The answer is no except for the fact that when you pull 13 000 tons out of export like you do you obviously pull out your worst business.
So that in itself is going to help your pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the export markets in general are you seeing any impact on your business right now from the temporary mill shut over in Europe? We really don't comment about any specific relationship with customers and that would fall on that category.
So we're going to have to pass on that question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question Rick just in terms of the buyback.
Is there any reason to think that you guys wouldn't buy back as much this year as you did last year? Is there anything specific going on this year that would limit that or is it more just kind of how you're feeling about the share price? There's no reason.
We're still going to look at both buyback and other alternative for cash that we've talked about earlier.
So we'll just continue to address the buybacks each quarter.
Our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how demand trended through the 3 months of the quarter and maybe how you're seeing it play out in July? And then given the box numbers that came out this morning can you just talk sort of generally about the current state of demand you're seeing whether the summer has been stronger than expected weaker than expected or whatever color you can give? Yes for the second quarter our box numbers were flat.
Obviously we had good numbers but we saw constant steady numbers.
And if you look at where we are for the first 8 days of the third quarter through July we're looking at probably 7.2% up for that period of time.
But also one of the difference this year with the 4th of July being in the middle of the week it's a tough comparable.
So again the other thing to think about too was that the acquisitions and the organic piece they're both contributing about equal 3% 3.5% on average.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just a couple of questions for Rick.
With the net debt about $680 million do you think that you're kind of at an optimal leverage at this point or would you potentially consider raising the leverage to pursue some opportunities within acquisitions or strategic capital spending? And just how are you kind of generally thinking about that? Well we look at more the financial flexibility that we have.
We think we've got a reasonable debt level but the positive for us in having the debt level that we do have is it does give us the opportunity if we see something that we want to borrow for us as we did in the third quarter of last year.
We borrowed some to -- when we wanted to pick up some additional shares.
So what we do with our cash as well as our debt level is going to depend upon the opportunity utilizing the flexibility we have.
And then Phil just -- this is Paul again.
Just wanted to comment on your first question.
As Mark said our business has been steady all year and up roughly 7% a quarter and that does include the acquisitions.
And through the first 7 days of January we're up about -- excuse me July we're up about the same and that is on organic growth which is really the major year-over-year improvement.
We're up about 3.6% 3.7% of that and then we're up another 3.5% 3.6% from acquisitions.
And that gets back to that 7.2% number.
So that's evenly split between organic growth and acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And maybe just one last question for Rick.
Regarding the IRS audit that determines your kind of final cash tax rate do you have any sense of the timeframe or how we should think about the resolution of that? It's taking what we consider the normal with the IRS.
I really can't say anything other to be at the end of the year beginning of next year.
That's what we're hoping to have a final conclusion.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
I was hoping to get some sense as to how you see the tenor of the markets right now because we've got some -- we've seen contrary type of indicators.
If you read the headlines they all look so negative yet obviously your business has been doing pretty well in the demand side.
And looking at industry statistics operating rates and inventory seem to be pretty good for the industry overall.
How is this all coming together as you sense the tenor of the market? Well again Mark if you think about our model and what we've been talking about the last couple of years with the strategic activity during the past 2 years and the work that Tom's done on the acquisition side of things we've really created a new revenue engine.
And if you also think about it we've got 4 acquisitions plus the new Reading plant so we've got -- we're operating 5 additional plants plus the strategic spending was applied to 5 plants.
So really we have 10 plants that are now contributing in ways that we never had before.
So we've always talked that we have the demand but we couldn't supply the customer base.
We have that now.
So we've grown into that and taken advantage of the acquisitions and the strategic spending.
So with that we only know what we're doing and we talk and our model is definitely a different model compared to the industry.
Yes Mark I'd answer that just a little different.
The market has basically met our expectations.
We thought our business would be this strong and it has been this strong.
And we're projecting that that trend is going to continue and that's how we built our third quarter earnings model.
And it's hard to -- for us to comment on the entire market other than we read the numbers you read.
But we're really concentrated on our customer base and we feel pretty good about it.
Fair enough.
And typically you don't take much downtime if any in the second half of the year.
Would that be your expectation at this juncture? That's correct.
The annual shutdowns are behind us and now we're on a full run rate mode.
And Mark just to amplify on the reason for that our demand period is the weakest in the winter months and labor is also a lot more available than to do shutdowns energy cost is historically higher.
So for the last 15 years we basically concentrated all of our downtime in the first 4 months of the year.
It's the lowest cost for us to do it that way and then it also leaves us the most capacity when we need it the most.
And that is the period we're about to enter now which is the seasonally strong period of the year now through -- it used to be now through Thanksgiving.
But with Internet commerce December is actually turning out to be a half-decent month for the last 3 4 years which it hadn't been before then.
Our next question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America Securities.
Research Division</strong> I want to cover a little bit.
Can you comment why you think you were able to see some improvement in your mix? What was perhaps behind that either on the board side or the box side specifically within domestic? George this is Tom.
Why improvement in mix? I mean it's -- at that time of the year second quarter seasonally starts to ramp up some of the graphic side of the business.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But you said it was a little bit ahead of your expectation so I guess I was trying to get at why it was above what the normal seasonality would be.
Well I think because our customers are trying to do some creative things to drive their sales in this environment right now and one of those vehicles happens to be the graphics area.
That has -- that picked up seasonally a little faster than what we thought and probably on a volume basis for the year it will be quite a bit higher than we had anticipated.
Okay? In addition you've got Ag business and some of the other things that have gone on that just help our mix typically in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Tom I know you don't want to speak for the market but based on history when you've seen a pickup in the graphics business is that usually coincident with an ultimate improvement in the broader economy or is it really inconclusive whether that actually happens to be the case or not from your vantage point? I really can't tell you if that's conclusive at all.
All I can say is is that this is -- depending on the customers you're aligned with depending on their business and what their strategies are really determine how they're trying to drive their business and if we get the net result of that we're better off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two quick questions on vertical integration in the model.
Is there a vertical integration level right now that you think is normal for the existing mix of business that you have in production? And if you could share what do you think that ratio is right now? And then bigger picture I mean the model has worked not just in recent periods but looking back over time PCA has continued to probably grow more quickly than the market.
Is there a natural limit do you think Mark or Paul or Tom to where are you -- you finally can do that anymore whether it's sort of a bench and depth issue or a customer opportunity issue that would mean that you ultimately see a limit to the way the business model continues to outperform if you will? As we stated the goal still is to get to the 90% integration rate.
That's important because we feel the 90% still allows us some flexibility to supply tons into our customer base as they grow.
100% is not a good number to be at because then your customers then understand that you're going to be limited in that ability to help them grow as they move forward.
So we're moving along we're on track to get to the 90% and that's going to remain our goal for the remainder of the next couple of years here.
And with regard to your second question there are limits but we're nowhere near those limits yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one.
Rick any benefit from the highway bill and pension for you do you think and if there is a number what might that be? No.
We're so low.
And from where we stand I don't see it being substantive to us.
We haven't really gone through all the math but I don't see it as substantive.
Our next question comes from Michael (sic) [Mark] Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions one for Rick.
Just maintenance costs as we go from the second to the third quarter we know all of your maintenance is done but do you spread those costs over the year? And how would that change going from the second quarter to the third quarter? Really it doesn't change.
The run rate on the amortization of maintenance costs is essentially going to be the same in the third quarter as the second quarter that's why we didn't cite it in our guidance for any change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And Mark what's a good number for you guys at this point for just the mill volume on an annual basis do you think? Are you talking volume or capacity? We can tell you our capacity we can't tell you our volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay capacity.
Well we published capacity at the end of last year at 2.575 million tons.
We hope to get some productivity improvement some crease -- creep capacities here not much.
So rough number I wouldn't be surprised if we ended the year at about 2.6 million tons of published capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for Tom Hassfurther.
Tom if demand remains similar to what we've seen in the first half will you be able to continue that organic growth of about 3% to 3.5%? Well we certainly hope to.
That's the intent Mark.
And it's interesting when you look at our organic growth.
I mean most of it comes from our existing customers who have just chosen to do more business with us at various locations and of course that helps drive some of our strategic capital.
And we continue -- that's the plan going forward.
And so I would plan that we would continue to grow at these rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Tom just curious is there any kind of -- do you have much of a display business buried within -- in the overall business? Yes we don't typically break out our business but certainly we do have a graphics business.
One way we are different Mark is that some companies have specific graphic locations.
We integrate our graphic business into our regular box plants to make -- and that helps us handle the seasonality of the graphic business.
It is stronger in different parts of the year and the beauty of that when we need ground business in those plants when graphic is down that happens and vice versa.
So we like our model in that regard.
Our next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Mark just a couple of things.
Can you give us a sense of what your overall energy mix looks like now and whether you're looking to reduce coal further the way other people are? I'm also interested in how much energy flexibility you have or whether you think that's an old-fashioned concept.
Regarding the first part of the question if you look at -- obviously with natural gas prices falling last fall through the winter we took advantage of that and shifted more coal into gas and we continue to do that through the summer months.
And also we're still waiting on the EPA to issue the Boiler MACT rules to see where that's going to take us on any further changes.
Flexibility-wise we've maintained the flexibility with the work that was done on the boilers at Counce and Valdosta.
We've maintained and built in further flexible capabilities.
And so in that regard it's still very important to us.
Research Division</strong> Super.
And just one last question.
You talked about recycled fiber.
I assume that your virgin fiber costs overall have been pretty flat.
Are you getting any helping from this pickup in lumber? We started seeing some of this last year in the fall.
Again in particular as an example in Michigan area we saw some increased chips available on the market for some hardwood sawmills.
So in that regard we've seen some benefit.
Obviously we're not where we were prior to the housing collapse but we've seen a little bit of improvement.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for the color on your raw material prices.
I think you commented that OCC is going to be down energy and chemical is going to be up sequentially.
So collectively should we expect input cost to be up sequentially? What we said is the -- in fact lower mill cost overall compared to the second quarter and the third quarter Philip embedded within that number is some increases for electricity a little bit and also some in chemicals primarily starch but overall still lower.
What you see take place typically in the July August period in some of the areas with the summer heat and temperatures the utilities end up having to have some abnormally high real-time pricing.
And so we just expect that there will be some days and some periods where we see some real-time pricing get out of hand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
But it didn't sound like it's going to be a sharp uptick from where you were at...
It's something we typically see but we just -- we made that point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I just want to get a little more color on what you're seeing on the export market right now.
I think you did comment that things were a little better than you expected both from a demand and pricing standpoint.
Certainly the headline out of Europe and Brazil have gotten worse.
I just want to get your view on a real-time basis.
Phil I'll just comment on that real quick.
I mean it's -- sometimes we're not the best barometer of the export market quite frankly because we send a lot of specialty products to that export market in terms of liner but it's not great over in Europe.
But I don't think it's as disastrous as what the press would have you believe.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then during the quarter you guys obviously shifted out of the export market.
How much of that was just the downtime you guys were taking or just better integration on the box side from the acquisitions or you're just taking share? I just want to get a little color on that front.
And should that -- will that trend reverse itself in Q3? Well again all of the above.
With the downtime that was being planned with the mills and the work that Tom had done with the acquisitions and the organic growth we needed all of those tons to take care of our customer base here in North America.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just one last question.
I mean your free cash flow was obviously quite strong kind of like pretty nicely this year.
When we think about maybe 2013 are there any major reinvestment projects in the horizon or should we expect it to be pretty much in line from 2012? So would the majority of that cash be returned to shareholders and acquisitions? Well again we'll continue to look at box plant acquisition opportunities and strategic opportunities from the organic side as we see customers growing and their needs demanding we can work with them.
So that's something we hope that will continue.
That's what we're planning on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But nothing like what we've seen in the last few years.
Is that fair? No -- that's fair.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Scott Gaffner of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So you mentioned the lower energy cost was a $0.05 benefit in the quarter and you talked about some of that coming just from lower fuel costs and then somewhat from the energy projects you completed.
Can you just sort of break that down so we can get a sense of how much is coming from each of those buckets? Well the -- again the energy projects have been contributing the bulk of that.
So we continue to see good results from both the Counce and Valdosta piece.
And so again -- so that's pretty much the -- all that savings contributed through the Counce and Valdosta projects.
And probably Valdosta is a little bigger contributor than Counce.
Just to put a little technicolor on it at our Valdosta mill if you count the -- that was a boiler project.
We still -- and we buy no -- basically no purchased fuel at Valdosta.
We run on 100% wood waste from our own wood yard and black liquor.
And so no purchased fuel and we buy very little electricity we produce roughly 98% of our own electricity.
And then we have byproducts that come out of burning black liquor things like tall oil soap and turpentine.
You throw that all together and our energy cost at Valdosta is actually a negative number.
And that's obviously a big source of the savings.
Research Division</strong> And so are you returning energy to the grid through Valdosta? Is that...
On occasion we sell some back to the grid but most of the time we run at about 80% -- about 98% of what we need.
And we buy a little from the grid to maintain the utility tie in case there was ever an emergency.
And we had to take that -- but we had to take the turbine down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also in the quarter your maintenance cost came in at only -- you said $0.02 maintenance cost for the quarter.
I think you were saying there was going to be a $0.03 headwind going into the quarter.
Is that -- were you able to outperform on some of the projects? Where did those lower costs come from? The change from 1Q to 2Q was the accounting of the annual outage costs.
From the standpoint compared to last year in the second quarter we were $0.02 per share better and that's more driven by the fact that we're -- especially the energy project we're not having to repair such older equipment.
We've got new equipment -- new boiler at Valdosta and rebuilt boilers at Counce which really helps us.
So the majority of the $0.02 per share improvement year-over-year was related to the energy project.
And Rick raises a very good point.
When we did this project we noted that over a 5- 6-year period we would reduce maintenance on those 5 old boilers that we took out of service by about $80 million in terms of cost avoidance.
Now some of that is capitalized and some of it is expense but with $80 million in additional to the savings that we got that we don't have to spend as Rick just pointed out.
And that's an important point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly you mentioned e-commerce is now benefiting the December month.
But do you get any benefit from e-commerce in back-to-school sales? And maybe you could just also talk about your overall thoughts on e-commerce and how that could potentially aid the overall industry as we move forward.
I think year-round though e-commerce is a positive factor.
I think again seasonally whether it's school-related time of the year that's definitely been a positive for the industry.
Yes and December is especially strong for 2 reasons: one that's obviously the biggest buying period for things and people are shopping more and more on the Internet; and the other beauty of buying things on the Internet as opposed to a store when you have to send it back to the Internet you got to pack it in another box to send it back because most of the time you throw the first box away.
So you get a double bang for your buck over the Christmas holiday.
Research Division</strong> And do you have any preference of those boxes versus your traditional boxes? Is that...
Well I think you got to look at that.
That volume is good for the entire industry.
Where it ends up benefits everybody.
And it doesn't matter who makes it that's going into volume for the industry.
And those kind of boxes tend to be lower priced.
There are plenty of brown boxes don't have a lot of graphics on.
So that's not the sweet spot of our mix but it benefits the industry in terms of total consumption.
Our next question comes from Al Kabili of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question on inventory down I think 1 000 tons sequentially.
Can you just comment how you're feeling about your inventories right now how they are versus where you want them ideally? Well we're basically on plan but again we are going into a busy time of the year for us.
So we need every ton we have and that's important.
I mean the mills have to run right now.
It's critical we've got now all the shutdown -- heavy shutdown period which is the second quarter.
And we basically held where we wanted to on-plan with inventories.
But again we need the tons and we've got the business and we've got to run.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
The other question I had just around -- just the tone of the market.
I mean I know you're outperforming the industry but I was wondering maybe if you could just help us with -- if there's any notable changes with what you're seeing now with what it was like this time last year.
Has there been any differences in terms of what you're seeing in the environment et cetera notable differences say versus this time last year? From our perspective there's not much of a change.
We've taken advantage of what we built into the box plant system and mill system.
And again Tom's group is taking advantage of that with the customer base and working with them and the results speak for themselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then final question is on mix.
You highlighted earlier that you did a little better from a mix perspective this quarter than you initially anticipated.
Sequentially can you help us with how you're thinking about mix sequentially? Our mix will be pretty similar to what it is in the past going forward.
We may see -- as I mentioned earlier we probably will see a slight pickup on the graphics side of the business going forward just because I think we've got customers that are trying very hard to feature their products in a relatively flat market.
Our next question comes from Joshua Zaret of Longbow Research.
I have one question.
I guess the thing that caught my interest was you mentioned you're doing strategic spending on 5 box plants.
Now I think and correct me you have about 70 box plants.
So the question is a are there -- is this something that's going to be ongoing? And b what is the focus of this spending? Are you adding -- is there a need for more corrugated at some of these plants or are you changing markets? So if you could answer those questions I'd be very interested.
And how much capital you'll be investing over time? You mentioned the amount of -- you're investing for your acquisition.
I assume this is small but I'd like to know that.
That was in reference to the spending that was done in 2010 and 2011 with the 5 box plants we had identified.
We spent $80 million during those 2 years on the strategic opportunities.
Now the point that was made we will continue as we go forward.
As we're working with our customer base if we have the opportunity to grow with them and we see an opportunity we might make some strategic investments.
So is this about scale basically? Joshua this is Tom here.
I just want to point out that I think it's very important to understand we have never never invested capital on a "build it and they will come" basis.
I mean our capital is always strategically invested around our customers and around demand that we see in particular marketplaces.
That we will continue to do.
Yes and to amplify on that we did that with the $80 million we spent.
We're into that we like the results they're showing up in our numbers bottom line.
And as we go forward we now have more competition with internal projects because of that success versus acquisitions.
So in order to make an acquisition this money has got to compete against internal projects and our success in the last few years on internal projects has been very good.
And so the competition for that last dollar of capital is even more keen within the company than it has been in the past and that's the point we've been trying to make.
So we got -- we've had good choices.
We can't make them all but it's good to have a more good choices than fewer good choices.
Our next question comes from Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the export front can you comment what percentage of your volumes went into the export market during the quarter and longer term whether you see a strategic rationale to be a player in the export market? Yes.
Typically we've said this -- quarter-to-quarter.
In terms of year-to-year we might go from 8% to 10% 11% of our products go offshore.
And our trend is down in that regard.
That's an historical number 8% to 10% and we've cut back a fair amount from that number which we're not going to divulge.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any incremental color you can give on just the mill net differential right now between selling to Europe and then selling domestically.
The data seems to imply it's about $100 a ton.
Is that a good ballpark figure to be thinking about? We're not going to comment on this.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And last question just on the chemical side.
Can you comment on what you saw in terms of pricing trends for the key chemical costs that you use in the second quarter on a year-over-year basis and what the outlook is going forward for the balance of the year? Well again we saw an easing on the inflationary pressure from last year.
But going forward on the commentary about chemicals into the third quarter most things are flat.
We are anticipating -- as an example corn obviously is going to be under pressure theoretically with what's happening with the drought.
So that's one example.
Research Division</strong> Just remind us what are the key chemical input: starch caustic any other big ones we should be thinking about? Well again right now on the box plant side the starch and starch-related products all the adhesives.
But on the mill side obviously the caustic chemicals and then wood fiber obviously is the big one which has been very stable.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Kowlzan I see there are no more questions.
Do you have any closing comments? I'd like to thank you everybody for participating today and we look forward to seeing everybody on the next call.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA; and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther who runs our Corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this call this morning and after the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported third quarter net income of $40 million or $0.41 per share which included after-tax debt refinancing charges of $13 million or $0.14 per share.
Excluding these charges earnings were $53 million or $0.55 per share compared to third quarter 2011 earnings of $43 million or $0.43 per share.
Net sales were a record $723 million up 8% compared to third quarter 2011 net sales of $671 million.
The $0.12 per share earnings increase excluding special items was driven by higher containerboard and corrugated products volume of $0.07; and lower costs for energy $0.05; recycled fiber $0.04; and chemicals $0.02.
These items were partially offset by higher costs for labor and benefits $0.03; interest $0.02; and depreciation $0.02.
Excluding special items net income for the first 9 months of 2012 was a record $142 million or $1.45 per share compared to $122 million or $1.21 per share in 2011.
This earnings increase of $0.24 per share was driven by higher containerboard and corrugated products volume of $0.23; lower costs for energy $0.14; recycled fiber $0.08; and chemicals $0.05; and a lower share count from share repurchases of $0.04.
These items were partially offset by higher costs for labor and benefits of $0.09; depreciation $0.07; interest $0.06; transportation $0.04; and lower export pricing $0.05.
Year-to-date net sales were a record $2.1 billion up 7% over 2011.
In summary we had a very strong quarter in all aspects of our operations.
Our mills ran extremely well setting an all-time production record.
Containerboard and corrugated products demand remained strong costs improved significantly and sales prices began to improve.
Moving to more details of the quarter higher mill production and corrugated products volume improved our earnings by $0.07 per share compared to last year's third quarter.
Our corrugated shipments were up 5.7% on a per-workday basis compared to last year's third quarter including 3.1% from box plant acquisitions and up 4% in total with one less shipping day this quarter.
Our shipments per workday were up each month of the quarter compared to last year and in September we've set an all-time record for shipments per workday both including and excluding acquisitions.
Our domestic and export containerboard demand remained strong and we're able to sell more tons to the export market with our mill annual maintenance outages completed in the second quarter.
Our export shipments of containerboard were up about 9 000 tons compared to last year's third quarter and up about 21 000 tons compared to the second quarter of this year.
Domestic containerboard sales were essentially flat with both third quarter of last year and the second quarter of this year.
Our mills produced 670 000 tons of containerboard an all-time record up 20 000 tons or 3% over the third quarter of 2011.
This performance was driven by production increases primarily from the energy project at our Counce Tennessee and Valdosta Georgia linerboard mills and no energy project-related downtime this year.
We ended the quarter with our containerboard inventories down 9 000 tons compared to the end of the second quarter.
Our inventory situation here is rather tight considering October has 23 corrugated product shipping days compared to only 19 days in September.
So it is essential that our mills continue to run well on October which they have through the first 15 days of the month.
Looking at pricing we implemented a $50 per ton domestic containerboard price increase during the third quarter and are now in the process of implementing a corresponding price increase for corrugated products which we expect to essentially complete in the fourth quarter.
We did announce export price increases to most markets in September but for the third quarter export prices were down from last year.
Moving to costs energy costs were down $0.05 per share compared to last year's third quarter driven mostly by the energy project and to a lesser extent by lower natural gas costs in our box plants.
Chemical costs were down $0.02 per share with lower usage driven by the energy project.
Lower recycled fiber costs improved earnings by $0.04 per share as industry published prices for old corrugated containers or OCC excluding the delivery costs were down about $70 a ton in the third quarter of 2012 compared to the third quarter of last year.
Finally depreciation expense was up $0.02 per share compared to last year's third quarter driven by the energy project corrugated products' strategic capital expenditures and newly-acquired box plants.
Interest expense was up $0.02 per share driven by non-capitalization of interest.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who'll give you an update on our generation and uses of cash and taxes.
Thank you Mark.
In the third quarter PCA generated cash from operations of $102 million.
Capital expenditures were $25 million.
We paid our quarterly common stock dividend of approximately $24.5 million and repurchased 253 000 shares of our common stock for about $32.50 per share or $8 million.
As of September 30 2012 our diluted shares outstanding were 97.3 million shares.
Cash tax payments of $2 million were made and fuel credits of $22 million were used to offset federal taxes.
We have estimated remaining fuel tax credits above $279 million.
The final amount of the available fuel tax credits and the final cash tax rate and taxes paid in 2012 is contingent upon the conclusion of the IRS audit currently underway.
On July 26 we completed the redemption of our 5.75% notes due in 2013 with a redemption premium payment of $21 million which resulted in third quarter after-tax charges of $13 million or $0.14 per share.
We ended the third quarter with $141 million in cash up $23 million from our second quarter ending cash if you exclude the cash proceeds we had on hand at the end of the second quarter from our debt offering.
Our debt at the end of the third quarter was $797 million.
With that I will turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
We completed our major energy project in last year's fourth quarter and now have almost a full year of operations behind us.
I'm very pleased to report that the project is delivering more benefits than we originally forecasted and we now estimate the project will improve 2012 earnings by about $0.37 per share compared to our original estimate of $0.26 per share at the beginning of the year.
The better-than-expected results came mainly from better-than-anticipated chemical and energy recovery efficiencies associated with the new Valdosta recovery boiler and 2 rebuilt boilers at Counce.
The increased process efficiency and more consistent pulp quality has in turn allowed us to also increase both our pulp and containerboard production more than we expected.
The operating flexibility we now have with our recovery boilers has also allowed us to avoid some machine downtime this year when our power boilers were down for maintenance and allowed us to eliminate electricity purchases at Valdosta this summer during peak electricity demand periods when electricity prices were at their highest.
So overall I'm very pleased with the energy project.
The project is generating an after-tax return of about 25% on total capital and almost 30% on net capital after deducting avoided maintenance capital despite much lower fuel and electricity prices today compared to the prices we've built into the project savings.
We expect the return will improve even further as energy prices increase over time and we capture those cost avoidance benefits.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect higher earnings from our announced price increases but full quarter's earnings benefit from these price increases will not be fully realized until the first quarter of 2013.
The earnings improvement from higher prices in the fourth quarter is expected to be partially offset by seasonally higher costs due in part to colder weather.
Considering these items we expect fourth quarter earnings of about $0.61 per share.
With that we'll be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on the call constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements were  based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in the annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
With that operator I'd like to open up the call to questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Just first of all on the box price increase to the extent you could give us a little bit more color on how that is progressing relative to other historic initiatives or prior initiatives.
And in particular when you talk about a corresponding increase should we interpret that meaning that you're shooting for a full passthrough of $50 $55 per ton or is it conceivable that it could vary from that to the upside? Or any other color you can give on that.
Yes Mark for both legal and competitive reasons we can't get into a lot of detail on forward pricing expectations.
But again as we said during the call we did build a partial quarter realization into the fourth quarter outlook and we do expect the full realization into the first quarter of 2013 but just reminding you historically we've put box price increases through faster than the competition in part because of our local customer mix.
And we'll provide more details during first quarter our earnings call in January.
But also keeping in mind that with our 9 000 customers we do go out and talk to all these customers.
But in general historically we've been successfully completing these pass-throughs ahead of competition.
Tom do you want to add anything to that? Not much more than what you said Mark.
I would say that this is -- we're handling this as a routine price increase.
As Mark mentioned we've got 9 000 customers we've got to go out and inform on a one-on-one basis.
Because of our value proposition we can't just send out a letter notifying them of a price increase.
So right now this is an all-consuming job.
And as Mark mentioned we expect the full realization in the first quarter next year.
And Mark to the last part of your question -- this is Paul Stecko.
The word corresponding the only intent of that word is it's related to the fact that box prices normally follow containerboard increase.
So those 2 are related.
And as containerboard price is up and now box prices have been announced by us.
So don't read anything more into that word.
In terms of what our realization is we don't disclose that.
That's a matter between us and our customers.
And that -- what we charge in boxes varies widely because the nature of our customer and product mix varies widely.
And so it's not one number.
It's an average number and average numbers are sometimes misleading.
But that's not something we normally disclose until we have completely completed if you will our box price increase.
Okay.
And then a question if I could on the dividend and your thoughts about potential changes going forward.
You do look like you're going to be reporting record earnings in 2012.
And presumably with the box price increase going in 2013 hopefully it can be even better.
Not that long ago you were paying $1.20 dividend and it's lower than that right now.
When might you be reconsidering what an appropriate level for the dividend is? And kind of what are the key criteria that would lead you to conclude what you might conclude? Mark as we've historically said dividend matters are board matters.
And so with that with Paul here I'm going to let Paul talk about that since he's Chairman of the Board.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
Appreciate that.
It's a complicated question because there's a lot of things that go into it.
So just to keep it short there have been some positive developments with us finally coming to a conclusion on this matter and that is the price increase is obviously positive.
It will obviously produce a lot of cash which we have to figure out what to do with.
The other thing that's happened since mid-June our shares have gone from about $25 to a little over $35.
That's the good news.
The bad news is it's lowered our yield.
And so the one way you fix that obviously is increase the dividend.
So I think they're the 2 positives in terms of getting closure to doing something.
The one negative as I think everybody knows is the tax situation with regard to the treatment of dividends which we won't know until the end of the year.
But all in all this is a matter that the board will discuss.
And from my perspective as Chairman of that board we're getting pretty close to determining what and how much we want to do here.
And that's about all I can say at that -- at this point.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon Vertical Research Partners.
You mentioned the higher earnings you expect from the energy projects which I think gets us to about $0.51.
If you could clarify that or verify that.
And then also where do you see your capacity now in light of the expansions? At least when I looked at the last K you had about 1 043 000 tons at Counce and 556 000 at Valdosta.
Can you just sort of give us an idea of how much increase you think you will be able to get production-wise as a result of the projects being better than expected? Well I'm going to answer part of that and I'm going to let Rick walk you through the reconciliation of the returns.
But if you think about our capacity at the beginning of the year we've got announced capacity of 2 575 000 tons.
It looks like we're on a run rate of about 2.6 million 2 600 000 tons.
With that obviously we did see some benefit.
Starting in 2010 when we made some of the paper machine modifications at Valdosta as part of the capital project for drying efficiency improvements we've added about 120 000 tons of capacity or about 5% over the 3-year period.
Now we're not going to sustain that type of rate.
We'll be back into the normal type of creep 1% or so.
With that Rick why don't you walk through the reconciliation of returns? Yes Chip the number you referenced of course that was more in line with what the original project was than we've had some things that happened lower -- as Mark mentioned lower fuel and electricity prices than what we've built into the project which have been offset by some better productivity than we expected.
But just to put everything in perspective as you recall at the beginning of the year we said in 2012 we expected $0.21 per share in direct benefits from the project.
That included savings incremental profit less the added depreciation for this year.
Also we expected $0.10 per share in avoided downtime and that was partially offset by $0.05 per share in higher interest expense from the non-capitalization of interest.
And that gave us a total earnings improvement from the energy project in 2012 of $0.26 per share.
Now if you look at our reported numbers we have avoided the downtime and we're getting the $0.10 per share and avoided the downtime and it's just what we were looking at at the beginning of the year.
And as you saw from our results our interest expense is up attributable to the capitalized interest.
So the capitalized interest of $0.05 is essentially the same.
However the direct benefits from the projects have increased from $0.21 per share to $0.32 per share which increases the total earnings benefit in 2012 to $0.37 per share.
Now the additional improvement in earnings of $0.11 per share is really coming from 3 areas.
One an additional $0.01 per share from energy cost savings.
Energy prices have not gone up this year.
Over time that number will improve as Mark said in his comments.
This year we're also getting an additional $0.05 per share from chemical cost savings.
And finally we're getting an additional $0.05 per share from more productivity and production increases than we expected at the beginning of the year.
So now go back and look at the energy project from where we started in really 2009 when we came up with the estimates and where we're looking at today and toward the future overall the 3 biggest benefits of the energy project are energy cost reduction incremental production and chemical savings in that order.
Now I'll turn it over to Mark and he may have some more comments on how we were able to achieve these higher-than-expected benefits this year.
Well again when you think about our recovery boiler you're trying to achieve 2 different things here.
You're trying to achieve steam generation with the organic composition and also you're trying to recover cooking chemicals.
So you've got a very complex reaction taking place at the bottom of the boiler in the reduction zone.
So we knew we were going to essentially double the amount of steam generation with these boilers but we were pleasantly surprised with the efficiency gains and the chemical reduction efficiencies in the units both at Valdosta and Counce which now have allowed us to produce essentially more cooking liquor more uniform pulp and more pulp in general.
So that lent itself to more paper machine productivity so again quite an added benefit from the project.
Okay.
Well that's very helpful color.
And one other question I was sort of looking back and if you study calendars which I do find better things to do but on my cursory look we average about 20.4 shipping days in September normally.
And so given 100 000 a day shipment rate it looked like the inventory situation this month that was reported this morning would normally have about 140 000 if you will ton headwind that it seems like that didn't impact inventories at all.
We still had the normal increase.
And I thought -- I don't know if you had any comment about why you thought that was the case.
Is it more that -- I mean the production seemed to be high.
I can only conclude that there just weren't the tons available to get out into the marketplace but maybe you have better color than I have.
Yes with only 19 box plant workdays in September which is the minimum number I would have expected a bigger inventory increase.
On the other hand we had hoped to build about 10 000 tons of specifically PCA of inventory to get ready for October.
October has 23 cut-up days.
However we weren't able to build any inventory in September because our demand remained so strong.
So maybe we should not be surprised.
Yes let me just amplify.
September is a strange month.
What we've discovered it's like discovering Halley's Comet.
Maybe we should've known it.
But it's been since -- like 1984 was the last time there was a 2-day difference in shipping days year-over-year.
So usually it's only 1 day.
And so we would have thought with that few shipping days the inventories would have risen more but they didn't.
And I don't know if people took downtime in the industry.
I know we couldn't build inventory because our demand was strong.
September was a record for us volume day on a per-workday basis.
So I really don't have a good explanation for that.
But one other point on that I saw the FBA numbers this morning and it showed that roughly on a per-workday basis demand was up about 2.5% and on the total volume it was down about 7% or so.
I don't have the exact numbers in front of me but that's close.
And what we normally do is average the 2 numbers.
But you really shouldn't do that at this time because it's such a rare event that there's 2 days difference.
You simply can't make up 2 full days during a month.
So the kind of the way -- if somebody asked me how would you put your spin on the numbers I would deduct one of those days and that would make the total volume down about 2.5%; on a per workday up 2.5%.
So it kind of feels like a flat month to us for the -- I would say the industry it feels like a flat month for them year-over-year whereas we're up 5% and down 2.5%.
So we're up a couple of percent.
So it's kind of tracking the way it's been tracking all year.
Comparing PCA to the industry on organic growth we've been 2% to 3% better.
And then if you throw our acquisitions in we're about 6% better.
But it's a strange month.
This hasn't happened since 1984 when we've had a 2-day difference in shipping days and that does skew the numbers somewhat.
Our next question comes from Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on export pricing.
I noticed that you noted that in the first 9 months lower export prices were about a $0.05 drag year-to-date.
I wondered if you could give us some sense of whether there's still a drag as you see them here in October? Well again as most of you probably know we're not a big export player but we did raise export prices in September to a majority of the markets we serve.
And if you think about it we do business in approximately 35 countries.
Of those 35 countries we probably have 5 larger countries that we ship probably 55% or so of our volumes.
But we don't make a practice of commenting on specific prices in specific markets for competitive reasons.
So with that we're getting better but not as good as domestic pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just Mark can you just give us a little more color just generally on what you're seeing in exports? Because I'm hearing about some very long backlogs on export sales right now maybe some people even out in 2013.
Can you provide any color? Hey Mark this is Tom.
Again as Mark mentioned earlier I mean we're a smaller player in the export market.
But I can tell you that demand is steady to up depending on the market.
And certainly the backlogs are getting out there.
There's no question about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I just have a couple of other questions.
Mark any thoughts on other capital projects that may be looming over the next 2 or 3 years for PCA? We don't have any big projects like these energy projects right now and we have the typical smaller-capital-requirement projects that allow us to continue to build on efficiencies and enhance the efficiencies in a smaller way.
But with that we always have a portfolio of opportunities in both the box plants and the mills but nothing of the magnitude that we saw with the big energy project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my final question.
Can you just give us an update on what you're seeing in wood fiber costs and around your different fiber baskets? Prices are pretty flat both north and south so as we get ready and while we're completing our winter wood build right now the prices are flat.
Our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how shipments have trended over the first couple weeks of the month? And then maybe more broadly you outperformed the industry again on volumes this quarter.
I was wondering what you think a sustainable organic growth rate for you is.
Can you sustain the kind of 2% to 3% growth that we've seen this year maybe going into next year? Yes if you look at the first 9 days of October our bookings are up about 6% through this period of time compared to a very strong October last year.
Billings are essentially flat.
We're getting cut-ups very strong and billings always catch up with bookings over the course of the month.
Tom you want to elaborate on that? Well Anthony I would just say that we have always -- we've said we'll continue to look for every opportunity we can certainly in terms of acquisitions.
So we may -- we'll continue to look for those.
Organically we've had a pretty normalized rate here for quite some time and we would continue to see that rate going forward.
That would be our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And when you think about box shipment growth in the U.S.
or sort of industry-wide I mean it's basically been flat this year as you mentioned.
When you look into 2013 is there anything that you're seeing in any particular category like food or beverage or other products that would make you think that 2013 should be maybe a better volume year for the industry or maybe the same? Or how are you kind of thinking about those volumes? Well at this point in time I don't think anybody sees anything out there on the horizon that's going to be a dramatic shift.
However I'd like to think that it can't get a hell of a lot worse than where we've been and we're bound to get a little bit better.
Certainly one of the concerns that we have is any uptick given the inventory rates we have right now is going to make things even tighter than they are at the moment.
So we'll just -- we continue to do what we do and let the economy take care of itself.
But hopefully there will be some uptick going forward.
Yes I mean Anthony both presidential candidates are talking about jobs and both have said jobs is very important.
And if we can get unemployment to continue to drop that will be very positive for our industry.
And of course I think we're all familiar with a lot of the anecdotal information reported in the papers about people moving manufacturing back to the U.S.
I think it's started a little bit but obviously we need more of that.
That's probably the best thing that the country could do to get out of the deficit situation and that is to grow our way out of it.
And so long term we feel fairly positive about where the U.S.
economy is going to go because it has to go there.
Picking when that starting point is however is not so easy.
The next question is from George Staphos of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if maybe we could pick up on that line of questioning that Anthony had started.
If we look at this year certainly it's not been a great year in terms of volume through the retail chain for a lot of the food and beverage products because of food inflation.
Yet as I recall you're not huge in agriculture but it's not been the world's greatest ag season as well.
Are your food processing and food-related customers talking at all with any kind of data that would suggest that next year could be a better year than what's been probably a pretty challenging year this year in 2012? Well George this is Tom.
I'll just comment on this real quick.
I mean most of our customers obviously they tend to be fairly optimistic about their business and they hope that there's improvement going forward.
I can tell you they're trying to do everything they possibly can from a marketing point of view to move their products.
And I think at the end of the day just like any other year there'll be some winners and there'll be some losers.
And it's in our best interest to obviously to try to align with the winners.
And I think one of our advantages is with the 9 000 customer base that we have we're spread out very well so that we have the ability to grow with a lot of different customers and we don't have tremendous exposure to just 1 or 2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Next question I had was on inventory position.
Your inventory trend in the quarter surprised me.
I would have expected flat maybe up.
Sounded like that's where you were trending.
Explain to us if there is any operational issues you're having now by being so tight on inventory and what your goals would be for inventory in the fourth quarter coming up.
Yes George.
We continue to run full out.
For the third quarter we're running at a run rate over 100% capacity.
And so we continue -- first 15 days of the month we continue on that trend.
We did take advantage of supplying some of our legacy customers that requested some extra tons on the export side of the business during the third quarter so we weren't able to build inventory.
But right now I think again the mills just have to continue running at the pace they're running and to supply Tom's needs and our export and domestic customer needs.
Research Division</strong> Mark I don't know if you could comment to this but was there a greater-than-normal trend in this past quarter for other producers asking you for tons that would normally be the case in the third quarter? We generally don't comment on those matters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
George it's Paul.
I think Mark has a very good point in terms of inventory.
We hope to build some inventory.
We were running so well we decided to take the risk if you will to ship more to some export customers who we cut back right and we tried to help them out a little bit.
And that bet was we can continue to run well.
And there's always a trade-off.
If we don't we probably wished we had kept those tons but if we do we'll be happy we sold them.
And so we're betting that we could continue to run this well and one of the reasons we're fairly confident about the bet we still -- we're only 4 or 5 months beyond the annual shutdowns so our mills are still in tip-top shape.
And where you really start to worry when you get into the first quarter when it's the coldest quarter and you've got now 9 10 months on your equipment that's when the productivity risks are greatest.
And right now we've got the wind on our back productivity-wise so we're going to ride that horse as hard as we can.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Last quick one I'll turn it over.
Is it possible to discuss at all either in an index term or percentage terms what the overall cash cost performance at the mills have been this year? Clearly it's gotten better the energy products have been a success.
But obviously the way the company reports which is consistent with the way the other companies in the industry report on integrated basis plus changes in mixes at the box plant level over tons impairs comparability.
So could you help us understand how you've improved in cash cost efficiency at the mills this year? George regarding that obviously we're not going to give any specifics with the exception to say that the energy projects have delivered great results and we've seen the benefits of the improvements at both Valdosta and Counce.
And then just every year we're always working on continuing to improve the efficiencies.
That’s all I really want to say about that.
Paul do you have anything to add? No other than -- you said it.
Our actual data actual costs are company confidential information.
And for competitive reasons we choose not to disclose that.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question with the containerboard production up 3% year-over-year in the third quarter how do you expect that to continue to progress as we think ahead to say next year? I mean do you think you can continue at this 3% rate? Or some of that perhaps was some of that from the energy projects we should expect a lower rate moving forward? Going forward we should be at the normal creep rate 1% type normal creep.
We took advantage obviously of the energy projects through the 2010 and '11 activity at Valdosta and Counce and saw that nice 3% bump.
So that was a onetime event for us and as I explained on one of the earlier questions we have no plans as far as capital right now to go after any aggressive creep.
So and going forward it's going to be typical flat 1% type of activity.
Research Division</strong> And then just one follow-up question on the pricing.
When you said you expect to be essentially complete in the fourth quarter should I read that to mean that kind of full run rate will be in there kind of exiting December? Or is there still some carryover that we should be thinking about just from a timing perspective? Now our forecast at this point in time Phil is that we'll have the full run rate going in into the first quarter of next year.
We obviously have some contracts that extend out a little bit further than that which may add just a little bit.
But for the most part right now we're forecasting a full run rate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then with the energy projects and the increased savings that are coming from those is there any carryover benefit into 2013 perhaps from the productivity or the chemicals or anything else you highlighted there Rick? There might be a little bit.
We've improved as we've seen things we could do as Mark said with the cooking and chemical recovery process we got a little bit more during the year.
So average-on-average from 2012 to 2013 productivity may come up a little bit but that's built in to the 1% that Mark talked about of creep.
Yes.
The other thing Phil that we've discovered as you always do on a project like this is is that when you get done there's a few more things you could tweak that you didn't do in the first project.
Now it's not a lot of money and it's not a lot of return but Mark told me about a project the other day probably going to cost $0.5 million dollars to do and we'll get a 100% return on that.
And that's because the energy project enabled it.
But it's just a small thing a $0.5 million in improved earnings isn't that much.
But we've got a number of those and when you look back at everything I guess if you've done something just a touch different you can get a pretty good return.
Unfortunately it's just a little bit of capital.
And even though the return's really good it doesn't make that much more money.
But we do have some upside in those areas.
Research Division</strong> All right okay.
And then this is my last question on the share repurchases.
Rick I think you said it was $8 million in the quarter.
So that was a little below the second quarter and if I look at the year-to-date you're tracking below last year on that front.
So maybe you can just kind of comment on I guess the philosophy right now around share repurchases? Is some of this driven by how much cash you want to have on hand right now? Or just how do you think about that in light of the fact that CapEx is down quite a bit from last year so you do have more cash flow? So I guess I would've thought maybe a bit more on the share repurchase front this year.
Maybe you could just give a little color? Yes.
This is Paul again.
You're right.
We didn't do as much last quarter as we normally do.
We bought in about $32.50 a share and the strategy we had been pursuing which we discussed on last 4 conference calls was that we're going to try to be a little bit more opportunistic than in the past.
And that's when it was a very volatile time in Europe problem in Greece or Spain the market would get hit over here everybody got tarred with the same brush.
Our stock had dropped $1 or $2 and we'd pick it up.
And we were very successful in doing that buying on the down when something not related to our business happened in some parts of the world.
That really changed if you look at the third quarter.
We basically went up from about like I said $27 a share to about $35 $36.
And the stock was much less volatile and those opportunities for a big blip down really never happened.
And so we kept waiting and waiting and waiting and it never happened and we ended up buying some stock.
So I think if the world is more stable we're going to have to return to more of a more steady more continuous dollar cost averaging hopefully on the way up type of buying strategy.
But the old strategy served us well for about 18 to 24 months.
But unless the world gets more volatile and there are -- those opportunities don't exist then we're going to have to buy on a more steady basis going forward.
So that remains to be seen.
Next question.
Our next question is from Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just one thing I think we beat the inventory question to death.
But can we talk about more broadly about working capital given the acquisitions and where that's going to settle out over the next couple of quarters? This is Rick Mark.
From our working capital standpoint our working capital has increased.
As you pointed out from the acquisitions.
If I look at it I think historically working capital had been the lowest in the fourth quarter.
And I think as we go into the fourth quarter I do expect working capital to go down.
Now the amount of working capital we have on hand will really just be determined by a number of things price of product and then AR.
I don't see a lot of change in DSO.
And number two is how much inventory you need in finished goods as well as containerboard.
But I think the biggest change in our working capital has been more so the acquisitions and a little bit of pickup in finished goods.
But I do expect that to go down end of fourth quarter and probably level out a little more over next year.
Thank you.
Next question? Our next question is from Joshua Zaret from Longbow Research.
I have a question on the work gain of the commencement of this box price initiative.
I mean in general and I underline "in general " should we typically think it starts 4 weeks after Pulp and Paper Week raised their price series? Or is it a set date like October 1? And as long as I'm asking this did you get anything in September on the box side? We're not going to comment about that again for legal reasons.
Paul do you want to add anything to that? Yes.
Our policy forever has been when the price increase is over we comment on it.
We do not comment on while it's going on.
And that's on advice of counsel for antitrust reasons.
And as you know we're a very litigious society these days and so we are extra careful to go way beyond what's required for safety reasons.
And we did say we completed our containerboard price increase in the third quarter because it was over and we could say that.
We're in the process of a box price increase so we're going to give no further information than that until we complete it and then we can talk to you a lot about it.
Was there a publicly announced date? Or -- it sounds like there isn't.
We're not going to comment on that.
We have 9 000 customers.
We call on them we don't simply send out a letter.
And so you cannot guarantee that you -- you try to get to them as quickly as possible et cetera et cetera but it's not as simple for us as just sending out a letter because we don't do that.
We make personal calls.
Next question.
Our next question is from Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> As you look at your M&amp;A pipeline and as we head towards year end and potential tax changes in '13 are you seeing any incremental opportunities come up? Tom would have to answer that.
Regarding acquisitions is I would just say that as we've talked previously we continually look at acquisitions and we've got some opportunities that are out there that we're vetting at the moment.
But we have a very high hurdle rate for these acquisitions.
And so you don't have to meet the litmus test regarding customers regarding management team marketplace et cetera.
And we're going through some of those and we continually look at lots and lots and happen to get one here or there that is an absolutely right fit.
And we'll continue to do that.
Research Division</strong> And then as I look at your balance sheet it's in pretty good shape.
The leverage ratio is pretty low.
Can you just talk about what you believe to be the appropriate leverage for the business.
And if we're below that level how do you see the company getting back to that level? I'll take that.
We really don't look at it as a leverage ratio.
Of course we watch it.
But we think we're at the right debt level that gives us a lot of financial flexibility.
We've got low interest rates low debt and it really gives us the ability to take advantage of whatever opportunity is out there with the leverage we have.
And I think you can look at it in the way of what do you want to do opportunistically and we'd rather have that financial flexibility of what would essentially be considered a low leverage to take advantage of those things with our financial flexibility when they might appear.
And so we don't really have any plans to pay down debt.
We only have a small term loan.
And then in addition to that we've got very low interest on our other notes.
So we're pretty happy with where we're at from a leverage standpoint.
But we would not be -- we have the flexibility if we wanted to borrow to borrow also.
I'll just ask one more question.
Can you help us think about the normalized CapEx level for the business? And if you look at years 2010 '11 clearly it was elevated because of energy projects.
Probably in '12 it was a little bit lower because you were benefiting from the investments you're making in '10 and '11.
And so what's the right way to think about normalized CapEx? And is that a good proxy for 2013? Typically we've seen -- we've run at about 75% depreciation within that $110 million $120 million level.
And if you can look at depreciation going forward with the acquisition where we are on a percentage depreciation it's going to be in that $120 million range.
And then we've also talked to the point that Tom's going to have $50 million to $60 million available for continued acquisition opportunities or box plant strategic activities.
So again we are going to normalize and it's going to be right in that range $120 million area.
Plus the opportunities for Tom's side of the business.
When we talk about the box plant I'd also add we've said for a long time we run at about $110 million and we like to spend about $50 million a year on box plant acquisitions.
That's kind of been our mantra for the last 5 years.
So that $110 million has probably creeped up to $120 million because if we make these acquisitions they need capital to be supported too.
So as we get bigger we basically have gone from about a $2.1 billion company we're close to $3 billion now.
So obviously it requires a little bit more CapEx.
The only other change that I think we've talked about a little bit is that Tom is out looking for acquisitions but those acquisitions also compete against his internal projects.
And so that $50 million is for either acquisitions or if he's got a better internal project for there.
So that internal project would go into the CapEx number but it really comes out of the acquisition pot.
And so wherever we have the best investment for that $50 million and usually it's an acquisition because it's got a lot of synergy benefits but occasionally it's for an internal acquisition like the plant we built in Reading 1.5 years ago.
And so I throw that caveat the competition for these acquisition dollars is king and it's both internal and external.
Next question.
Our next question is from Al Kabili from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to circle up a little on the acquisition front.
And with the M&amp;A you've done on the box plant side you were still able to increase your year-over-year your sales of containerboard to the outside.
And I was wondering if you could comment on that.
I would have thought your integration rates would be going up with the box plant acquisitions.
Is this just a function of the higher capacity from the -- on the mill side from the energy projects? Or could you just help us through that.
Again the energy projects allowed us to grow the containerboard production by 120 000 tons.
At the same time we've been talking about our plans on the box plant side to grow the integration level from 80% up to the low 90s and currently we're selling -- we're roughly 83% integrated.
And so we've been able to produce the tons necessary to continue supplying the market.
And also at the same time as we've made these acquisitions supply those acquisitions.
And so with that again things are going to level out though.
Yes I think the level out is an important comment.
It's been a tough job to get the integration level up when you're also increasing your mill capacity but we're up about 3% over the last couple of years despite the additional capacity in our mills.
But as Mark said earlier on the call we're down to maybe 1% creep growth.
So Tom Hassfurther's going to have a little easier time building that integration level up because the mill production is not going to be going up as fast as it has been.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's helpful.
And also if you could help just us a little on the fourth quarter you lapped some of the box plant acquisitions.
Can you help us with what acquisitions helped on shipments in the fourth quarter? Is it still that 3% kind of rate in the fourth quarter? Or does that go down a little bit because you lapped some of the M&amp;A? I think we had one acquisition we made last year in the fourth quarter.
So it won't be 3 it'll probably be more like 2.
We caught up to that one we made in the fourth quarter last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great that's helpful.
And then just a final question is just on mix.
You talked last quarter how mix was a little better than you had expected.
And I was wondering if you could talk about what you saw on product mix this quarter.
And then a follow-up to that mix question is with price hikes coming are you seeing from customers increased interest in further lightweighting or any response from mix on that as well? This is Tom Al.
I would just say that from a mix point of view it's been pretty steady not a dramatic change.
And regarding the lightweighting I think every customer out there is looking for an opportunity to reduce cost but at the same time they're not going to sacrifice quality in any way.
So I think there's a constant pursuit in the marketplace for reduced costs.
And we're working -- we work with all our customers to try to do what's right and to try to meet their objectives but at the same time make sure that we maintain the quality and service that they demand.
Next question.
Our next question is from Steve Chercover from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I too had a question on mix.
Are you seeing any benefit from the return of manufacturing to the U.S.
that you alluded to? And also are you seeing kind of incremental volumes to the white good products? I'm thinking appliances for housing recovery.
Yes.
This is Paul.
I would say we're -- yes we're seeing some benefit in that.
I used to hear once a week from the box side of the business that this customer or that customer was shifting business to Mexico or China.
I don't hear that anymore.
And we're also hearing information that -- and we know of some of our customers that have moved some business back from Mexico or China.
The amounts to this point are small but we expect that trend to continue.
And so we really can't quantify it any more than that.
Research Division</strong> That's encouraging.
Even if it's embryonic it's a start.
Yes that's a good way to put it.
Research Division</strong> Other quick question.
In your fourth quarter outlook you mentioned higher cost due to weather.
Did you incorporate flat OCC or do you have any inflation built in there? The OCC is flat.
We've seen numbers obviously the Southeast area OCC is up about $5.
But all in all we're flat.
And that's what we've built into the fourth quarter.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a longer-term question.
The industry has obviously benefited quite a bit from the consolidation on the containerboard level.
I just want to get a sense do you think there needs to be more consolidation on the box side just to improve returns going forward? We're not going to comment about that again for legal reasons.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fine.
And then based on what you guys mentioned earlier about CapEx being potentially being in that $110 million $120 million ballpark and $50 million to $60 million acquisitions 2013 is shaping up as a record for cash flow year for you.
So in terms of the remaining piece in terms of cash flow deployments should we think about it as being return to shareholders or how should we think about that going forward? Well yes.
I think you heard Paul talk earlier to the dividend question.
So the fact that we've spelled out our plans for capital we have no plans to pay down debt so that leaves that cash available for share buyback and dividends so at some ratio of the 2.
Again that's where we're headed into the new year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of OCC you mentioned that you're baking in flat OCC prices for 4Q.
But I guess my question is the drop off that occurred during 3Q will that cycle through into 4Q? Or the benefit already kicked in in 3Q already? We don't talk about guidance into the forward quarters like that.
But again I think to summarize it all depends on China.
Think about that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this one last final question on the M&amp;A side a few of the companies I cover not in containerboard have kind of mentioned how multiples have come in a little bit due to current macro backdrop that given the fact that the industry is getting price increase have you seen multiples come -- actually move higher given the current backdrop? No.
We don't have anything really to comment on that.
We're not -- that's what analysts do.
We don't -- we're not smart enough to comment on multiple changes.
Our multiple is up this year obviously for I think our performance and what people think of the future.
But predicting I can't even predict where our stock price is going let alone multiple.
So we can't add any value to that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of what kind of multiples for the stuff that you could buy I guess in the pipeline has that changed directionally? We're not going to comment on that.
Thank you.
We've got time for one more question.
Our next question is from Scott Gaffner of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a logistical question on the box price increase.
I mean you did say it was an all-consuming effort going out to these 9 000 customers.
But I would assume that a certain percentage of your customers are on some sort of index that makes the conversation a little bit easier.
Can you talk about what percentage of customers are on some sort of index as far as the containerboard price increase flowing through and how that will affect the discussion? No I'm not going to comment on that.
I will just say that the discussion is as important with every single customer regardless of whether they're on or off some sort of an index.
And It's not that we don't want to disclose information to you we just don't like to disclose that information to competitors.
There's no upside to that.
Research Division</strong> No I can appreciate that.
Just looking at the energy cost.
I mean you noted that the energy projects were ahead of schedule this year.
Obviously more of a benefit than you expected.
But the natural gas prices have risen a little bit recently.
How do you think about that when we move into 2013 if they were to stay at this level? How does that impact your business? And then just sort of a follow-up on that when you look at the seasonality of your purchased energy versus internally supplied how does that change as we move through the year? Natural gas is such a small component of our energy that it's really not a big factor.
So in that regard again we just use very low natural gas.
So that's about all I really want to say.
And it really doesn't change seasonally except that the fact that in the winter months you use more energy on the 3 coldest months of the year primarily because your water temperature is a lot colder and you got to heat a lot of water up to make paper.
So and -- the one thing just to point out on our Valdosta mill we're now to the point now where other than in the line kiln where we do burn a little -- we burn natural gas we don't use any fossil fuel at all at Valdosta.
We run the mill well again except for the line kiln on 100% wood waste and black liquor.
And so -- and Counce isn't quite as good but Counce is pretty good in that regard too.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
Just lastly on how we should think about directionally maintenance downtime as we move into 2013? I would assume you're in a pretty good position based off of the energy projects and some of the work you've done over the last couple of years.
Should we think about -- and you got some benefit it looks like in the first half of 2012 from lower downtime maintenance downtime.
Should we think about that repeating again in 2013? We're right in the process of planning next year's shutdown.
So we'll be able to add details on the January earnings call.
But essentially the shutdowns are normalized year-to-year with required work but we'll add the details on January.
I think the other -- the only thing I'll add to that is we did say when we talked about returns of voided capital and with Valdosta and Counce with the new boilers there would've been about $80 million of capital spent over about a 5-year period that won't have to be spent now on maintenance because these are -- they're virtually new boilers.
So going down on that regard our maintenance expense will be less.
Okay.
With that we're out of time.
I appreciate everybody's time today on the call.
We look forward to seeing you in January for the full-year and fourth quarter call.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentleman this concludes the conference for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Results Earnings Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther Executive Vice President who runs our Corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call and after the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
This morning we reported fourth quarter 2012 net income of $61 million or $0.63 per share.
The reported results included net income of $3 million or $0.03 per share from state income tax adjustments related to cellulosic biofuel tax credits and after tax charges of $1 million or $0.01 per share from plant closures.
Excluding these items net income was $59 million or $0.61 per share compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 net income of $39 million or $0.40 per share.
The $0.21 per share increase in earnings excluding these special items were driven by higher containerboard and corrugated products price and mix of $0.12; higher volume $0.09 and lower costs for recycled fiber $0.04; and energy $0.02.
These items were partially offset by higher costs for labor and benefits of $0.05 including incentive compensation related to record earnings.
Full year earnings excluding special items were $201 million or $2.06 per share compared to 2011 earnings of $162 million or $1.61 per share.
The $0.45 per share increase in earnings was driven by higher volume of $0.33 and price and mix of $0.06; lower costs for energy $0.17; recycled fiber $0.12 and chemicals $0.05; and a lower share count $0.05.
These items were partially offset by higher costs for labor and benefits of $0.14; depreciation $0.08; interest expense $0.06; and transportation; $0.05.
Net sales in the fourth quarter were $737 million up 13% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
And full year net sales were a record $2.844 billion up 9% over 2011.
Overall we had another strong quarter setting all-time quarterly records for sales earnings and shipments despite about 10 box plants in the East and Midwest being impacted more than usual by severe weather conditions.
Our corrugated products demand was strong throughout the quarter and our corrugated products price increase went through as planned.
Moving to more details for the quarter our corrugated shipments were up 5.8% on a per workday basis compared to last year's fourth quarter including 2.1% from box plant acquisitions and up 7.6% in total with 1 more shipping day this quarter.
Our shipments per workday were up each month for the quarter compared to last year.
And in November we set an all-time record for any month in shipments per workday both including and excluding acquisitions.
For the year our corrugated shipments were up 6.6% both in total and per workday with the same number of workdays as in 2011.
Of the 6.6% increase 3% was from box plant acquisitions.
Our domestic and export containerboard sales demand remained strong.
However with our increasing integration level and to maintain containerboard inventories at targeted levels we did sell fewer tons into the export market compared to both last year's fourth quarter and the third quarter of this year.
Our export shipments of containerboard were about 8 000 tons lower than last year's fourth quarter and about 17 000 tons lower than the third quarter of this year.
Domestic containerboard sales were down about 2 000 tons compared to both the fourth quarter of last year and the third quarter of this year.
Our mills produced 652 500 tons of containerboard up 12 000 tons over the fourth quarter of 2011.
The higher production was driven primarily by capacity increases resulting from the energy projects at our Counce Tennessee and Valdosta Georgia linerboard mills.
But it's worth noting that all 4 of our mills set all-time production records for the year producing 2.6 million tons and ran at essentially 100% of capacity.
We ended the year with containerboard inventories up 6 000 tons compared to the end of 2011 as we needed to begin to build some additional inventory in advance of the 2013 annual maintenance outages.
We've adjusted our mill annual maintenance outage schedule in 2013 to better optimize inventory levels and also to accommodate the scheduled delivery of critical items needed for the outages.
The only maintenance outage in the first quarter will be the No.
2 paper machine at Counce Tennessee linerboard mill which will be down for 5 days in March reducing production by 7 000 tons and also increasing operating costs.
The majority of our maintenance downtime will occur in the second quarter when we complete our Counce outage and also have our Valdosta Georgia linerboard mill and our Tomahawk Wisconsin corrugating medium mill down for their annual maintenance outages.
There are also 2 less calendar days in the first quarter which will lower mill production by about 7 000 -- 15 000 tons compared to the fourth quarter.
And there's 1 less day compared to last year because 2012 was a leap year.
We will need to build some additional containerboard inventory in the first quarter to cover our second quarter maintenance outages.
This will impact first quarter earnings but earnings from these tons will be recognized in the second quarter when they are sold.
On the box side of the business there are 2 less workdays than the first quarter of last year.
Looking at pricing we completed our corrugated products price increase as planned.
In total we achieved the full pass of the containerboard price increase to boxes.
From an average price standpoint we realized about 2/3 of the total earnings benefit of the box price increases in the fourth quarter and we realized essentially all of the remaining benefit of the price increases in the first quarter.
Moving to costs lower recycled fiber costs improved earnings by $0.04 per share as the industry published prices for old corrugated containers or OCC.
Excluding delivery costs we're down about $35 a ton in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
Our wood costs for both the fourth quarter and the full year were essentially flat with 2011 and we're also able to complete our annual winter wood inventory build in the fourth quarter.
Since early January a pattern of extremely wet weather in the mid-South has begun to put pressure on wood costs and availability.
Our wood inventories are declining and the extent of the earnings impact from the wet weather in the first quarter will depend on how long the weather pattern persists.
Energy costs were down $0.02 per share compared to last year's fourth quarter driven mostly by the energy project and lower natural gas costs in our box plants.
Finally labor and benefits were up $0.05 per share compared to last year's fourth quarter including the cost for higher incentive payouts associated with the record earnings.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who will give an update on our generation and uses of cash and taxes.
Thank you Mark.
In the fourth quarter PCA generated cash from operations of $153 million including the positive working capital change of $25 million.
Capital expenditures were $34 million for the quarter and for the full year were $129 million.
We also spent during 2012 $35 million for box plant acquisitions.
We paid both our October quarterly common stock dividend of approximately $24.5 million and also paid our normal January dividend in December for $24.5 million.
We repurchased 103 000 shares of our common stock during the fourth quarter for about $35.35 per share or $4 million.
And for the year we repurchased 1.5 million shares for $45 million at an average price of $29.95 per share.
As of December 31 2012 our diluted shares outstanding were 97.4 million shares.
Cash tax payments of $200 000 were made during the quarter for state income taxes and fuel credits of $3 million were used to offset federal taxes.
We have estimated remaining fuel tax credits of up to $76 million.
We ended the fourth quarter with $207 million in cash up $66 million from our third quarter ending cash.
Our guidance at the end of the fourth quarter was $794 million.
Before I turn it back over to Mark I have a few estimates for certain 2013 items.
We expect capital expenditures in 2013 to be about $120 million.
We also may consider spending up to an additional $50 million for either box plant acquisitions or strategic investments in our existing box plants.
Preliminary 2013 pension funding and expense estimates including other post-retirement benefits are about $31 million and $40 million respectively.
In terms of cash taxes after the remaining tax credits are used our tax -- cash tax rate will go back to about 35%.
The final amount of the available fuel tax credits and the final cash tax rate in taxes paid in both 2012 and 2013 is contingent upon the conclusion of the IRS audit currently underway.
Our effective tax rate for income statement purposes is expected to be about 36% in 2013 based on current federal and state tax laws.
Our debt pay down under our $135 million term loan outstanding will be $15 million in 2013.
We currently have no plans to pay down any additional debt in 2013.
Based on current interest rates our cash interest payments in 2013 are expected to be $32 million and interest expense will be $38 million with a $6 million difference between payments and expense due to the amortization of debt refinancing charges.
With that I will turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Before I move to the first quarter outlook to sum up 2012 we set several records for both operations and financial results driven by better-than-expected earnings benefits from our major energy project at our Counce Tennessee and Valdosta Georgia linerboards mills and record corrugated product shipments driven by our ability to provide value to our customers and strategic investments we've made in our existing box plants as well as our acquisitions.
Based on our strong financial position and the results in 2012 PCA announced on January 14 2013 an increase in the quarterly cash dividend on our stock from an annual payout of $1 per share to $1.25 per share a 25% increase.
Looking ahead to the first quarter as I mentioned earlier we expect lower containerboard production and higher operating costs compared to the fourth quarter with 2 less mill production days and annual maintenance downtime.
We also expect higher energy costs with colder weather and a pattern of extremely wet weather in the South is putting pressure on wood costs and availability.
Corrugated products volume will be seasonally lower and we expect higher costs for recycled fiber and labor and benefits.
These items will be partially offset by higher average corrugated products prices with a full quarter of realization of our fourth quarter price increases.
Considering all of these items we currently estimate our first quarter earnings at about $0.56 per share.
With that we'd be happy to entertain any questions.
I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on the call constituted forward-looking statements.
These statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors on our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
The actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that operator I'd like to take questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> The first question I had can you give us the traditional rundown on what your bookings and billings look like early in the first quarter recognizing it's still early? Yes.
George for the first 11 days from the bookings point of view we were up 4.5% billings 3.5%.
As the month goes on bookings and billings equalize of again 4.5% and 3.5% for the first 11 days of January.
And George I might add that's maybe 1% better than we expected because that's a per workday number.
And we have 2 fewer workdays in the first quarter so that will affect the total number.
So it's good but it's not as good as it sounds because there are less workdays in the first quarter which will affect the total number.
But we're a little better than we expected coming out of the shoot.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
It's consistent with some of the other things that we've seen in our work.
I guess second question I had is around the box plant network and vertical integration.
I was hoping given it's the end of the year that you're reporting that you can give us an update on actually where your vertical integration was for the year? And can you comment a little bit on the plant closure that I guess you did in the fourth quarter and how they relate to the overall network? On -- regarding integration for the fourth quarter we are 83.5% integrated.
Full year it's just under 83% to 82.5% full year.
And then again -- what was your second question? I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> No that was basically it.
Just the plant closures since you need the capacity to some degree this thing that you're going to invest what was behind the actual plant closing this year? We have 1 plant in the Southeast that for a period of time we had -- quite frankly we had had a customer that was no longer part of that mix.
And so we had an opportunity it's a very small plant but we had an opportunity to shift that volume into another plant in a nearby region.
And basically the total plant closure cost we did have another plant in the Midwest that was not a plant closure per se but we did some modification to the buildings and took some write-off regarding building demolition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one and I'll turn it over.
I know there were some incentive comp in the $0.05 in the fourth quarter in terms of higher labor and benefit costs but is that a run rate let's call it $0.04 or how would you have us think about it that we should think about for the rest of well for 2013 on a quarterly basis? Paul you want to get...
Yes since I still look at compensation that number was between $0.02 and $0.03 in the fourth quarter.
We had an all-time payout on our incentive compensation plan as we beat our all-time record earnings by 27%.
What that number will be in the future will depend on what our level of earnings will be.
So our incentive compensation plan has a feature that I would define as affordability.
When you're making a lot of money you can afford to pay higher bonuses and when you don’t you can't.
And then we have some performance criteria both external and internal.
So the answer to your question is it will be a function of our earnings this year.
And it's not necessarily a run rate number.
It will follow as I said our earnings.
As they go higher then there's a high probability we'll pay out more.
And if our earnings go lower there's high probability we'll pay out less.
So it's not a run rate number.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> First question can you give us a little bit of direction between the downtime impact? You gave us the first quarter and mentioned the 1 machine at Counce but how much more in terms of tons will we see in the second quarter versus the I guess the 7 000 we'll see from that outage in the first? Well again the first quarter was the Counce machine going down.
You're going to see directly say 7 000 tons come out of the system with the Counce machine down.
But also by moving the remainder of Counce into the second quarter basically the first quarter is about equal to the second quarter when you look at the difference in the number of days with the leap year effect again because with the added day last year that leap year added in say another 7 000-plus tons.
So in essence first quarter second quarter will be about the same as far as tons impact.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I guess as a related question could you maybe give us either the final kind of score? I know you were seeing some continued gains from the energy projects and it's been a while I guess it was November '11 -- 2011 when you completed them.
But what -- where that stands in terms of how you see the savings either EPS or EBITDA-wise? And then how much more there might still be if any in 2013? Yes as we said on the third quarter call we expected $0.37 for the year.
And we achieved that.
As far as any incremental benefits going forward we don't expect to see any.
So again the project achieved more than we had expected and as we talked last year to the second third quarter calls we are very comfortable with that $0.37 contribution from the projects.
The only change to that Chip is if energy prices would spike and go up we're going to see benefits in terms of cost avoidance because basically we buy no fossil fuel at Valdosta everything's self-generated.
But that's a cost avoidance.
It will protect earnings from going down it won't add to earnings.
And I guess the only other thing we usually can creep capacity at about a 1% a year.
This project will probably enable us to be able to do that.
And we couldn't have done that without this project.
So we may get another but we're talking maybe 1% of capacity in terms of being able to creep so you could theoretically say well you couldn't have done that without the project.
But basically as Mark said we've got essentially all of our earnings out of this with the big proviso so it does give us cost avoidance protection.
LLC</strong> Got you and this is the last quick one.
Is -- you mentioned how stable the wood prices have been wood cost and as we go into 2013 and beyond they're different forces at play whether it would be I would guess higher chip availability with lumber coming back.
But then again you've got these alternative energy-type plants being built pellet plants.
So what do you sort of see for your wood costs percentage increases we look out this year and maybe even into the next year? Well again Chip just looking at -- coming into this 2013 we're pretty comfortable and our wood costs were flat through the year.
We did our winter wood build at Counce and again very comfortable with where we were.
However during that Christmas period we started to see a weather pattern shift through the South and a lot of the heavy rains starting to move up from Texas to Louisiana into the mid-South.
So we were impacted pretty dramatically for about a 3.5 week period.
And that forced us to start consuming our winter wood build at a much more rapid rate than normal.
And so that's one of the primary reasons we've talked about wood cost going up on the short term.
Again we've had a reprieve this week weather is better.
The other regions we're not seeing any of the impact as far as anything unusual.
As far as sawmills and chips we have seen an uptick in availability of chips residual chips available at our Northern mills and our Southern mills.
So again as far as anything that's out on the horizon if the weather behaves itself and gets back into a normal pattern then there's nothing that should move wood costs either way.
So we're not expecting anything dramatic in that regard.
Yes I guess Chip this is Paul.
The only thing I'd add.
I mean you've said the 2 variables.
As wood products improves there is going to be chip availability which is definitely a plus.
And then there's the uncertainty of these pellet wood plants that could or could not come online and once more a short term earlier than the others a little more long term.
So I would say if you look at the cut rate versus the growth rate it's pretty good.
The question is can chip plants start to eat into that balance? And most of it -- those -- I mean pellets not chips.
And most of the pallets are going offshore to Europe and places like that for environmental reasons for subsidized energy.
And the question is will that continue will Europe continue to subsidize energy when they've got problems in terms of costs Greece Spain et cetera.
And what will happen in the long term? Will economics prevail or will government subsidy prevail? And that's probably the most important variable and that's a tough one to call.
Our next question comes from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
This is Steve Aragon filling in for Mark Connelly.
My first question goes back to fiber costs.
It sounds like you're expecting a wetter-than-normal weather in the South so higher than usual fiber costs but the EPS progression from fourth to first looks pretty normal.
What's offsetting these extra headwinds? I know you mentioned price but is there anything else there? Well again besides the wet weather we're in -- it's a colder weather period.
We're seeing the colder temperatures up North that we haven't seen for a few years so the -- energy use in particular is going to be higher.
And then again we just don’t know what this winter weather as far as the rain is going to do.
Rick do you want to elaborate on any of the other changes? Yes I think rather than looking at fourth quarter '12 to 1Q '13 I think it's a little simpler to look at 1Q '12 to 1Q '13.
If you look on that basis we made $0.42 per share in the first quarter of 2012.
With the production day and corrugated product workday difference the volume that we'll produce and ship in the first quarter of 2013 versus the first quarter of 2012 is expected to be essentially the same.
So the second item is cost.
You're going to have your normal year-over-year increases in merit and benefits et cetera so say that's $0.03 negative that would take you down to $0.39.
We said in the fourth quarter we recognized about $0.12 per share in price and mix and it was 2/3 of the total benefit.
So you divide that by 2/3 you get $0.18.
You add the $0.39 plus the $0.18 for price that gets you to $0.57 then some of these weather things that are unusual you back off $0.01 that gets you to our guidance of $0.56.
So that's a very simplistic way to look at the change in earnings and our guidance.
Our next question comes from Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on the capital allocation side of things.
For the year you guys bought back $45 million of stock and Paul I kind of asked about this last quarter so I just want to follow up again about as to how you're thinking about things as we enter 2013.
If things are more stable out there would you guys be looking to buy back more stock this year given the cash flow? Well I wish things were more stable out there.
We would like to buy stock more continually.
We've been opportunistic.
We didn't buy a lot in the fourth quarter because of the impending "financial cliff." Fairly uncertain time.
We faced the same thing to some extent in the first quarter with the debt ceiling and what its effects it will have on macroeconomics and the stock market in general.
So we're waiting for a little more stable time to be more consistent buyers and if there's any volatility that we think unfairly hits our stock we're well prepared to be able to take advantage of that.
And like you we're hoping for more stable times it makes buying stock back a little easier.
And that's the best way I can say it we're not -- we don't have a long-term strategy right now.
We have a short-term strategy that still tries to be a little opportunistic.
And we'll move to a longer strategy when things get a little more stable.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then on the inventory front just where you guys are exiting in the year I know you're talking about building some on the first quarter as -- from a maintenance standpoint.
But do you feel comfortable just kind of on a longer-term basis whereas where your inventory levels are right now? Yes as we finished up the year quite frankly we had hoped to be able to build some inventory with the Christmas storms that took place.
We actually ended up with a few thousand tons more than we had planned on.
But quite frankly with the fact that the dynamics are different now during the latter part of the fourth quarter for the last few years we don't see the December slump like we used to so demand is fairly constant which again from going back historically we're used to see an inventory bulge that you'd want to work off during that early part of the -- first part of the year.
You don't see that anymore.
So again it creates the necessity to build that inventory that can sustain us through this shutdown period.
So it's important that we build an inventory.
We're pretty much where we want to be right now.
So again we've spaced out these shutdowns and that's again one of the factors that we've looked at as where we take these shutdowns now and space it a little bit longer through the first and second quarter to better accommodate the cut off needs and the mill capabilities during the first part of the year.
So regarding that again I think where we are at right now in January inventories are pretty close to where we want them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question your major investments are now basically done at the existing mills you've got the savings locked in.
And so I guess I'm just wondering from a footprint standpoint how you're thinking about things moving forward? Is the idea of adding more mills to the system something that you'd be considering at this point or just how you think about that strategically? Well just to go back and review.
We've talked through the last couple of years about our integration plans moving from the low 80s up to the low 90s 90% to 92% 93%.
And that remains our focus.
And so Tom's been able to create some good opportunities with box plant acquisitions and the organic opportunities with the capital spending from 6 of our plants.
But nevertheless again we remain focused on that integration plan.
We currently -- again you've heard Paul say this I've said it if an opportunity came along and the right price we'd consider mill acquisitions.
That's always something you'd have to consider right now.
Again that's again our priority is the integration plan.
Yes.
And I'd add we're not looking for diversion here.
Our goal is get to 90-plus percent integration and that is our main focus.
It's from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Rick I appreciated the bridge you did of -- from 1Q '13 versus 1Q '12 and I understand that if we did look though at 4Q to 1Q it seemed that you had implicitly suggested there'd be about $0.06 positive on pricing mix.
And since the number is gone -- going down $0.05 you add the $0.06 to the $0.05 it looks like there's about $0.11 seasonal flash cost variance for Q2 1Q.
Could you help us understand a little bit better what the components are because it seems to be more than the normal seasonal.
So whatever you can do to help us out there that would be great.
Well I didn't say it was more than normal.
Just to walk you through some of the items.
Let's just say colder weather energy wet weather $0.04.
We do have statutory benefits that start back up in the first quarter which is more of a timing item that's about $0.025 to $0.03.
Then you have your normal year-over-year increase in wages and some fringes increase which is about $0.025 to $0.03.
Then you're looking at recycled fiber on average being up about $0.01 a share.
And you've got some offsets with different things inventory a little less maintenance expense with not as many outages in the first quarter.
And then you've got some seasonal volume related as we said corrugated products volume will be down the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
But essentially the same in total year-over-year.
So that may have been about $0.03.
So that gets you down to our guidance of $0.56.
I think the real difference this year is the more seasonality of the corrugated products volume with less work days than last year.
And we had a leap year last year we don't have one this year.
Leap years are good.
Right.
I'm sorry what's the statutory benefits you're talking about versus the other benefits? The statutory benefits your [indiscernible] your [indiscernible] your [indiscernible] people pay those out as they go through the year.
So you have a lot of those paid out by the fourth quarter but you're not getting the expense.
And then when you start up in the first quarter you begin that expense again.
And then does that go back down again in the second quarter or that's just at a higher level versus...
It goes back down throughout the year as people pay out their benefit requirements for the statutory fringes.
Okay so presumably a typical normal year you would see much of the energy cost weather-related stuff come back in the second quarter you would see the statutory benefits and the other benefits also come back is that fair? I would say that's a fair fair assessment.
But not all -- it's not necessarily -- it will depend on your rate of pay the Social Security's capped at $100 000-some once you get there some people will get there in the second quarter third quarter fourth quarter.
And that thing it decays over the year in terms of payment and until you have reached the minimums.
But in the first quarter you take a full hit.
Okay and then obviously your seasonal volumes typically get better? That's correct.
The only thing that goes up is your maintenance expense for outages.
That increase because we amortize them over the remainder of the year after they occur.
Well and on that you had mentioned that you're going to be building some inventory in the first quarter but that the sales wouldn't get booked until the second quarter.
If you were to sell that production in the first quarter is that a meaningful difference to what the earnings would be? Rough number $0.01 or so.
Okay.
And so how much does maintenance go up second quarter versus first quarter order of magnitude earnings last? Really at this point Mark we haven't finalized those numbers as we're completing the total cost of our annual shutdown so I would be reluctant to give you that number at this time.
And Mark our current practice is we give guidance a quarter at a time we're not going to start giving estimates for the second third fourth quarter on things.
So they're just too difficult to make.
One quarter at a time.
Our next question comes from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-up questions.
First can you talk a little bit about the sort of net impact from the hurricane because it sounded like you had some box plants that might have lost a little volume but at the same time you said that it's a record shipping month in November for you.
Yes Mark I'm going to let Tom expand on that one because we had a few different storm events taking place.
Yes Mark the net impact from Sandy that impacted a number of our plants and then additionally we had the 2 snow storms that came through the Midwest.
All in all that was about $0.01 a share.
The difficulty there is estimating okay if you lose a little bit of business because you shut down does any of that come back.
Typically if you've got our plants down and our customers' plants down you're going to lose some sales as a result of that.
So that won't show up in the following year.
Research Division</strong> Okay but just to be clear Tom you did say November was an all-time record month for you guys.
Is that right? Right.
And I'd add Mark I know you're not a weatherman but Sandy was in October.
And the bad storms were in December.
So we had good weather in November which allowed that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then the other question I had just -- can you just recap for us again that maintenance that's going to be going on in the second quarter.
I know -- if you don't -- can't give us a cost or anything that's fine.
But just to recap for us what is actually going to be out in the second quarter? Yes.
Again what we'll do is we're going to complete the Counce outage in April.
During that same period of time we're going to have the Tomahawk mill down in April this year.
And then in May we'll take Valdosta down and complete its annual shutdown in May.
And so those are the 3 shutdowns.
And just so everyone understands again the Filer City mill will not go down until October of this year.
We've moved it up to October.
We got the flexibility now with the energy infrastructure systems at Filer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Mark if we just went back and looked at sort of what normally happens in terms of these maintenance outages at the 3 mills you've mentioned is that going to be a pretty good indicator of what we should see this year? Mark this year again there's just normal outages mainly inspections.
We're not into a lot of big capital upgrades.
So this year it's just routine work take the mills down inspect repair get them buttoned back up and run again.
Yes.
And Mark we only give downtime forecast one quarter in advance for various reasons.
So we could tell you what's down and the next quarter when we have the same call we'll tell you how many tons for the quarter.
We don't do it more than a quarter in advance.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think we all understand that.
I was just trying to make sure that we were doing as well as we could in terms of calibrating that bridge going into second quarter.
Our next question is of Anthony Pettinari of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Your CapEx $129 million this year I think it's a tad higher than what's you're shooting for next year.
Can you just remind us as was there any carryover expenses from the energy projects or was there anything that kind of caused that number to be a little bit higher this year? Again we said that we'd spend $120 million of normal CapEx between the mills and box plants.
And then we have said that on the strategic side primarily the box plants we'd set aside perhaps $50 million or $60 million per ton to look at potential acquisitions strategic opportunities.
And so that $9 million the $129 million from $120 million to $129 million is basically strategic opportunity spending that took place.
But we have the one acquisition for the year and so again we'd looked at some of the opportunities.
And one of the opportunities also was Valdosta with some again strategic capability upgrades.
So that $9 million differential was strategic opportunity spending.
Yes.
And Anthony Paul.
Just on that point Mark is making.
That is just kind of a -- I think it's an interesting anecdote the way we approach capital spending minimum effective design we try not to make sure that things are gold plated when we did the energy project at Valdosta there's about 5 or 6 things we've could've also done.
We assessed the probability of meeting them and the probability on most of these items was 20% and 30% so we didn't do any of them.
And when we get done with the project they'll always find some things that don't go exactly like you like.
And this was a positive one.
We were able -- the boiler did better than we thought.
And we were able to get out more electricity and that created a problem.
We didn't have enough steam.
We looked at it and said "Hey the biggest steam user in the mill is the fan pump drive." It's a steam driven pump and we decided it's a -- would be the biggest motor in the bill so we decided to spend $1 million this year to put in an electric drive instead of a steam drive that's a $1 million motor.
But the payback is $1 million so 1 year payback.
But the whole point of the discussion is that we really do minimum effective design and if you missed something then you only fix the things that you missed you didn't put in 5 other things you didn't need.
So we'll get a very high return on that.
And that's in at numbers that could have been part of the project but it wasn't.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just a related question.
You referenced the 90% integration goal.
When you think big picture over the next 2 to 3 years do you think you'd get to that 90% mostly through those kinds of strategic spending and strategic initiatives? Or do you get it from the box plant acquisitions or how should we think about those kind of buckets as you move towards the 90%? It's a combination.
If you look at the benefits of the strategic spending that was completed in 2011 which was a 2010 2011 spend in the box plants that are half dozen of our plants where we upgraded their capabilities and then you look at the acquisitions basically the incremental volume that we saw in 2012 half of it came from the organic capability in the box plant half of it came from acquisitions.
And so we'll continue that trajectory.
And Tom's always looking at acquisition opportunities.
And some of that $9 million that $129 million of capital some of that $9 million Tom applied at a number of the box plants and strategic pieces of capital that will enable again better organic support for customer base.
Scott Gaffner Of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious the -- you talked about the strong results in November sort of continuing then into the first quarter a little bit better than expected.
Can you talk from a end market demand perspective.
Are you seeing any increased demand from housing-related industries or anything related to better industrial production? Tom why don’t you look at that? Okay.
Yes I think there's some pick up in the economy I don't think there's any question about that.
It's certainly not what I call booming but I think there is some pick up that's -- it's steady.
The housing industry obviously the numbers are much better.
And of course that will drive a lot of residual customers towards increasing their purchases.
So I think that's one of the tailwinds we have going forward.
Research Division</strong> And longer-term you've talked about the return of your manufacturing jobs and factories to North America.
Are you seeing that currently? Is that starting to impact the results or anything you could provide there on the longer-term outlook for that? I wouldn't say there's an immediate impact of results but it certainly is encouraging what Walmart has just decided to do.
With setting aside a major amount of purchase in hundreds of billion of dollars towards helping assure that there is some re-shoring of manufacturing to this country.
So I'm sure that got the attention of many of our customers and that will bode well for our business going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly the -- throughout the whole price increase discussion that just occurred and some of the changes in consolidation in the industry over the last 2 years have you seen any meaningful shift in share particularly in the fourth quarter? We're not really in a position to comment about that.
The next question comes from Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Your mills obviously ran very well it ran close to 100%.
Is that 2.6 million number -- production number sustainable and should we assume like a 1% supply creep for 2013? Yes the 2.6 million tons is sustainable and with continued discrete investments to support that 0.5% 1% is achievable.
Again it depends again we've said this before it's all about how much capital do you want to spend or do you need to spend.
But we feel good that the -- that number is sustainable and we can continue to grow at a very conservative ratio.
And just a caveat on that.
The way it normally works is after you get done with an annual maintenance outage everything is in tip-top shape.
And you could probably run in our system 102% 103% 104% of capacity.
And then you'll lose that ability over the next 12 months as you -- as things wear and you'll get down to less than 100% of capacity like 98%.
Counce for example ran less than less than full capacity in the fourth quarter because it's at the end of its cycle.
And so it's not a linear phenomenon.
And the other thing it's not -- we had no major problems in 2012 in our mill system.
You have your normal day-to-day but nothing no big boiler problems et cetera.
So that has the one caveat knock on wood that you don't have a major problem because that would impair your ability to run at 100%.
So in a normal year without any major problems yes it's sustainable.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
Are there any other major projects on the horizon that you could actually debottle more incremental capacity than the normal 1%? No currently we're not looking at anything big.
It's just the day-to-day's -- the things that address cost reliability maintaining our uptime but right now we don't have any big -- nothing of the magnitude of the big energy projects.
And you can always come up with projects that'll be expensive and just a matter of money and right now we want to spend our money and get to 90-plus percent integration level.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
Did you provide some color on inflation on the wood fiber component what about some of the other major pieces like chemicals cost and starch? Looking at the first quarter we didn't see anything in the chemical-related area.
And it's more so the normal year-over-year increases in the annual wages et cetera and benefits.
So that's the biggest one from an inflation standpoint a little bit on recycled fiber as I've said earlier.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
I just want to get a sense from your perspective of the state of the market.
It sounds like you're generally a little more upbeat about demand.
This time last year we saw some leakage on the pricing export and some spot discounting but it sounds like the market is much tighter right now.
I just want to get to your takeaway.
I think you described it very well Philip.
It's a -- it's certainly better than it was a year ago.
Things are pretty tight.
Export market demand remained very strong.
So on an overall basis I think that the market itself is in pretty good shape.
Comes from Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> As I look at the earnings work from '11 to '12 it looks like volume benefited earnings by more than $0.30 if my models are right.
I think you said half of that was acquisition the other half was organic volume growth.
So on the organic side it's still a very meaningful contribution to earnings in '12 despite the overall industry being flat from a volume point of view.
So as we look at '13 and you look at your book of business and the conversations you're having with customers any color you can provide on how we should think about the benefit that volume could provide to earnings in '13? We really are not in the position to get in to that.
We talk one quarter at a time.
So but the first part of your discussion on the volume you were correct in your assumption on what the contribution was from volume for the year.
But again moving into anything but this quarter.
We're not...
And it's Paul.
The only thing I would add is as Mark said we give volume guidance a quarter any guidance a quarter at a time.
But if look at our long track record 10 years you can see that we've outgrown the industry considerably and obviously that still remains one of our objectives.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks Paul.
And on the export side can you just talk about the current demand trend you're seeing out there and whether or not you expect any mix shift between the normal amount of tonnage that you ship with the export versus what you expect to see in 2013.
Yes.
As I just mentioned a few minutes ago the export demand remains very strong.
And of course they're going through a price increase right now our announced price increase is $60 a euro and that's on recycled.
So things are moving up there as well in Europe and Latin America remains very strong as well as South America.
So I think that as we've talked before we exported over 250 000 tons and some of that is going to go to our integration.
So that's -- we're not as we've talked before large exporters and that we concentrate on a couple of markets.
That's all I can really can't comment on.
And I think that the worldwide demand is still quite good.
Just to amplify what Tom said this is Paul Stecko again.
250 000 tons last year some of those tons will be needed in our own box plants this year.
So we're not as dependent on export as many of our competitors are and will become less dependent on export overtime.
Research Division</strong> And so the last question.
There is a number of capacity conversions in the wings and containerboard I think most of them are from newsprint to containerboard.
I'm curious if you have any thoughts around whether our conversion from newsprint to linerboard would be accepted in the marketplace whether you've seen examples where it's been accepted in the marketplace and just general thoughts around the conversions that are happening from newsprint to containerboard? Paul why don't you to talk to that.
You've been studying that one for the last year or so.
Yes.
We've got a lot of questions on that the problem with answering the question it's in our discussion because it's very complicated so I'm going to try to keep it simple and short.
I mean there's a lot of variables no 2 machines are alike.
When you try to convert a newsprint machine you're faced with probably running way at the low end of the weight spectrum.
And some which grades are only exportable or aren't consumed in the U.S.
And the more money you put into a machine the more flexibility you can get with regard to weight range you just have to change more things so it's all over the map.
But the bigger problem with newsprint conversions is that newsprints primarily uses a lot of hardwood a lot of ground wood and you need softwood to make a linerboard.
And so you can have a newsprint mill but there are no trees there to make the pulp from which is a problem.
So then you're faced with using recycled fiber and again the problem there is most of the newsprint machines are -- would be big and you'd need a lot of recycled fiber.
So you've got some cost exposure and then you got availability exposure because you've got a newsprint machine were there a lot of trees but not a lot of boxes.
Ideally a recycled mill is going to be someplace like Chicago New York were there are a lot of boxes.
So fiber doesn't match up really well.
That said there will be some conversions.
I think over the next decade with some re-shoring and if this economy is going to grow and help with the debt situation more containerboard capacity will be needed in the U.S.
and certainly some conversions will be viable.
But it's a very complicated thing and the ones that we have looked at there's a lot more -- there's no chance of a conversion that can be converted.
So there may be a few gems out there but in our opinion there's few and far between.
Our next question comes from Carly Mattson of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I'm -- assuming I'm -- I'm sorry this is Mike Adler speaking for Carly Mattson.
I assume that you were holding $50 million per acquisitions earlier in the call.
But could you frame us how you view the opportunities within the broader containerboard space for M&amp;A specifically is there room for more broad scale M&amp;A either from a strategic perspective or maybe from a financial buyer and what role could a packaging corp.
play there.
Yes let me answer that.
We can't answer that question.
We would not want to share that information with any of our competitors.
What we're doing in M&amp;A we like to keep to ourselves for competitive advantages.
So that's just a subject that is not appropriate for general discussion.
Sorry about that but that's the way it is.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
Mr.
Kowlzan I see there are no more questions.
Do you have any closing comments? Yes.
Thanks everyone for joining us on the call today and we look forward to talking to you on the April first quarter call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's First Quarter 2013 Results Earnings Conference Call.
Your host for today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Office for PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther Executive Vice President who runs our Corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call and after the presentation I will be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported record first quarter net income of $61 million or $0.62 per share compared to adjusted net income excluding special items in the first quarter of 2012 of $41 million or $0.42 per share.
The $0.20 per share increase in earnings excluding 2012's special items was driven by higher Containerboard and Corrugated Products prices and mix of $0.23 per share increased sales volume of $0.05 per share and lower recycled fiber costs of $0.01 per share.
These items were partially offset by higher costs including labor and benefits of $0.06 per share; workers' compensation of $0.01 per share; energy $0.01 per share; and transportation $0.01 per share.
Net sales were a record $755 million up 12% compared to the first quarter of 2012 net sales of $671 million.
We had a very strong quarter in all aspects of our operations with higher pricing and strong volume driving all-time records for sales corrugated product shipments and earnings per share.
Corrugated products demand was stronger than we expected throughout the quarter and our price and mix was also better than forecasted.
The stronger than expected volume price and mix drove our earnings higher than our January guidance by about $0.06 per share.
Looking at more details of the operations our Corrugated product shipments per workday were up 7.1% with 2 less workdays than last year's first quarter and total shipments were up 3.8%.
Excluding our March 2012 box plant acquisition shipments per workday were up 5.8% and total shipments up 2.5%.
The containerboard market has remained tight for us and our outside sales of containerboard and this year's first quarter were basically the same as in the first and fourth quarters of last year even with the constraint of having to build some containerboard inventory to help support our second quarter maintenance downtime.
Our prices for containerboard and corrugated products were up over the last year's first quarter reflecting the full realization of fourth quarter domestic containerboard and corrugated products price increases and higher export prices.
Our mix was also richer as I mentioned earlier.
All of our mills ran exceptionally well producing a first quarter record 646 000 tons of containerboard up 6 000 tons over the first quarter of 2012.
This record performance was driven by lower annual average downtime and improved productivity which more than offset 1 less production day compared to last year's first quarter which included an additional production day for leap year.
Annual mill maintenance outages reduced linerboard production by about 7 000 tons during the first quarter with No.
2 paper machine at our Counce Tennessee linerboard mill down for 5 days in March.
The strong mill performance allowed us to meet our strong demand and build 3 000 tons of needed containerboard inventory.
Most of our mill maintenance outage work this year will occur in the second quarter resulting in 30 000 tons of lost production.
Historically most from our annual mill maintenance outages have ever occurred in first quarter.
The No.
1 machine at Counce was down 8 days earlier this month to complete their outages for 2013.
At our Tomahawk Wisconsin medium mill our larger machine No.
4 was down for 5 days last week and we now have our No.
2 machine down which is expected to start up on this Thursday after the a 4-day outage.
Our Valdosta Georgia linerboard mill would be down for 8 days in May.
We will complete our 2013 annual maintenance outages in the fourth quarter with a relatively small outage at our Filer City Michigan medium mill.
With regard to cost compared to the first quarter of 2012 higher labor and benefits costs reduced earnings by about $0.06 per share with $0.03 per share from annual wage increases; $0.02 per share from benefits inflation; and $0.01 per share from higher incentives.
Workers' compensation costs were also up over the last year's first quarter reducing earnings by about $0.01 per share.
Wood costs were flat with last year.
Extremely wet weather conditions only affected our wood costs at our Counce mill in January after which the weather conditions improved considerably.
Recycled fiber costs were lower than last year's first quarter improving earnings by $0.01 per share but up over the fourth quarter reducing earnings by $0.01 a share.
Finally our transportation costs and higher energy costs from coal price being up from last year each reduced earnings by about $0.01 per share compared to last year's first quarter.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who will give an update on our cash generation and uses during the first quarter.
Thank you Mark.
In the first quarter PCA generated cash from operations before working capital changes of $128 million.
Working capital increased by $32 million driven by beginning of the year payments including incentive bonuses increased receivable levels and other seasonal changes resulting in net cash generated after working capital changes of $96 million.
Historically the first quarter is our lowest cost cash generation quarter with several beginning of the year payments.
We expect our cash generation to be significantly higher for the remainder of the year with our fourth quarter being the highest cash-generating quarter.
Capital expenditures were $27 million during the quarter.
We take no quarterly common stock dividends in the first quarter as a result of paying our normal January dividend payment in December 2012.
We repurchased 121 000 shares of PCA's stock in the first quarter for $5 million or an average of $42.47 per share.
As of March 31 2013 our diluted shares outstanding were 97.4 million shares.
At quarter end we had $268 million cash on hand and our total long-term debt excluding capital leases is $790 million.
During the first quarter cash tax payments of $4 million were made and we used $7 million of fuel tax credits.
On April 15 we also used $32 million in tax credits to fully offset our scheduled federal tax payment.
We currently have estimated remaining fuel tax credits of $37 million which will be used to offset future tax payments.
However the final amount of the available fuel tax credits and the final cash tax rate is contingent upon the conclusion of the IRS audit currently underway.
With that I will turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Looking ahead we expect seasonally stronger volume and higher prices in the second quarter.
However the majority of the earnings benefit from price increases will not be realized until the third quarter when April containerboard price increase pass-through to corrugated products is completed.
Also as I've said earlier most of our annual mill maintenance this year will occur in the second quarter with outages at 3 of our 4 mills.
We expect these outages to reduce our containerboard production by 30 000 tons in the second quarter compared to 7 000 tons of lost production from maintenance downtime in the first quarter.
The 23 000 tons of additional lost production along with higher repair and operating costs from these outages is expected to reduce earnings by $0.08 per share compared to the first quarter.
We also expect higher transportation recycled fiber and purchased electricity costs.
Considering these items we currently expect second quarter earnings of about $0.62 a share.
With that we'd be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on the call constituted forward-looking statements.
These statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
The actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
And with that operator I'd like to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Marc Weintraub from Buckingham.
Mark is it fair to say that the higher transport recycled and purchased electricity -- might that be order magnitude $0.03 to $0.04 2Q v 1Q? Yes but $0.01 per piece is a good number Mark.
Okay.
Excellent.
And then on use of cash clearly -- particularly one as this price increase gets implemented you're going to be generating a lot of excess cash even relative to where you're dividend payout is currently.
Are you comfortable building your cash balance? Or if you don't find bolt-ons et cetera would you look to more aggressively return cash to shareholders? Short-term we're comfortable Mark.
And again that's something that we discussed I think on every board meeting so -- currently we're going to stay with our strategy but short-term we're comfortable.
And Paul you want to add any comments on that? No I think you said exactly right.
We're building cash here.
It's a little faster rate than what we think is optimum.
Quite frankly we felt that with the macroeconomics worldwide that the stock market might have corrected in the first quarter and that would be a good buying opportunity their buy back shares that didn't happen.
I mean we're not unhappy that didn't happen not because the stock performed well but we can't wait for that forever.
And so short-term we're okay.
Long-term we know we have to do something.
And it's the normal vehicles in terms of dividends share buybacks very high-return capital projects.
That's very helpful.
And lastly one quick one can you give us an update on what's happening with export pricing containerboard pricing? Yes Mark.
This is Tom Hassfurther.
Yes export pricing continues to go up.
It goes up differently than what it does domestically.
As we've talked about before there's smaller increments but it does continue to go up.
Our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You discussed stronger-than-expected corrugated demand in the quarter.
And I was wondering if you could give any color on that.
People have talked about housing recovery e-commerce and online shopping return-to-manufacturing activity as being drivers.
Are -- were any of those meaningful drivers in the quarter? And what kind of color can you give us on kind of the improved demand you saw? Again just recapping when we talked in January we started out the quarter in saying that bookings were 4.5% and we felt comfortable that we had a good quarter starting.
I think specifically and I'm going to let Tom add some color but well we saw a strong volume across-the-board.
Again much much stronger than what we expected.
But Tom won't you add some specifics to that? Yes I would agree that interestingly enough and the good news is that the volume did come from numerous areas and it wasn't concentrated just in a particular industry or particular business.
And I think really for PCA I think most of it is a result of our strategic capital that we've invested the outstanding acquisitions that we've made.
And basically it's our value proposition that we have out there.
Most of the growth was organic and from existing customers.
The other thing I might add is is that we had a very unusual March this year in terms of 20 workdays versus the norm which would be closer to 22 workdays.
And so on a per workday basis it looks like March was very high.
But overall it was level with the previous March.
Now those numbers will reverse in April because April in the second quarter is typically a 20-day month that will be a 22-day month this year.
So our demand will be up maybe 1% or so in total but on a per workday -- or I'm sorry in total but on a per workday basis it will come up to about 10%.
So it's just a little unusual what went on the first third quarter versus what we'll have on the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just to be clear so for the first 3 weeks of April on a per week -- per workday basis can you repeat what you're seeing? To start out on these first 13 days and top bookings and billings.
Bookings were up 4.7%.
Billings always lag -- were at 1% increase in -- and we always see this as the month closes out the bookings and billings close the gap and billings catch up to the bookings.
And so again we're right at that 4.7% round up 5% for the first 13 days on bookings orders.
But up 1 on billings -- this is Paul Stecko.
And you got to be careful of that number because last year it's a very tough comparable.
We were up 4% in April -- excuse me we were up 8.4% in April so it's a tough comparable.
And as Tom Hassfurther was pointing out we're up about 1% on a per workday month-to-date but with 2 more days up 1% translates into up 10% for the month in total volume.
So it could be a very very strong quarter.
Bookings are indicating that we may do better than that because as Mark said we're up 5% of bookings but that seems like a pretty hard number to sustain the rest of the month.
We'll have to see.
And I don't think we'll sustain that rate for the month or I mean the numbers get real big.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon from Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> The revenue number you guys put up at least for -- versus our model was quite impressive and I think you mentioned the box demand was particularly strong.
Could you -- and I know last year your integration level I believe was 83%.
Could you tell us what the -- as you look at the integration level was in the first quarter and are you seeing your mix of boxes change at least on the revenue side where you're getting -- you're selling the more of a value-added product? On the first question integration we're right at 84.5% 85% for the first quarter.
And so again we continue to improve that integration level per our plan.
The next part of the question again we've specifically stated we did see a richer mix in this first quarter more so than we had expected to see in our product so -- Tom you want to add any color to that? Well Chip I would just say that if you do more of the hard to do you're going to get paid more for that.
And that's kind of what we've set out to do a long time ago and we continue to take on those challenges and try to do it in the most cost-effective manner.
So I think that's one of the keys that drives are up.
Yes and I guess the other point Chip on integration that's one of our main goals.
Get that integration level up because we make money not only on the board we sell we also make money in the box plants as opposed to just selling paper on the outside.
And what makes getting the integration level up a little more difficult is we continue to improve the productivity in the mills.
We were up 6 000 tons over our last year's first quarter.
So you got to sell those 6 000 each and you haven't moved the integration level at all.
So it's a steeper slope when you have to offset high productivity and it's a high-class problem I'll admit but that makes getting the integration level up more difficult.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then can you talk a little bit about your wood costs? And maybe as you look out it would seem like the -- in the upper Midwest that you're seeing I think wood costs come down as lumber production picks up.
And would you expect to see that as chip productions higher or on the other hand do you think your wood costs are going to hedge up as we go through the year? Chip in general across-the-board we're flat.
Regionally we see some movement up and down a little bit.
Obviously earlier this winter we saw some activity in the Counce region with the wet weather.
In general nationwide up north as you just referred to what we started seeing a year ago the increased activity in the sawmill business and that did bring more chips to the marketplace.
And so the net effect again on our pricing was pretty flat.
We've seen a little bit of movement in the Southeastern region as far as pine pricing not as high as indicated in some of the periodicals and publications.
But we're seeing some of the weather effect and also some of the dimensional lumber in the pine market increasing.
But again in general we're pretty flat across-the-board.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then just the last question.
Paul I know your contract as Executive Chairman struck a few years ago.
I think it expires on June 30.
Could you let us know what your plans or the company's plans might be going forward? Yes but not today.
That's something that obviously has to be answered in the next couple of months so we have a board meeting in early May.
And at the appropriate time we'll give everybody an update on that situation.
But it's premature to answer that question now.
Our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America Securities.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could get into the impact of outages this second quarter versus last year's second quarter.
Now this year you mentioned it's going to be $0.08 penalizing sequentially.
If I'm not mistaken last year the impact was only $0.03 or so in terms of the sequential negative.
This year you said -- I think there's 30 000 tons of production that you're losing.
Last year -- I want to say that the lost production was in the range of 20 000 tons or so if you could confirm that.
And then just give us a bit more color in terms of why this year's second quarter has that much more of an EPS impact it'd be appreciated.
And also Mark do you have a goal for inventory regeneration or build this quarter that you could share with us? I'm going to let Rick handle the first part of that and then we'll talk about the inventory.
George you're correct in your numbers but I would point out 3 things just as far as the maintenance outages and components of costs.
You have basically 3 costs: the cost of the production losses; the costs of the operations being down start up shut down conflicts in the traditional fuel cost while you're down and operating continuing to operate the middle parts of it; and then the third part is the amortization of repair job costs.
And what happened this year in the first quarter we had a very abnormally low repair job amortization cost as a result of the Counce outage being in the last week of March.
Basically the repair job amortization cost in the first quarter was only $0.002.
Now when you go into the second quarter that number goes up to about $0.04.
So that's really the big difference.
This year it's just the additional production losses compared to last year plus the amortization of repair jobs.
If you look it in total for the first quarter annual outages impacted us about $0.02 a share.
In the second quarter we expected to impact this $0.10 per share thus being the $0.08 difference made up of the 2 components I talked about -- or 3 components.
For the most part the additional production losses plus the additional repair job amortization plus to a lesser extent operating costs.
Now when you go to the third quarter we do not have any production losses nor we have the incremental operating costs.
You only have the repair job amortization.
And with the timing from the second to the third quarter that's probably less than 0.5% increase.
So you're going to -- the pickup from the second to the third quarter from the annual outage impact is you get a $0.06 per share improvement going from the second quarter to the third quarter.
So that's basically the math why it changes and why this year is so much I would say higher going from the first to the second is both the timing of the outages and the repair job amortization is the big item.
Research Division</strong> Rick that's great.
I appreciate all the detail on that.
On the inventory bill do you have a goal that you'd like to hit for the second quarter that you can share with us? George we never really specifically quantify the goal.
Obviously we talked about our increased -- the number going up for the first quarter that was our desire.
And this being a heavy shutdown period actually you can assume that the inventory would be a draw down for with that being said a lot of that depends on how well the mill is run through the shutdown period and after the shutdown period.
And also on export demand and export sales so with that but we never disclose the absolute inventory targets.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I guess the last 2 questions I'll ask them in sequence and turn it over.
One from the demand trends that you saw Tom any signs that maybe customers are trying to get ahead of the price increase in April and that's why demand was a little bit better than expected? And then back to cost marketing you saw 6% increase in cost this quarter in aggregate certainly you delineated what those factors were.
Should we anticipate that this is going to be the run rate if you will on cost performance for the company over the intermediate term? This is Tom I'll take the first question.
As far as demand trends we're trying to -- or seeing if customers were trying to perhaps beat the increase by ordering early I would say no.
The demand was very steady throughout the quarter.
And as I mentioned on the per work day basis March jumps significantly but it's because of a 20-day month.
So with that I'll turn it over to Mark or Rick and let you handle that second.
In terms of the cost George if you look at the labor what we said 3 was from manual wage increases 2 was from benefits and 1 was from variable based incentives.
I would say on the first one the $0.03 per share you're probably going to get that every quarter going forward.
The second one on the incentives that's going to drop off a little bit in the second quarter because as we said earlier we pay a lot of our statutory based in...
Research Division</strong> Let me just direct it when you said incentives you meant benefits? Benefits excuse me.
In benefits they do drop off in the second quarter because of the FICA and other statutories that we'd reach certain levels for certain employees and we'd stop deducting.
So that will possibly -- could go down.
As far as the variable based incentives though it depends on our final payout for the year.
So I can't give you an answer on that.
And the other items we put into our forecast higher electricity for the second quarter that's more driven by summer rate or rate increases.
So that's hard to tell for the remainder of the year.
And of course recycled fiber and transportation it depends on the price for recycled fiber and for the transportation diesel prices.
And the only think I'd add George this is Paul on incentives.
Our incentives are tied to the level of profitability and so there's a performance factor here.
The more we make the higher incentives go the less they make the lower they go.
So obviously they may go up but consider that good news because that means we're doing very very well.
And that's the number you'd like to see go up rather than down because there's a huge leverage on that number and so we're hoping that number goes up because we're hoping to do even better.
Our next question comes from Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Tom I wondered if you can talk a little more about that mix improvement that you saw.
Is that kind of one-time thing? Or is there kind of just structurally a continuing trend in your mix moving up? Well I'd say Mark there's a couple of things: I mean one is obviously we have -- we do have some seasonal mix changes with regard to the display and graphic side of the business.
Those hit at various times and March is typically one of those times when it begins to ramp up.
I would say in addition I think that with the targeted customers we've had the things we do for those customers the value we add and some of the things we do and in addition to I will call the normal course of business for those customers that has proved to be -- it does pay better.
And that does help improve our mix.
We just have to carry out through the year.
Research Division</strong> You've talked in the past about the interest in acquiring boxed plants.
I'm just curious about what you're doing in terms of organic expansion and your converting capacity.
Well the organic side of the business was -- the organic expansion and growth in our business was primarily driven by our strategic capital investments that we made which were driven around a particular customer base.
And as we pointed out before these were primarily in facilities that we were out of capacity.
We needed additional capacity to be able to grow with our customer base and we've done that and those have obviously paid nice dividends.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And are you actually adding any new facilities? No we're not adding new facilities at this point in time.
We will continue to do our strategic capital investments but we'll continue to take advantage of opportunities as they present themselves.
But if we need to rebuild go new consolidate whatever we consider all the above.
Mark the thing that I'd add and just amplify on the point that Tom made we spent $40 million a year 2 years ago $40 million last year to complete this internal growth project.
And we did add a new plant in Reading Pennsylvania which is doing very very well.
That was in a market where we needed capacity.
And the returns have been very good obviously that's reflected in our numbers.
And one of the reasons for that and the real advantage of internal growth is that you may put a new piece of equipment in or a bigger piece of equipment.
But based -- all the overhead is already amortized across your existing customer base.
So those incremental tons of box business you bring in there carry not only the normal profit there's no overhead to observe.
So the incremental profit levels are very good on these internal growth projects and we continue to look for more opportunities to do that.
But our policy has been doing in regions where you know you have business and you need it don't be speculative and just do it we don't do it that way.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay all right.
Now last question I had is Rick can you just remind us when we look into the fourth quarter about how much should we assume for that Filer City outage? It's a little premature right now Mark to give that number.
They're still trying to determine the scope for the Filer City outage.
It's basically about a 5- to 7-day outage and you can calculate the tons.
And then there'll be the repair job cost that will have to be amortized in the fourth quarter because you have to amortize all the cost after you have the outage.
But at this point we'll be able to give you a better update when we have the second quarter earnings call in July.
The next question comes from Scott Gaffner from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little bit about the potential for productivity and capacity creep in 2013.
I think on the last call we talked about it may be moderating back down to something closer to 1% the production in the first quarter can go a bit better than what we were expecting.
Is there potential that capacity creep in 2013 could be greater than that 1%? I think the 1% is a number we're comfortable with and I think that's a realistic number.
That's a good number.
There's a lot of activity around that but the 1% is a number that we believe is realistic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And going back to the capital allocation share repurchase question at the beginning you're producing a significant amount of free cash flow here.
If predictions around the industry are correct you're going to continue to produce that free cash flow and potentially this chair has never pull back.
I mean at what point do we sort of move to a more normalized repurchase focus rather than waiting for the shares to pull back? Well as I said this is Paul Stecko as I said earlier on the call we can only wait so long.
And we're getting close to have and make a call on it because we cannot let the cash continue to build.
And quite frankly if the stock keeps moving up and we keep generating cash that not only puts pressure on us to increase our share buyback but to raise the dividend also because we do have some desire to continue to have a good yield.
And it's great because the share price goes up but that puts pressure on your yield.
So the only way to fix that problem is to increase the dividend.
And that's the kind of thing we're chewing on right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And just lastly when we look at your energy cost specifically in the mill system I think you mentioned higher coal prices earlier.
What's sort of the mix now coal versus natural gas on the energy side? Coal is -- I don't have that exact percentage but it's very small amount right now.
We burned a lot of natural gas over the last 1.5 year so we can get back with you on the specifics.
Next question Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
First one is the recent trade press has talked a lot about box customers putting more business out to bid [ph] here with the second price increase.
So I guess I just have 2 questions on that.
The first is are you seeing this at all and perhaps with some of the larger customers actually coming to you as an alternative supplier even more than normal in the last month or 2? And then the flip side of that question is with all this talk do you have any concerns as to whether actually the full 30 per ton can get pass through to the back side? Phil it's Tom I'll take that real quick.
With regard to bids the truth has always been the tranches.
And you'll have some -- some will bid many will not.
The bids that are out there right now most are in the what I would call the normal course of doing business.
It's more timing than it is than anything else.
Over all I would say there's nothing really unusual with regard to what's going on in the bids.
The speculating on the amount of the increase and that sort of stuff when it comes to boxes I mean we don't do that kind of speculation so I can't really go there.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Then I guess just in terms of the actual number in the guidance for the second quarter Rick are you expecting some portion of the price increase on the box side in the second quarter? And is it fair to say that the full run rate of your expectation would kind of be in there by the July timeframe? I will only comment as to what we said in our press release and we did say that we expected higher prices in the second quarter but the majority of the earnings benefit as we said would be from price increases will be in the third quarter when our April container board price increase pass through to corrugated products is completed.
So we did do have some of the price increase in there in the second quarter but as we said earlier the majority will be in the third quarter.
Next question comes from Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Mark you talked a lot about the improvement in mix from targeted customers.
Can you tell us which part of your customer base is really showing you the best improvement right now? And second a broader question looking back over the years your mix has always been quite different from the major producers.
Is it getting more different these days based on both your behavior and the behavior of the major producers? Are you moving further away than where you normally would've thought of yourself? Again the first part of your question we've seen improvement across the board.
And yet if you look at our customer base in terms of national account type business our top 30 accounts still account for roughly 30% of our business that being the national account type of customers.
And then the other 2/3 is the local accounts.
We've grown with both the local accounts and the national accounts footprint.
Tom do you want to add anything to that? Yes.
I would say Mark with regards to the mix I mean and in comparison to the rest of the industry I can't really compare with the rest of the industry.
I just know we do what we do and we do it well.
And we pursue our targets and that's what they do.
It's proving to be good for PCA.
Next question from Al Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the $0.23 benefit in the year-over-year basis from price and mix is there a way to parse out what the benefit was from improved mix? Yes there is.
We rarely do that because it's hard to completely know a separate price and mix because they may buy different items.
We may sell a thousand items to somebody and they may buy more of the higher priced items as opposed to something high-end graphics versus a plain brown box.
So we take a guess at it and -- but the safest thing for us to do when we report it is to combine the 2 because we know the combined number is totally accurate.
And if we break it in 2 there's some uncertainty around both numbers so we do have an internal estimate of the difference and it's probably close but we don't break them apart.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand.
And then if you think about your outlook for demand and the fact that we're entering a seasonally strong part most demand inventories are pretty lean you have the potential maintenance downtime scheduled for the quarter.
Are you concerned that you may not be able to fully meet all the customer commitments that you have for the second quarter? We planned on that fact.
And we also commented previously that we would move our export tonnage down to accommodate our domestic business.
And so again right now we're not concerned.
We plan on getting through this quarter and taking care of our customer base.
And again we will utilize the -- and rationalize the export side of the equation.
And I guess Mark used a very important word plan.
We could have built more inventory in the first quarter but we will have had to cut off some export customers.
And we are dependable supplier so we told our customers yes you're going to get what we promised you in the first quarter.
You may only get this much in the second quarter.
If we have more productivity then we put in our plan we may be able to get you some more tons in the second quarter but you ought to plan on this number for the second quarter.
And so we made a decision to make sure we met all of our commitments in the first quarter and gave customers some notice so they can do some planning in the export.
Because that is our bellows that's where we can swing on our export tonnage.
And we're hoping that productivity is better than we forecast although we have aggressive forecast.
And what our customers knew a quarter in advance what they could expect in the second quarter.
Next question is from Steve Chercover from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
In January you projected both higher OCC and higher virgin fiber and we know that OCC turned out to be a $0.01 tailwind.
How much did the higher virgin fiber expectation factor into your Q1 guidance? It was a minimal amount.
This is Rick West.
Going from into our first quarter we don't break down every item but it was not a great amount because we didn't think the weather would continue but we were looking at the first quarter as basically a risk more so to our guidance with the wood cost continuing throughout the quarter.
And we just want to make it clear when we gave the first quarter guidance that that wasn't risk guidance.
So not a substantial change from what was in the guidance but more so a risk.
When we started up the first part of January we were suffering some very very bad weather in that Counce area.
It put some tremendous pressure on the wind basket in the Counce region and then by the latter part of January the weather turned and improved and so again that risk factor was taken off the table.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the second one it sounds like your inventories are verging on being too low.
Is that why the transportation costs go up because you're really moving from mill to mill? Because it seems like otherwise oil and gas prices are on the decline.
It's a combination.
Primarily though diesel rates move up and down.
But sure quarter-to-quarter we can move tonnage from plant to plant as need be.
And as an example right now we've got some transportation packed up in the Michigan area with the flooding going on.
And specifically we're moving some tonnage out of rail into truck right now with some of the rail lines being underwater up in Michigan for the next few weeks.
So there's various activities but diesel fuel is usually the big driver.
Next question comes from Al Kabili from Macquarie.
Just a question on the boy the volume outperformance you never seem to cease to amaze on the outperformance versus the industry.
And I would have guessed that it's probably more than you would have thought last year.
Do you think that this level of outperformance from what you can see thus far would be sustainable throughout the remainder of the year? That's something we don't want to comment on from a forward point of view.
Again we stick to our plan and again we've been very pleased with the outcome of our strategic efforts over the last 3 years in the boxed plants and the mills.
So other than that we really can't comment.
Yes.
But I will add one further comment on the volume expectations for the fourth quarter.
It was strong stronger than we thought.
Just driven by the macro economics what you read in the paper what's going on what's going on in Washington? Is there going to be a drag on the economy et cetera et cetera.
And you do factor some conservatism into your estimates and the economy is trudging along better than we -- the papers will lead you to believe and I think that also translated into some better volume for us.
Okay that's great.
And it sounds like on a related question I mean I think it sounds like from the commentary you're still thinking $50 million of investment for strategic investments in the boxed plants or acquisitions do I have that right that's still the number you're thinking this year? And if you continue to kind of grow at this rate does that number need to go up? The first part the number is still accurate.
We're still looking at that type of spend on boxed plant side.
And again we reserve the ability for Tom.
If he comes forth with some great opportunities on acquisitions we can discuss that matter with the board in a real time manner.
At the same time from a specific customer base opportunity organic growth opportunity we have the ability to support capital and growth in that manner so but the $50 million is still on plan right now.
Okay final question it's just with the April price hike.
What are you hearing from customers in terms of light weighting? Are you hearing any accelerated appetite or desire for light weighting given on the back of the second price hike now in 7 months? That light weighting that's not even in the equation.
We don't hear that in our discussions.
Tom do you want to add anything to that? That's absolutely correct Mark.
Next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A longer-term question you guys have done a phenomenal job outpacing the market from a gross standpoint on very consistent basis for some time now.
But your mills are running very full-out right now and its creep capacity is closer to 1%.
It would seem like you have to potentially stunt your growth down the road.
I'm just curious do you have any other growth projects in place that could de-bottleneck some container board capacity down the road? Two parts to that question.
Obviously we'd lend in the commentary the ability to rationalize our export business where we need to supply the domestic piece of the business.
And then it's a matter of capital.
We stated this before on various calls how much investment do you need to make and are you willing to make for a ton of production.
And so that's always on the table.
And that opportunity always exist.
Okay and just to add to that we stated very clearly 2 years ago our #1 priority is to increase our integration level from the low 80s to the low 90s.
And we're working on that and we're not there yet so we are not going to lose sight of that goal.
And so in terms of de-bottlenecking mills if the return was really attractive yes we've got some opportunities but that's not going to get in the way of our integration level goal.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then from a growth versus M&amp;A at least on the bolt-on side how quickly did it take for you to bring on some of these organic projects just because we're getting close to the midpoint and you've obviously laid out set forth $50 million give or take for some of these projects.
Well again we said this on prior calls both on the box plants and the mills we always maintain a portfolio of opportunities.
And we visit that during various times of the year we look at the current opportunities and update that list and talk to the various group managements on where they see their needs and opportunities.
So we always have a portfolio that can be acted upon very quickly and then brought to bear.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just one last final question.
Q1 you guys kind of mentioned how mix was better than expected part of that was seasonal.
Should we expect some of that mix benefit you saw in Q1 fade over the course of the year? Tom do you want to comment? Well I think basically the part of the mix did improve.
There's a part that's going to be pretty steady they will continue throughout the year.
And then there's a part that is seasonal.
And as Paul alluded to earlier it's very difficult to really break all those out and to be able to determine exactly what's what.
But I think you've got a portion that will continue and you've got certainly a reasonable portion that is mix related.
Next question comes from Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just 1 follow up here.
If you look back over the last 15 years to when the company was LBOed it just seems like the business has become more stable kind of across the economic cycle.
I just wonder if that's leading you to make any changes and how you think about managing the business or how you think about the right capital structure for the business? Yes Mark let me take that.
You bring up a very very interesting point and that is what's going to happen.
Let's look a decade in advance.
And I kid Mark and Tom a little bit.
You guys this next decade is going to be a lot better than the one that I had in 2000 until 2010 because corrugated growth is obviously stagnated for that decade but we're very optimistic about the next decade.
If the U.S.
is going to get out of its employment dilemma it's unemployment dilemma I should say the huge deficits.
We think the only way that can happen is better economic growth in the U.S.
Some rebirth to manufacturing and there's anecdotal evidence that that's going on all over.
And if we're right that bodes well for the next decade in corrugated then that will modify some of the things that you need to do going forward.
And we're also strong believers in the fact that if China continues to grow the world is going to run out of recycled fiber and we like our position of being a virgin producer.
That bodes well for us both domestically and internationally.
And so a lot has changed in those it's not quite 15 years but it's getting up there.
And we think it's for the better for the industry.
So that will make some changes.
And that's one of the things that Mark and Tom recognized spend a lot of time talking about.
Not so much the short term but where we're going to be at the end of the next decade.
Not that we have specific plans we like where we are but there's some issues that we have to plan for and deal with.
But our feeling is the next decade for not only us the entire industry is going to be a lot better in the decade from when we went private in '99 to 2009.
That was a tough decade.
Research Division</strong> Would you agree that it does seem like the business has become a bit more stable across the cycle? Absolutely.
[Operator Instructions] With there being no more questions I'd like to thank everybody for joining us on the call and look forward to seeing you on the second quarter call and thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference.
This concludes the program you may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's second quarter 2013 results earnings conference call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's second quarter earnings release conference call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther who runs our Corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call and after the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported second quarter net income of $64 million or $0.66 per share which included a one-time after-tax noncash charge of $5 million or $0.05 per share for pension plan changes.
Excluding this charge earnings were a record $69 million or $0.71 per share.
This compared to second quarter 2012 net income excluding special items of $48 million or $0.49 per share.
Net sales were a record $800 million up 12% from the second quarter of 2012 net sales of $712 million.
The $0.22 per share increase in net income excluding special items were driven by higher containerboard and corrugated products prices and mix of $0.27 higher corrugated products sales volume of $0.05.
These items were partially offset by: higher costs for energy of $0.04; labor and fringe benefits $0.03; and the timing of annual mill maintenance outages $0.03.
Excluding special items net income for the first 6 months of 2013 was $130 million or $1.33 per share compared to net income for the first 6 months of 2012 of $88 million or $0.91 per share.
Year-to-date net sales were $1.56 billion up 12% from $1.38 billion in the first half of 2012.
We had an outstanding quarter in all aspects of our operations with record earnings driven by higher prices for containerboard and corrugated products and higher corrugated products volume.
The annual outages at 3 of our mills went extremely well with very efficient start-ups and the mills set a new quarter record for tons produced per operating day.
Earnings were higher than our second quarter guidance driven by better than forecasted containerboard and corrugated products volume and price and lower than forecasted cost.
Moving to the details of the operations: corrugated products shipments per work day were up 5.2%; and total shipments were up 6.8%; with one more work day in this year's second quarter.
With our last box plant acquisition made in the first quarter of 2012 this is the first quarter where there was no volume contribution from new acquisitions.
Demand for both domestic and export containerboard remains strong.
However with higher containerboard consumption in a number box plants and with the 3 mills being down during the quarter for their annual maintenance outages we reduced our outside containerboard shipments by 9 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter.
This allows us to end the quarter with our containerboard inventories at a more manageable level about 12 000 below at the end of this year's first quarter when we built some inventory for our second quarter planned outages.
Our mills will need to continue to run well in the third quarter however by considering our inventory level and expected demand.
Moving to mill production and performance.
Our mills ran extremely well producing 629 000 tons of containerboard despite reduced production of about 30 000 tons per mill annual maintenance outages at our 3 largest mills.
This is 7 000 tons more annual maintenance downtime than last year's second quarter.
In April we had the No.
1 paper machine down at our Counce Tennessee linerboard mill for 7 days reducing production by 11 000 tons.
In April we also had the larger No.
4 paper machine down at our Tomahawk Wisconsin medium mill down for 5 days.
And also the No.
2 paper machine at that mill was down for 4 days with total production losses of 7 000 tons.
In May our Valdosta Georgia linerboard mill was down for 8 days reducing production by 12 000 tons.
Each of the mills started up and ran very well after their outages.
And as I said earlier the mills set a new quarter -- second quarter productivity record for total tons produced per operating day.
For the quarter based on days available to operate after taking out scheduled downtime days the mills ran at just over 100% of their capacity.
The timing and taking more annual maintenance downtime in the second quarter this year reduced our earnings by about $0.03 per share compared to last year's second quarter.
We have no more annual leverage scheduled in the third quarter so our mills will have an opportunity to produce more tons.
Our remaining 2013 annual no-maintenance outage is in October at our Filer City Michigan medium mill which will be a 5-day outage.
Looking at prices and mix.
Prices were higher for both containerboard and corrugated products improving earnings by $0.27 per share compared to last year's second quarter.
Our corrugated products price increases went in as planned and as of today have been essentially completed.
Export prices have also increased compared to both last year's second quarter and the first quarter of this year as prices have moved up appreciably in all of our markets.
With regards to cost energy cost were up $0.04 per share compared to last year's second quarter driven by increased prices pay for purchased fuels.
Natural gas prices increased $1.35 per square Btu and coal prices were up about $0.55 in square Btu compared to prices paid last year during the second quarter.
In addition labor and fringe benefit cost increased $0.03 per share transportation cost increased $0.01 per share and we did see some real -- as we did see some railcar shortages.
And we also had a heavier mix of longer haul destinations.
Recycled fiber costs were lower than last year's second quarter improving our earnings by about $0.01 per share as industry published prices for recycled fiber excluding the delivery cost were down about $15 per ton in the second quarter compared to the second quarter of last year.
This benefit was offset by a slightly higher wood cost with reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
Our effective tax rate was lower than last year's second quarter from the settlement of certain tax matters which improved our earnings by about $0.01 per share.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who will give you an update on our financial position.
Thank you Mark.
In the second quarter PCA generated cash from operations of $187 million.
Capital expenditures during the quarter were $54 million.
We paid our quarterly common stock dividend of approximately $31 million.
Cash tax payments of $6 million were made and fuel credits of $66 million were used to offset federal taxes.
We currently have estimated remaining fuel tax credits of $4 million which will be used to partially offset tax payments in the third quarter.
However the final amount of the available fuel tax credits and the final cash tax rate is contingent upon the conclusion of the IRS audit currently underway.
We ended the quarter with $370 million of cash on hand up $102 million from the end of the first quarter.
Our total long-term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter excluding capital leases was $786 million.
As of June 30 2013 our diluted shares outstanding were 97.7 million shares.
As Mark mentioned earlier during the second quarter PCA recorded a one-time noncash charge of $5 million which was related to a change in our hourly pension plan.
We recently negotiated an agreement involving 25 of PCA's corrugated plants who will transition from a defined-benefit pension plan to a defined contribution 401(k) plan.
The pension charge is based on accounting guidance which requires us to accelerate the recognition of prior service pension cost for employees affected by this change.
With that I will turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Before discussing the third quarter I want to mention that based on our strong cash flow and cash position we are accelerating about $25 million of higher return capital projects from 2014 into the second half of 2013.
These projects are all on our corrugated products plants where additional capacity is needed to support anticipated growth.
Now moving ahead to the third quarter.
We expect higher corrugated products prices higher sales volume and with no planned annual outages increased mill production and lower mill operating cost.
We also expect higher purchase electricity cost with summer pricing higher amortization of annual outage repair cost and a higher tax rate.
Considering these items we expect third quarter earnings to be about $0.88 a share.
With that we'll be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you some of the statements we've made on the call constitutes forward-looking statements.
The statements are based on current estimates expectations and predictions of the company and involve risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
The actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that operator we'd like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from George Staphos of Bank of America Securities.
Research Division</strong> I guess first off Paul congratulations to you on the recent announcements and I guess best of luck everyone in their future roles at PCA.
My first question would be can you comment at all on how early third quarter bookings and billings have been? And can you comment at all on the June box containerboard data which came out whether the data was more or less in line with your expectations or if there was any variance? And I have a couple of company-specific questions.
Regarding bookings and billings for the first 7 days our bookings are up about 18% billings are up about 11%.
And again we're off to a good start but also take into account the fact that the way the Fourth of July fell this year on Thursday Friday in some box plants was an operating day.
So even though it was not included as an official day it wasn't caught up that day.
So the numbers are skewed somewhat.
But we are off to a strong start but we do expect those numbers to temper down over the rest of the month.
And then regarding the FDA numbers this morning the one comment I do want to make if you look at PCA we came out of our second quarter and we have the annual shutdowns at the 3 of the mills we needed to run -- we needed to build some inventory.
But we are actually for the month of June we've built some inventory.
So our PCA number we were up 5 000 tons but we were still too low after the outages.
And so for the quarter we were still down 12 000 tons.
So on an industry basis if you think about the month of June and what the FDA numbers were reported you're talking about a 30-day mill month as opposed to a 20-day box plant month.
And again that's a 10-day differential.
Normally you'll see a 9-day differential.
So if you're talking about 100 000-ton mill contribution from this particular June typically you wouldn't see.
So with that I really don't have a lot to add to the FDA numbers except again volume has been strong in our case and the inventories have trended at the historically low levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
One question made more specifically to PCA and you alluded to this on your comments you are accelerating some projects to add some high return -- or accelerate some higher return -- projects in the box plants over the next 12 months into this year.
If we had it stack rank what investors see is the most likely sources of return improvement in PCA from here over the next couple of years would it be coming from the market development as you see it in the economy? Would it be coming from the capital deployment as you just mentioned for operations? Or would it come from value return to shareholders? How would you stack rank the most likely sources of improvement on return to the shareholder from here from those 3 resources? Well again if you think about what our strategy has been for the last few years we have a goal of getting our integration level up to the 91% level.
And continuing to deploy capital especially in the box plants to help in that direction which would have been very successful.
With that in mind if you think about where we are year-to-date we're sitting at about 87% integration but from a return point of view again I think the capital -- and we are spending in the box plant -- continues to give us extremely high return opportunities and as you're seeing that in the volume.
Tom do you want to add anything else in the capital.
We don't really talk about it a lot but your side of the business has been deploying well with good small pieces that have been returning the big volume growth.
Yes Mark I would just that yes that we're really a customer-driven company a revenue-driven company.
And so we will deploy that cash where that driver can accelerate our earnings.
With that said I think we've also taken all the above approach and we've developed a lot of flexibility and we're pretty opportunistic about where we want to deploy that cash.
But right now we have some opportunities in the box plants as Mark alluded to that have some good returns and we're accelerating those solely based on the fact that we have some very good customer opportunities and they're coming to us and we're taking advantage of those opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one...
You're out of questions.
You have exceeded your limit on the first call.
We're going to have to cut you off and move on.
But just to summarize that was the last it was a good question.
If I rank the first one if we had to pick one -- I think Mark said increasing our integration level will be our greatest source of value creation for shareholders.
And so if you don't mind we'll circle back to you later for other questions.
We have -- 15 analysts now that cover us and we want to give everybody an opportunity.
So we're going to have to cut you off George.
No malice intended.
Our next question is from Anthony Pettinari of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Mark you referenced improvements and some capacity addition opportunities on the box plants side.
And given that you're growing faster than the industry and your mills are running full out or near full out I'm wondering would you consider capacity expansion on the mill side over the next 1 to 2 years? How should we think about your mill footprint in terms of capacity as you continue to grow kind of faster than the industry? Well just again the #1 priority continues to be the integration level.
We've spoken over the last year that we continue to have the tons available that come out of the outside sales both to the export and the domestic sales side of the equation.
So with the pre-capacity that we currently have on the mills and the efficiency with which we're running and then with the opportunity to move tons of rationalized tons longer-term out of those export domestic markets the mill acquisition mill incremental capacity is a lesser concern at this point as opposed to the integration itself.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just a very quick follow-up.
You referenced railcar shortages and maybe some higher transportation costs and that's some things that other producers have talked about.
Is this a problem that's getting worse as you go into the third quarter or is it isolated to a specific region? Or is there any kind of color you can give us about what the pressure is in terms of transportation costs? It was a combination of -- we went to the outages in the spring.
We obviously had opportunities and issues combined with how to take care of the box plants during that period of time and get the tons moved to the right places from the remaining mills that we're running.
And again we had some spring issues again just with the normal seasonality with regards to our rails and trucking.
And then just again just the nature of where we are with the trucking industry.
And so that being said again the fact that we have compressed our annual shutdowns into the April May period probably created the most -- the biggest factor in that transportation dilemma.
Our next question is from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
With more and more cash flow that you're generating you have the enviable problem of finding a home for it and I know you've increased your dividend a lot in the recent past.
I don't think you were too active on the share repurchase during the quarter if you could confirm that? And maybe just help us understand I realized there's the 25-minute incremental that you're pulling forward but you still seem to have a lot of additional cash beyond homes that have been identified for it.
Can you help us on what you're thinking about at this stage? Yes.
Again as we've said in the past if you think about the use of cash being dividend share buybacks CapEx Paul and I speak regularly about this and we're -- in past years we've been opportunistic in buying shares back but it was rather hard to justify these past 6 months buying shares when the market was performing the way it performed.
That being said I'm going to have Paul make some comments as we've done in the last few quarters because this is typically a board matter and we've discussed this at every board meeting.
But in regards to the uses of cash besides the $25 million into the third quarter we already have plans to make a $30 million pension plan contribution.
And also our federal taxes we're looking at $31 million of taxes in the third quarter.
So again the benefits of the black liquor credits essentially have run out.
We only have $4 million left on those credits going into the third quarter.
So again we have roughly $51 million of incremental cash besides that capital.
But Paul do you want to make a comment regarding that? Yes.
Well you know what Mark you're right.
We're going to continue we're going to have cash.
If things keep going the way they are this is not a forecast but we should have a strong cash flow generation in the second half which in your terms exacerbates our problem a little bit.
What do we do with it? We've had a strategy long term that we want to buy back shares that's right up high of the things we do.
We thought maybe what the Fed is talking about tightening up are not easy.
Tightening up on the bond buying up buying back as much as the market mix.
Correct.
The market is not corrected so we missed it again.
In other words if we had to do it over again I wish we had bought shares back during the quarter we didn't.
On the other hand the stock kept going up so I hate to root for the stock to go down just because we want to buy shares.
So I'm kind of in a dilemma.
I win in both ways or lose both ways however you want to look at it.
We did increase the dividend.
We thought that made a lot of sense and we increased it appreciably to get rid of some cash.
We had a strong quarter and we're back in the dilemma again.
We've got more cash than we need.
We really have 2 things that we can look at: share buyback and share -- and dividend increases.
And it's a moving target.
We're kind of hoping that something happens that may make the decision easier but in the end we're eventually going to have to buy back more shares or increase the dividend and we'll probably do some of each.
And when and how much will depend on a lot of things and I'm not prepared including board approval so I'm not prepared to go much further than that other than we know the situation we know we have a lot of cash we know we've got to do something with it.
We haven't quite figured it out yet.
That's not the best answer in the world but that's the truth.
Our next question is from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> First question is you guys pointed out a $0.27 improvement from price and mix.
And just looking at the mill production that would suggest $60 a ton.
And I know a lot of that has to be the mix side of it with your forward integration strategy.
But could you give us an idea on how much of the price increase you actually realized in the quarter and how much we would expect to see in the third? Yes let me take this one.
We don't give the exact numbers in that regard.
We view that as a company confidential information.
However as Mark said on the call as of roughly today we're done with the increase.
And we have achieved a full passthrough.
Now we've got no obviously none of the increase in the box plants last April because our price increase began May 1.
So we're going -- when you throw it all together we're going have to realize this is both the mill containerboard increase about 40% of the total in the second quarter and the other 60% in the third quarter.
And that's the best way that I can describe it.
So if you can figure out which I know you're capable of what the total price increase is and how many times we produce we've got about 40% in the second quarter and we'll get the other 60% in the third quarter.
And that's what I'd given into specific dollar amount of increases.
LLC</strong> And second question is you mentioned you're -- you have a strong beginning to July.
And one thing we noticed this morning is in the last couple of years it seems like the box shipments at least when you look at year-over-year and even in absolute terms seem to be tilted more towards the beginning of a quarter and tend to fall off at the end of the quarter and we certainly saw that in June.
But we've also seen it March and December and going back to September and June of last year.
And I didn't know if something had really changed in the last couple of years that would explain that.
And is that good or not good for the industry? Again if you just talk about PCA our numbers are basically flat.
If you look at the beginning of the month the beginning of the quarter we've been seeing a consistent run rates throughout the quarter.
What is interesting about this July July has started out stronger.
Normally the Fourth of July week holiday followed by the second week is typically a big vacation.
Things are slow but we've seen a good strong start this year.
So again we're strong but again flat historically through the latest quarters.
Yes just to amplify on it.
If you looked over our monthly box shipments April May and June they're all pretty much the same there wasn't a lot of volatility month-to-month.
So pretty constant.
It's usually more volatile than this.
And beginning of the month to end of the month there's not been a lot of volatility there and what you've said we have it seeing time to time historically but not in the past quarter.
LLC</strong> Got you.
I know we're in a time constraint could you just talk real quickly about what you're accelerating in CapEx wise into this year? How much of the dollars and what shall we expect in terms of the box plant improvement? Well Tom why don't you comment about some of the projects you're looking at in terms of just the opportunities.
This is Tom.
We're going to accelerate about $25 million into 2013.
Now $5 million it really doesn't have any real return in terms of income but $5 million on infrastructure which we just need to do and we might as well get that done now.
$20 million is spread out in a lot of different projects and a lot of different plants and again as it relates to the previous discussion that we had regarding our customers and their demand and opportunities they present.
And so that's where those are geared towards and the it's a handful of projects really spread out across the country.
Next question is from Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things: You generated a lot more cash than we expected you do this quarter I wonder if you could tell us if there's something different going on in working capital or somewhere nearby? And secondly do you have a view on fiber cost in the second half and whether they're going to be affected much by the volatility you're seeing in lumber prices? Rick why don't you talk about cash first then I'll talk about fiber.
I really didn't see anything that abnormal in the cash flow or the cash we expected.
We were targeting a level of cash generation at the level we've set.
Our working capital did not change significantly from the first to the second quarter.
So Mark there was really nothing unusual there.
We may -- we do have some larger cash payments in the third quarter as Mark mentioned earlier but it's really nothing unusual.
And regarding fiber we're seeing basically flat trends currently on virgin fiber plan hardwood costs.
We have few periods with wet weather that costs some momentary increases in southern states.
But again as we go into the middle of summer right now earning's flat with the wood-based fibers.
A little bit of ups increase on recycle we're seeing around the country but nothing dramatic.
Our next question is from Phil Gresh of JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on the box plant side.
You mentioned that this is the first quarter you didn't any acquisition impact on the box volume so I'm just kind of curious how you're thinking about the pipeline for any additional box plant opportunities or whether the acceleration on the CapEx side of things means you're going to be more internally focused in the second half? Well again if you think about it I know Tom is constantly evaluating opportunities.
And Tom why don't you add a little color to that? Well Phil I would say that as we said before we are always looking at potential acquisition opportunities.
We do have a high threshold for what they have to meet in order to make the acquisition.
Of course the quality great quality and sustainable customer base the quality management team and accretive earnings.
So there are a lot of factors that have to be met.
It's got to be of side that makes sense to us as well quite frankly.
But we're still looking out and we're exploring them.
We have some opportunities that we're certainly looking at right now and that's certainly an area that we will continue to deploy our capital.
And I guess -- and I'm going to have to add to that all things being equal an internal investment will produce a better return than an acquisition because if you just put a piece of equipment in the box plant all of the overheads already been absorbed in that box plant.
The only thing you're adding is a bit of a variable labor a little bit of energy.
So the margin on some of the things that we're doing and some of the things we've done in our internal investment program produced very very good returns.
And we've had a good list of projects to look at.
Tom and Mark have gone through them they've picked the best of the best and said "Hey we need to accelerate these these returns are that good.
And that doesn't mean you don't keep looking for acquisitions but an internal project if it's a good one because in the overhead absorption benefit we'll beat an acquisition.
Research Division</strong> And then just to the extent that mix has been helped as you look at the numbers year-over-year how much of that is just kind of driven by using more of that board internally and these initiatives that you think you had versus some other kind of mix-related factor that you you've been going after? Yes some of the mix improvement is a result of that Phil as you mentioned.
There's no question about that.
We're going to deploy our paper where we have the best returns there's no question about that.
But in addition I think it's representative of quality of the account base we have.
They put a very high demanded on us they have value.
And as a result of that we expect to get paid for that.
So I think it's a combination of all the above.
I think in addition the improvement in the pricing also as a result of containerboard increase on the mill side which did go into effect starting in April.
So we got some benefit from that as well.
Research Division</strong> Sure Okay.
And then Rick did you intend the last quarter that the maintenance tailwind from Q2 to 3Q I believe would be $0.06 a share and obviously you guys had a strong performance this quarter.
So is that delta still the same or does that change the delta? I think that the delta is essentially the same.
It's going to be somewhere between 2Q to 3Q after you net out the increase in repair job amortization of an improvement from $0.06 to $0.08 per share.
Our next questions is from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I have just 2 questions.
One Paul could you just talk about the topic of the potential special dividend as opposed to just an ordinary dividend? And then Tom Hassfurther are you benefiting at all in the box business from just the consolidation that's taken place among the bigger players and maybe customers wanting to add suppliers additional suppliers? On the dividend we've never done a special dividend and I really can't comment on that more than that because then people read speculation into that and I don't want speculation to occur when I really don't have anything to say on the subject.
So we've never done one before and I will leave it at.
And Tom you want to take the second part of that? Yes Mark I would say that I say we gained for many reasons not primarily at all because of consolidation.
I think more so because of our existing customer base.
The fact that we've been able to align with some customers who have been able to grow through this period where the box business has been relatively flat.
I think we've proven to our customers that we provide the best value and that's benefited us greatly.
Our next question is from Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> If you look at the consensus forecast for the U.S.
economy there is hope that we see a pickup in the second half of this year and then into '14.
And as you look at your book of business and talk to your customers do you see a potential pickup in your business in the back half of this year versus the first half? I don't really have an answer to that that's just speculative.
Yes we're not seeing anything in the market that says one thing or the other.
Our business has been stuck in a rut pretty constant.
The good news is it's the high earnings so we're so we're not complaining about it.
But as I said early we've been pretty consistent.
We've not seen any change.
We've heard as you've heard and report up so that if the feds change it's policy.
It may have an effect on the economy et cetera et cetera.
So we're kind of like you we're waiting to see what happens but we don't know what's going to happen.
But if it stays where it is we'll be pretty happy.
If it gets better we'll be happier.
So that's about all we get out on that.
We really don't' know where the economy is going.
I would just ask in addition say in addition Paul our customers like ourselves were hopeful and optimistic.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Let me ask you a question on...
Next question please.
Our next question is from Scott Gaffner of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Good morning.
Next question? Research Division</strong> My first question is really a clarification around the capital spending.
Operator is there any more questions in the queue? Research Division</strong> Can you hear me? Operator? Yes.
We're on.
Can you hear Scott Gaffner? We've lost the call.
Research Division</strong> Can you hear me? Yes I can hear you.
I believe something happened to their line.
[Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> Now we're back on.
First question is really just a clarification around capital spending.
I think on the first quarter you mentioned $120 million of CapEx.
And then $50 million for either some box plant acquisitions or some strategic investment.
Should we think about the acceleration of the $25 million from 2014 and add it to that number meaning $195 million in total now versus the $170 million or how should we think about that? Yes.
If you look at it originally we had $180 million of planned normal capital spending for the mills and box plants.
We also had an additional $10 million that we had planned on this year for the Boiler MACT spending so total of $190 million.
But again for the $180 million plus the $25 million that will be the total CapEx between the mills and box plants.
And so again about $205 million of normal plus the $10 million of the Boiler MACT.
Research Division</strong> And then just around the capabilities that you're actually adding to the box plant are these customers specific capabilities meaning are you coming up with ways to hold customers accountable for the investments that you're making? Or are these more broad investments that you can utilize to serve broad customer base? Scott this is Tom.
They are driven primarily by what in essence is customer demands that we don't have the capacity for.
So we obviously will be able to fill the capacity of customer demands that we have existing and obviously have some potential to handle some additional demand.
Our next question is from Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick question.
I mean from a growth standpoint your boxing business has obviously outpaced the market pretty nicely.
I think it's around mid-single-digit rate for the last few years.
Is the $75 million type of investment the new run rate going forward to sustain that growth rate going forward? You can say that.
We'll take advantage of opportunities.
I think Tom said that's very important.
Where we see demand opportunities and growth opportunities based on our customer activity we'll continue to deploy capitals for that growth needs.
So the dynamic manner we will be very flexible in how we deploy capital into the box plants.
Again it's a very very dynamic process.
And CapEx will slow down as we get towards the 90% -- not mid-90% to 93% 94% integration level.
As we approach that obviously our need for additional box plant capacity will diminish unless we add more milk capacity or unless we expand our mills and then you're in the game the same cycle because our strategy revolves very strongly about -- around high integration level.
So it's dynamic you would expect it to slow down.
And then it could pick up again depending on what we do on the mill side of the business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And that's actually a great seg-way.
So on the mill side do you guys have a lot of projects that are still available that you can easily add some capacity down the road or would you actually have to step up spending pretty meaningfully to get that incremental capacity? We said this before.
It's all related to the amount of capital you want to spend.
So capital per ton of capacity.
And so you can add capacity virtually to most mills.
It's just how much -- is it going to cost and how much are you willing to spend? How valuable is that incremental fund? Yes another way you can increase capacity at percent 2% a year.
For not a lot of capital.
But if you want a big pop in capacity that cost that's a big pop in capital.
And so yes you just have to determine that you go through this what's the best way to do it.
Maybe accelerate creeping a little bit maybe do a big mill expansion maybe make an acquisition.
That will depend on the factors in play at the time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Just probably still too early to call that.
Yes again as we've said until we get that 91% integration level in the low 90s and then understand what our balance is going to be for outside sales with remaining funds we're not making any plans for any large mill expansions.
Just to add to that.
As you've said we've been -- our demand is -- and our growth has been I think very good the last 3 years since we embarked on this project but we're only halfway there.
This is an ambitious project to get from 80% integration to the mid-90s.
It's not something you do quickly because every piece of business we expand we don't want tons per tonnage sake.
We want box business that comes from customers who appreciate and pay for the value we provide.
And so we're only looking for good business to fill up our system not business in general.
And that makes this objective even tougher.
But we are on page.
I think we're doing about as we expected and we're going to finish this before we move on to something else.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
And just switching gears a little bit just to broader emerging markets and timings like Brazil China Middle East seem to have slowed a little bit.
I know you guys don't export too much abroad but have you seen your export business slow down a little bit on that? We haven't seen this really slowdown but again during the second quarter we intentionally decreased our outside sales.
In particular some of the export tons to make sure that we took care of our own internal box plant.
But Tom if you think about last year into this year we're probably the last guys to answer that question quite frankly just because of the position we've taken in the export market.
We cannot handle the demand we have right now and we have shrunk our supply base to the export market as it is.
So all I can tell you is what we see right now have no idea what somebody who's really large in the export market and participates in all the markets around the world what they see.
In addition I would just add that as Mark made mention in his comments the price has risen significantly or certainly appreciably in the export market as well at least the one's we're involved in.
Our next question is from Al Kabili of Macquarie.
Just 2 questions.
Mark first is just if you could help us on the box plant investment.
Just help us frame what that means for your capacity this year? How much that boosts your capacity this year or how does that help your integration rate? Well if you look at year-to-date we are sitting at an average of about 87% integration.
And we believe in what we're forecasting internally is that the integration level will remain about 87% due to the remainder of the year in that area.
So as far as for a full year average.
That's really helpful.
And is this investment related more to improving throughput or some of this is just increasing your capabilities that's going to help with the mix component of your business? Both.
And just as Paul said back on the CapEx we had a program where we spent $80 million to $100 million over the last couple of years to increase our integration level.
This is only $25 million of capital.
So you're talking about a couple of percent increase in integration level at most year.
So this is not a big big project don't misunderstand that.
We simply accelerate it about $25 million from last year to this year and it's all equipment.
It's a piece of equipment that we're out of capacity on.
It's a piece of equipment that we need because we got a new piece of business specific to a customer that we could use in other places.
And as Tom mentioned about $5 million is just for infrastructure improvement.
When you're running box plants some of them as far as we are you've got to make sure the infrastructure is still able to support it.
If it means that another track top or an improvement in -- so we can get more input through the whole plant et cetera et cetera.
But again it's only $20 million for equipment probably in 7 or 8 plants and it's going to -- on the margin increase our integration level a couple of percent but it's not going to increase to 10% because of the amount -- we're only spending $20 million in capital it's not that much money but the returns are all very good.
Okay.
And that's $20 million on top of the $50 million? So $70 million? Yes.
And we put that in really on top of the $50 million because we'll do that and we'll make an acquisition.
And that's the plan for this year.
As Tom said we're still working on the pipeline.
That number could change too if a really good acquisition came up but we've got no comments on that at this point.
The next question is a follow-up from George Staphos Bank of America Securities.
Research Division</strong> My third question only question here is this: If we look at the level of operating profit relative to revenue and subtract once on the other you get cost both this quarter and the year-ago quarter.
Cost went up about $50 million some-odd yet production declined for all the maintenance outage reasons.
As you think about maybe the question more for Tom as I listened to what your number is kind of the cost factors in the quarter would much of that increase in cost be a function of mix i.e.
as you've picked up business you've picked up more profitable business but business that in turn requires you to add more value to the profit before you sell it to the customer.
What would drive that increasing cost relatively lower production year-on-year that you saw in quarter? I'll take it.
This is Paul.
Now let's not relate it to that.
We've told you where the cost items that went up.
Obviously energy prices are up.
Coal gas labor and fringes are up.
Our hard incentive compensation payments will be up.
If we continue with this rate we'll make appreciably more earnings than we did last year and our bonus plan is a function of our profitability.
The more profitable we are the higher bonuses we can play until our labor and benefits are up but there's nothing related to the mix on that.
That is the short answer to your question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll follow-up offline because the numbers on a per share basis don't add up quite to the overall level of cost increase.
But in any event good quarter and luck on the third quarter.
Yes.
Let me comment on that.
We don't understand the intricacies of every analyst model so when you throw a model question out on us we don't necessarily agree with what you're saying not because we don't believe it we just don't understand your model.
So it's hard to respond to questions like that.
Unless we do it offline and you tell us what your model means and we can respond to that as long as it's publicly available information.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I was just referring to what you published in terms of revenue and operating profit.
A follow-up from Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Just a quick one for Rick.
On the black liquor credits you mentioned there's just a little bit left and could you just give us a range of what the possible outcomes would be based on the Filer City audit? Could there be more or could there be -- where it would be reversed some of these credits? Jeff as far as anymore no.
We have recorded what we expect what we will get and we have the $4 million remaining.
And if you look in our 10-K it does layout how much we have built in in the event that it does -- if there's a lot of which we do not believe that will be the case.
And as we've said last quarter we believe the worst case would be $120 million payback if no credits were allowed.
And we don't anticipate that.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And when do you think this gets resolved? Any update on that? From our standpoint we are still hopeful that it will be resolved by the end of the year.
I have a follow-up from Al Kabili from Macquarie.
Just a quick one for you Rick on pension.
With the changes to the plan any thoughts on how that influences the pension expense? It doesn't really influence the pension expense that much.
I did mention on a voluntary pension contribution that we're making irrespective of the change in the third quarter but it does not impact the pension expense.
Okay.
Thanks for that clarification.
And with the black liquor $4 million left should we just be assuming your cash tax rate goes close to your 36% book tax rate.
How should we be thinking about it or is there's some depreciation items that could change that? There are some differences between tax depreciation and book depreciation as well as some credits that are available under the normal course.
I would say our cash tax rate reverting back to about 32% probably about 28% on third quarter a little over 32%.
I see there are no more questions.
Do you have any closing remarks? Thanks everybody for joining us today and we look forward to seeing you on the next call on October.
Have a good day.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Thank you for joining the Packaging Corporation of America's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mr.
Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and welcome to Packaging Corporation of America's third quarter earnings release conference call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA; and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko Executive Chairman of PCA; Tom Hassfurther who runs our Corrugated business; and Rick West PCA's Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks for participating in this morning's call and after the presentation we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported third quarter net income of $84 million or $0.86 per share which included an after-tax charge of $3 million or $0.03 per share for costs related to the announced Boise Inc.
acquisition agreement and a noncash after-tax charge of $2 million or $0.02 per share for pension plan changes related to the PCA hourly mill employees.
We reported a similar charge in the second quarter which covered our hourly corrugated products plant employees.
Excluding these charges earnings were a record $89 million or $0.91 per share.
This compares to third quarter 2012 net income excluding special items of $53 million or $0.55 per share.
Net sales were a record $845 million up 17% from third quarter of 2012 net sales of $723 million.
The $0.36 per share increase in earnings excluding special items was driven by higher containerboard and corrugated products prices and mix of $0.44 and higher corrugated products sales volume of $0.05.
These items were partially offset by: higher costs for fiber of $0.03; labor $0.03; incentive compensation $0.03; energy $0.02; transportation $0.01; and chemicals $0.01.
Excluding special items net income for the first 9 months of 2013 was a record $219 million or $2.25 per share compared to the net income for the first 9 months of 2012 of $142 million or $1.45 per share.
Year-to-date net sales were $2.4 billion up 14% from $2.1 billion in the first 3 quarters of 2012.
In summary we had an outstanding quarter in all aspects of operations with record earnings driven by higher prices for containerboard and corrugated products higher corrugated products volume and record mill production.
We beat our guidance by $0.03 per share driven by better-than-expected volume and mix.
Moving to the details of operations.
Corrugated products shipments were up 7.8% both in total and per workday compared to last year's third quarter.
We are particularly pleased with this performance because it was achieved completely on organic growth.
That is the year-over-year increase did not benefit from box plant acquisitions since our last box plant was acquired in the first quarter of 2012.
Corrugated products shipments were an all-time quarterly record on a shipments per-workday basis.
Demand for both domestic and export containerboard remained strong through the quarter but our ability to supply outside markets was limited.
Because of higher containerboard consumption in our box plants our outside containerboard shipments were down about 12 000 tons from last year's third quarter.
The domestic sales were up 8 000 tons while lower-priced export sales were down 20 000 tons.
We ended the quarter with our containerboard inventories down about 4 000 tons below 2012 year-end levels.
Our inventory level is rather tight considering October has 22 corrugated products shipping days compared to just 20 shipping days in September.
Therefore it's imperative that our mills continue to run well on October which they have through the first 14 days of the month.
Moving to mill production and performance.
Our mills ran extremely well producing 671 000 tons of containerboard setting an all-time quarterly record.
Our final 2013 annual mill maintenance outage is currently underway at our Filer City Michigan corrugated medium mill and I'm happy to report that it's progressing very well.
The plan there is for a 5-day outage that will reduce production by about 7 000 tons.
On the revenue side.
Prices and mix were higher for both containerboard and corrugated products improving earnings by $0.44 per share compared to last year's third quarter.
This included essentially a full quarter's impact of the pass-through of our April $50 containerboard price increase to corrugated products.
Wood cost were higher this quarter in the U.S.
Southeast -- as the Southeast had more rain than the typical summer making it tougher to get into some wood tracks that are normally accessible during summer months.
The frequency of the wet weather especially in July and August resulted in wood cost increasing $0.02 per share compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Recycled fiber costs were also higher than last year decreasing earnings by about $0.01 per share as industry published prices for recycled fiber excluding delivery costs were up about $25 per ton compared to the third quarter of last year.
With regard to cost energy costs were up $0.02 per share compared to last year's third quarter driven by increased prices paid for purchased fuels.
Natural gas prices increased about $1 per meter squared Btu and coal prices were up about $0.60 per meter squared Btu compared to prices paid last year during the third quarter.
In addition labor cost increased $0.03 per share and incentive compensation which are prorated to earnings per share were $0.03 per share higher than last year with our increased earnings.
Transportation cost increased $0.01 per share due in part to rail rate increases and a mix of outbound mill shipment destinations.
I'm now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who will give you an update on our financial position.
Thank you Mark.
In the third quarter PCA generated cash from operations of $137 million.
Capital expenditures during the quarter were $50 million.
We paid our quarterly common stock dividend of approximately $39 million.
Cash tax payments of $36 million were made and the remaining fuel credits of $4 million were used to offset federal taxes during the quarter.
We also elected to make a discretionary pension contribution of $30 million during the quarter and at the end of September our cash on hand was $397 million up $27 million from the end of the second quarter.
Our total long-term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter excluding capital leases was $782 million.
And including cash on hand our net debt was $385 million.
As of September 30 2013 our diluted shares outstanding were 97.5 million shares.
As Mark mentioned earlier during the third quarter PCA recorded cost of $3 million after tax related to the announced Boise Inc.
acquisition agreement.
This charge included a $2 million charge for bridge financing fee and $1 million for other acquisition-related costs.
In addition we recorded a $2 million after-tax charge which was related to a change in our hourly pension plan.
We recently negotiated an agreement involving our 4 containerboard mills who will transition from a defined benefit plan to a defined contribution 401(k) plan.
The pension charge is based on accounting guidance which requires us to accelerate the recognition of prior service pension costs for employees affected by this change.
With that I will turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Before discussing the fourth quarter I'd like to give you a brief update on the Boise acquisition.
We initiated our tender offer for all Boise shares on September 26 2013 and this offer expires at midnight on October 24 2013.
If more than 50% of the Boise shares are tendered the minimum tender condition is met and we will expect to close on October 25 2013.
We have bridge financing in place and expect to complete the permanent bank and bond financing for the acquisition prior to close.
For a variety of reasons including that we must operate as separate businesses until the closing we do not plan on taking any further questions about the acquisition until after the closing.
Now moving ahead to the fourth quarter.
We expect lower mill production with the planned annual outage at Filer City and increased mill operating cost.
Corrugated products volume is expected to be lower since the fourth quarter contains 2 less shipping days than the third quarter.
We also expect seasonally higher fuel costs at the onset of colder weather and higher amortization of annual outage repair cost.
Considering these items we expect fourth quarter earnings to be about $0.84 per share excluding any impact from the Boise acquisition.
This would put us at earnings per share of $3.09 for 2013 excluding special items compared to $2.06 last year.
With that we'll be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on the call constituted forward-looking statements.
The statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
With that operator I'd like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about how demand trended through the 3 months of the quarter and how you're seeing it play out in October? And then also you continue to grow faster than the industry.
I'm wondering if you can give us any color in terms of what market segments or what customers maybe you're seeing the most strength with? Yes.
As we said in July we started out the first 8 days or so up about 10%.
But we trended down slightly as we expected but we didn't remain flat through the August September period.
So with our roll-up being very strong we saw good strong consistent numbers.
Research Division</strong> And in early October? For the first 8 days again that's a small sample considering the 23-day shipping month.
We're up 4.4% on a shipments basis.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And is there any segment or is there any customer base where your -- you think you're growing faster than the industry? Or can you talk generally about the kind of volume -- the volume outperformance that you've seen versus what we've seen industry-wide? Consistently throughout the year especially through the third quarter we saw good activity throughout North America through our 71 plant footprint.
So again just good consistent volume growth year-over-year throughout the system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe one last one.
I don't know if Rick mentioned this but could you give guidance for CapEx for the full year x Boise? I don't know if there's an updated view from last quarter? Yes Anthony this is Rick.
In terms of CapEx we have a lot of CapEx spent normally in the fourth quarter.
And we're still on plan for the $215 million estimate for 2013.
Maybe around $205 million to $215 million but it's going to be in that range.
Our next question comes from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Mark just 2 things.
I wonder if you could tell us given how fiber stacked up the wrong way this quarter what you're expecting relative to Q3 and Q4? And second as you look at your inventories it looks like you guys are running pretty successfully with lower inventories than you used to.
Have you actually changed the way you're managing inventories? Because as I look at my inventory days I see you're doing a lot better than you did a couple of years ago? Well on the first question on fiber.
Again with the wet weather we saw in the Southeast region specifically back in Valdosta the weather has subsided and gotten back to a normal pattern through September into October.
So we're seeing things flatten out on the wood cost.
Also don't forget during the third quarter typically the Southern Mills system in particular does go through their winter wood build.
But we're seeing wood cost pretty flat right now throughout the Southern system.
So again we're not expecting any pressure.
And just to amplify on what Mark said Mark yes we saw a bigger wood cost increase at Valdosta than say Counce because Valdosta got hit more by the bad weather than Counce.
Yes we had -- there was a 28-day period during the month of July that it rained 28 of the days during the month in the Valdosta region.
And with regard to inventory management I'll just comment yes I think we're managing it the same.
We might be a little more efficient.
And as they say necessity is the mother of invention.
When you're running constantly at 100% at capacity where we've been for the last 2 2.5 years you've got to really stay on top of your inventory.
And so yes maybe we're running it a little better than we have but we haven't changed our philosophy or strategy in that regard.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> The question I had is on the whole price timing of the increase if you can comment.
On my rough numbers it looks like your average realizations are pushing $100 above where they were a year ago which is about what the board increase was.
And -- however we know at the box level there can be some variations.
So the question is should we expect any more of the spring increase to bleed into the fourth quarter? Or was it fully reflected in the third quarter? We reflected that fully in the third quarter.
As we said on the second quarter call we expected to complete that pass-through early in the quarter and we did.
And so we don't expect to see any more impact from that.
Yes there may be a couple of days Chip but it's a miniscule a small amount.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And then the second question is we just got I guess the data for September which seems to indicate that inventories seem to have come down a bit more than normal after the big jump in the summer.
In your system can you comment -- do you feel your inventories got -- it sounds like you don't feel they did but did you sense at any point that they were above where you were comfortable? Or do you feel like they were always sort of within what your plan was? No.
Again running at 100% we had to anticipate the third quarter.
But we're about where we want it to be.
Understanding where our business was and we are up about 6 000 tons compared to the second quarter because of the Filer planned outage and having to supply such a big October.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a final question.
When we look overseas it seems like in a very general sense -- and I know as you guys have become more integrated you're not as active in the export markets.
But it looks like you've seen some firming in places like Brazil but you saw some sluggishness in Europe.
And I didn't know if you had any late recent color on how you see especially Europe in terms of kraft linerboard at this point? Chip this is Tom.
I'll just comment on that real quick.
I think that for the most part we saw the lift in pricing throughout this year.
And that's held reasonably stable.
A little bit of sluggishness in Europe.
But I don't see anything -- again we're a fairly small player there but with regard to our customers we don't see any enormous slippage or anything like that.
Chip we have more concerns about people wanting tons since we pulled them back in the export than price.
So most that have been -- most of the discussions -- again our exports business isn't real large.
It's been more about the availability of tons we might add as opposed to the price.
Our next question comes from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One can we give any thoughts Mark on any pressure you guys might be seeing or might be anticipating from some of these pellet plants going in the south.
I know that kind of southern and eastern Georgia seem to be getting more than their fair share.
Mark over the last 3 years we've seen the pellet plants come online and it's put a direct pressure on the basket and much as we expected.
So much of the cost escalation that we've seen in the last few years in the southeast was the pellet plant activity along with some of the OSB plants that are coming on.
But yes there's been an impact from the pellet plants.
I think the other consideration here Mark is -- and Mark Kowlzan is right.
We've seen some pressure but it has not resulted in large price increases for wood obviously.
Our prices remained pretty stable.
But long-term I'm more and more optimistic because a lot of these pellets as you know are being exported to Europe.
And the only thing that makes the economics work in that deal because you're shipping a lot of water with that fiber is the government subsidies over there.
And we've seen countries like Spain have heavy subsidies for solar energy et cetera determining that the economics do not do good benefits to their balance of payments their debt et cetera.
And so I think longer-term as the world becomes a more competitive place people are going to start questioning whether the subsidies that government are paying to support these woodchips are really worthwhile.
So long term I think that the jury is still out on how successful pellet plants will be.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's a long distance to ship sort of low Btu-content fuel.
The other question I had was for Tom Hassfurther just back on the export markets briefly.
Tom just to confirm something that I think is the case.
In the export markets you guys skew more to Latin America and more to the heavyweight board is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us any kind of just general guideline about what percent of your exports might be Latin America over time? Well I'm not going to get into those kinds of specifics Mark.
But I'll just say that when you get to that market echoing what Paul said earlier our big concern is finding the tons to be able to supply the customers that we have down there and the demand that we have down there.
So that market remains quite good for us.
Our next question comes from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question.
With the demand trends you're seeing so far this month any impact that you've noticed from the government shutdown? No I mean it's hard to qualify that and quantify that.
Again with the 23-day month and with the business up 4.4% for the first 8 days we're pretty pleased with that.
But we don't have any direct evidence of any impact to us per se.
And just to amplify on that point when you have a 23-day month your best number -- and you want to compare it year-over-year we had an extra day this October.
Right? 1 extra day.
And so that's going to add 5% to the number.
And so you would expect a little lower per day shipment balanced by having 1 more day.
No I'm incorrect it's the same number.
No I'm incorrect it was last month.
So it will be the same number of days.
I stand corrected.
Like Mark said we're up 4.4%.
We averaged 6% up 7% or so last quarter.
So we're a little bit behind that.
What it's related to is -- October is a long month 23 days.
So we've got a very small sample size.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
I know you guys didn't want to take any questions on Boise.
Rick you had mentioned on the last call that you might have some initial thoughts on the D&amp;A and the step-ups and those types of things.
So if you had a comment there I was just curious if you had any info? No comment on Boise.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
And then with the integration ahead for you guys and with where your financial leverage is right now to the extent other mill assets were to come for sale would you think of yourselves as kind of being more focused on integrating the Boise acquisition and doing just kind of the box plant deals that you typically would do? Or -- and more likely nothing on the mill side or how would you think about your capacity to do more right now? That's a great question for next quarter's earnings call and we'll be more than happy to answer it.
But that's tied part and parcel to the Boise and as Mark said we're not going to comment on that until we're completed with it.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Last question just on pension contributions Rick with these changes in the plants are there any expectations that we should have about what that might mean for required contributions in the future? Long-term less but not aiming lower amounts in the short term.
Our next question comes from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Maybe bigger picture.
First of all you've done a tremendous job over the last few years of raising margin in the business.
Now do you have a view on what the horizon could be in terms of how much more margin improvement you can have excluding the effect of pricing and obviously excluding the effect of Boise within your business? And how important are the box plant investments in driving that margin improvement over time? And then I had a follow-up.
Yes.
I'll take that George.
Margins -- depends on a couple of things.
Price and costs.
And obviously if your volume increases you get to amortize overhead over more tons that reduces your cost.
And so that and where price goes are the 2 biggest determinants of profitability.
And we got a pretty good handle on where we think where volumes run and we don't speculate ever on forward pricing publicly.
So that's about as good as I can do there.
But the fact that we've added box plant capacity in markets where we were either sold out or getting close to that again has enabled us to put those tons through a box plant that most of the overhead was already absorbed.
That's helped our margins.
So this $200 million of money we've spent on the box plants over the last 3 4 years has definitely contributed to our margin improvement.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I was holding price counts as well in the question.
So it sounds like it's not so much incremental mix you're getting from the box plant investment it's more the operating leverage that's allowing you because you have more ability to grow the business.
Where do you...? It's actually both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- and would you say it's split evenly or more the volume growth or more the mix effect Paul? We're not giving up the secret recipe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other question I had and I'll turn it over where do you have the most concern about cost pressure over the next 2 to 3 years? Which line item or which factors should we be observing most closely in terms of potential erosion of the margin progress you've had over the last number of years? George regarding that question.
Just general inflation.
Obviously the energy wood cost type of impacts.
But again just general.
Except for of course the big wildcard that everybody knows about is OCC.
And if the world economy expands at a more significant rate than it has in the last year or 2 we believe that OCC is going to come under cost pressure.
And again we're advantaged in that regard because we are among the lowest users of OCC in the industry.
Our next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> As you think about your existing mill assets in the containerboard side and your ability to increase production through productivity initiatives as you look over the next 12 months where do you think you can grow your production on the containerboard side through productivity? We've been stating that the 1% creep is a normal creep for us based on again a normal CapEx spend.
As we've said for many years now it depends on how much capital you want to spend.
But 1% is a good number to expect for a creep.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful mark.
And then clearly you're busy with the Boise acquisition but as you think about the potential to add incremental converting capacity and box plants can you talk about what the pipeline looks like for you on the box plant side? Yes.
we're -- we will continue to look for opportunities wherever they happen to be.
And if they fit our model correctly we'll pursue those acquisitions.
Going forward we're not going to deviate much from the plan that we've had going the past few years.
Yes we want to get to over 90% vertically integrated.
And if we can get there with strictly internal growth that would be fine.
And -- but it will probably take some more box plant acquisitions to do it.
Our next question comes from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So as the economy shifts more towards e-commerce especially in the fourth quarter is there anything that you're changing as far as your production or inventory plans in the fourth quarter to sort of accommodate that shift to more of an e-commerce market versus traditional brick-and-mortar? No.
Again no plans on changing anything.
Just over the last 5 or 6 years we've just definitely seen the benefit of the e-commerce during the holiday season.
December used to be -- used to be the tough month or a half-decent month.
Decembers have been pretty constant over the last 5 years.
The only thing we do do -- and it's nothing new we try to build a little inventory in the fourth quarter to support our mill outages which are stacked into the first quarter.
But that's not a change we've done that for the last 15 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- I mean there were a couple of articles on the Wall Street Journal about Walmart trying to buy more American goods.
And I think part of your thesis on it the North American containerboard market has always been on-shoring of U.S.
manufacturing.
Anything you can share on those 2 fronts? Anything you're seeing that maybe we're not seeing as far as return the manufacturing to North America? This is Paul again.
I'll comment on that.
Yes I read the same things you read and so I don't think we're seeing a lot more than you might be seeing in terms of a macro look at this on-shoring phenomena as it unfolds.
I will tell you though from my perspective if I went back -- I've got to go back 10 years now that Tom Hassfurther would be running in about every 3 days telling me that this customer moved to China.
And this customer moved his business to Mexico.
I can't remember the last time he came in and told me somebody moved to China and it's very infrequently that he tells me somebody moved to Mexico.
So there's still a little movement to Mexico but not much.
And Tom you want to comment on that a little further? Because I think it's an important point that the trend has definitely stopped.
The question is how strong will it reverse itself? So I'll let you since are talking to 70 box plants amplify on that.
Okay Paul.
I'd just like to add that what Paul said is actually correct.
The exodus from the country has essentially stopped.
We don't see that much at all anymore.
And I think that Walmart's initiative that they just announced buy -- to purchase more from American companies I think coincides with the fact that a lot of American companies have become much more competitive worldwide.
And with the labor rates going up in places like China dramatically it's become more difficult to do business there the costs have gone up et cetera that's driving Walmart's initiative.
I think it's altruistic to say I'm going to buy from America and that's a good thing to do but also they're only going to do it if it's really competitive.
And so I think that's a very good indicator that Walmart sees American manufacturing becoming much more competitive.
Our next question comes from Phil Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get a read on demand trend.
I know you said the first few days of October was up 4% or so.
Seems like a modest deceleration from Q2 trends.
I just don't want to read too much into it.
I just wanted to get a pulse on what you're seeing from the demand side and what your customers are saying? I would say Phil that our demand has remained fairly steady.
It's hard to read in much to this number that we have so far in October just because October is a 23-day month.
And we don't have a very good sampling for just 8 days.
It's hard to indicate what's going to go on.
And we came out of a very strong Q2 and a very strong September as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it just sounds like business as usual.
And in terms of your fiber cost you talked about how wood cost ticked up.
From a weather standpoint things have subsided a little bit.
And I think you mentioned that you expect wood prices to flatten out.
Is there any room for it to come -- fall down decline x the seasonality component just because it does seem like the headwind that you saw in 3Q is subsiding a bit here? It's really sensitive to weather patterns.
And again if we ended up with a warm dry winter period you'd see a lot less pressure and basically a falling off on pricing.
If we end up with a cold wet weather then it's a different story.
So again it's pretty much just weather-dependent.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just one last bigger-picture question.
You guys were pretty much running flat-out for the last few years and your box shipments has obviously outpaced the broader market.
Has that limited your ability to grow on the box side? It certainly doesn't seem like it but with the potential incremental capacity you're getting from Boise would that allow you to sustain that growth profile or potentially accelerate it going forward? As we've said for the last year or 2 in order to support the domestic growth we're going to rationalize any of the lower-value export tons and we've done just that.
And so as time has gone on we've supplied the North American footprint growth with the tons that came out of the exports.
Our next question comes from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Just a question on the growth.
Can you just kind of help us parse out the type of growth you're seeing in these sort of larger national accounts versus more of the -- your traditional strength in the smaller regional producers? Al this is Tom.
We don't get into lots of detail about individual segments or anything like that.
I'll just say that our growth has been consistent spread out over thousands of customers and of course we do business with large customers as well as a very small ones.
And it's all about the value we deliver to those customers and that's what helps drive our demand.
Basically we consider that marketing data which is company confidential.
And we don't share it with you because then we'll have to share it with competitors and we don't do that.
Okay.
All right I appreciate that.
I guess second question is just on mix.
Is there -- certainly the dynamic of less exports helps.
Is there anything else on mix that's improving or is it just really that dynamic? I think it's more just that dynamic Al.
Okay.
And then just a housekeeping question for Rick.
Amortization expense going up sequentially on maintenance outages.
Can you just help us what that sequential headwind if you will is? About $0.02 a share from 3Q to 4Q [ph].
$0.02 a share.
Okay got it.
When he says $0.02 a share that's the increase.
Not the total.
So it's gone from roughly $0.04 to $0.06.
Our next question comes from Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Gabe Hajde sitting in for Chris.
Question about utilization across your downstream box plant assets.
Can you talk about maybe regionally or maybe end markets where you guys are particularly tight and could see investment dollars over the next 12 24 months? No we can't comment on that.
Our next question comes from Carly Mattson with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk to any update on the anticipated timing for the public debt financing portion of the acquisition given the shelf that was filed this morning? We have no comment at this time.
Our next question comes from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Kind of a follow-on question I think mainly for Tom Hassfurther.
If we look at the industry box shipments year-to-date they're essentially flat.
The economy is up a bit.
So it just kind of raises the question Tom of what you're seeing in terms of puts-and-takes in terms of where the industry might actually be losing volume.
Is there some demand destruction which might have taken place? If we walk through a big box store like a Costco you see a lot more use of shrink wraps it seems like these days.
At the same time we know that e-commerce is using more boxes.
So can you just help us kind of reconcile kind of those puts-and-takes in terms of box demand and why you think the industry as a whole is flat this year when there's some growth in the economy? Well Mark you got a lot of different topics you're talking about there.
I think you pretty much rationalized the puts-and-takes quite frankly.
You've got industries moving in lots of different directions.
If they can do stretch wrap and flip sheets that's what they'll do as opposed to a corrugated box.
At the same time you've got the whole e-commerce side of the business which is significantly different.
And I think you've got small companies that are really upstarts.
And their demand is in boxes start to stock boxes and then moves on to regular containers.
I think that you'll got the ag business that in some cases is doing more bulk than they did before which can reduce some demand.
But on the other hand you've got organic growers that use more.
So it kind of just goes back and forth and you can go in all of these various markets and come up with scenarios of pluses and minuses.
But at the end of the day it is what it is and we've got the market we've got.
And I think that at times the FBA numbers have tracked GDP but have gotten away from that for quite some time.
And it's a -- and I think at any given point in time you can probably find the pluses and minuses to rationalize those numbers but it's very complex.
And I think the more important point is that I think the biggest plus that the industry would need for the next decade is what we just talked about with the previous caller more on-shoring of business -- and where -- the use of box in this country as opposed to coming from another country.
Again and long-term we're fully -- we're pretty optimistic that that's going to occur over the next decade for a lot of reasons.
One of which is the national debt is best fixed by economic growth.
And I think that's an imperative for this country.
Our next question comes from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
First of all Paul Mark when you look at the energy projects now I guess 2 years from when they came online what are your observations? What have been the learnings from this versus your initial expectations set you up better for the next number of years? And then shorter term as we're sort of penciling out production for the fourth quarter would it be somewhere around 650 000 tons in that ballpark when we think about the shipping days and the outages at Filer City? George as far as the energy projects go again they're delivering extremely well both in Counce and Valdosta and performing as designed.
So we're extremely pleased with the results.
As far as what we expect for tons we expect that Filer is going to impact 7 000 tons.
And if you look at the third quarter we're somewhere down at 660 000-ton area.
And that number could move 20 000 tons either way easily depending on how we run.
So we don't normally give a production forecast for the next quarter and we're not going to start.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Have you any comment or have you seen any impact in your doings with the converted capacity we've been reading about? My understanding is that some of these mills don't even call their output containerboard they call it packaging grades.
But I just thought if you got any broad comment about either the conversions or maybe even the company that recently announced the Midwest Mill and how they fit sort of in the marketplace and as a competitor to you? Let me take that one Chip.
We're not going to call out any particular companies.
But I don't think it's any secret that some of the conversion tons are not the best quality but some are good.
And other than that we would just say that the variety in terms of quality is greater with some of this new stuff than you would get with the existing capacity at a good integrated mill.
And then as the OCC supply gets pressured as you know that can have a deleterious effect on quality because some -- most of the conversions that have been talked about are 100% recycled.
And -- but other -- further than that we're not going to comment any further than that.
[Operator Instructions] Seeing that there are no more questions I want to thank everybody for joining us today and look forward to seeing you on the annual call in January.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Thanks Rick by the way for the detail on the way the maintenance cost will flow through the year I just was wondering if you could give us an idea of how much of the swing this is versus what we have seen in the past.
I know you haven't called it out but looks like it's really a $0.14 jump from the middle quarters to the fourth quarter what would be more kind of roughly typical in past year’s when you were a smaller company? I would say Chip that it would have been more from a third to a fourth maybe a $0.04 per share -- $0.03 or $0.04 and it really was a function on the outages.
The difference between the outages now and the outages that we had in the past we would take primarily our two southern mills down in the first quarter and our two northern mills in the second quarter whereas now we’re taking more with the I-Falls mills and the other mills spread over the year just because of a being able to schedule and get the work done with our internal staff and also manage it.
From a standpoint of overall it's probably about as you would expect outages in the past would have been a total impact maybe $0.25 a year per share now with four more mills it's about double just about what you would expect.
And then basically update on the CapEx when we look at the future years and of course things can change obviously but based on your footprint and what it looks like today what is sort of a good range to use for CapEx in ’15 and beyond? I think if you look at it and of course it can depend upon if we have additional strategy projects but I would say once the DeRidder is completed and some of the synergy capital that we have identified and once the Boiler MACT of course is completed you would be looking at a number of around 250 million and then of course if there is a strategic project that really add value we would have entertained those projects and it would go up from there.
And last question you mentioned that you were out buying board in the market to supplement your needs in the box plants in certain areas.
I was just wondering what your experience has been so far with some of the purely recycled news print conversions out there especially in Georgia Oregon and Ontario.
The answer is there is some good 100% recycled product out there and there are some stuff that essentially will not run at least in our system and I don’t want to point out any of this stuff that doesn’t run on this call and I don’t want to downgrade any people that are making it but there is a wide variety out there.
Some of the stuff is pretty bad obviously the stuff we’re buying is not but we really can’t comment further than that.
First question just more of a housekeeping question guys with Boise now in the mix could you mention to us how much OCC or how much recycle is of your overall tonnage and we can do the math but I’m assuming with D3 will that go up a few percentage points if you can give us some specific numbers on that that will be helpful.
Probably today if you know what we take back in from our box plants and be okay we’re around 15% and after the conversion it's going to be about 19% so just under 20% after the process is completed.
Next question I had just staying on paper capacity and production you know when D3 comes you could be over 300 000 tons to you it adds as you said much needed capacity.
If you continue growing at the rate you would expect which I realize is a little bit of a subject to question.
You obviously have your own internal forecast when do you think that you might start running up against capacity limitations again? Would that be two years out? Three years out? Can you give us any kind of view on that and overall the related question as you continue to grow looking at the historical data you can see it improve your profit per ton and your return on capital do you expect that your returns and profits will at least be maintained as you grow into the future? Thanks guys.
George that’s a hard question to answer because what we will do going forward obviously we’re bringing on 355 000 tons and it won't come on immediately we will ramp it up from startup through 2015 and you can do the math yourself and we have been growing at 6% a year.
So you got to make an assumption what we grow with that and we grow less we grow more and you get to a number that could be anywhere from 2 3 4 5 years depending on what you assume as a growth assumption but the big wildcard then is that we also have a lot of tons that we will be selling into the export market that if we need those tons we can bring them back home as we have done in the last three years and so we could probably extend that time period to 3 - 4 years if we choose not to participate that all in the export market that’s unlikely because quite frankly as you know we have had the position.
The world is going to eventually run-out of recycled fiber and virgin fiber producers are going to be very advantage particularly in the export market.
So we will keep our place in the export market it may prove five years from now to be a very good place to be doing business and that could change the number.
So there is a lot of simple answer to your question but I think I’ve got you into at least the right church you got to figure out pew we’re in okay?   In terms of the Boise integration it seems like it's ahead of schedule can you talk about if you had any new updates in terms of timing and your targets overall? Again on a run-rate basis we’re about 15 million annualized which is $0.08 to $0.09 a share but we had anticipated that over the next couple of years we got a $175 million opportunity on synergies going forward.
And then can you give us a little bit more color on the D3 ramp? It's coming online in Q4 do you expect it to have a negative or positive contribution from the early get go and how is that going to scale up overtime? We expect come online and it should have a positive contribution immediately You know we would ramp up the tons into the system.
We do have a home for the production.
We’re buying stuff in the open market and the other thing that’s occurring of course is that it's replacing news print which will go down so we pick up a 100 000 tons of fiber a very low cost fiber that is really earned no return now because we’re basically roughly breakeven in news print but we will see this into containerboard we have good margins in containerboard so we are going to pick up hefty margin on that first 100 000 of virgin fiber and then a positive margin on a recycled fiber also.
And what are your longer term plans for D2 do you plan currently shutting it down or temporarily mothballing it? Well the machine has been done for a few years now and so again that’s just the future opportunity down the road.
Years from now that would be presenting itself it's not even in the plans now.
For long term it's in the building that you just got a paper machine but you are basically talking about putting in a completely new machine and then you’ve to put in a massive investment in the pulp mill to supply that machine fiber and that is one of those situations when the world runs out of OCC in five years making it 10 years that could be a greenfield site for another machine but you’re talking 500 million 600 million 700 million investment to do something like that.
And any thoughts on the West Coast drought [ph] from an impact standpoint? I’m not sure what you mean by that question.
Do you expect to have a meaningful impact to demand with the West Coast drought [ph]? Yes there are some impact there is no question about it with the AG business out there.
Not a large footprint for us fortunately but I think that those plants that are very very focused on that Central Valley there are going to have some impact just based on the mere fact that they can’t get water in there and the crops are going to be significantly lower but it will be concentrated just for that area.
Just to build on what Tom said we’re big players in the Florida AG business.
We’re not that big of a player in the California AG business at least at this point.
You had mentioned that you felt the weather maybe had hurt the first quarter your box shipments to the tune of about 1% which I think would suggest that adjusting to that maybe you’re kind of a 2.5% - 3% type of year-over-year for the legacy business growth is that in a kind of normal growing market is that a reasonable expectation go forward or can we start seeing is it potential that we’re going to be back at the 6% type of growth rates that we had been seeing previously and maybe if you can give a little color on how we should thing about that? Well the main color we will give you is red we don’t give growth rates forecast that’s proprietary.
We don’t want to share that with our competitors.
That said over the last four years we have been growing at 6% a year which makes each year even more difficult because the comp is very high and so you would expect that we will probably grow a little -- we would grow less than 6% because it's hard to sustain 6% a year forever and so and the 6% growth that we had included acquisitions of box plants as you recall and that will also affect the number.
So with acquisitions could it be 6%? Yes.
Without them could it be 6%? Very doubtful.
I think in the past you’ve given some indications on the acquisitions were -- was it 1% to 2%? I forgot.
Yes last few years we made a fair number of acquisitions so it was the 2% that’s a pretty big number.
And then just last was last year was it -- did you’ve a disproportionately strong first quarter last year? Last year I believe we were up 7.2% on a per work day basis last year.
So we had a very tough comparable for this year and this year of course we were up 1.8% on a per work day basis.
So that’s against the industry that it was down about 1.6% if I recall.
So that spread is about normal for us in terms of the industry and again it was a very very tough comparable so to the first point [ph] depending on the quarter we’re going to have some of those very high comparables.
Looking at the customs data for the quarter I appreciate it.
It looks like there has been a significant jump in imports of white paper into North America.
Can you talk whether that’s having much impact on your business? You know imports out there we’re not going to stop them from coming in.
They are another option in our customers’ portfolio and so our focus is more about continue to offer a solid value proposition through this entire supply chain and we have a roadmap logistics and network and maybe we can exceed on service that’s really our position.
Let me amplify on that a little bit we were up 5.5% in cut size and cut size is our main business it's a biggest segment of our uncoated white.
It's where we bring some unique capabilities to marketplace in terms of logistics and sales support and customer service.
It's something that is about supplier such as export really can’t compete on total value in our opinion and so we are putting a lot of our eggs in the basket and to cut size is where we want to make our place in the market because what we can offer others can’t and others include exports and exports because of 40 week or 13 week supply chain to get the stuff here.
It's stuff to compete on service.
So our strategy is built primarily around cut size and being the best supplier in total value which includes prices one element but a lot of other things.
I think that’s a very important differences especially when you want to compare what we do versus exports.
And then would you be able to say how much of the cut size price increase you’ve been able to implement? I mean looking at the indices of it seems like so far they have only recognized 30 on your business that’s more open market.
Can you just talk about how you have been able to perform there on the pricing side? So on the first increase we realized majority of the amounts increase on our non-indexed business.
As you mentioned we do have business price with index and those that only moved about $30 through the end of quarter but we do expect to see those indices go higher and we just saw pulp paper just moved this week and then on the second increase we’re just about there talking to our customers now and so that’s one still in progress and so we’re not in a position to comment about that one yet.
Just a clarification you say majority is that 50 or is that 60 or somewhere in between that 50 to 60? Majority of it is increase [ph].
Two questions Mark the shift of heavy weight accounts on Valdosta from DeRidder obviously there is always optimization when you had a new mill.
I’m just curious whether that was a productivity or a fiber decision are you deep bottle necking.
I’m just curious who wins the most or what drove that decision? It was considered both opportunities for fiber and taking advantage of what the big machine DeRidder can do but also the transportation component of that and where containerboard is going so we’re able to take advantage of again the fiber base and transportation logistics and the capability of the DeRidder machine to shift some of the light weight side of that and number one machine primarily at Counce and the machine at Valdosta.
Yes as said in another way we’re pulp limited at DeRidder and we’re not pulp limited in Valdosta and Counce.
So you want to make as much light weight as DeRidder as you can because you will make more square feet with the same number of tons and so that’s what we’re doing and as you pointed as it helps our -- it maximizes our fiber balance and then from a productivity point of view the DeRidder is a much better light weight machine than Counce number one.
We can’t make light weight on Counce number two and Valdosta.
So this is a triple this is the hat-trick of optimization we get three benefits.
And just one maybe harder question if you think about the weather impact that you saw you mentioned some box plants lost some days.
Did we see a mix shift that might have affected your average revenue per ton and may we see that shift back in Q2? Mark I would say that the mix shift I mean we had a little bit better mix our price was affected by the mix which I don’t think is significantly going to change going forward but also we had a we did have a very large account whose price increase went into effect the first of the year which had an impact on the quarter.
Beyond the weather I’m wondering if you noticed any specific differences in the regional demand trends you can comment either positive or negative just changes in box is targeted for e-commerce or things like that? Well from a regional demand standpoint it's very hard to look back on this quarter and say there is any significant trends because you had three areas of the country which were dramatically impacted by weather that is the Mid-West the North-East and the South-East that’s what the primary impact was for PCA which by the way also were the largest footprint of box plants.
So it's very difficult to draw any conclusions from the first quarter other than saying where are we now? Now as the weather settled down and that sort of thing and I think we’re back to much more normal demand trends really across the country with the exception of the one small pocket we talked about out there in California regarding AG.
And then on the AG question that you got earlier can you just remind us if you don’t have as much exposure to what the outcome might be for California what are your end markets over on the West Coast that you can point to? Well we’re primarily industrial market on the West Coast.
Just a couple of follow-up questions here first could you comment maybe a bit on export pricing.
Have you seen any movement up or downward with what you’re realizing in the export markets? Export markets in the fourth quarter drifted down a little bit they have since stabled that primarily Western Europe and Latin America I’m talking about China is an example Japan you know they have been very stable.
So on an overall basis I would say that things are pretty stable.
And then with respect to some of the weather issues as they played out -- thank you very much for the color on quantifying or trying to give your best guesses there as to how that flows but is your anticipation that some of that potential I guess made up as year goes on or some of that is permanently lost? What’s your guy tell you that how that may or may not translate through? I think you’ve got some is going to get made up but some is going to be lost.
I mean you know when you just have people in their houses with these conditions and I have been able to get out shop and do some of the normal things that they do you’re going to lose some of that but it's again it's I think we will return to trends that the economy trends that you know we forecast primarily for the year and by the end of the year we will be pretty close to those numbers.
Just to add to that on the cost side Mark mentioned earlier that natural gas prices have not dropped dramatically even with warmer weather and part of the reason for that inventories are very low.
So another affect that we might see is that we expect natural gas prices to eventually drop but it may take more time than we think because inventories are so low right now and that’s going to affect results at least in the second quarter a little bit.
One last topic I wanted to mention any additional requirements that you’ve or investments you will need to make to comply with Boiler MACT.
Nothing identified at this point.
So we’re actually well on our way to engaging work that’s had been identified two years ago so again no new capital.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups here just on the ramp up of DeRidder what sort of timeframe are we talking about to get from starting machine to fully rated capacity? I mean is it 3 months 6 months and is the period shorter simply because you’re not having to qualify these tons with outside customers.
We’re anticipating 3 6 months to bring the machine upto full productivity and on the question of qualifying you know we will certainly even with our own plants make sure that we are using in terms to qualify producing what they expect out of us.
So 3 to 6 months is a good timeline.
Okay and then just looking at your shipments versus the industry I think you said you were up 1.8% in the quarter and we are up close to 6% last year.
I just wondered if there was anything that you’ve seen as far as competitive response in the industry you did mention that you had a box plant acquisition but I just didn’t know if there was any competitive response that you’ve seen is around other players going after the same business that you’re going after now.
Anything you could point out?  I don’t think there is any changes I mean we basically have been up pacing the industry by us a given amount for the last 10 years and I don’t think there is always pockets where there is competition there has always business moves and gains but as we have said many times our biggest source of demand comes from existing customers giving more of their business either is if they grow or again it's the things we provide in terms of service and technical features and quality instead of maybe splitting an account 50-50.
Overtime we will get more and more that customers’ business because we do a very good job.
So that still remains the biggest source of growth growing with existing customers.
Okay and then just last question maybe for Rick it looks like you changed your inventory accounting here on the start of 2014.
Was there any meaningful impact old versus new on the first quarter meaning if you would use the old accounting methodology would these numbers have been higher or lower in the first quarter? No there would be no meaningful impact to the bottom-line earnings for the change to eliminate (indiscernible).
I guess question to Judy is it possible for you to just give us the average maybe sequential change in price realization in the paper business sequentially in dollars per ton? I think I gave I talked to you about kind of what we realized and can’t bring it down any further than that.
And then I guess to follow-up I guess maybe a broader question either for Mark or for Paul and as you’re growing faster than the industry and continue to do so what’s your bigger size now with Boise? Do you’ve to start to think about more of the impact on the broader industry and what impact that has as your growing factor or as you’re growing or are you still or you’re far away from that in terms of relative size to that meaningfully impacting your thinking and strategy there.
The only people we worry about impacting is our customers.
We are here to serve our customers we will grow whatever we have to grow to service them and they are really the only ones that matter in our way of thinking.
Rick thanks for the detail on the maintenance schedule is that now a more normalized with Boise is that a more normalized way to be thinking about it on an annual basis or is there more less maintenance this year than would be typical going forward with Boise? I think it's a pretty typical amount for maintenance but it could change depending upon when you schedule your outages throughout the year.
So I can’t say that it will be the same impact for quarter and I think that’s something that we will have to provide each year as we schedule our outages but in totality for the year it's a pretty representative number.
And then finally and that you’ve highlighted some of the costs you didn’t mention too much on the wood side and I was wondering if you’re seeing any seasonal relief right now on your wood cost or how you’re thinking about that into the second quarter so far? You know just think about what happened in the South-East starting at the end of September last year the entire South-East range that are right through the winter into the spring.
We haven't seen much relief there but through the mid-South and the towards Louisiana Texas area that’s normalized.
So it's gotten better it's not compared to what was going this winter it's not as bad.
So pricing has seen some relief.
And then final question is just on your leverage is pretty healthy shape as far as the balance sheet goes how should we be thinking about how you’re thinking about prioritizing cash flow going forward between additional deleveraging versus buybacks versus the dividend how should we be thinking going forward on that? Our answer has -- its same as last quarter our number one priority for cash is to pay down $1 billion of debt in the next three years we think that is important value creator for our shareholders.
If there is excess cash above that we would probably book a dividend increase before share buyback at this point.
I just want to come back to an earlier question Paul and I think you’re saying earlier that ultimately expect most of your growth as you’ve said in the past to be with your existing customers.
So would it be fair to say then that if it's with your existing customers holding price constant obviously because we can’t talk about future pricing that you would expect your margin and your return to be basically be inline or better overtime with historical trends as you grow in the future that’s question number one.
Question number two Hexacomb you used to own when as part of Tenneco you had experience with it what experience have you had in utilizing in your mix right now and with your customers any observations with that so far and then lastly can you remind us what’s the Boiler MACT CapEx outlay over the next several years.
Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
On the Boiler MACT I believe we had said it was around 25 million.
And with regard Hexacomb we did own Hexacomb PCA did through ’99 when we separated from Tenneco.
We were sold to private equity firm Madison Dearborn.
Hexacomb remained Tenneco’s further protective packaging business it's subsequently got sold it subsequently got resold to Boise and when we acquired Boise we got it back.
It's got a very nice natural synergy with us and that we have 80 box plants so we were potential sales people for that product and so it gives us a lot more possibilities than Boise would have in growing the business and secondly it's a grade that uses very lightweight paper 30 pounds or less and with the DeRidder 3 conversion we have got a really great place to make paper for Hexacomb it will run very well.
So that’s another synergy.
So Hexacomb is probably a better fit for us than anybody else in the country and so we’re glad to have it the question is on where we’re going with margins that’s been pricing and that’s between up in our customers and that’s not something that we wanted to get into on this call.
Just one quick follow-up I appreciate that you don’t want to talk about what your plans or how you may grow above or beyond or different things within the industry but as you look at fundamentals and components today what do you anticipate out of the containerboard shipments for the balance of the year not necessarily box shipments but containerboard shipments.
Do you think that fundamentals and such today support getting back to a 0.4 or so give or take 0.1 or 0.2 of containerboard shipment growth or do you think that we’re kind of still stuck in this flattish environment for the next 6 months 12 months 18 months.
I would just say that we hope to get back to a level of growth and GDP growth that is healthier than where we have been.
We certainly can’t predict that that’s going to be the case.
I don’t think any economist is out there predicting any dooms doom or going backwards necessarily.
I think that there is a most predictions kind of show a ramp up through the year.
We would like to think the same thing is going occur.
I’m sure customers feel the same way.
But I would like to also add regarding this whole regarding this whole growth strategy.
Our growth strategy is not changed by a stretched imagination.
We talked about strategic capital being directed towards areas where we have either capacity constraints or proven demand from a customer base.
We will continue to acquire when the opportunities present themselves and as Paul went into great detail about the value proposition that we have and we provide our existing customers.
So we will continue to grow on that platform.
And then last question I had was when you look at how you did this quarter you again outpaced the markets a bit.
Was that pretty uniform across the whole network of box plants? Was that more weighted towards what you’ve done historically with some of the legacy Packaging Corp plants or how did the -- was there much differential with how that’s on the home [ph].
Well you will always find some differential regionally depending on demand trends and that sort of stuff by region but for the most part I mean I just consider it to be for the end of quarter.
Yes.
Thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to talking with you in July with the second quarter numbers.
Have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's second quarter 2014 earnings results conference call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon the conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and thanks for participating in Packaging Corporation of America's second quarter earnings release conference call.
I am Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko our Chairman Tom Hassfurther Executive Vice President who runs our Packaging business Judy Lassa Senior Vice President who runs our white papers business and Rick West our Chief Financial Officer.
I will begin the call with an overview of our second quarter results and then turn the call over to Tom Judy and Rick who will provide more details.
I will later wrap things up and we will be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported second quarter net income of $100 million or $1.01 per share.
Second quarter net income included after-tax charges for the Boise integration and DeRidder mill restructuring of $14 million or $0.15 per share including cash charges of $2 million or $0.03 per share and non-cash charges of $12 million or $0.12 per share.
Excluding these special items second quarter 2014 net income was $114 million or $1.16 per share compared to the second quarter 2013 net income of $71 million or $0.73 per share and first quarter 2014 net income of $106 million or $1.08 per share.
Details of the special items are shown in the schedules included with our press release.
Second quarter net sales were $1 468 million compared to second quarter 2013 net sales of $800 million and first quarter 2014 net sales of $1 431 million.
Excluding special items the $0.08 per share increase in second quarter 2014 earnings compared to the first quarter 2014 earnings was driven by increased sales volume $0.07 lower energy costs $0.07and improved price and mix $0.05.
These items were partially offset by higher annual outage repair costs of $0.04 a higher tax rate $0.02 increased depreciation expense $0.02 and higher inventory consumption costs from extreme weather that were capitalized in inventory in the first quarter for $0.03.
We had an outstanding quarter delivering record results that were better than expected driven by strong corrugated products volume higher prices and lower cost than the first quarter.
Synergy realization of both our mills and box plants was also ahead of our projections as we continued to implement a broad range of actions to improve productivity and reduce costs.
We estimate that we realized annual run rate synergies of about $85 million to $90 million and we are well positioned to achieve at least $175 million in synergies by the end of 2016.
Looking at more details of second quarter operations.
Packaging EBITDA excluding special items was $259 million on sales of $1 145 million which equates to 22.6% margin.
Containerboard production was 846 000 tons up 25 000 tons compared to the first quarter of this year driven by two additional production days for 16 000 tons and also by higher productivity 9 000 tons.
A key synergy with the Boise acquisition was moving lightweight containerboard production from both our Counce Tennessee number one linerboard machine and Valdosta Georgia linerboard mill to the DeRidder Louisiana mill.
The production shift is complete and as a result we set an all-time productivity records at both Counce number one machine and the Valdosta machine.
Productivity on the DeRidder number one machine has also improved even with a lighter weight grade mix and we achieved record production on the Wallula Washington corrugated medium machine.
We had our Tomahawk Wisconsin medium mill down for six days in May for it is annual maintenance outage which resulted in reduced production of about 9 000 tons.
Containerboard inventories were up about 24 000 tons compared to the end of first quarter this year.
Of these 24 000 tons increase about 7 500 tons came from shipments that we could not get out at month-end due to rail and truck availability issues at our Counce and Valdosta Mills and about 3 500 tons of the increase came from our acquisition of product packaging during the quarter which Tom Hassfurther will discuss later.
The remaining 13 000 ton increase was the result of our plans to optimize containerboard inventories at our box plants to improve supply assurance and reduce transportation costs in light of continuing rail and trucking issues that we are seeing our Mills.
As most of you heard on the new U.S.
rail industry is facing both rail car shortages and also longer shipping times.
This has caused delays in scheduled shipments from our mills to our box plants.
At times we have had that to back bill rail shipments with higher cost shipments by truck in order to meet the needs of our box plants.
The trucking industry however is also facing service issues driven by limited availability of truck drivers and new regulations governing hours of service.
With low cost of money it is much more cost-effective for us maintain a slightly higher containerboard inventory at our box plants rather than increase transportation cost and run the risk of not having enough inventory on hand at our box plants to adequately serve the customers.
Our integration level in the second quarter was 91% and to meet our total containerboard demand we purchased 58 000 tons of containerboard from the outside market.
Our year-to-date purchases of containerboard are approximately 100 000 tons.
In the third quarter our Valdosta mill will be down eight days for its annual maintenance outage reducing production by about 13 000 tons.
Also the Wallula number two medium machine will be down for seven days for its annual maintenance outage reducing production by about 3 000 tons.
In addition we have planned boiler and limestone repairs at our DeRidder mill which will increase purchased energy and chemical costs during the third quarter.
I will now turn it over to Tom who will provide more details on PCA's containerboard and corrugated packaging sales and demand.
Thank you Mark.
Our containerboard and corrugated products demand was strong throughout the quarter with corrugated product shipments up 4.8% over the first quarter.
With the acquisition of Boise shipments were up 30% over the second quarter of last year and up 32% per workday.
Excluding Boise PCA's corrugated products shipments were up 5.5% per workday and up 3.8% in total.
On April 29 this year we acquired Crockett Packaging a corrugated products manufacturer including a corrugated plant and a sheet plant in Southern California.
The Crockett acquisitions was important for us strategically giving us a larger presence in the growing Los Angeles and Southern California markets.
Excluding the Crockett acquisition PCA shipments per workday were up 4.3% while the industry was up 1%.
Prices for corrugated products were up slightly compared to the first quarter driven by a richer mix.
With strong internal containerboard demand needed to supply our box plants we reduced our outside sales of containerboard both domestic and export a total of 8 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter.
During the second quarter total export shipments of containerboard including Boise were down 2 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter.
Export pricing remained steady throughout the quarter.
The domestic containerboard market for us also remained steady throughout the second quarter both in terms of demand and price and our total company domestic containerboard shipments were down 6 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter.
I will now turn it over Judy Lassa who will discuss white papers.
Thank you Tom.
Our papers segment EBITDA in the second quarter of 2014 excluding special items was $45 million on sales of $295 million which equated to a 15.2% margin compared to 13.1% margin in the first quarter.
Our white paper mills produced 275 000 tons with productivity up almost 3% over the second quarter of 2013.
Annual maintenance outages were completed during the quarter at our International Falls Minnesota and Wallula Washington paper mill.
These two outages resulted in reduced production of 14 000 and higher operating costs.
In addition to normal outage work at the Wallula mill we also upgraded the head box and rebuilt the forming section of another three paper machine which will increase machines (inaudible) range and overall paper quality.
It will improve efficiencies and lower operating cost.
The mills started up well after the outages and all three of the paper mills were realizing productivity improvements and cost reductions through better operating efficiency.
Our office paper shipments were down 2% compared to last year's second quarter and printing and converting and pressure sensitive paper shipments were down about 26 000 as a result of the fourth quarter 2013 paper machine closures at International Falls Minnesota mill.
Paper inventories were up about 2 000 tons compared to the end of the first quarter of this year.
White paper prices were up in the second quarter as a result of previously announced price increases for office papers premium printing [ph] paper and pressure sensitive paper.
Looking at the third quarter for the white papers business we have no planned annual maintenance outages.
Our Jackson Alabama paper mill will be down in the fourth quarter (inaudible).
We do expect evenly higher white paper shipments in the third quarter and further cost improvements in the mills.
I will now turn it over to Rick West.
Thank you Judy.
Looking at other companywide cost and earnings change items from first quarter results we did see significant improvements in our energy costs with warmer weather driven by both lower consumption of purchased fuels $0.04 per share and also lower fuel prices $0.03 per share.
Our effective tax rate was up in the second quarter to a more normal rate of about 37% which reduced earnings by $0.02 per share compared to the first quarter.
Amortization of annual outage repair cost and direct outage costs increased by a total of $0.04 per share in line with our expectations.
Depreciation expense was up $0.02 per share compared to the first quarter.
Finally we consumed weather-related higher cost containerboard inventory which was released in the first quarter that reduced second quarter earnings by $0.03 cents per share.
Moving to cash generation and uses for the second quarter.
PCA generated cash from operations of $185 million.
Capital expenditures were $97 million.
Common stock dividends of $39 million were paid or $0.40 per share and we did not repurchase any shares of PCA company stock.
Cash tax payments of $56 million were made and we paid out $50 million of long term debt.
Our total debt reduction since the acquisition of Boise on October 25 2013 is $225 million and our long-term debt is now at $2 432 million.
We ended the quarter with $162 million in cash.
I will now turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Before I move to the third quarter outlook I want to comment briefly on the DeRidder mill conversion project.
As you know on March 26 we announced plans to convert the number three newsprint machine at DeRidder to produce 355 000 tons annually of lightweight linerboard and corrugating medium and exit the newsprint business.
The D3 machine project is on schedule with startup expected by November 1.
The total estimated capital for converting D3 has not changed with $15 million spent in 2013 and $100 million to be spent this year.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect higher sales volume and lower operating costs from both higher synergies and less scheduled annual mill maintenance downtime.
These items will be partially offset by higher amortization of annual outage repair costs higher electricity prices higher freight and chemical costs and increased depreciation expense.
Considering these items we do expect third quarter earnings of $1.25 cents per share.
With that we would be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we have made on the call constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that operator I would like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the synergy side the realizations continue to come in very impressively.
Would you be able to tell us how you guys are trending in the packaging business in terms of the realization versus target as well as what the trend is in the paper segment? Alex this is Rick West.
In terms of the overall synergies we are getting a number of synergies in the packaging business as well as the white papers business in our mills and our box plants.
If you look at our total synergies they are basically coming from three or four basic areas.
Productivity and optimization at our mills cost reduction in our mills lower corporate overhead improvement in our white papers business and also optimization of our box plant operations.
So it's basically coming from both sides.
Okay Rick.
That's helpful qualitative color.
And then in terms of how the realized numbers so far breaks up between the segments would you be able to share that? Or are you not willing to give us that breakout? No we do not.
There's so many moving things where you are getting improvement if you could classify synergies also general improvements that you normally have in the business.
So it's very difficult to try to break it out and we are not going to do that.
That's fair and just one more for me on the white paper segment.
I am estimating that the price moved up about $17 per ton sequentially.
Can you confirm that number first? Then second of all is there incremental pricing that we should be thinking about in white papers in the third and fourth quarter of this year? Well first of all we have achieved significant price increases on a significant amount of our business.
Some of that which is tied to the increase [ph] but the exact amount is competitive information and we won't comment on that as well not being able to comment on board frankly.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi yes and good morning.
I just want to make sure I got that debt number from Rick.
What was the quarter in total debt for the company? $2 432 million.
Does that include the short term debt as well? That is correct.
Okay got you.
And the final question is -- And Chip the rest of that however this is Paul we have got $160 million or so cash on hand too.
So if you want to do a net debt number you have got to take the $160 million too off.
Got you and the one thing that we have gotten a lot of questions about was this move by RISI on the weekend where they took $10 out of the semichemical medium price and I know the writer mentioned that this was an adjustment for things he had seen I guess since last fall.
And I didn't know if you had seen a net reduction in the semichemical side over that period or is all the weakness really just in recycled and I guess that's how he tried to capture that.
Chip this is Tom.
I will take that question real quick.
I can tell you that my personal reaction was nothing short of shock when I saw that because we have an advantage quite frankly in terms of being able to get a good look at what's happening overall in pricing because we both buy and sell and we have seen absolutely no change in semichem medium prices.
In fact if you look at what happened last month and you look at the medium operating rates of 100.1% and yet inventories fell 22 000 tons it correlates very closely to what we see in the market which is very tight medium supplies.
So needless to say we were quite shocked by the number.
Obviously trying to capture something that's the price depends on the quality.
I think it has lots to do with that as well.
And we are having a difficult time securing enough quality medium ourselves in the marketplace.
So that's the best color I can give you on that question.
Chip this is Paul Stecko.
I think what you said is probably the case that over the last year they had some startup tons primarily in the recycled side and quality varies and we are not big we don't purchase very much recycled medium.
We purchase primarily semichem and that price has remained stable.
This is similar with pulp and paper.
It is correct that some recycled medium has moved from 20 to 30 it's really as you characterized that a catch-up event and the only vehicle they have to catch that up as that's part of the market is to throw it into the semichem price even though in our opinion semichem hasn't moved at all.
So we understand that.
We are not really troubled by it but you have got to understand the fact that this is not a recent happening it's a one off event that happened over seven months that they are choosing to reflect and as much more so than a recent event that hey this just happened yesterday.
Well it just got reported yesterday to capture something that's related to the price of semichem.
So that's kind of a long winded explanation but I think that's what your question really started to getting at.
That's helpful and one quick follow-up.
I remember in the 80s and 90s five and half to six and half weeks of supply across the mills and box plants was a normal inventory figure and in recent years with just-in-time technologies it seems like we have gotten down into the four week and yet in the last year we have seen that edge back up maybe from another several tons a week higher.
Is there some reason that would that just be that people have too much inventory? Or do you think there is something going on given the increasing freight and some logistical challenges that you mentioned earlier? Chip if you look at just the trucking industry well late last year legislation was passed.
It's under the United States Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration but it's in our service laws that are going to effect that very complex regulation regarding how the truck drivers have to account for their time spent behind the wheel each day how many hours they are allowed to drive between breaks and so that has added a complexity.
Again there is approximately probably 2.7 million trucks on the road which means 2.7 million truck drivers having to deal with this new legislation.
So that's been a big complexity.
And also on the rail side of the equation if you think about just number of tanker cars that are in service today compared to three years ago the number has tripled just over the last three years in terms of just the number of tanker cars that are in there.
Primarily they are handling oil of the North Dakota region.
And so the amount of traffic congestion now in the rail lines has significantly increased due to that.
And also with some of the accidents that occurred with oil tank cars the speed and this is across the nation the average speed on the rail is down 10% this year alone.
So those few items have compounded this whole issue of just in time and what the optimum amount of inventory needs to be.
And Chip this is Paul Stecko.
Just to build on that and something you said I have been around that long when six weeks was the norm.
And you are right there has been a structural change in the industry and that was driven by industry consolidation where lot of companies reduced the number of box plants they had.
And so you get the economy of scale there and over that time period those inventory level that were required by the industry dropped.
There used to be a magic number at which time people considered it a tight market and I think over the last 10 years that number has dropped little bit.
So that that number would be that most people look at it in terms of what is tight has dropped.
And I think that's primarily related to the fact that a lot of box plants has closed.
But we think it's about the turn at least in our business because the logistics situation is such that it's a lot cheaper to carry a little more inventory in all of your box plants than incur a huge freight premium for emergency shipment.
So our feel is this thing has bottomed out the number box plants is fairly stable and where inventory levels go our plants are going to be affected by how efficient a logistics system we have to support our box plants.
So there has been quite a change over the last 30 years.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Good morning guys.
D3 appears to be coming on quite well.
But the market seemed a little choppy at this juncture.
Any thoughts on pushing to ramp up at a later time? And just can you give us a little feel for how full do you think that plant will be running in year one? Well again if you look at where we are year-to-date we have already purchased 100 000 of board on the outside market.
We anticipate 200 000 tons of outside purchases this year.
We had stated I believe it was on the first quarter call that for 2015 we would probably need 255 000 tons or so on the outside market.
So if you look at where we are going with the machine we expect to start the machine up on November 1 and we will ramp the machine production to full capacity over time.
Most of the tons will go to our own box plants as we pull back on our outside purchases.
In addition we will be better able to supply a few of our long term export customers but again as far as the ramp up if you think about the fact that the box plant business continues to grow at that 4% rate we will have a home for these tons in our system.
So we are not concerned about ramping up the demand at this point.
Only thing that I would add I don't know what your definition of choppy is but the industry ran at 97% last quarter -- last month.
So that's still a pretty high operating rate.
Got you and that is helpful.
And with D3 winding down this year can you help us peg a CapEx number for 2015? That's something that we will need to get the machine started out and we will need to look at towards the end of the year and we are not prepared to give estimates at this point.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then in terms of the export market I know it's a smaller part of your business but with D3 ramping us just what's your view on the export market? I know you said prices have been stable for you.
Is there a price increase in the marketplace by European producers? Just wanted your thoughts on Europe in general? Do you think that's going to stick and how are market conditions in general on the European market? Phil this is Tom.
Number one is we can't predict what prices are going to do and we don't give those kind of projections going forward.
I can only tell you that what's happening in export prices.
We have got we got some markets that are trying to move up in price.
We have got others that have some small amount of price pressures.
Our advantage obviously is the fact that if prices don't agree with what we think we need to sell for we can always pull back and move them back here into the domestic market.
So I think it's moving around the world depending on what's going on in those various economies.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Good luck in the quarter.
Thank you.
Next question.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Thank you.
Rick I just wanted to clarify I think you had mentioned that you had achieved roughly $85 million to $90 million in synergies to-date or that was kind of a run rate at this point and that you are anticipating to be at $170 million by the end of 2016.
Did I hear that right? That is correct.
No I don't think that is correct.
It's $175 million not $170 million.
Okay.
You said $170 million.
I think you meant $175 million because that's what we said.
Okay and just so that I understand and that is independent of other types of operational types of improvements that you might get or is that kind of an all-encompassing number the way we should think of it? Because you had made that point about how it is difficult retrospectively to look back and can differentiate.
Is that though kind of an assessment of the extra value from synergies? Or is it more an all-encompassing number? I will give you a great answer.
Some of each.
And by that I mean we will capture some of the things that we concluded.
This was really a synergy but if we make a standalone improvement at the Counce mill or the Valdosta mill that's not in the number.
The DeRidder project is a standalone project.
So the return that we published about that project that's not a synergy.
We bought the company but we said upfront that doesn't count as a synergy.
That's all over and above.
But basically when you look at these things and it gets complicated.
That's why when you report these numbers you have got to give that disclaimer some of these things are hard to separate and we do the best we can but if it occurs at a mill that had nothing to do with the combination with Boise that doesn't count.
If we move paper from Counce to DeRidder and we say freight that does count.
But what's complicated is we have got hundreds and hundreds of these items and we don't want to make the accounting more work than the money we are saving.
So some of these things are estimates and it's just a pretty a gray area to be perfectly frank.
Okay and just one other small one if you comfortable with it.
I think you had Wallula and I-Falls down in the second quarter.
The old Boise used to give a indications on how much the downtime in the different quarters would cost.
I don't know if that's something that you are not planning to do or is that some color that you could give us just in helping as we do quarterly modeling? Well as we said last quarter Mark the one thing that's going to change a lot for us is repair job amortization if we take the outages throughout the year and then amortize the total cost of the repairs over the remainder of the year.
And if we look at that and second quarter the repair job amortization was $0.03 per share.
It's going to go to $0.07 per share in the third quarter and then up to $0.13 per share in the fourth quarter.
Now if you look at the other impact of the outages the production losses direct cost associated the inefficiencies you have in an outage we are going to pick up a little bit in the third quarter compared to the second quarter and it will pick up a little bit more in the fourth quarter in earnings compared to third quarter.
So those two items will be going down some if we progress through the two quarters but it will need the repair job amortization that is increasing that is the predominant factor in the rest of the year.
That it is very helpful.
That was for total company though? Is that correct? It was total company including the VA Mills and the previous Boise Mills white papers and packaging.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Congratulations on the quarter.
A couple of questions if I could.
Back to the synergy and I realize it's a long ways from 2016 but given the progress that you are making already with synergies and run rate that you have achieved given that the progress that you have been seeing at the mills at Counce and Valdosta which is being helped by the synergies and the acquisition of Boise does there come a point potentially where maybe have an opportunity to reassess the synergies and perhaps see that there might be additional amounts that you benefit by? Or is that run rate $175 million by 2016 that's the number going forward no matter what? George at this point we said at least $175 million.
This is Rick West.
Hi Rick.
Which implies there is a potential for more but we prefer to give you an update on the total number at the end of the year as we continue to assess things.
In terms of achievability and timeframe before the end of 2016 it may be possible but it's too soon to tell.
We would like a little bit more runway because a number of the synergies you get upfront we had a plan to get the productivity objectives done in terms of synergies and the corporate overhead and now we are working through the other items.
So it's really two soon to tell.
Yes.
Let me add just a little technicolor on that.
We just recently had one where we made some changes in the way we run our recovery boiler at DeRidder and we saw some savings.
We saw some productivity and that number is in our second quarter earnings.
The question you have is can we sustain that.
In other words did we just create another bottleneck someplace else but eventually it's going to wipe out that savings.
So some of these things you just can't run them off and claim them right way.
You have got to make sure that you are continuing this thing for three four months that hey this things permanent.
It's just not a one time thing that another bottleneck eventually wipes out.
So you can't claim victory too soon in some of these things and that's why we won't give updates quarterly on this.
We want to make sure that the number is a good number and then we will release it.
That's fair and we appreciate the technicolor as you said Paul on that.
Two additional questions and it will turn over.
First as we look out to early third quarter could you give us any update on bookings or billing on an adjusted basis? There has been some evidence from some of the other companies that we track not necessarily in corrugated that there are some destock that occurred in the second quarter.
Any effect you are seeing in your numbers? And then mechanically speaking and to the extent that it makes you can feel comfortable talking about this does that $10 drop in pulp and paper week really affect much of your business? Mechanically how much effect would it have at all on your outlook? Thanks guys and good luck in the quarter.
George this is Tom.
I will take the first part how we look in early the third quarter.
This is going to be a little tough comparison in this particular month because we have got 11 days but last year of the FBA recognized two holidays this year one holiday.
So I think the best way to look at it is on a total basis our volume is up 9% but we are flat on a per workday basis obviously because of that extra holiday.
So probably I would estimate that the month is probably going to come out somewhere in between.
Probably 4.5% is probably where we were really tracking on a per workday basis by the time that the month ends.
The $10 drop in medium is very little effect less than half a penny share at this point is what we would project.
And it could be even less than that quite frankly.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Regarding the acquisition in Southern California I was wondering if you could quantify or give us any color on the size and maybe multiple paid? And then maybe just more broadly as we look towards second half of the year and 2015 how do you think about bolt-ons? Do you have a certain amount of money that you have budgeted for bolt-ons that you try to ramp up your integration rate? Any kind of color you can give would be appreciated.
Anthony this is Tom again.
The only thing we really disclose on acquisitions is the purchase price which was $21 million.
But Crockett again these acquisitions have to meet the criteria as we said forward.
We have got be able to have a great customer base a great management team as well as being accretive to earnings.
Crockett meets all of those objectives.
And you know it happens to be in a market where we definitely had some capacity constraints.
So it fills a lot of need for us.
Regarding acquisitions going forward it will be the same strategy we have always had.
When they come along and they are a great fit and they meet all our needs we move forward.
But as I said many times these are not acquisitions that come along every day.
We look at many many acquisition opportunities throughout the year and quite frankly very few of them meet the criteria because our bar is very high.
But we will continue to make them as they come along and as it fits into our needs and we are getting up there to a reasonably high integration level and we will keep moving that forward.
Okay that's helpful.
And then given the success you had with Boise and the investor response to that is it fair to say that mill acquisitions are also at least on the table? Or do you have to wait to deleverage further before you would consider something like that? Right now we have got plenty of opportunity with the integration activity going on with the optimization that's going on a daily basis within the mills that were part of Boise fleet.
So we have got plenty of runway opportunity with these mills that we have got right now.
So we wouldn't actively be looking at any other mill assets.
And just to amplify what Mark said this is Paul Stecko.
We have never had a goal to get bigger.
We have always had a goal to make more money.
And so right now we think the Boise acquisition is a good vehicle to do that and that we have got a full court press on those activities.
Once we are through that then other possibilities could arise but we are not going to put the cart before the horse.
Okay that's helpful.
Turn it over.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Thanks.
Just two quick things.
First Boise improved your liner medium mix.
Is that having a fast impact or are we going to see that show up over time in efficiency? And second can you tell us whether the white paper system is still short pulp after all the changes that we have had over last year or so? Judy why don't you take the white paper one.
So from the standpoint of being full short we still purchase pulp at our Jackson mill.
Okay.
And I think with regard to the first part of your question regarding containerboard again there is a big benefit we have seen being able to utilize the assets at DeRidder on D1 machine and optimizing grade mix and also taking advantage of the West Coast where the Wallula media machine has proven to be very beneficial to us.
And what you said about the Boise being heavier and the lines of the medium is certainly true.
That did improve our balance.
It actually maybe improved a little too much.
And that's why the D3 conversion will put us right where we need to be.
So that's how we get back to the perfect balance.
Okay.
So you have already gotten a significant part of the benefit but there is more coming with D3? Yes absolutely.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but I just wanted to ask correct me if I am wrong but I think your total corrugated shipments increased 4.8% quarter-over-quarter.
It's a bit lower than the industry which grew 5.3%.
And if I back into your legacy growth its actually a little bit higher than the industry.
So I am just curious you are shipping some of your Boise business into the PKG legacy pants and if we should expect that going forward? What you are seeing in those numbers we are just reporting the PCA legacy plants right now because it's very difficult for us to get our arms completely around the Boise plant because we are shifting business back and forth and I would not necessarily conclude that the PCA legacy plants are a big beneficiary of that.
The one thing I would to what Tom said this is Rick West our numbers for (inaudible) from the first quarter of the second quarter do include the entire shipments of the company but when making year-over-year comparisons so that you can reflect it compared to the industry it is only the PCA numbers.
That's helpful.
Okay and then I guess my second question is I think you had said that the Boiler MACT spend (inaudible) is going to be about $25 million.
And I just didn't know if you had given any timing on that? Yes the spend is still around range right now and we are on track.
We are currently working on the Tomahawk boiler.
So we don't see changes there.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just a couple quick ones.
Most might have been asked but with respect to some of the new capacity you have got coming online with D3 I think you still talked about how you would have been short but with what's coming on stream you would still have a little more than maybe what you needed.
Industry practice has been something came on last year that some of those tons get discounted a bit in the marketplace until they get filled for a period of time.
Can you maybe talk about a couple of different things? One what might contribution look like from DeRidder November 1 when that comes on stream? Does that take six months to get all the way up to speed or how that works? And two how do you have to go to market with those extra tons? Well again just reiterating.
If you think about 2014 we will anticipate that we are going about 200 000 tons on the outside market.
We start the machine up as we are planning in November.
We currently have the home moving those tons out into our own system and then the original plan calls for curtailing the outside purchases as time went on.
So we have got immediately that on that balance we have got a home for a significant portion if you thought the machine was going to ramp up very quickly.
And then if you look at our growth rate on the corrugated box cut up on a 4% per year is about 90 000 or 100 000 tons of more requirements.
So very quickly through 2015 you would be consuming the vast majority of these tons coming off the machine to our own box plant.
Yes.
And to say it another way we are our own market.
So how do you go to market to yourself? It is a lot easier than going to the open market.
And with regard to projections on the ramp up we are going to ramp up first and report about it.
We are not going to forecast how a ramp up is going to go.
That is a lot less predictable and other things.
Although we are pretty confident.
So we are going to skip the second half of that question.
Fair enough.
Second question I had was as we look at some of the data through the quarter that we view it looked like it was a bit choppy obviously some months better than others.
I think April better May a little softer.
Could you comment on did you see any changes in trajectory through the past quarter? Were there any differences between categories? Maybe between food and different elements that nature within your customer sets? Some that were better some that were worse that we should be mindful of? Chris this is Tom.
Our shipments were pretty steady throughout the quarter.
There was not a significant amount of change.
We might have had a little bit more in April just as we catch up with some of the weather-related things that we mentioned in the first quarter.
But for the most part it was very steady.
Now regarding market segments we never break out by market segments and report on that.
So I am sorry I can't tell handle that question for you.
Okay that's helpful.
And good luck guys.
Thank you.
Next question.
Your next question comes from the line Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
You talked about the synergy realization but I didn't catch the number on the cost to achieve.
I think before you said $70 million to $80 million cost to achieve? Is that still a reasonable number on the synergy side to achieve? Yes.
That's still a good number.
Okay and then on DeRidder the $100 million of CapEx that you plan to spend in 2014 where are we on that process? How much have we spent to-date? And then how much -- what's the timing of that capital spend for the balance of the year? Again for an annualized run rate that's just by the end of the year we will have spent $100 million dollars to complete that project and bring the D3 on to containerboard machine.
I would only add one thing.
We do have a lot of capital in second half of the year.
We have done a lot of work preliminary at shutting down the machine.
We have made a lot of downpayments but I would say we will have more capital in the second half of the year than the first half of the year.
And is there anything you see with that project or anything in the market that you see that would affect the after-tax? I think you said after-tax DCF [pf] would return to 30% to 35%.
Is there anything that would make that either lower or higher? No.
Again we still feel good about that number.
As Paul said we make our own market and those tons are spoken for.
Sure and then just lastly on the office paper shipments.
You said they were down 2% in the quarter.
I think they were up 5.5% in the first quarter.
Anything that's shifting within your business there as you move through the year other than the market? No and our second quarter shipments were lower than first quarter but that's really strong first quarter and we needed to rebuild the inventory going into our outages at I-Falls and Wallula.
Great.
Thank you.
Great.
Then next question.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Hi thanks a lot.
I would like to circle back on the inventory discussion and just for perspective is there a sense you could give us on maybe how much additional inventory in tons you might be optimally wanting to take carry more given some of the logistical and transportation items you talked about? Yes this is Paul.
We think we are at the number now.
We had to bump it up roughly 10% and we think it's the right number.
We think we can service our business optimally at this number where our inventories up about roughly 10%.
And we will see.
As logistics get better and better we will pull that number down and hopefully we don't have put any more in there because that would be indicative of even further exacerbated transportation problems.
So we made about 10% adjustment.
We think that's going to hold.
Time will tell.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I appreciate that Paul.
Second question is just along the lines of some of the recycled startup tonnage and any thoughts as far as kraft liner versus recycled liner spread and if there is any additional appetite or risk for some customers to that are currently using boxes with virgin for kraft liner going to recycled? Al this is Tom.
I think really what the requirements from the customers are revolved around quality and their ability to move their products safely and efficiently from point A to point B.
So the other recycled startup are going to have to meet a high criteria I think to really compete the marketplace and that requires a lot of capital to get there.
So instead of the -- I think there's markets for each to some extent but the majority of the market will still revolve around the quality of the sheet and the quality of the box you provide to customer.
Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
Then I wanted just Rick and thanks for the commentary on the amortization of maintenance and as far as production pickup in tons is there any way I know you had mentioned third quarter and fourth quarter we will see a little bit of that from this maintenance schedules but is there a way you could sign this put this and quantify this for us as far as number of tons picked up in third quarter and fourth quarter sequentially? No.
We do not have project tonnage.
There's a lot of factors there.
I would say as we did earlier we said higher sales volume but we are not going to get into that how much we are going to produce the next quarter.
Okay and I am not talking about produce but just from a maintenance schedule perspective.
How much pickup you get just from your maintenance? I am not asking for the -- We don't give the exact tons that we are going to take out the next quarter.
But I would tell you as I said earlier with the fact that we have our Valdosta Mill down and our Wallula Mill down there is not that much difference in production losses between the two quarter.
But I am going to be able to give you the exact number.
Okay.
All right.
Well thanks for that additional insight anyway.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
Next question.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with Davidson.
Thanks.
I am at the tail-end here too.
So thanks for the color on the semichemical news and you guys have long been proponents of the importance of virgin.
Do you think that this could be the beginning of a true schism between the pricing of the two products? No.
All right and that's a brief answer.
With respect to DeRidder I think you said that your costs are going to come down but should we be modeling any startup expenses in the fourth quarter? Or is it just kind of accretive because you are exiting newsprint? We are not giving fourth quarter guidance on startup expenses at this point.
We will give more of a protection of the D3 machine in the total picture with our third quarter well really after we startup.
It's something that you have to wait and see.
Yes and on that previous question we do give maintenance downtime numbers for the upcoming quarter.
So we told today how many tons we would lose at Valdosta and Wallula but we only do that one quarter in advance.
We don't give it full year.
We don't do two quarters in advance.
And it's the same thing when you are getting into cost elements as a fourth quarter.
We talk about things one quarter in advance.
We will talk about the fourth quarter when we have this meeting again reporting on third quarter result.
And that's been our policy for the last 15 years.
Understood and then with your Crockett acquisition are you getting any early read on the California agricultural season? Again Crockett is just a small way business in the ag business just like we are as well.
That ag business it depends on what crop you are in.
There is whole bunch of different moving parts out there.
Some are hurting much worse than others and depending on the time of the harvest but needless to say the draught has some effect.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Mark just curious it seems like these other conversions that ran on over the last 12 to 18 months newsprint and the containerboard were pretty rough for the guys that attempted on that.
Have there been any lessons that you guys have taken from that? Well again we have said over the last few years you can converge just about anything but part of that equation is how much capital does it take to produce the quality that you really require and so I think again knowing what we know how do well we have been address those issues and understanding how we have to apply that the capital to achieve the ultimate goal.
So again part of the equation here too is that the D3 machine will have a much bigger virgin make up opportunity with the virgin fiber.
So it's not just a recycled converted murder machine.
So in that regard I think this is not quite comparable to other conversions that have been attempted.
Yes.
I guess you guys have a market too.
I had a question for Tom Hassfurther if I could.
Tom there has been some talk about changes that some of the shippers are going to make in how they charge for the packaging shipments going forward charging for size as well as weight and I just wondered whether you think this is going to have much effect on the business? And also whether it's going to lead to have more use of these on-site customized box machines and whether that might be interesting niches for PCA? Mark I would say that I don't think it's going to have any - -overall it's not going to have a big impact one way or the other.
I don't think these changes that are occurring at the UPS and FedEx as an example.
But I do think that regarding these sampled [ph] conversion that sort of stuff to make a more customized box you know that market has been there.
It's growing.
I think it has slowed down in terms of its growth and there is applications for it but I think that it will continue to grow to some extent.
There is some opportunities for us I think for anybody probably because it is a consumption arena that is growing and we are taking a look at that and as well as other things.
But I don't see it as being a huge change or shift in terms of demand in that arena.
Okay and then finally Judy can you just comment on the release liner market? My sense has always been that that kind of ramp-up at Wallula has run a little slower than Boise expected them.
And I wondered if you could just give us a sense of how the market looks right now? Yes certainly.
Really in that market the demand is pretty solid with a slight growth going on and the opportunity at Wallula is going to allow us to get in some different segments and some different capabilities.
And to build on that Mark a little bit we just did a project out there on annual shutdown that Judy talked about in terms of a head box and informer improvement and you are right that slowed the ramp-up and the sale of that product when Boise ran the operations and one of the first things that actually that was identified both between Judy and Mark was that that needed to be fixed in order to get what we really want to get out of that machine.
And so far we have been extremely pleased with what that machine has down since that rebuild.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks very much.
Good luck in the third quarter.
Very good.
Operator we are just about out of time.
We could probably take one more question.
Certainly.
Your final question comes from the line of Garo Norian with Palisade Capital.
Hi guys.
You have talked for a few years about OCC prices likely moving up and make conversion more attractive more mostly probably driven by demand coming from Asia and it seems this hasn't really started to play out and I was just curious as to why you think it hasn't yet or am I just not seeing it in the numbers? This is Paul Stecko.
The simple answer we predicted that the world run out of recycled fiber and that's what happened in 2009 at the financial collapse but concerned.
It occurred that the supply demand line has about crossed.
And what's happened since then is it comes down to one thing as China goes so goes the world.
China's asset for OCC could be insatiable.
They come to the U.S.
for most of it.
If China starts growing again at the rate that even is close to resembling what they did in the past we think that indeed will happen and when it happens it will be more a function of China's growth than anything else.
Thank you.
And with that we will conclude the second quarter call.
I look forward to talking to you during the third quarter call in October.
Have a nice day.
Thank you.
Again thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America’s third quarter 2014 earnings results conference call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan.
Please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and thanks for participating in Packaging Corporation of America’s third quarter earnings release conference call.
I’m Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko our Chairman; Tom Hassfurther Executive Vice President who runs our packaging business; Judy Lassa Senior Vice President who runs our white papers business and Rick West our Chief Financial Officer.
I’ll begin the call with an overview of our third quarter results and then turn the call over to Tom Judy and Rick who will provide more details.
I’ll then wrap things up and we’ll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported third quarter net income of $104 million or $1.06 per share.
Third quarter net income included after-tax charges for the Boise integration debt refinancing and DeRidder mill restructuring of $20 million or $0.20 per share including cash charges of $6 million or $0.06 per share and non-cash charges of $14 million or $0.14 per share.
Excluding these special items third quarter 2014 net income was $124 million or $1.26 per share compared to the third quarter of 2013 net income of $89 million or $0.92 per share and compared to the second quarter of 2014 net income of $114 million or $1.16 per share.
Details of special items are shown on the schedules that were included with the press release.
Third quarter net sales were $1 519 million compared to third quarter 2013 net sales of $845 million and second quarter 2014 net sales of $1 468 million.
Excluding special items the $0.10 per share increase in third quarter 2014 earnings compared to the second quarter of 2014 earnings was driven by increased sales volume and improved mix for $0.12 lower fuel costs $0.02 and lower chemical and recycled fiber costs $0.02.
These items were partially offset by higher annual outage costs of $0.03 higher electricity costs $0.02 and higher medical and workers’ compensation costs $0.02.
This was our eighth consecutive quarter of record earnings excluding special items driven in part by strong sales volume record mill productivity and mill cost reductions.
The integration of Boise Packaging continues to generate significant synergies and operational improvements in the white papers that resulted in lower costs and higher margins.
At the end of the third quarter realized annual synergies were at a run rate of about $110 million up from about 85 to $90 million at the end of the second quarter and we continue to expect synergies of at least $175 million by the end of 2016.
We have also achieved a significant strategic milestone on October 17 with the completion of the Number 3 newsprint machine conversion at the DeRidder Louisiana mill to produce containerboard.
This work was completed two weeks ahead of schedule and the start-up of the machine is on plan with no major production or quality issues so far.
In addition to providing needed capacity we’re excited about the grade optimization potential and freight savings that the D3 machine will bring going forward.
Looking at the details of our third quarter operations packaging EBITDA excluding special items was $262 million on sales of $1 176 million which equates to 22.3% margins.
Containerboard production was a record 858 000 tons up 12 000 tons over second quarter of this year.
Our Valdosta mill was down seven days during the quarter for its annual maintenance outage reducing containerboard production about 11 000 tons.
In addition we completed planned boiler and (indiscernible) repairs at our DeRidder mill and also in the fourth quarter our Wallula Washington No.
2 medium machine will be down for five days for its annual maintenance outage which will reduce production by about 2 000 tons.
Containerboard inventories at the end of September were down 7 000 tons compared to the end of second quarter but up 21 000 tons since the beginning of the year including an increase of 4 000 tons with the April 2014 acquisition of Crockett Packaging.
The remaining 17 000 ton increase was the result of our decision to increase our containerboard inventories some at our box plants to improve and optimize supply assurance and transportation costs.
The rail and truck issues that we spoke about during our second quarter earnings call in July did not improve during the third quarter.
Fortunately with our inventory adjustment and our day-to-day management of the situation we’ve been able to limit some of the impact on transportation costs.
Our integration level in the third quarter was 92% and to meet our total containerboard demand we purchased 47 000 tons of containerboard from the outside market.
Our year-to-date purchases of containerboard were 147 000 tons.
With the start-up of the DeRidder No.
3 paper machine most of these outside purchases will be eliminated and we will only purchase some specialty grades that we do not produce.
I’ll now turn it over to Tom who will provide more details on PCA’s containerboard and corrugated packaging sales and demand.
Thank you Mark.
Our containerboard and corrugated products demand was strong and steady throughout the quarter.
With the acquisition of Boise overall corrugated product shipments were up 33% over the third quarter of last year.
Excluding Boise PCA shipments were up 6.2% in total and were up 4.5% per workday with one additional workday in this year’s third quarter.
The acquisition of Crockett Packaging in April of 2014 contributed about 1.5% of the shipments increase.
Industry corrugated product shipments were reported last week and total shipments were up 1.7% and shipments per workday were essentially flat for the third quarter.
PCA prices for corrugated products increased slightly compared to the second quarter driven in part by a richer mix.
Our outside sales of containerboard were up 8 000 tons compared to the second quarter and down 19 000 tons compared to the third quarter of last year including Boise tons in both years.
We reduced both domestic and export sales and increased our integration level from 88% in the third quarter of last year to 92%.
Pricing for domestic sales of containerboard was essentially the same as the second quarter.
Export prices were down about $10 per ton on average but pricing stabilized and began to increase late in the quarter.
For the first 10 days of October PCA bookings for corrugated products are up 5.6% over the same period last year and billings are up 4.5% so we are off to a good start in the fourth quarter; however we do expect corrugated product shipments in the fourth quarter to be lower than in the third quarter with three less shipping days and some seasonal slowdown in demand that usually occurs during the Christmas holiday period.
I will now turn it over to Judy Lassa who will discuss white papers.
Thank you Tom.
Our paper segment EBITDA in the third quarter of 2014 excluding special items was $56 million on sales of $313 million which equated to about an 18% margin compared to just over a 15% margin in the second quarter.
This margin improvement was driven primarily by higher volume and improved operations and lower costs in our white paper mills.
Our white paper mills ran extremely well producing 296 000 tons.
We had no annual maintenance outages in the quarter.
We will have our Jackson Alabama mill down for seven days in November for its annual maintenance outage which will result in lower production by 9 000 tons and higher operating costs.
We did build some paper inventories at the end of the quarter up about 6 000 tons compared to the end of second quarter and that’s primarily related to the planned outage at Jackson.
Office paper shipments during the third quarter were up 7.3% over the second quarter this year and were down 5.4% compared to the third quarter of last year.
During the past year we elected to exit some business which did reduce our shipments.
Printing and converting and pressure-sensitive shipments were up 3 000 tons compared to the second quarter and down about 22 000 tons compared to last year’s third quarter.
That is as a result of the fourth quarter 2013 paper machine closures at the International Falls Minnesota mill.
Finally white paper prices were essentially flat in the third quarter compared to the second quarter and looking at the fourth quarter we expect to see seasonally lower white paper shipments and higher fuel costs at our International Falls Minnesota paper mill with the onset of winter conditions.
I will now turn it over to Rick West.
Thank you Judy.
Looking at other company-wide cost and earnings change items from second quarter results amortization of annual outage repair costs and direct outage costs increased $0.03 per share which was in line with our expectations.
We saw expected seasonally higher prices for electricity of $0.02 per share and our medical and workers’ compensation costs were up $0.02 per share.
<br>Moving to cash generation and use for the third quarter PCA generated cash from operations of $223 million.
Capital expenditures were $107 million during the quarter and year-to-date capital expenditures are $255 million.
Common stock dividends of $39 million were paid or $0.40 per share.
We made $53 million of cash tax payments and we also paid off $75 million of long-term debt.
Total debt reduction since the acquisition of Boise on October 25 2013 is $300 million and our long-term debt is now at $2 357 million.
We ended the quarter with $154 million in cash on hand.
To reduce the earnings risk of potential interest rate increases on variable interest rate debt we issued $400 million of 10-year notes with a fixed interest rate of 3.65% in the third quarter and used the proceeds to pay down a portion of our bank term loan debt.
I will now turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter with the DeRidder conversion we expect higher mill production which will allow us to reduce our outside purchases of containerboard.
Corrugated product shipments are expected to be lower with three less shipping days compared to the third quarter and we also expect seasonally lower white paper shipments.
Amortization of annual outage repair costs will be about $0.07 per share higher than in third quarter and we expect seasonal increases in fuel and transportation costs.
Considering these items we expect fourth quarter earnings of $1.16 per share excluding special items.
With that we’d be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you some of the statements we’ve made on the call constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that Operator I’d like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you good morning.
Two quick ones.
One the September refinancing so when you had originally completed the Boise transaction you talked about paying down a billion dollars of debt subsequently.
I think with this refinancing where you took advantage of very low rates does that change your thinking on the need to necessarily pay down a billion dollars in a specified time frame? Mark regarding that we took advantage of that opportunity with the interest rate to give us flexibility but also I think the timing of our plan is still to pay down the billion dollars of debt over the next couple of years so that target hasn’t changed but we did want to take care of some of the uncertainty.
Rick did you want to add anything? No except Mark we still have over $700 million of variable rated debt so we can continue to pay down our term loans until they are completely paid out with this refinancing.
And I’d add – this is Paul Mark.
This does give—as Mark pointed out flexibility is the key word.
We wanted to get our debt down because it was variable and you never know what will happen but we just took $400 million off the table that just put us at risk and so paying down a billion in three years is still a goal but if it took 3.5 or 4 and we had a better use for the money vis-à-vis dividend or share buyback we’re in a position that allows us to do what is the best thing and not be totally tied to this commitment to pay down a billion in three years.
So we’ve built some flexibility for ourselves that allows us to take advantage of whatever happens in the marketplace.
Thank you makes a lot of sense.
There has been a lot of talk on MLP and is that something that you guys have had a chance to take a look at and do you have any thoughts at this stage? Yeah Mark we’ve spent a lot of time on this and we have a good appreciation of its merits both financially and strategically.
We’ve engaged legal and financial assistance to provide the information that would allow us to submit a request to the IRS for a private letter ruling but obviously the big unknown is when the IRS will lift this moratorium on the MLPs and more importantly what are the rulings and the substance of any private letter request.
I think again this information will impact if and how we proceed with any MLP consideration.
Paul do you have anything you want to add to that? The only thing that I’d add is that I’ve been looking at this along with Mark and Rick and Kent Pflederer our General Counsel but I’ve kind of just tried to stay focused on the strategic aspects and the shareholder value creation as opposed to the mechanics and the structure of setting one of these things up.
They’re kind of interesting – you know MLPs can create shareholder value from my perspective in a couple ways.
The first is the traditional way related to the value arbitrage if you will that results in selling a cash drain that’s tax advantaged for a higher multiple than your stock is trading and the multiple that you end up getting is going to be a function of how the MLP investors view the security of that cash flow stream and what ability you have to increase distribution of that cash flow by puts down of additional cash flow from the parent company to the MLP over time so that’s how it basically works.
But there’s a second and very important way that you could also create value and that’s referred to as third party growth.
This growth is in addition to simply pushing down a larger percentage of your existing cash flow to MLPs.
This new growth results from what value you get from redeploying the proceeds that you receive from the MLP investors and as you know this redeployment could be pay down debt increase the dividend buy back shares or reinvest into the business.
In this regard with regard to reinvesting into the business I think PCA has generated a track record over the last 10 15 years of judiciously applying capital and obtaining superior returns for the shareholders.
Our recent energy projects at Counce and Valdosta and our Boise acquisition are good examples of this.
We think that our ability to redeploy assets should resonate well with any potential MLP investors and this can create a lot of value for both the MLP investors and the PCA shareholders.
So this thing is very attractive especially if you can generate value in both ways and it’s something that we consider to learn more and more about each day but as Mark says we can’t do anything until we hear what comes out of Washington.
That’s tremendously helpful.
So recognizing you’ve got to wait to hear something from Washington it sounds like you’re relatively comfortable with whatever complexities that the structure would entail.
Is that fair? Let me turn it over to our structure man Rick.
Well Mark we’re basically in the preliminary evaluation phase.
As Mark said we’ve engaged auditors legal and other advisors to look at what we would need to do for setting up the initial MLP IPO for carve-out audited financials but we’re also beginning to look at the changes that would be needed with an MLP reporting structure but we’re really in the early stages of that work and we’re continuing to look at each of the aspects of what we would need to do to operate on a daily basis with this type structure.
So that’s where we’re at – the preliminary evaluation phase but we’re taking the time and effort to effectively look at it as how we can best operate in the future if that were to take place.
Thank you very much.
Next question please.
Yes good morning.
First question is just on the state of the market.
A big dilemma we’ve all faced and I’m sure you all have too is the sort of decoupling of box demand with GDP that we’ve seen in the past few years with the outsourcing that seems to have come to an end.
We got I guess a hint in September that maybe we’re recoupling and I know it’s hard to say with just a few months of data and finally seeing the economy get some life but what are your thoughts about that? As you look at your current customer mix do you think you’re going to see at least the industry tie its shipments more closely to the growth in GDP than we’ve seen in the last 15 years? Chip this is Tom.
Let me see if I can take a stab at this.
I think where we are at least in the short term here is as business has grown manufacturing has improved somewhat.
A lot of that has been in the durables area and some of those industries don’t use a lot of corrugated; but the indicators are going forward that I think you’re going to see a little more in the non-durables area and especially in light of the fact that the employment levels are improving wages are going up gasoline prices of course are coming down quite significantly which puts a lot more money in consumers’ pockets and therefore I think that will start to really begin to drive the non-durables area which is much more tied to corrugated demand.
So I think that when you look at a total GDP number it can be a little misleading from the standpoint of it depends on where the growth is coming from and how much use happens to be in the corrugated area.
But when you look at non-durables that’s very much tied to corrugated and I think we’ve got some definite upside there.
Yeah let me just build on that.
Tom said something very important here about non-durables.
If you go back Chip it has to be at least 10 years though my memory is failing me there but one of the first real tips we had in corrugated demand was the first time gasoline prices spiked up a lot and that sucked a lot of disposable income out of the economy.
That disposable income was maybe $100 a month for everybody that drives a car and so they weren’t going to buy a big non-durable—a big durable good with that money they were going to spend that money on things packed in a corrugated container and not on gasoline because as you know we don’t ship a lot of gasoline in corrugated containers.
So if getting gasoline prices—if they can fall in the short term that’s a big plus for corrugated because that disposable income will go somewhere and wherever it goes most of it is going to be packed in a box.
So we also root for lower gasoline prices at PCA – it helps transportation expenses too.
Got you that’s very helpful.
I guess shifting gears a little bit I know you guys certainly—of late certainly have shown a great alacrity in adding to shareholder value.
I’m just sort of looking here at—you know the net debt is down to $2.2 billion you’re roughly a third of the way through your debt repayment plan that you had discussed after the Boise deal.
But it’s interesting – when you look at your EBITDA is arguably going to be less than two times—I’m sorry a little more than half of that net debt level so you’re less than two times leveraged already as we look at next year.
I just wanted to sort of take a temperature and see would that at least allow you to consider the dividend as a potential increase candidate and also given your success in making acquisitions are you considering that you’re still open for business or do you still want to get that debt down even further before you’d consider that? You know I think it goes back to the word flexibility that I used earlier.
I think where we are right now we’ve got these options to consider and that’s something that as time goes on we’ll be discussing with the board.
The fact that we have paid down $300 million and where we are with the business it gives us a lot of firepower to move in different directions whether it’s dividend increases.
I think on the acquisition side right now obviously we’re still focused pretty heavily on the completion of this integration so that’s less of an interest to us immediately but that doesn’t say that going forward if an opportunity came along we certainly would have to consider that.
But again I think right now we’re very comfortable and we’ve got tremendous flexibility to move that cash and best deploy it.
Paul? Chip we mentioned on the previous caller – you probably didn’t hear it but you were holding on the line – we also refinanced $400 million in variable debt and got very attractive rates on 10 years.
That gave us a lot of flexibility to put us in a position to consider the things you’re talking about.
Got you.
Real quickly – could you talk a little bit about the increased integration we’ve seen? I mean you guys are buying box plants.
We saw another big deal down in the southwest.
How much of the non-integrated business is left and do you think that could discourage new capacity aimed at the independents since it seems like there’s not that many left? Chip this is Tom.
I think you were getting at getting a real handle on what’s going on in the marketplace and certainly see it very much like we see it.
So I think that our strategy to get to 90%-plus integration which is where we are and we intend to even do more is a sound strategy and certainly given what’s going on in the rest of the marketplace.
And of course you know have even—if you observe if you’ve got some direct mill owners who had no cut-up at all who are now—have now actively pursued some acquisitions so it’s a bit of a change in the marketplace.
Very helpful thank you.
Thanks everyone good morning.
I wanted to go back to MLPs just a couple of questions.
Remembering that flexibility is one of your bigger watch words at Packaging Corp would it be safe to say that until you ultimately come to a decision on MLPs and for that matter get the appropriate signals one way or another from Washington that bigger capital allocation decisions might be on hold or will you look at these are parallel and independent decisions that you need to look at? I think the latter part – you know we will continue in parallel and look at opportunities as they come along.
Obviously we wouldn’t want to pass up on something that was a good opportunity for the shareholders anticipating something out of Washington.
I think the key right now is for us to be prepared and understand what the implications are of a private letter ruling which we are; but in the meantime we’re going to continue running the business and provide value to the shareholders in the ways that we’ve done historically.
Back on that flexibility we’re going to sound like a broken record and we’ve said this for 10 years.
We’re not smart enough to predict the future but we’re know we’re not smart enough to predict the future so we take another way out – build in flexibility and that allows you to capitalize on the future whatever it may be.
Again paying down or converting this debt we had $400 million to fixed rate gives us some flexibility to pursue in your term a parallel and independent course.
So we’ve got the firepower we think now to do a lot more different things than we had six months ago.
Paul another question and maybe this is somewhat preliminary.
Again as you’ve studied MLPs and what the investor base and investment MLPs values perhaps somewhat differently than traditional if you will paper and forest investors might look at or value do you envision any changes in the actual business model? I’m not getting into mechanics now in terms of what assets might or might not be in an MLP or (indiscernible) and what would remain with the parent but more in terms of the integrated containerboard business do you perhaps run it differently if it were part of an enterprise that had MLPs than what you’re doing currently? If so what would those changes maybe look like? Yeah that’s a very easy question to answer.
The answer is no we wouldn’t run it any differently.
We have a business model that works and no matter what vehicle you have for transferring value to shareholders or creating value for shareholders in the end it comes down to your primary business model.
If you’ve got a lousy business model there’s nothing you can do to improve shareholder value.
As they say cash is cash and our business model as you know has been performing at a very high level for a long time.
That’s the last thing we’d change.
Understood.
I appreciate that Paul.
Two last ones and then I’ll turn it over both on operations.
Can you comment at all in terms of how D3’s start-up might be built into your guidance for fourth quarter? You obviously mentioned it will be more in the way of production obviously but what should we factor in perhaps for start-up costs or incremental EBITDA if that’s possible to comment on? And the down time in the third quarter in packaging was 11 000 tons I think you said in total; initial guidance was 13 000 tons.
Obviously it was a good operating quarter – you already said that but were there any specific things that really went well in bringing back up Valdosta? Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
On the first part regarding DeRidder we’ve only been running for four days; this will be our fifth day of running so it’s early.
We’re obviously pleased with what we’re seeing so far but we’ve got just—like I say we’re in the start-up phase.
But we’ve been conservative in building contributions to fourth quarter earnings.
I think a better way of looking at that is to understand going forward if you assume we get through the start-up curve with no problems and we’re producing according to the original plan on a quarter-over-quarter basis Rick you can build that for them and I understand it was $115 million capital and about 30% returns so that would give after-tax contribution of--? Yes Mark.
You know with that what we’ve said previously with the 30% return at the capital you’re looking at a project that’s going to generate on an annual basis when fully operating rough numbers about $60 million of EBITDA or about $0.36 per share on an annual basis.
So of course that would be about $0.09 per share per quarter and if you look at the fourth quarter the machine is not operating essentially the first month October and you’ve got start-up costs as you mentioned so that’s what Mark was alluding to.
What we’ve put into the guidance is something—you know you’re almost guessing at this point.
Yeah George let me just amplify on that.
When you start up the paper machine and you know of examples where others have done this it doesn’t go well.
You actually lose money the first quarter you start it up because you don’t run very well and all that overhead that the newsprint machine was covering and although you were only breaking even with newsprint it covered a lot of overhead.
So this machine doesn’t run well it could actually hurt fourth quarter earnings.
Now we don’t think that’s going to be the case.
We’ve been running for five days and there’s been no showstoppers but we’ve got a long way to go.
Depending how well this machine ramps up depending on a lot of things we’ll make money in the fourth quarter.
It’s a tougher guess than normal because it’s easy to make a forecast on a machine that you’ve run for 10 years – you know how it behaves you know what cold weather does to it you know a lot of other things.
But with a start-up like this it’s plus or minus 50% just to grab a number.
So we’ve put a number in.
At the end of the quarter we’ll see if we were close.
We’re hoping it’s better and we’re hoping it’s not worse but we really don’t want to give guidance.
We don’t want to throw that number out because there is so much uncertainty around it.
Throwing out a number tends to validate it and it tends to maybe mislead investors that we’re overconfident in something.
Right now we’re in a learning phase – so far so good but so far is the operative phrase.
Understood.
Then regarding the last part of your question on tons the difference in the containerboard we had originally planned to have the Wallula No.
2 machine outage in the third quarter and that was moved into the third quarter so that’s a couple of thousand tons of difference.
Okay thanks.
I’ll turn it over.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
I was wondering how volumes trended over three quarters—sorry the three months of the quarter and then the industry data for September shipments seemed incrementally positive.
You talked about bookings and billings being up 4 to 5% in October.
Are you seeing sort of an acceleration of box demand or has it been mostly stable or was it stable throughout the quarter or is there any kind of color you can give us there? Anthony this is Tom.
The volume trend through the quarter was relatively steady.
We kind of built up into this September time frame somewhat because of the holiday season and our specialty graphics business does come up a little bit at that point in time.
Box demand though overall I would say is pretty steady and we’ll see the same thing in the fourth quarter with the exception of the end of the year when we have a little bit of a holiday slowdown.
Okay that’s helpful.
Then maybe just turning over to MLPs Rick you indicated that you’re at a preliminary stage of investigation.
I’m just wondering assuming that the IRS pause or the government was not an issue how long do you think it will take you internally to really make a decision or to feel that you’ve completed your analysis on the MLP front? How long do you think that would take? I really can’t comment on that right now Anthony.
You need to go in and look at—you know there’s a number of things you have to do in terms of auditing and carve-out financials.
We’re in the preliminary evaluation of that phase and you always want to have a look at what do you want to do in advance and what do you want to wait to do until you have more clarification on what a potential MLP could look like.
So we don’t want to waste a lot of time doing things until we kind of know a structure of what one could look like but there are some things you can do in advance to prepare yourself.
But at this point I couldn’t give you a time frame that we could be ready or how long it would take but I can tell you that we’ll be in a much better position to do so in the next few months.
The only real broad calibration we could give you – you know it won’t be in terms of days or years.
It will be in terms of months.
Okay that’s helpful.
I’ll turn it over.
Thank you good morning guys.
A couple of questions.
So in terms of the IRS moratorium do you have any visibility on the timing around when we may hear back? Do you think we’d hear something before the end of the year or do you have any visibility around that at all that you can share with us? The latest is that they’re saying by the end of the fall.
The problem is the fall ends in December so that would be government’s latest.
Fall of ’14 Mark? Well that’s what—but again you know two months ago they were saying August and September so the number the date keeps shifting with the government.
Our ability to handicap when that happens is approaching zero.
Understood.
Appreciate the honesty there.
Then just on D3 so it’s being ramped into the seasonally slow part of the year.
The market participants that sort of have a really good feel on what’s happening are characterizing it as a very sloppy market now so how do you balance bringing on new supply at the same time continuing to manage price costs in an efficient and effective manner? Well again as we talked about through the second quarter call we had a home for the tons and basically the tons are already sold to our system so we’re in the process of reducing outside purchases.
We plan to build some inventory during the quarter and get ready for the annual outages in the first quarter of next year – we’re going to have our Counce and DeRidder No.
1 machines down in the first quarter of next year.
So essentially again we have a home for all the tons we plan on making and as usual we plan on running to demand.
Got you.
To build on that we have two—we’re up and beginning the first quarter downtime at this point but we’ve got our two biggest mills DeRidder and Counce will be down in the first quarter so our challenge with D3 is not to sell the tons.
Our challenge is to make enough so that we can supply our current demand and build a little bit of inventory to support our first quarter shutdowns.
So the pressure is on the mill to produce.
Tom Hassfurther does not have nearly as much pressure in selling the tons because we need them we’ve got a home for them.
Got you Paul – okay.
If I could just ask one more real quick one do you guys have a net debt to EBITDA leverage target in mind below which it wouldn’t make much sense to pay down debt from an official capital allocation perspective? You know everybody asks that question and we really don’t because you can control the debt side of it but you can’t control the EBITDA side of it.
You know you could look at—we’re at about 2.1 right now debt to EBITDA.
Some would say that’s a very good number but it’s not good enough for us because the flexibility we want if by some unusual chance as it did in 2008 and 2009 that EBITDA dropped.
So we like the flexibility.
Could you put a number out there? Maybe 1.5 but that’s not something we hang our hat on.
We keep the flexibility as we’ve said previously.
Good stuff.
Thank you very much everybody.
Thanks.
I wonder if we could go back to Tom’s comments about integration.
Containerboard is pretty profitable right now and building new capacity seems pretty profitable too; so might it make sense to get short and stay short for the next couple of years and then think about your integrated strategy longer term than that? You know Mark I’m really not going to comment on that.
I would just stay with the previous comments that I made and then you could draw whatever conclusions you want to on that.
We’re in an industry that’s running 97.7% operating rates so it seems at this point in time obviously whatever is produced primarily has a home.
You’d be hard-pressed to find any other industry running at this kind of rate.
We’ll just leave it at that.
Okay.
So can we switch to white paper for a second? Your revenue per ton was off a little bit.
Was that price or was that mix and can you tell us what’s happening in the mix? This is Judy.
Our mix is shifting around a bit just because of our change in customer mix but we are basically on track with where we were planning to be.
So prices are flat? Flat pricing for third quarter.
Third quarter essentially was flat Mark.
Thank you.
Hey good morning guys.
DeRidder is coming on pretty nicely but as you pointed out there’s a ramp-up start-up cost and all that good stuff.
How should we think about the impact the incremental tons going to ’15 on your mix and margin especially in the first year? Well again as Rick pointed out on a going forward basis in an ideal world what was that Rick – about $0.36 on an annual basis of contribution on earnings per share? That’s right.
And then again understanding that we think we know what the machine is designed to do but we’re learning about that every day right now.
So our plan is just what it’s always been with the rest of our legacy system – we’ll run to demand.
We don’t give projections for the full year.
We give guidance a quarter ahead so every quarter you’re going to learn more and more about that machine.
Okay that’s helpful.
Then in terms of capital investments on the horizon you guys have obviously done a great job on the energy projects and the D3.
But part of the attraction as you pointed out earlier on the MLP front is potential investments of that cash flow that you would get from an MLP event.
Would that be more geared towards acquisitions or you still do see a good amount of capital reinvestment opportunities down the road in your business? Well both.
We’ll continue to take advantage of opportunities and acquisitions of the box plant businesses and also keep reinvesting in the existing assets in terms of energy and productivity improvements.
Again I think if you step back and look at the margin gains in the white paper business a great deal of that margin gain over the last 11 months came from operational improvements and efficiencies in the white paper mills through hundreds of investments in fixing assets and new bolt-on technologies.
So the answer is both and a myriad of opportunities.
Okay.
I know exports are not a big part of your business but you did give some color on prices ticking back up.
Where are you seeing export prices move higher and how should we be thinking about just demand overall? It’s actually been quite strong on the export front but we’ve seen the U.S.
dollar tick up and there’s some concerns about global growth slowing down a bit.
Yeah Phil this is Tom.
Regarding exports again I’ll just say we’re a small player getting limited markets and we’re very specialized in exports.
So for me to give you a broad perspective of what’s going on in exports is a little bit difficult.
As I mentioned our prices have started to tick up again a little bit and primarily in the Europe market but we have currency issues.
There’s a whole myriad of things that go on in that export market and the strength of those markets tends to move around the world.
Europe was strong; they're a little bit weaker now.
South America has picked up so it’s just—you know on any given day it can look a little bit different.
Okay good luck in the quarter guys.
Hi good morning.
Just wondering looking at the bigger picture in paper what your thoughts are on how the industry or PKG will manage the continued decline in white paper going forward and then if you have any thoughts on the impact of imports over the next six to 12 months and the ability to sustain prices in this business.
This is Judy.
So I’m going to decouple demand with shipments.
In looking at demand they fall in between that 3 to 5% range that we thought we were so we think we’re right in line with where we think demand is.
I can’t comment on impact on the industry on the import piece of things but we think—we believe that it’s having maybe some impact on the market but we are not impacted as much because of our customer mix.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful.
If I could just get in my MLP question is it possible with your preliminary analysis could this type of structure could be potentially applied to your papers business? I’ve heard a few opinions that this could also be applied to recycled containerboard which seems like a stretch but I was wondering if you think either of those options could be on the table if the moratorium is lifted.
I think it’s too preliminary.
I think everyone needs to wait until we have better indication from the IRS about what would qualify or if anything would qualify.
So I really would not want to speculate on the products that could potentially be within an MLP structure.
Okay thanks very much.
Yeah we just want to stay away from sheer speculation.
If we knew something we’d tell you; but you’re in the area of sheer speculation and we really just don’t like to do that.
No and I appreciate that.
I think that part of the problem is there is a lot of speculation out there so just getting an idea of maybe what’s off the table could be helpful.
But anyways thank you very much and I’ll pass it on.
Good morning gentlemen.
I promise I don’t have an MLP question for you.
Anyway I did want to go back to DeRidder for a second and the D3 start-up and some of the elements there.
Could you maybe walk us through what a typical experience might be bringing one of these machines on stream? I think you mentioned the first month or so it really doesn’t produce a lot of paper.
Is this typically a six-month process until you get to the roughly 90 000 tons a quarter run rate? Is there a typical phasing that these go through? Well let me just again put a little color on this.
Three weeks ago the paper machine down at DeRidder was nothing more than just framework.
I’m talking about just press section framework forming section framework the driers – there wasn’t much left in the drier section and the winder was completely gone.
So in three weeks’ time that was all reassembled and started up last Thursday so we’re pleased with what we’ve seen.
We’re obviously on a curve.
We’re making good quality—well we’re making medium at the time.
We also have to qualify our linerboard product on the machine as time goes on.
So we really are not going to speculate in terms of its capabilities and the timing of that.
There is a lot of uncertainty in terms of what could go wrong; on the other hand we have tried to and we believe we have engineered in best practices and have the right people managing the business.
So again our plans for the quarter would produce roughly 50 000 tons for the market to demand to supply our system but other than that we’re just going to take it day by day.
That’s helpful.
One more follow-up question if I could there.
How do you—how difficult is it to flip back and forth between linerboard medium that you make there? Is it a complicated process? How do you think about that balance within your system? It’s complicated.
It involves the chemistry on the wet end of the machine so it’s not just a simple matter of turning a switch.
You have to consider the various chemical additives that are used to produce medium characteristics as opposed to linerboard so there is a period of hours say that are involved and then getting the machine started back up and lined back up on the various grades.
So there is a degree of difficulty there and again we have to learn how to do that and go through that experience.
Thank you.
Just two other quick ones.
Rick one of your favorite questions about 2015 that I know you love to answer – could you give us maybe a sense as to early thoughts about capital spending? I mean obviously this year was a big year as you went through this conversion at D3.
I’m anticipating ’15 probably comes down.
Is something in that 3 to 350 range something that’s probably reasonable or how should we kind of think about ’15 at this point for capital? Well we’ve already stated that we were going to drop our capital from 2014 to 2015 and we said we were going to be in around 400 410 for this year.
So I think first thing you should do is back off the D3 which was about 100 110 for this year – that gets you down to 300 and then you don’t have (indiscernible).
So just without a lot of strategic projects you’re below 300 and we’ve said we plan to be below 300 – you know in the high 200’s range somewhere – and we’ll give more clarification on that in January.
But unless there’s major strategic projects that come up that Mark talked about with very high returns we would plan to bring our capital below 300 next year.
Yeah and just the qualifier on that – you know with the acquisition of Boise there’s obviously more opportunities to deploy capex into high return projects and if you’re willing to reduce your hurdle rate you still could have a lot of pretty good projects that you could spend capital on.
We haven’t done that – we’re keeping our hurdle rates where they were and that means that there’s some projects that even though they have attractive returns we’re not going to compensate on hurdle rate.
So that will limit more than anything else how much capital we spend.
Now if we find some big project that meets the kind of hurdle rates we’ve historically wanted then we would increase that number; but we’re not going to break our discipline just because we have opportunities for some pretty good projects if they’re below the hurdle rate.
Okay that’s helpful.
Just a last quick question is as we see some of the efforts in China now to step up collection of OCC that’s put a little bit of pressure here on OCC domestically.
How do you view the balance between some of the more virgin grades that you’re making and some of the recovered grades? Is that something that—how do you process that how do you think about that? Is that something that you’re worried about? Just the opposite.
We think long-term the world is going to run out of recycled fiber because virtually all the capacity added in the world for the last 10 years has been recycled.
Had the recession not happened in the fourth quarter of 2008 there’s the chance that we’d have run out of recycled fiber then the line we’re about to cross.
So in the short term unless China gets going recycled fiber we think will probably stay where it is; but if economic activity begins to improve in China there’s going to be pressure on OCC again in our opinion and we’re glad we’re primarily a virgin operation.
Thank you good luck.
Good morning.
My question’s really around the demand that you’re seeing so far in 4Q.
Are you seeing anything that looks more like September or is it looking more like the rest of the quarter where things were maybe a little bit slower for the industry? I would say that our demand—as I mentioned we’ve only got a few days to really look at about 11 days and it’s been pretty solid starting in October.
We will of course trend down some by the end of the year which is pretty much the norm for us but right now the quarter is pretty solid from a demand standpoint.
Okay.
Any thoughts around sort of the increase in ecommerce as we move into the fourth quarter? I think you guys mentioned it the last couple of years but is it something that you’re looking at as something that could improve demand in the fourth quarter again this year? I don’t think there’s any doubt about that.
You just look at the numbers – that arena is growing very very fast and of course you know that’s heavy corrugated use.
So again we experienced an increase last year and I think some of that is going to occur in the fourth quarter this year as well.
Okay.
When you look at your inventory levels you seem to think that everything was—you know you were comfortable with your inventory levels.
Is there any reason you would need to take those higher meaning if that freight cost built on rail and truck hadn’t abated is there any concern that maybe that gets a little bit tighter again in the fourth quarter and you might need to take your inventory levels up to account for that? You know as we talked about on the second quarter and we reiterated today we’d intentionally moved that inventory up because of the transportation issues and with the fact that going into 2015 1Q we have the Counce mill down and the big D1 DeRidder machine down.
So our intention is to build some inventory and take advantage of that and again not seeing a significant improvement in transportation issues.
Okay.
Just lastly I think I might have heard you say that you had positive mix in your corrugated business in the third quarter.
If I heard that right what was driving the positive mix shift? The positive mix is primarily the graphics-related business that relates to the Christmas season and even going into next year’s season depending on when those customers begin to develop those products.
So more just a positive seasonal mix shift nothing out of the ordinary? That’s correct.
Perfect thank you.
Thanks good morning.
I wanted to circle up on DeRidder and clarify if in your adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter if that included any headwind from some of the start-up costs as you indicated.
No.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then secondly Rick on the capex on the high 200’s would that include box plant necessary sort of box plant investment because I know sometimes that can change depending on whether you acquire or invest organically in box plants.
Just a clarification on that capex factoring in the box plant necessary box plant expansion.
Yes other than some of the things that we have periodically done strategically in the box plants to put in major pieces of equipment all at one time that number does include environmental maintenance some cost reduction in the mills as well as growth in the box plant.
So it’s the normalized base that we’ve always had just including now the white papers business and the packaging business of Boise now that we have some of the major strategics ahead of us—behind us excuse me.
Okay thank you very much.
Then on the inflation front last question is just what are you seeing on wood costs and any view over the next year as perhaps pellet demand continues to increase? And conversely any thoughts on if oil prices stay here what that might mean to you from a savings perspective across transportation other kind of oil type derivative costs that you might have.
I think on the wood cost question the only issue we’ve seen this year was the summer rains that occurred in the upper midwest that affected the Wisconsin area for us and also the Minnesota region.
But that’s stabilized so the rest of the North American wood cost system has been pretty flat.
As far as pellets we continue to hear of some additional pellet plant activity in the southern region.
That has—currently it hasn’t been a significant impact this year.
As far as oil obviously lower oil would portend to indicate a lower diesel price but we haven’t seen that yet.
That’s a potential opportunity you’d have to anticipate.
Other than that I really don’t have anything.
All right I appreciate that and good luck.
Thank you.
All right.
Operator I think we’ve got time for one more question and then we’ll wrap it up.
I think it’s after 10:00 our time.
Good morning thanks for fitting me in.
A lot of things have been covered but it seems like packaged food has really hit a rough patch recently.
Do you believe there’s been a permanent shift in consumer behavior? Can you repeat the question again Steve real quick? Sure.
It just seems like packaged food has hit a rough patch according to some of the retailers.
I’m wondering if there’s a permanent shift in consumer behavior and if so would a shift to local food offset that? I don’t really have an answer for you on that.
I’m not aware of this most recent study.
I can tell you that obviously food is a big part of the demand in corrugated and it’s just moved up modestly this year.
The beverage sector has been kind of flat as well.
But to my point earlier regarding consumers having more money in their pockets we would expect those areas to move up going forward as consumers have a little more money to spend.
Agreed.
Is it safe to say that your $1.16 guidance for the fourth quarter is incorporating flat pricing? We don’t give price guidance in advance.
We don’t do that.
We only talk about historic prices not forward-looking on pricing for legal reasons.
Got it.
Okay thank you very much.
Okay with that Operator I’d like to thank everybody for participating on the call today and look forward to seeing everybody and talking to everybody in January for the fourth quarter and full-year call.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and thank you for participating in Packaging Corporation of America’s fourth quarter and full year earnings release conference call.
I’m Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko our Chairman; Tom Hassfurther Executive Vice President who runs our packaging business; Judy Lassa Senior Vice President who runs our white papers business and Rick West our Chief Financial Officer.
I’ll begin the call with an overview of our fourth quarter and full year results and then turn the call over to Tom Judy and Rick who will provide further details.
I’ll wrap things up and then we’ll be glad to take questions.
Yesterday we reported fourth quarter net income of $98 million or $1 per share.
Fourth quarter net income included charges for the Boise integration and DeRidder mill restructuring of $16 million or $0.16 per share including cash charges of $13 million or $0.13 per share and non-cash charges of $3 million or $0.03 per share.
Excluding these special items fourth quarter 2014 net income was $114 million or $1.16 per share compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 net income of $102 million or $1.05 per share and third quarter of 2014 net income of $124 million or $1.26 per share.
Fourth quarter net sales were $1 434 billion compared to fourth quarter 2013 net sales of $1.264 billion and third quarter 2014 net sales of $1.519 billion.
We also reported record full year of earnings excluding special items of $459 million or $4.66 per share compared to 2013 earnings excluding special items of $325 million or $3.33 per share.
Net sales in 2014 were a record $5.9 billion compared to $3.7 billion in 2013.
Full year earnings including special items were $393 million or $3.99 per share compared to 2013 earnings of $441 million or $4.52 per share.
Excluding special items total company EBITDA in 2014 was $1.144 billion compared to $751 million in 2013.
Details of special items for both the fourth quarter and full year were included in the schedules that accompanied the earnings press release.
Excluding special items the $0.10 per share reduction in fourth quarter 2014 earnings compared to the third quarter of 2014 was driven primarily by higher annual mill outage costs $0.07 lower white paper prices and mix $0.03 a seasonally less rich mix in corrugated products $0.03 lower corrugated product shipments with three less shipping days were $0.02 and higher wood costs $0.02.
These items were partially offset by higher containerboard volume driven primarily by the production on D3 machine at the DeRidder Louisiana mill for $0.04 and lower taxes $0.04 related in part to the passage of the federal tax extenders package in December.
In total fourth quarter results came in where we expected except that White paper prices and mix were lower and taxes were better.
Looking at more details of our fourth quarter operations packaging EBITDA excluding special items was $250 million on sales of $1.122 billion which equates to a 22.3% margin.
For the year excluding special items packaging EBITDA was $1.015 billion and sales were $4.54 billion which equates to a 22.4% margin.
Containerboard production in the fourth quarter was 927 000 tons up 69 000 [ph] tons over the third quarter of this year.
The higher production was primarily from the DeRidder Number 3 machine which produced 58 000 tons during the quarter after starting up on October the 17.
As a result of the D3 production we were able to reduce the outside purchases of containerboard which averaged about 17 000 tons per month through October down to 4 500 tons in December.
In 2015 we plan to eliminate all purchases except for speciality grades that we do not produce.
During the quarter we did increase our containerboard inventories by 45 000 tons.
We need the addition of inventories during the first half of 2015 to help offset reduce production with four of our five containerboard mills down for their annual outages.
In the first quarter our two largest mills Counce and DeRidder will be down and together with these two outages will reduce production by about 40 000 tons.
The Counce outage will continue into the second quarter and will also have our Tomahawk and Filer City media mills down for their outages.
In addition in the first quarter there are two less mill production days than in the fourth quarter with February being the 28th day month so that is an additional 20 000 ton less production bringing the total loss production to 60 000 tons.
Fortunately we will have the D3 machine available for the full quarter so that along with our other mills running well should offset some of the loss production.
I now would like to turn it over to Tom who will provide more details on PCA’s containerboard and corrugated packaging sales and demand.
Thank you Mark.
Our corrugated products demand was strong and steady throughout the quarter.
With the partial quarter of Boise shipments after the October 2013 acquisition.
Corrugated products shipments were up 11% over the fourth quarter of last year.
Excluding Boise PCA’s fourth quarter shipments were up 5.4% in total and per workday with the same number of workdays each year.
The acquisition of Crockett Packaging in April 2014 contributed about 1.5% of the shipments increase.
For the year PCAs corrugated product shipments excluding Boise were up 4.7% in total and 4.3% per workday with one more workday and about 1% of the increase came from the acquisition of Crockett.
Including Boise PCA shipments for the year were up in total 25.5% and per workday 25%.
Prices for corrugated containers were essentially flat during the fourth quarter but mix was seasonally weaker in the last half of the quarter maybe a little more than normal as we are seeing some customers moving more of their display and other value added business earlier in the year.
Our outside sales of containerboard were up 5000 tons compared with the third quarter and down about 7000 tons compared with the fourth quarter of last year including Boise tons in both years.
Pricing for domestic containerboard sales was flat with the third quarter.
Export prices were down a little in the quarter with reduced earnings by about a $0.01 [ph].
Looking at current corrugated shipments data for the first 13 days of January PCA bookings for corrugated products are up 5% over the same period last year and shipments are up 7.4% so we were off to a good start in the first quarter.
I should note however for comparison purposes the shipments numbers are probably overstated by about 2% because January 2nd was not a recognized FDA shipping day but about half of our box plant operated that day.
I will now turn it over to Judy Lassa who will discuss white papers.
Thank you Tom.
Our paper segment EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2014 was $45 million on sales of $284 million which equates to a 15.8% margin.
Our white paper mills ran well producing 287 000 tons in the fourth quarter.
We did have our Jackson Alabama mill down seven days in November for its annual maintenance outage which reduced production by about 10 000 tons and increased operating costs.
Office paper shipments during the fourth quarter were down 6% compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
During the past year we elected to exit some business which reduced our shipments.
Printing and converting and pressure-sensitive paper shipments were down 12 500 tons compared to last year’s fourth quarter driven by the International Falls Minnesota machine closures in the fourth quarter of last year.
Industry publications reduced office paper prices by $10 per ton in November and an additional $5 per ton in December.
The November price reduction did impact our fourth quarter office paper prices.
Our overall mix was unfavourable and we saw slightly lower prices for both printing and converting and pressure sensitive papers.
Excluding special items 2014 EBITDA was $186 million up $53 million or 40% from 2013 full year EBITDA which included two periods owned by Boise and PCA.
Sales were $1.2 billion in 2014.
I will now turn it over to Rick West.
Thank you Judy.
PCA generated cash from operations in the fourth quarter of $179 million and for the year $736 million.
Capital expenditures in the fourth quarter were $165 million and for the year $420 million.
Common stock dividends of $39 million or $0.40 per share were paid in the fourth quarter and we made $78 million of cash tax payments Total debt reduction since the acquisition of Boise on October 25 2013 is $300 million and our long-term debt is now at $2.355 billion.
We ended the quarter with $125 million in cash on hand.
As we normally do at the beginning of each year PCA provides estimates for certain 2015 [ph] items.
We expect total capital expenditures to be between $275 million to $300 million.
DD&amp;A is expected to be $345 million up $5 million over 2014 recurring DD&amp;A which excludes accelerated depreciation for the DeRidder restructuring.
Pension expense is expected to be $30 million up $5 million over 2014.
We expect to make minimal cash pension payments.
The combined federal in state effective in cash tax rate is expected to average about 35.5%.
Based on our current long term debt with current LIBOR rates interest expense in 2015 would be about $90 million and cash interest payments would be about $86 million up $9 million over 2014.
Based on current plan annual maintenance outages at our mills the total earnings of these impact of these outages including loss production the direct cost that could increase is associated with the outages and repair cost during the outages is expected to be $0.55 per share.
The current estimated impact by quarter in 2015 is $0.13 per share in 1Q $0.16 per share in 2Q $0.08 per share in 3Q and $0.18 per share in the fourth quarter of 2015.
In terms of MLPs we do not have anything new to report on our MLP deliberations other than we are continuing our modelling and tax analysis efforts as we await action from the IRS on our request for a private letter ruling which was filed in November.
Before I turn it over to Mark beginning with reporting our first quarter 2015 results in April we will return to reporting our year-over-year results rather than sequentially quarter to quarter.
We now have a full year’s operation with Boise which for comparison purposes will allow us to go back to our traditional method of reporting results.
I will now turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
In summary 2014 was a very successful transitional year for PCA with the integration of the Boise acquisition and the completion of the redesigned rebuilt and start up of the DeRidder number 3 machine to produce containerboard.
All areas of the company worked hard to accomplish these objectives and it shows in our reported results with earnings per share up 40% and EBITDA up 52% excluding special items.
As you know we raised our synergy estimates after the Boise acquisition from $105 million at the time of the acquisition to $175 million on July 22 2014 when we reported second quarter earnings.
During 2014 synergies of $100 million or $0.65 per share were realized.
Over the next two years we are now estimating that our total synergies will increase from $175 million to $200 million.
Looking ahead our earnings in the first quarter are normally lower than the fourth quarter and that is again the case this year.
We expect loss containerboard production of about 60 000 tons and higher operating cost from annual maintenance downtime at our two large containerboard mills and two less production days compared to the fourth quarter.
This will be essentially offset by lower amortization of annual outage repair cost.
Corrugated product shipments are expected to be seasonally lower and white paper prices are expected to be lower with a full quarter’s impact of published price decreases.
Seasonally colder weather will increase wood energy and chemical cost.
In addition labor and benefit cost will be higher with annual wage increases and timing related benefit payments.
These items will be partially offset by the higher production on D3 paper machine and lower interest expense from an annual interest rebate on a portion of our debt.
Everything considered we currently expect first quarter earnings of $1.07 per share to $1.10 per share.
With that we’d be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you some of the statements we’ve made on the call constituted forward-looking statements.
These statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that Operator I’d like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Congratulations on the year and thanks for the detail.
My general line of questioning is aimed at either trying to bridge into first quarter or look at year-on-year trends.
I guess the first question I had is you know if we look at the impact of Boise both in terms of synergies and the add from D3 is it possible to isolate how much EBITDA that contributed in fourth quarter and/or into the first quarter when we look back at prior year period? And then the second question I had we remember first quarter last year there was significant weather-related issues for all the companies yourself included.
I think the number was around $0.06 a share that you had called out.
I was wondering if we shouldn't be seeing more benefit of that in your year-on-year comparisons this year and if there's anything that from an operating standpoint or market standpoint Okay [ph] George I’ll take a shot at those questions.
Let me start first with looking at 1Q 2015 earnings guidance you know versus last year’s first quarter the $1.08 per share.
And you know if we look for things it should improve last year’s first quarter earnings of $1.08 per share compared to this year’s first quarter earnings we do have additional synergies of $0.16 per share compared to last year’s first quarter.
And that equates to about $100 million more work.
We had $25 million annual run rate in the first quarter of last year with all of the things we did immediately after the acquisition.
We now have the additional $100 million in the first quarter of this year so that adds $0.16 per share.
Secondly if you look at our corrugated products growth for last year and our mill production that adds an additional $0.10 per share so a total of $0.26 per share compared to last year.
There is three items that offset that.
The first item is that we do have higher annual outage cost in this year’s first quarter compared to last year’s first quarter up $0.07 per share and last year’s first quarter we only had the Counse mill down and which was about 22 000 tons.
In this year’s first quarter we have both the Counse and DeRidder mills down.
The DeRidder mill was not down last year it was a year that we did not have an outage this year is the more extended outage and if we do have some additional direct cost in buying purchase electricity because we have the turbine down for a seven year inspection which does make the number higher so that’s $0.07 per share off.
In addition to that a normal inflation and other cost increases after taking into account the positive impact of natural gas and some other what I would call deflationary items.
The net of the inflation is $0.10 per share year-over-year so that’s a hit turning to $0.10 per share.
Finally and looking at price and mix compared to last year’s first quarter that down about $0.10 per share and is primarily an export containerboard in white papers.
Now in terms of the bad weather last year if I recall correctly we did say some of that showed up in the first quarter some of it showed up in the second quarter.
In terms of this year one of the reasons that we gave the range of $1.07 to $1.10 is the factor of whether not knowing what will occur for the remainder of the quarter and so that’s what is represented in the range.
So that’s basically year-over-year a lay out of our earnings.
And as Mark said earlier in relation to your other question with Boise contribution to PCAs earnings and I’ll just say for the full year he said we did realize a $100 million of synergies plus the EBITDA that we purchased so they were a major part of our increase in earnings year-over-year.
Thank you that’s very helpful.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research Good morning Mark.
And following up a little bit more on that and trying to understand so the additional $0.07 outage you had previously mentioned that in total there is $0.55 for all outages this year.
Was that a similar apples-to-apples number being used there? It says the outage the $0.07 you were talking about does that include lost production that's not included in the $0.55 all outages numbers you had talked about previously? It’s a comparative number for all periods in the first quarter of last year.
Our total outage cost was about $0.07 per share and this year it’s about $13.5 per share and that does include all three components.
In the press release we did say and looking at 3Q to 4Q when you take into account all of the items that make up the difference in the 60 000 tons which includes the outages plus the two additional the two days of less production driven by February that’s really offset by the lower repair cost amortization which does go from the fourth quarter from $0.14 to zero.
So you’re getting a $0.14 positive but that’s going from 4Q to 1Q.
But in terms of the overall impact for the year with the DeRidder outage we’re going from a total annual outage cost in 2014 of about $0.48 per share to about $0.55 as I said earlier for 2015 and all of that is being driven by the DeRidder outage in the first quarter of the additional $0.06 so we are absorbing that entire increase in the first quarter.
And Mark as Rick said earlier the reason for that big difference is we had no annual outage at DeRidder last year.
And we have an extra one and its – it’s now our largest mill.
Okay that’s very helpful.
And just quick follow up if I could on the the synergies I think you indicated that you’re at -- at about $125 million run rate expected for this quarter your target is now for $200 can you give us a sense of the timeline of when you would expect to get to that $200 million run rate? Yes Mark you know we are anticipating over the next two years 2015 2016 we should achieve that and again as the year rolled on last year we continued to discover little opportunities.
One example of that is the new turbine generator that we are currently installing currently International Falls mills so that’s just an example of our internal project that we’ve gone after very quickly to bring to the bottom line reduce energy and efficiency of the mill.
Yes I guess another one Mark this is Paul Stecko that we can mention and Mark and his people have done some outstanding work at DeRidder which is a pulp limited mill.
We’re out of pulping capacity there that’s why we buy purchase OCC for D3.
But we have come up with some very good ideas to debottle neck the pulp mill and get more pulp production and we’re making some changes as a matter of fact they will get some of that on its annual outage here in the brown stock washing area but that is a fairly good part of the reason we’ve increased the synergies because of the additional pulp capacity we can bring on in a pulp limited mill.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon from Vertical Research Yes good morning.
Could you talk about the DeRidder ramp-up? I know you started that in October and you usually take some time before you get the full benefit.
I think you were saying you expect it to have a net benefit of about $60 million of EBITDA.
And I know some of that is from the forgone purchases.
So could you tell us sort of where we stand with that and how much more is left? Yes when we started off in October we talked about the anticipated curve and at this point we are very pleased with where we are.
We did realize about $0.04 I believe on the fourth quarter benefit from the production of that machine.
And as you would expect you know during the start up period start up expenses costs are going to be higher.
So that would impact the benefit and you know again net benefit is down initially.
And as time rolls on your cost reduced your efficiency is improved.
And again we did take advantage of the time in the late November early December to do a lot of great development which we had not anticipate and not anticipated being able to take advantage of until later.
So that was some of the costs that was incurred but again it help to get ahead of the curve and prepare the machine to supply necessary tons into our system.
So again with the numbers that we did layout for the project we still standby the numbers and again I think you’ll see that as the year goes on that the machine has been performing well  I think if you look at the machine performance on efficiency basis the DeRidder 3 machine is running as well as any other machine in our legacy system so quite pleased.
And again what Paul has said about the work we’ve been doing with the pulp mill we have been able to free up more virgin capacity and that has allowed us to undertake the great development sooner and so we’re pleased there.
So again we’re still holding with the numbers we had thought.
Yes.
Let me just add one thing.
When the startup of the machine this is a very difficult conversation we’re doing some things that haven’t been done before and we’re in even for our own self and some uncharted regions.
And we have had a few problems along the way minor in nature that will rectify during our outage at DeRidder in the first quarter.
Mark said our efficiencies are very good and they all are but we’re not able to run that machine full speed yet because of some modifications that we have to make and we will make.
So we’re been held back little bit on top end in terms of making a lot more tons until we correct a few things.
But the good news is we’re excited about that of what this machine can do and what we’ve found in our great development activities now we just got to make some modifications.
That’s the first point.
And that will be completed by the end of first quarter.
Secondly on the startup you have two types of startups.
One is on production.
Can you ramp this machine up from nothing to 1000 tons a day and that’s one objective.
But when you startup a new machine you also experience higher cost for a lot of reasons everything new and [indiscernible] run and once you get up to a speed and while you’re doing that you also have to work on a lot of things to reduce the cost of production.
We expect two things over the next three to six months on this machine production will go up and cost will come down and those two together will drive the productivity that kind of numbers that we think this machine is capable of.
So I just want to amplify a little bit on that point.
Got you.
That's helpful.
And then just one quick follow-up we've seen in the last few months a number of other players if you will forward integrate into box plants and that's been a strategy you guys have had.
And could you I guess update us on where you see your integration level right now? And secondly do you feel you want to continue to move that up and is it getting more challenging to get attractive box plant assets given the competition for them out there? Yes.
Chip with the startup of the DeRidder machine we brought our integration level down from the low 90s into the mid 80s and from full year the integration were been 90% but again with the capacity that DeRidder 3 is delivering again we’re back down into that mid-80 range.
So it presents an opportunity for Tom’s side of the business to continue to grow.
Tom you want to add to that.
Well I would say that we continue to have a target that’s 90 plus in terms of our integrations.
So we’ll be looking obviously to continue grow our business organically and we’ll take advantage of the acquisitions that present themselves when they come along.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettanari from Citigroup.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Anthony.
If I look at your EBITDA per ton in corrugated it was significantly lower year over year.
And you indicated containerboard prices were mostly flat.
You also talked about the DeRidder startup and some of the mill outage expenses.
Paul you reference getting out some of the kinks in DeRidder.
As we go to 2Q 3Q assuming prices are flat would you expect your EBITDA per ton in corrugated to kind of get back to the levels that it was for most of 2014? Well as Tom said earlier that the biggest change in corrugated in the fourth quarter was mix.
And Tom elaborate if you recall on our last call that we had a surprise and our mix was richer in the third quarter and he speculated that time that some of the people in order to make sure they get all their product that in time were move into display business and some of the high end stuff earlier in the year.
And that turn got to be the case because our real high end business displays et cetera were less in the fourth quarter than we anticipated.
For the full year they were about where we thought but they move them earlier in the year and then we had one accounting change that affected the EBITDA margin which will go away.
But Tom you want to comment on that mix thing first.
Well I would just say exactly basically what you say Paul when we were on the third quarter call if you recall our mix was significantly better and a lot of that was due to the fact that our value added business was significantly.
And we speculated that at that time that many of our customers were moving those Christmas orders up as an example and that’s just because seasonally this Christmas season and this push keeps moving up earlier in the year.
And that held true to perform in the fourth quarter and that’s why our mix was a down a little bit on that value added business.
And now you just kind of see the Christmas season as it evolves its I think much more oriented towards the big box and the department stores earlier in the year and then as the year winds on the internet sales really pick up.
So that’s the cover I had.
And Rick you want to comment on the accounting item.
Yes.
You know right now with the integration of the Boise we’re still operating in two different basis in terms of systems and more so on the pay roll system their payroll system and our existing methods of paying product.
So at the end of the year you try to look at everything to ensure that you have it in the proper bucket.
So we had to move about $3 million of labor-related costs from the corporate segment back to the packaging segment in the fourth quarter.
So you took a full year hit in the fourth quarter whereas it should have been about $500 million you know $600 million per quarter $600 million to $700 million per quarter.
Excuse me $600 000 to $700 000 per quarter versus the $3 million in the fourth quarter.
So that $3 million also affected the margin in containerboard and that should have been spread across the year.
So the first three quarters were over stated just a touch and the fourth quarter caught it up.
Okay.
That’s very helpful detail.
Then maybe just a follow on for Judy.
You know you’d spoke about potentially exiting some white paper business.
Is that continuing in 1Q or is there any color you can give us around that? No.
I mean I think it was just the changes that we made in 2014 and part of that was due to reshuffling our system with the I Falls reconfiguration.
Okay.
So that process is largely over.
Yes.
Okay.
I’ll turn it over.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
I wanted to go back to the earnings bridge on a year-over-year basis for the first quarter.
You talked about $0.10 of higher costs with labor other costs being partly offset by impacts of lower energy.
Can you maybe elaborate a little bit more on some of the cost buckets that you're seeing that are inflationary? And maybe thinking about the full year is that $0.10 sort of something we can annualize and assume that there is sort of $0.40 of cost inflation the business will see on an annual basis? Or is it a high $0.10 number in the first quarter and then potentially tapers off as we move through the year? It’s a couple of both you know if you look at the first quarter there’s a coupe of things that hit you all with sudden compared to the fourth quarter.
The first is that for the most part of all our salaried employees received their annual waging freeze on January 1st.
So that’s an immediate increase in fourth quarter to first quarter.
Also the majority of our union contracts for all hourly employees move up in January.
So that’s an immediate increase.
The third item that’s an immediate increase in fourth quarter to first quarter is the fact that certain statutory benefits such as FICA are paid out earlier in the year and they start backup in the first quarter and then they wind down.
And then there are certain benefit-related payments that come in the first quarter and then they go down.
So in terms of the labor inflation there’s a portion of it that winds down there’s portion of its fits more so in the annual wage increases.
In terms of – and that’s probably the biggest item that you see in a negative inflation.
We’ve also had some in freight year-over-year and everybody is aware of that the continuing problems with rail and truck availability that’s driving up the costs into large extend offsetting the positive benefits of oil or diesel prices.
You do get a really good benefit in natural gas.
We do burn more natural gas than we use to with the additional white paper mills and the DeRidder mills so that is a benefit.
But if you think about it on a overall standpoint it’s very difficult.
You can predict to some extend the inflation for annual wages which are generally 2.5% 3%.
Your other benefit primarily medical you’re aware of how much that goes up every year.
But in total you have to realize that when you look at our cost to good sold and our SG&amp;A excluding depreciation and you can take it right off the 2014 press release its about $4.5 billion.
So you’ve got to put enough percentage to that what you think a lot of the factors would be and I’ve talked about a few but it is a large number.
And so I can’t predict the inflation to any great extent of the overall year but there are certain things of course that we had last year’s you can see by the year-over-year comparison for 1Q to 1Q but that will be a number that we will have to overcome in the 2015 by whatever we can do and we have some positives going into 2015.
Yes.
I’ll add to that.
We don’t give full year forecast.
We give quarter over quarter forecast and Rick did say that we’ll taken a more of hit in labor this quarter than we will the other quarters.
But coming up with inflation for the year its anybody’s guess we got roughly $4.5 billion if we have 1% inflation overall.
That’s $45 million.
If we have 2% inflation that’s $90 million.
So my guess this is going to be in 1% to 2% range.
Where? I really don’t know.
And we cannot speak up on that quarter by quarter.
Okay.
That’s fair.
And then just D3 now that it's running can you just update us on what you expect the operating capacity of that machine to be on a full-year basis – not necessarily production but just what the stated capacity would be and whether it's changed since the last time there was an update? And then what's the expected fiber furnish for the facility and what percentage if it is Virgin versus OCC based? Yes.
When we announced the project we said our believe its going to be 355 000 ton a year type projects in that’s what we're looking at right now.
And the fiber furnished again the opportunities we have depending on whether we choose to make medium or liners we can utilize the OCC plan we can go 100% recycled fiber all the way up to a blend of say 70% Virgin and 30% OCC.
So we have a tremendous amount of flexibility on the machine and with were coming up a month from now on the mill we will enhance that capability and ensure that we have that mix of 70/30 if we choose to make liner on the machine.
Okay great.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Good morning guys.
Quick question on prices on the export front.
Have you seen it stabilize a bit? I know in the trade publications it seems like it has taken much of a decline.
Have you seen a further decline in January? And can you talk about what your thoughts are in pricing or starting to see it stabilizing in Q1? Phil this is Tom I’ll take the first question on export prices.
They came down a touch and they basically had stayed there.
We don’t speculate going forward on what we expect prices to do but that’s all I can tell you as where it is at this point.
Judy to want to take the other question.
[indiscernible] Tom.
What paper prices going forward again we don’t forecast where prices are going.
As Judy mentioned trade publication which we tied to throughout the prices $10 in November $5 in December.
$5 in November and then $10 in December.
Yes.
I said it backward.
I’m sorry.
So we only hit – we only got a partial quarter hit on that.
We’ll get the entire quarter hit in the first quarter and we’re white paper prices are going are going to depend on a lot of things the economy is it going to get a little more robust with all the cash available what that you’re saving on gasoline.
That’s a positive.
Where our imports going to go in terms of up or down or in that regard so its something that remains to be seen there we’re not offering any forward price estimates at this point.
Okay.
And I appreciate the color you provided earlier about your 1Q guidance with 1Q seeing a larger to normal hit with the maintenance expense in some inflation.
How should we think about the $0.06 hit on maintenance if 1Q been spread out in a more favorable fashion in remaining quarters? Is it pretty evenly spread out or it is more 2Q centric? Well I gave the numbers.
We took the year-over-year increase totally in the first quarter and when I gave the numbers for the $0.55 per share in 2015 the overall cost of outages in the first quarter is $0.13 per share.
The overall cost for outages in the second quarter that we see is $0.16 per share because we’ve got additional time at Counce Tomahawk Filer City and we begin to amortize repair costs.
In the third quarter it goes down all the way to $0.08 per share because we essentially have very little downtime in the third quarter.
And then in the fourth quarter it goes up dramatically because there are outages as well as the full recognition of repair cost.
So it goes up to $0.18 per share.
So in terms of the increase year-over-year it is all in the first quarter.
Okay.
That’s helpful Rick.
And just one last question I know if you guys can talk about this it still pretty early.
Any update on how we should be thinking about anti-dumping case as it relates to white paper and how that kind of impacted to you in a positive or negative way in coming quarters? You know again what you’ve seen in the press with the announcement of the case its in the hands of the government in terms of the Department of Commerce and International Trade Commission to go and do their investigation so that’s really will say at this time.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Thanks You did a pretty commendable job outpacing the industry in the corrugated demand growth.
I was just wondering out of the Boise acquisition should be continued to see PKG outpace industry in 2015? Or do you think you’re being more normalized with the industry trend? Debbie we would expect to grow our businesses like we’ve always grown our business both organically and through acquisition.
So I would – I think it would be pretty obvious that we will continue to outpace the industry or that’s certainly is our expectation.
And it’s Paul Stecko.
Debbie add to that that’s our goal goal is different than performance so the only performance data is we’re up a bunch the first half of January and so we’re off to a good start so the rest of the year we hope that continue that trend but two-thirds of a month data doesn’t make a trend yet but we’re off to a good start.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
I think it make sense year-to-date you’ve been better but I’m just wondering so I kind of looking out what you’re hearing from your customers seems relatively positive and that’s helpful.
I’m also knowing if you’re….
They keep telling us they like us.
So that's all about I can tell you there.
All right.
That’s good to hear.
I’m also wondering if anything is change over the last month kind of impact your thoughts on capital allocation dividend share buybacks or debt pay down the goals that’s you kind of already stated? No.
We do have the positives of having our debt refinancing down that took us out of the way and takes away some of the urgency to pay down debt and our balance sheet is in very good shape.
So we’ll continue to look to return cash to shareholders and whether it would be dividends or whether it would be share repurchases and we think we’re in a good position going into 2015 to do that with lower capital expenditures as I said earlier today.
And we’ll be looking at that as the year progress.
Yes.
We’ll still pay debt off but we won’t pay as much as we originally thought and that hasn’t changed.
Thank you very much.
Good luck in the quarter.
Thanks.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
First question I want to ask was as we look at that the new DeRidder machine 355 000 tons let’s call it roughly a ton a day.
It looks like you are bit below that in the 4Q? Ton a day is not right you got to carry the three desks [ph] you got to carry three zeros.
Okay.
I apologize so -- but I guess from what it is when you look at your per day rate it look bit late in 4Q where you’re running.
However you talked about getting some of the improvements in some of the different elements experience running a machine and something that cost out et cetera.
As you’re running it today are you close to rated run rate on the machine or you still running a bit below? You know again we talk to earnings calls in October we expected to make about 50 000 tons.
We made 58 000 tons.
We exceeded the startup curve period for the 4Q.
And then again as we ran the machine and learned about the capabilities of machine again in order to produce some of the liner grades that we had not expected to produce until later we did run slower and we were taking advantage of the virgin crafts fiber which became available and again identifying opportunities on how to utilize that virgin craft.
So again for 4Q we actually exceeded the curve expectations on tons per day.
And then again with current mix of linerboard and media being produced on the machine we are still going according to the curve and we will take advantage as Paul said with the shutdown coming up a month from now with some modifications in some equipment that we’re installing and that will better enable us to take advantage of craft fiber and then theoretically move the speed up and move the productivity up to a higher level.
For the quarter you know Mark just said we made 58 000 tons you divide that by the number of days we ran to get about 600 tons a day of the 1000 and we’ve move that up over the quarter.
So 600 [ph] was the average we obviously exceeded the year at a higher number than that if you average 600 [ph] but we started out at zero and we’re not at the 1000 and we need to a little bit of work on the machine we’ll get up to the 1000 but we’re fairly close.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
My second question was and Rick thank you much for running kind of to the bridge on a quarter-over-quarter basis or how we think about that but I guess the one element that I was unclear about or wanted to get a little bit more color on was when you think about your rolling assumptions you talked about thus far through quarter you were up mid single digit upper single digit depending on how you looked at your extra day thus far.
But where were that fit with in the bridge.
It would seem as though – maybe have you bake that in somewhere and I just wasn’t aware of it – a higher volume performance? I think that when we do a bridge year-over-year we bridge it representative of what we’ve been able to accomplish and that’s even when we go from 1Q 2014 to 1Q 2015 where we’re basically expecting the same type of growth as Tom said in his call and what we’ve experience historically.
So we have built that number into our first quarter number year-over-year.
Okay.
So you are embedding up somewhat low single digit sort of number in there.
I’m with you then.
Okay.
Thank you.
Absolutely because I saw what you can do it looking over year-over-year as to how did you do last year and what are envisioning for your growth this year to help to offset the inflation that normally occurs.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner from Barclays.
Hey.
Good morning.
Just going back to your prior question on your growth versus the market as you continue to grow you get to be more of a proxy for the entire market I would think.
Historically my understanding as you grown through going after some highly profitable niche business I guess my question is more centered on how long do you think that can last? Is there plenty of that highly profitable niche type business out there for you to go after? Is it couple of years to get to be more like average or do you think there’s longer runway than that? Scott this is Tom.
You know I think one way to answer this to take a look back first and to kind of look at our performance and we’ve got a long track record grow on the business certainly more than the industry has.
And we’ve done in a lot of different ways and I’m not going to disclose all those best kept secrets here on the call.
But I can tell you that our expectation is that we will continue to do that.
We see plenty of opportunities to do that.
We positioned ourselves in a way with our customer base and with type of customers and the type of products we produce and that’s – so you know it’s been good to us and we continue to see those opportunities.
And this is Paul Stecko.
I want to add to what you said.
We’re selective in the type of business we want to pursue and we can be selective because we’re only 10% of the market.
It’s not like we’re 50% to 60% of the market.
We still have the other 90% of the market that we can be selective and so we’ve got a lot of room to grow.
And if we increased our volume by 50 more percent now it took us roughly a decade to increase 50% go through about 6.5% to 10% that’s a 50% increase.
If we increased another 50% that would only take us through a 15% mortgage share so we’ve got a lot of runway when we get to a much bigger number I think that question may come into the play.
But that’s going to be quite a way out.
Fair enough.
And then on the demand trends within the quarter I don’t know if I missed that or not but can you talk about how things – you talk about the mix through shifting as the quarter when on but how were the sequential sales trends within the corrugated market throughout the fourth quarter? Well the fourth quarter was very good and the demand was strong and steady as I mentioned.
And then I also shared with you what the bookings look like so far in the first quarter which were up 5% over the same period last year and shipments were about 7.4% which probably will equate something to closer to about 5.5% ones we compare actual days.
Okay.
So we’re off to a very good start.
Right.
But no meaningful difference say October November December of the fourth quarter any one month okay? Pretty steady.
Okay.
And then just last question you did mentioned ecommerce really picking up late in the quarter and sort of taking the growth manual away from or taking over for the display business.
Any idea now how much ecommerce represents of the total business means is this enough now to really move the needle within the Company? We don’t really break that out and talk about exactly about what portion ecommerce is and quite frankly it still a hard number to get your arms around because lot of customers do both.
They are in both segments.
So it’s tougher to get your arms around.
But I don’t think there’s any question that the needle doesn’t get move on ecommerce and that’s become a growth area certainly for the industry.
Great.
Thanks for all the color.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kabili from Macquarie.
Good morning.
I wanted to just clarify the year-over-year headwind on the price mix of $0.10 per share that I think Rick mentioned in the first quarter.
If I think about paper prices they were trending up early last year.
And so the year-over-year variance I wouldn't think is too much on the paper price side.
On the export side clearly dollar prices are down.
But fortunately you expert a lot less than most so I wouldn't think that's hugely material.
So I'm struggling a little bit with what drives that large of a $0.10 price mix hit year over year? Judy you want to take whitepapers.
Yeah.
I mean again we are up year-over-year but as Paul mentioned before in Q1 we do have some headwinds with the publication prices dropping? Yes.
To recall last year there were announcements but it took trade publications forever to recognize them and they all didn’t go up in January it took through into the second quarter before they got fully realized and both them didn’t get totally realized anyway.
So there’s a lag in prices than went up and now they fallen back.
So its kind timing issue that you didn’t get that price increase effective all January 1st.
Most of it was not in the first quarter in terms of realization.
So that’s one and of course export prices have fallen as you mentioned and then the trade publications move the price to medium down over the year.
I think $20 on a West Coast and $10 in the East so that affected us to and so that’s basically the major movers that changed them.
Okay.
Because the point on the pricing right so the year-over-year variance because there was the lag I guess that's what I was trying to get at that wouldn't be so much of a negative year-over-year variance because of the lag.
If anything it may even be slightly positive.
And so medium is a small factor open-market medium prices for you.
So I'm just struggling.
Is it mostly mix that's driving that year-over-year kind of headwind? Is there something going on with mix that we are not appreciating? And do you see this type of a headwind? I know you don't give guidance but do you see this kind of a headwind continuing throughout the remainder of the year as well? Well let Judy take the mix question but on price the price is down year-over-year for the reason I just went through.
We didn’t get most of the price until the second quarter and so then it went up and then down so our price at until December over December were down compared to last year.
So it’s a negative because of the timing of when it went through and Judy you may talk about mix.
Yes.
On the white paper side of thing we do have a mix issue in first quarter in addition to the publications moving.
We actually if you look at our office in our TMC [ph] we actually are ahead and there is just a mix with pressure sensitive and pulp that are making it lower.
Okay.
All right.
And on the containerboard side I mean is there any notable mix change year-over-year we’re assuming in 1Q or is mostly the mix is on the paper side? Yes.
There is a just a slight variance in mix for us on the containerboard corrugated side in Q1.
But the two best quarters for mix in containerboard in the second and third quarters.
And the two weeks is to the first and the fourth.
Yeah.
Okay.
But year-over-year we expect that to be about the same.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you for that.
On the – I guess just final follow-up question from me Rick just on total outage expense in totality I believe the $0.55 will be pretty similar to 2014 so its just a matter of sort of the timing of the total maintenance outage expenses when it hits in the quarter is that fair? Maybe its up $0.03 $0.04 year-over-year in total? No.
I said it was up about $0.07 year-over-year and its all in the first quarter that we have the additional hit because of DeRidder.
In terms of the outages year-over-year in last year in the first quarter we have $0.07.
This year we have $0.13.
Last year in the second quarter we had about $0.11.
This year we have $0.16.
Last year in the third quarter we had $0.12.
This year we had $0.08.
Last year we had $0.18 in the fourth quarter.
This year we have $0.18 in the fourth quarter.
So the $0.06 per share increase $0.6 to $0.07 is in the first quarter and then you have some shifts between the second and the third quarter with the third quarter this year being lower based upon the timing of when the outages occur.
Okay.
Got it.
All right.
That's what I was trying to get it.
That helps a bunch.
I appreciate it.
And yeah good luck the rest of the year here.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Operator we have time for one more question.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wide from Bank of Montreal.
Good morning Mark.
Outside your business we have had a lot of currency movements including some pretty big ones in Latin America? I’m sorry Mark we missed the first part of your question could you repeat that? Yes Mark I’m just curious about the impact of FX on both sides of your business and in particularly FX down in Latin American places like Columbia and elsewhere? Well Mark the strong dollar obviously is impactive to us and that does effects some of our decisions relative to our export business and will impact the margins somewhere as we’ve talked about.
But I would say Mark that some of the regions of the world that have been more impacted than others where export prices were lowest.
We don’t participate in those regions and its even get worst in those regions because of the strong dollars.
So you’re very perceptive in that regard.
Okay.
The second question I had just can you talk about wood cost and wood supply issues in any of your markets where it looks like it might be an issue? Yes Mark when you look back at 2014 with the wet summer we had in the upper Midwest the unrelenting rain through the Minnesota Wisconsin area impacted us particularly at Tomahawk through the fall the winter wood build that normally were taking place didn’t occur so that’s been one particular area that’s wood cost have definitely impacted us.
And then the Southeast the Southern Georgia the Panhandle region we had a weather call and that impacted the ability to move some wood in so so that area along with the pellet plant activity again just the ongoing demand on wood basket but the moisture in the fall definitely impacted some southeast and the upper Midwest.
[Indiscernible] With the better winter conditions now we are just starting to recover and keep better logging conditions.
Okay and the last question I had Mark was just if you look at these machine conversions that have been done in the containerboard over the last few years it seems like the track record has been pretty chequered [ph].
And I just I wondered what kind of lessons you guys have learned from doing D3? I agree with your comment and I have said before in the last few years you can convert anything it’s a matter of how much capital you are willing to spend and also the knowledge that they could put into it and we have a unique set of capabilities and we identified the necessary capital to achieve what we needed but we are doing some unique things on a machine that others don’t have the capability to do and/or choose to spend the money on but part of that again is just our in house expertise and being able to take advantage of a unique situation at DeRidder.
And obviously Mark we don’t want to share that technology with competitors so that’s why we are kind of tight lipped about that.
We think we know how to do some neat things and we want to keep it to ourselves.
Okay fair enough thanks.
Okay with that Operator thank you for participating in the call today and we will look forward to talking with you in April.
Have a good day bye bye.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Result Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan.
And please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and thank you for participating in Packaging Corporation of America's first quarter 2015 earnings release conference call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA.
With me on the call today are Paul Stecko our Chairman; Tom Hassfurther Executive Vice President who runs our Packaging business; Judy Lassa Senior Vice President who runs our White Papers business; and Rick West our Chief Financial Officer.
I'll begin the call with an overview of our first quarter results and then I'll turn the call over to Tom Judy and Rick who'll provide more details.
I'll then wrap things up and then we'll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported first quarter net income of $91 million or $0.92 per share compared to last year's first quarter net income of $90 million or $0.92 per share.
First quarter net income included charges for Boise integration and DeRidder mill restructuring of $9 million or $0.09 per share.
Excluding these special items net income was $100 million or $1.01 per share compared to last year's net income of $106 million or $1.08 per share.
Net sales were $1.4 billion in both first quarter of 2015 and 2014.
Excluding special items the $0.07 per share reduction in first quarter 2015 earnings compared to the first quarter of 2014 was driven by increased annual mill outage downtime in costs for $0.08 lower white paper prices and changes in mix $0.05 lower export containerboard prices $0.02 and higher cost for wood $0.04 medical $0.04 labor and benefits $0.04 and depreciation $0.02.
These items were partially offset by increased volumes for $0.09 and lower costs for energy $0.06 chemicals $0.02 and purchased fiber $0.02 and the state tax credit related to the investments at the DeRidder mill are $0.03.
Lower earnings compared to PCA's guidance of $1.07 to $1.10 per share for the first quarter was the result of extreme weather conditions for $0.03 additional downtime to complete the DeRidder annual outage for $0.03 and lower prices from the retroactive price decrease by trade publications and mixed changes in white papers for $0.03.
Extreme weather conditions resulted in higher mill cost and also lower corrugated product shipments with downtime at 20 of our corrugated products plants including 12 plants with downtime of more than two days during the quarter.
The DeRidder annual mill outage took about six days longer to complete than we expected.
The additional downtime was the result of vendor design errors which required equipment to be modified after it was received.
Looking at more details of our operations packaging EBITDA excluding special items was $222 million and net sales were $1 099 million compared to last year's packaging results excluding special items of $244 million and net sales of $1 097 million.
The $22 million reduction in EBITDA was the result of this year's extended annual outage at the DeRidder mill which did not have an annual outage in 2014 as well as higher wood medical labor and benefits and freight costs and lower export containerboard prices.
These items were partially offset by corrugated products volume growth and benefits from the DeRidder 3 machine converted.
Containerboard production in the first quarter was 882 000 tons up 61 000 tons compared to last year's first quarter driven by tons produced on the DeRidder No.
3 machine.
We ended the quarter with our containerboard inventory down 3 000 tons from year-end levels.
This was our first annual outage at DeRidder since acquiring Boise in October of 2013.
The outage was extensive including major projects involving the turbine generator pulp mill recovery boiler and paper machines.
The outage is planned for 16 days due to the length of the time required for pulp mill work but actually required six additional days because of the time required to resolve issues involving incorrectly manufactured equipment for the D1 machine that I mentioned earlier.
The D3 machine ran well during the quarter at about 80% of capacity.
This rate will sustain our current demand and in September we'll be installing some additional dryers which will give us the capability to run at 100% of capacity on both linerboard and medium grades.
Current efforts on D1 involve continued product development and cost optimization.
The No.
1 paper machine at our Counce Tennessee linerboard mill was also down five days in March for an annual outage.
In early April we completed the Counce mill outage with the No.
2 machine down for five days.
Other second quarter planned outages include five day outages at both our Filer City Michigan and Tomahawk Wisconsin medium mills.
Looking at changes in mill costs the most significant increase was wood with costs up compared to both the first quarter of 2014 and also fourth quarter driven by weather conditions.
Our Tomahawk Wisconsin and Filer City Michigan wood costs are higher primarily as a result of extremely wet weather during the second half of 2014 that did not allow us to significantly build our winter wood inventories.
Wet weather at our Valdosta Georgia mill and four weeks of snow ice and rain at our Counce Tennessee mill in the first quarter limited harvesting and drove up wood costs.
Last week there were record setting rainfalls in the south and the 90-day forecast caused for wetter than normal rainfall which could continue to impact harvesting and keep wood prices higher.
At this time we do not see wood costs coming down from the first quarter levels.
We expect any improvement in wood costs at our Northern mills to be offset by higher wood cost at our Southern mills unless weather conditions improve significantly.
I'll now turn it over to Tom who will provide more details on PCA's containerboard and corrugated packaging sales and demand.
Thanks Mark.
Shipments for the combined PCA and Boise box plants were up 4.4% with one less work day compared to the first quarter of last year and total shipments were up 2.7%.
Price and mix was down $0.03 per share which was comprised of $0.02 per share in export linerboard and $0.01 per share for domestic medium and corrugated products mix taken together.
Our outside sales for containerboard were up about 15 000 tons compared to last year's first quarter with domestic containerboard sales down 4 000 tons and exports up 19 000 tons.
I will now turn it over to Judy Lassa who will discuss white papers.
Thank you Tom.
Paper segment EBITDA in the first quarter of 2015 increased to $49 million on sales of $297 million compared to first quarter 2014 EBITDA of $40 million in sales of $309 million.
Our office paper shipment which represent about 70% of our volume were up about 400 tons compared to last year's first quarter.
And printing and converting and pressure-sensitive shipments were down 5 500 tons compared to last year.
Prices were down compared to last year's first quarter as a result of price changes by industry publications which were retroactive to January 1 and also a less rich mix which is driven by the timing of customer orders.
Despite lower price and changes in mix our earnings and margins improved as we benefited from operational improvements in synergy realization in our white paper mill.
Annual maintenance outages are planned in June at our International Falls Minnesota mill for nine days and the No.
3 machine for seven days.
With these outages we expect lower mill production higher mill cost and lower sales volumes in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
Also on April 14 at our Jackson Alabama mill a severe thunderstorm caused a power failure and total mill outage resulting in significant damage to the steam turbine drive for the No.
1 paper machine.
This machine produces about 325 tons per day of specialty office papers including colors and is expected to be down about two weeks.
The total cost of the outage including repairs production losses and additional operating costs will be covered under our property and business interruption insurance subject to a $3 million deductible or $0.02 per share.
I will now turn it over to Rick West.
Thank you Judy.
Looking at other costs medical costs were up $0.04 per share over last year's unusually low first quarter costs and labor and benefit costs were up $0.04 per share primarily from annual wage increases and higher pension expense.
Energy costs were lower by $0.06 per share due to both lower purchased fuel prices and reduced consumption.
And chemical costs were down by $0.02 per share.
Moving to first quarter cash generation and uses.
Cash generated from operations was $108 million including a $4 million interest rebate payment on a portion of our bank debt reducing first quarter interest expense.
No additional rebate payments are expected until the first quarter of 2016.
Uses of cash included capital expenditures of $56 million common stock dividends of $39 million income tax payments of $10 million share repurchases of $8 million and a scheduled term loan payment of $2 million.
We ended the quarter with $126 million in cash on hand.
Also in February we announced an increase in PCA's common stock dividend from an annual payout of $1.60 per share to $2.20 per share a 38% increase effective with the April 15 dividend payment.
Finally we do not have anything new to report on MLPs except that the IRS lifted the pause on issuing private letter rulings and we are awaiting their further actions.
I'll now turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Rick.
Looking ahead to the second quarter we expect earnings improvement from a full quarter of operations at the DeRidder mill which will increase containerboard production and lower mill costs.
We also expect seasonally higher containerboard and corrugated products shipment and some weather related cost improvements.
These items taken together are expected to improve earnings by about $0.11 per share.
We also expect lower wage related benefit cost of about $0.02 per share.
Cost from annual mill maintenance outages including amortization of repair cost will be $0.01 per share higher than the first quarter.
We also expect a higher tax rate of $0.01 per share higher depreciation expense of $0.01 per share and the insurance deductible from the Jackson turbine drive failure on No.
1 machine of $0.02 per share.
Finally we will not receive the earnings benefits from state tax credits and the interest rebate in the second quarter which together totaled $0.06 per share.
Considering these items we currently expect second quarter earnings of $1.03 per share.
To put the $1.03 per share in perspective I think it might be helpful to bridge the last year second quarter earnings of $1.16 per share.
Based on current prices and expected changes in mix earnings are expected to be $0.16 per share lower as follows; $0.09 per share in white papers price and mix $0.03 per share in export linerboard prices and $0.04 per share for medium price and corrugated products mix.
Costs are expected to be $0.10 per share higher in total for wood freight labor and benefits and medical.
In addition annual outage costs are expected to be $0.04 higher and the cost for our insurance deductible for the Jackson turbine drive is expected to be $0.02 per share.
Taken together these items lower earnings by $0.32 per share.
Partially offsetting these items are projected higher volume of $0.09 per share which includes additional production from the D3 machine at DeRidder and lower cost of $0.10 per share for chemicals energy recycled fiber and other cost items or a total benefit from these items of $0.19 per share.
With that we'll be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on the call constitute forward-looking statements.
Statements are based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that operator I'd like to open the call for questions please.
Go ahead with the first question please.
Our first question comes from Chip Dillon from Vertical Research.
Good morning.
Good morning Chip.
First question is on – kind of shifting gears a little bit could you just update us where we are in the process for the uncoated free sheet duties that I think you guys are involved in a petition with the Department of Commerce and my understanding is that there the next I guess date is in June but could you just update us on that? And it seems like that the preliminary determination from the ITC was if I read it correctly was pretty prohibitive in terms of hundreds of percent of duties they'd have to post if they can if certain people kept sending white paper into the U.S.? Yeah.
I'm going to let Kent answer that one.
Senior Vice President &amp; General Counsel</span></strong> Yes.
Hi this is Kent Pflederer General Counsel of the company.
We received a favorable preliminary ruling from the ITC in March in the case.
The case is pending through Commerce right now against the producers in the five countries.
Commerce is expected to make preliminary duty determinations in June that's about all we're going to say about it at this point.
Okay.
Got you.
And then shifting gears – looking at DeRidder obviously this was the first full quarter that I believe the D3 conversion had been up and running and could you just talk a little bit about whether you are satisfied with the design of this reconfigured machine and what you feel about the progresses made so far? Speaking of where we are I want to remind everyone that when we originally conceived the conversion the machine was intended originally to produce primarily medium.
Early on we recognized the opportunities that we could actually produce linerboard and take advantage of the pulp that was available.
So we shifted gears into the end of last year and to the first part of this year with lot of grade development and fine tuning the machine.
So quite honestly we're very pleased.
The machine is primarily producing about 70% of its production at linerboard but again we've learned a lot and we've achieved a lot.
We've been working on the cost but again it's machine that can produce quite a variety of grades from the light weight medium and liner and take advantage of the pulp mill.
Paul do you want to expand on it? Yeah the only thing I'd add to that Chip and Mark hit it but I'll just amplify it.
Most of these new spring conversions are somewhat limited if they could only run pretty light weight grade mix and with the things we did on the machine we were figuring originally we'd probably run 70% medium 30% liner.
But some of the things have turned out better than we anticipated a lot better which is a testament through our technology and our people and we can make higher weight grades than we originally thought we could.
And with the fact that the open market price of medium is now $70 over the liner and we can move up in higher basis weights that gave us the opportunity in our system to make a lot more liner than we originally conceived.
Now that's the good news.
The bad news is it takes some time there are harder grades to develop on the machine but we're well along on that development.
And as Mark said we're making well over half of our production now in medium – in linerboard and that's going to pay dividends long term.
So that's one of the reasons that we're not quite up the capacity.
We need a little more drying because of the heavier weight grade mix and during the annual outage not annual outage during a short outage we're going to take in September we're going to put in four more dryer cans which is at a minimal cost and we think we'll be at 100% when we do that on a much heavier grade mix.
Okay.
Got you.
That's helpful.
And just as a quick follow-up to that.
I know that when you all did the D3 I believe we were talking about $115 million $120 million project that was going to create around $60 million in EBITDA on an annualized basis.
And it sounds to me you still see yourselves getting there.
I don't want to put words in your mouth but it's more like late in the year after the driers go in.
And so when we think about the second quarter with the $1.03 what kind of run rate would you say the project would achieve in the second quarter versus that $60 million target? Without getting specific we did a lot of work in the first quarter and also with the fact that March was truly an annual shutdown at the mill which skews all of your input costs and so even though D3 ran during the month it wouldn't have been a normal comparison in terms of cost per ton produced.
But again we've been able to achieve a number of successes with the chemistry that would qualify to hit the target.
Capital we're probably going to be right at that $120 million all in.
And as we said we expected the $0.36 per share contribution.
As time goes on we fully expect to see that again part of this year the first quarter we have that contribution that was impacted by the March annual outage.
So we're more backend loaded but what Paul just said and what I said about the success of the machine we expect it to be there.
Yeah.
Chip just hang on – this is Paul.
The only thing I'd add the way the accounting system works here we don't split the cost of No.
1 machine and No.
3 machine.
We basically measure mill profitability and then we estimate what we think the costs are in both machines.
And so it's not an exact science at this point.
But I would say this when you bring a machine when you ramp up you do two things.
You get the machine up total capacity.
And once you do that and at the same time you try to work to optimize cost because as you learn you build in a lot of conservatism the run on a machine with regard to chemicals and things of that nature.
So you've got to do two things: you got to get up to speed and you got to optimize the costs.
And we've complicated that a little bit by going to a more complex mix but that's going to pay long-term dividends.
And then the other thing you have to – we're running about 800 tons out of 1 000 tons but when you get up to 1 000 tons that brings your costs down a lot too because those last 200 tons cover all your fixed costs covers all your direct costs they've already been covered.
So you're going to get a nice bump on that.
But our best estimate at this point is that by the end of the second quarter we'll have a full quarter operation of that machine.
We said originally this machine could make $0.09 a share when it was up to speed per quarter.
So that's 36% a year.
I think by the end of the second quarter and this is a guess on our part we think we'll be about halfway there.
And that's the best way we can answer the question.
That's very helpful.
When we get up to speed and the new grade mix I think we got some upside potential to those original numbers but that remains to be seen.
And Chip just adding to that and I commented on the first quarter earnings call I believe the DeRidder No.
3 machine is to our knowledge the only converted newsprint machine producing virgin linerboard grades and so we are quite pleased with that.
But also knowing what we know about the cost at our other legacy mills we are very pleased with where we are in the total input cost on wetting chemicals and energy conversion costs on machine now that we've come through this first quarter.
So again with the shutdown behind us and as the year rolls on we feel very confident with where we are with the machine.
And we've learned a lot.
I mean this has been a tough startup it's a lot of new technology for us and we've learned a lot and we think we'll apply that going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please? Our next question is from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I appreciate that color on what's going on at DeRidder that's very helpful and better understanding.
And just two quick follow-ups on that.
Will hopefully most of that $0.36 be achievable by 2016 with some of the additional work you are doing at the end of this year or might it take even a little bit longer than that to get to those targets? Yeah we're very confident again with what was accomplished in the – all of the chemistry fine-tuning.
Now that the mill is back running and we're coming through getting the mill lined up we feel comfortable that that's achievable through the course of the year.
And Mark just to amplify on that as Mark said earlier we thought we'd run primarily medium 23-pound and then when we got into it we were amazed at how high we could get the basis weight.
That's why we didn't put in those extra driers.
There is spots for four more driers in the machine where there was an old breaker stack we removed.
But our theory has been don't spend the money unless you think you have to.
We didn't think we have to at the beginning but we didn't realize that we'd have this opportunity on heavy weight liner either.
So when we popped those four driers in in September we're going to feel pretty good about getting where we need to get by the end of the year for certain.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
So presumably when you say you are at the end of the second quarter you'll be at halfway that means during the second quarter you are at that level or lower so we have a lot more yet to come once all this is put in place.
Correct.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then if we were to try and assess Boise synergies second quarter versus the year ago could you give us a sense of how much benefit you are seeing there and what the progression or the trajectory on the Boise synergies has been as maybe there's – has there been anything that's made that to come in a little bit more slowly or a bit more quickly than you might have been thinking coming into this year? Rick why don't you go ahead and address that? Last year Mark there was a lot of synergies upfront that we were able to take probably in the first three months with the corporate overhead that was in place.
We also were able to significantly improve the earnings in the white papers business absent price dramatically in the last year with all of the improvements made at the mills et cetera.
In the Boise converting side of the business Tom and his team was able to take certain actions across all of the plants.
It's a little bit more of a in-depth longer process to optimizing the Boise converting plants than in the paper mills which are more evident upfront.
But to put the numbers somewhat in perspective and I think this is what we want to get across the synergies that we achieved last year and that what we are achieving now are offsetting the inflation and the price difference year-over-year.
We gave the bridge from the first quarter year-over-year and the second quarter year-over-year.
But if you look at what we made in the first half of last year it was a total of $2.24 per share.
If you look at what we have in price differences and mix in the first quarter and then add to that what we had in the bridge for the second quarter for how much earnings has dropped as a result of price and mix that's $0.23 per share.
Then compare to the first half of last year annual outage costs which would include having DeRidder this year and no outage last year for the entire year was a $0.12 hit compared to the first half of last year.
So combining price and annual outages alone before any synergies and we did have synergies in the first half of last year so I said earlier what we achieved upfront we would be at $1.89 per share of our earnings.
So what we've been able to achieve were the synergies that we are continuing to get and what we got last year is to offset that $1.89 to come back to our guidance of $2.04 with synergies being partially offset by inflation.
And we said inflation – for the year we said that – we expect that to be 1% or 2% of cost of sale.
So the synergies are coming through but in the first half of the year it's the fact that the outages were more with DeRidder and we've had the significant impact of price and mix.
And Mark this is Paul.
Just to add to that.
What we said is that we achieved 100 tons in the first year and we expected a total of 200 tons so that's another 100 tons to come.
But we said we'd get that over the next two years because they were not quick hits like head count reduction where we got basically $30 million $35 million in corporate overhead up right away.
A good example of that is we have been working at DeRidder to increase pulp-making capacity because that's a pulp limited mill and it's taken us a year but we feel we're about to the point where we think we can produce another 300 tons of pulp a day.
I have a pulp mill which again is the synergy that's baked into our numbers.
The complicating thing and I don't want to make this too complicated is how do you evaluate what's the value of 300 tons.
Well today the value of 300 tons comes from the fact that you could buy less OCC and you eliminate your highest OCC you also can make more linerboard because you got more virgin fiber.
So right now the price between liner and medium open market is about $50 to $70 that's a synergy but the real big bang for the synergy is if you improve the productivity at DeRidder over the next couple of years and increase its capacity and sell those tons you're talking $250 a ton or so in synergies.
So some of the synergy numbers you get you get a bump upfront but then you get a bigger bump later when you get a better use for what you've created.
So it's a fairly complex thing.
Another example that capital contribution is the IFalls turbine generator that will come online again that's a distinct capital project that we identified well over a year ago that will be coming up in September but that again is a significant example.
Inc.</span></strong> Helpful.
And so and recognizing it's very complicated if we were to think of where we are on that $200 million targeted run rate say in the first half of 2015 are we closer to the $120 million range now or we might be closer to the $160 million range just trying to see the pace of how we go from that $100 million to $200 million? Anything I'd say would be speculative of – let's say – it's back-end loaded.
We're confident that the numbers are there.
So as the year goes on there will be falling to the point bottom line but again with all the shutdown activity and then with distinct project related contributions it's really difficult to try to quantify that.
And Mark when you got machine down when you're down at DeRidder for basically 22 days in a month you don't get any synergies when you are down.
So we need to get up we need to get our system up and running before we could put together our estimates that are what you are talking about.
So we're going to have to wait a while before we do that but we'll certainly talk about it on our next earnings call.
We'll have it hopefully a full quarter of steady operations on the containerboard side of the business behind us.
And also when we said back at the end of last year that by the end of 2016 we expect to achieve the extra 100 ton.
Another item the end of this year we'll be taking Jackson Mill down another capital project that we have slated into the capital this year was the rebuild of the recovery boiler that was badly needed.
So that's two examples between the turbine at IFalls and the rebuild of the recovery boiler that will contribute nicely to these efficiencies.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Next question.
Next question please.
Next we have Mark Wilde from Bank of Montreal.
Judy I wondered if you can talk a little bit about sort of interplay of price and mix because you identified both of them but you do it together and I wondered if you could particularly talk about sort of the mix side of things and the impact of that and also the impact of foreign exchange right now as you see it in the white paper business.
And are you talking first quarter? Yes.
First quarter if there is going to be – if you foresee any changes as we move into the second quarter? Certainly.
If you look at the price and mix piece for first quarter again the cut size index is down about $10 per ton which we have a lot of index business which we've mentioned before.
And then within that office business we had a pretty big swing in commodity versus premium mix.
So that's a big piece of it right there.
The P&amp;C our printing and converting index is also down by about $20 and offset that has impacted us.
Pulp price is down as well and this will impact both quarters it's about $50 domestically down in RISI (35:44) and about $70 to China.
And then if you look at our entire business mix office is about flat in first quarter we are down about 5 500 tons like we said in P&amp;C and pressure sensitive not too much in P&amp;C.
The pressure sensitive is driven heavily by the fact that last year we were still shipping products out of inventory from IFalls to our customer.
I mean also we've had some impact of internationally of the port slowdown that we're still working through.
If you look at Q2 it's actually more of the same.
Again the cut-size index is dropping about $25 per ton.
We expect that we still have a higher commodity mix within that business.
Offset is going to be down year-over-year $20 a ton.
We also have a mixed within our printing and converting business such that we have more offset than envelope business and so that it takes a little bit of a price away as well.
And the pressure sensitive side of things in Q2.
We have couple of new contracts that are going to impact us in Q2 which are down in price and also it's been very price competitive in South America.
Again pulp is going to hit us with the $50 domestically and $10 to China and again overall business mix is going to be more printing and converting we basically use that as a flex grade to balance our asset less pressure sensitive we do have some more comp against last year as far as selling out of inventory on the IFalls grade and then we have a little bit more pulp.
Okay.
And Judy can you just expand a little bit on what you just said about Latin America? Is that a currency related issue is you said? Yeah.
I did.
like I said our currency as well is pretty competitive I mean it's one of the higher margin areas of business and there have been a lot of again because of currency a lot of exposure from Europe in there.
Okay.
All right.
And then Tom Hassfurther any thoughts on sort of how you're seeing kind of converting volumes across the country relative to expectations both from the first quarter and as you move into the second quarter? Mark I can just really comment on what PCA has done.
And....
Yeah.
It's all I'm asking.
Yeah.
Coming out of the first quarter of course our numbers were good in spite of the fact we were very much impacted by weather especially in the South and the North East where we have a large footprint.
Looking at just April and I gave you an indication of what's happening so far in April.
For the first time shipping days PCA legacy box plants bookings are up about 7.5% shipments are up about 4.2%.
Now keep in mind on the shipment side Good Friday did fall early in April and we did have a number of plants working on Good Friday.
So the shipment number maybe just a touch high.
Now of course the Boise box plant represents about 20% of our shipment and they're not in our numbers yet.
Beginning in May we'll have those fully converted to the PCA systems.
So we'll have daily data starting in May and we'll be able to update you much better starting in July of this year.
But overall we're off to a good start.
And so I think demand remains very steady.
And can you give us any sense Tom on what you're seeing in terms of just export conditions say where we're today versus where we were during the first quarter? Well I think exports still remains good.
I mean it remained strong.
In terms of our opportunities we do have some currency headwinds of course and seeing some pricing variances around the world but RISI (39:33) just announced Europe was up 25% that's a positive.
Okay.
Your volume is mainly in export mainly SKUs to Latin America is that right? It's Latin America South America primarily yeah.
Okay.
All right.
Last question I had is just wood costs.
I just wonder in the Southern U.S.
is there any impact from these pellet plants which have been opening up? Is that in addition to weather incrementally putting any pressure on fiber costs? Yeah Mark.
We've seen definitely the trend over the last couple of years that the pellet plants particularly in southeast have been a competitor within the wood basket so you combine that with wet weather and the overall harvest conditions.
So it definitely has put pressure on the ability to distribute that wood out of those wood baskets into the traditional mill needs.
Okay.
Very good.
I'll turn it over.
Thanks.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Anthony Pettinari from Citigroup – excuse me our next question is from George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details.
I guess I want to try one more crack at the bridge-type question specific to the packaging segment to the extent that you can answer any of the details will be appreciated.
So when we look at the $20 million reduction year-on-year in EBITDA would it be safe to say that roughly half of that was the variance in maintenance outage expense versus first quarter 2014 the rest was the price mix issues that you enumerated and that the various cost factors labor cost wood cost energy and so on were more or less a wash just trying to put in bigger buckets if that's possible.
And you didn't get much synergy because of the fact that you were down so much in the first quarter.
Would that be a fair summary of the packaging segment? Yes it would Mark (sic) [George].
If you look at last year we had about $0.07 per share in annual outage costs and that was all in the paper mills and then we had $0.08 per share more this year which would equate back to about $12 million.
Then you got the second item would be what you said with export containerboard prices plus inflation and I would point out especially in our packaging side and legacy we have an unusually low medical cost in first quarter last year and just in that side alone we were up about $6 million in medical.
So you're correct in what you've said about the drop and that also applies to going from 4Q to 1Q I think you had read where the drop was.
We made about $250 million in 4Q and you take off the annual outage cost from that it was an incremental $12 million off of that.
So that's the key bucket and you're correct in your assumptions.
And George this is Paul a little bit of technicolor around that number.
We did not have an outage at DeRidder last year.
We had our huge outage this year fixed a lot of things that needed fixed for a long time.
And when we look at our – in total maintenance cost outage cost year-over-year including amortization loss production etcetera we're going to be up year-over-year because the addition of the Valdosta outage - DeRidder outage.
Excuse me because of the DeRidder outage we're going to be up $0.11 year-over-year and of that $0.11 DeRidder is $0.13 and they hit all in their first half of the year.
Okay.
So Paul thanks for that.
Rick thanks for that.
So you segue to my next question which is as we try to again bridge given that there are number of moving pieces I remember that last year if our maintenance expense was roughly $0.48.
So we're running then if I take that $0.11 closer to $0.59 $0.60 year-on-year would you confirm that and then assuming normal operations I know there is no way to define normal but we'll give it a shot.
Is there a way to take a crack at what the maintenance expense might look like in 2016 versus 2015? Well I will take the first shot from the standpoint of where we're at right now for total annual outage costs this is Rick West...
Hey Rick.
Annual outage volume loss is direct expenses and repair amortization.
The numbers in the first quarter will be $0.15 a share in the second quarter $0.16 per share.
It drops down to only basically $0.085 per share in the third quarter because we have very – of the only outage we have in the third quarter is on the D3 machine a short outage to replace the dryers.
So then in the fourth quarter it goes back up to $0.19 per share because you have to add additional outages in the fourth quarter that we have planned plus all the remaining repair job amortization.
So that should equate to a total for the year up $0.59 per share.
Now we have not done anything to really look at 2016 this year for example we don't have the Valdosta outage next year we will have to have a Valdosta outage in one of the quarters but in terms of trying to determine at an annual outage cost it's going to be a moving target based upon what we have to take each year but I would say the DeRidder outage which is by far probably our most expensive outage especially with the extended part of it would cause you to probably have – and I don't want to speculate to the any extent but I would think that it's going to be a little bit lighter than next year.
Just adding some color to that.
Through the course of last year we've recognized these opportunities at DeRidder.
And if you go back to the legacy history of PCA we decided based on the fact that we understood what we needed to do.
We have the manpower to do with the technical resources.
We identified number of these opportunities that historically if you went back into a Counce mill or Valdosta we took a number of years to correct.
We corrected in this one outage in March a number of items that probably would have taken five years worth of outages 10 years ago in our legacy business.
So we accomplished a great deal.
We took on a great deal but it's behind us theoretically.
And so that's where we'll obviously get the benefits but again if anything going forward is speculative next year in terms of what cost would be.
And just to qualify what Rick said on Valdosta with the energy project at Valdosta and other things we've done we have been able now to go to an annual outage every year and a half instead of every year and so that's why Valdosta has one year but then it skips and so you work to a year-and-a-half and that's the reason there is no Valdosta shutdown next year.
Paul I will turn it over here but would an average Valdosta be $0.06 a share roughly in a year? Not sure.
Well we don't want just throw a number out right now George.
Understood.
Probably closer to a nickel than $0.06.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Good luck in the quarter.
Thanks.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Anthony Pettinari from Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Anthony.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just to follow-up on George's question.
If we take your 2Q guidance your first-half earnings are down year-over-year by about $0.20 as you look into the back-half of the year assuming flat product prices would you expect earnings to be flat or higher or lower versus the second-half of last year and I understand you don't give full year guidance but with DeRidder ramping up and some of these synergies flowing through and lower maintenance outages in 3Q.
Is there a reason to think that second-half earnings wouldn't be higher year-over-year versus last year? Again sticking to tradition we only give guidance one quarter at a time so I'm not going to speculate.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay okay.
And regarding the vendor design errors is there an insurance recovery associated with that? Are you seeking compensation from the vendor? And then regarding the dryer installation is there any incremental CapEx on that in the second half of the year and can you just refresh our view on full year CapEx? On your first question we've been working with the vendor to obviously correct what needs to be corrected and so rather than get into any legalities or implications there I'd rather not comment.
But again we're confident that we've been able to rectify the problems that we encountered in a timely manner and take care of the machine.
And the second part of your question refresh my memory – yeah cost of the dryer; that was baked into the capital when we said $275 million to $300 million.
So that's not additional capital.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just a last one how much free cash did you generate in this quarter? Rick.
Well we generated cash from operations of $109 million and we had $56 million in CapEx so about $55 million.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I'll just point out this is a quarter where we have a lot of working capital hits in the first quarter and our cash...
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Right.
...generally gets better through the rest of the year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Right.
Okay that's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Morning.
I wanted to go back to the input costs side.
We didn't really talk about freight.
So diesel prices are down very materially year-over-year.
Are you not seeing any benefit of the decline in diesel prices on your business? The issue has been not just the diesel costs but it's been the availability of truck and rail and obviously rail rates haven't been coming down.
And truck rates because of the demand for the truck fleet that's available in this country prices have remained high and are going higher because they have the ability to command price in terms of the trucking industry.
So even though diesel's come down in general we're not seeing the benefit of it.
Got it Mark.
And maybe thinking about the balance of the year is it fair to think about freight as more of a push on the cost side? It's just yeah speculative on my part.
So I really don't want to comment.
Okay.
And then just going back to D3 wanted to clarify a couple of things that you said.
So you said you'd be running at about 80% of the stated annual capacity in the second quarter? We are actually – we've run at the 80% rate year-to-date and obviously part of that was because again we made the conscious decision to shift the machine over to predominantly linerboard machine.
And so the drying rates are a little more demanding in terms of the heavier weight mix we have on the machine.
So we'll probably be in this 80% range until we add dryers in the September outage to take advantage of the incremental dryer opportunity.
Understood.
And so the mix currently right now is about 70% linerboard and 30% medium? Correct.
That's a good number.
Okay got you.
Very helpful.
And then last question.
So on the export side can you just remind us again what your export position is kind of a rough number of how many tons you expect to put into the export market on an annual basis and how that breaks out between the different regions around the world? Yeah.
I'm not going to break out the various regions Alex but I will say that we're about 5% export so it's a fairly small piece of our total revenue and total output.
We are more concentrated in Latin America and South America and Asia to some extent and less in Europe but that's kind of – that's about the best color I can add to that for you.
Yeah let me just clarify that a little bit.
It's around 5% of our tonnage but since paper sells for pick a rough number half of what a box costs it's really only 2.5% or 3% of our sales.
Yes.
Okay okay.
Thanks for everybody's input.
I'll turn it over.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Two questions.
First Tom are you making any significant changes in your existing box plant converting capacity to accommodate the new D3 volumes or should we expect you to be spending some money there? I'm just wondering how much your existing system can handle of new tonnage.
And second a question for Judy.
Does the decline in tonnage in white paper help or hurt margins? I'm just trying to get a sense to – it's specialty volume that was lost but then you have the offset of the purchased pulp.
Mark this is Tom.
I'll take the first question.
Let me remind you that we have been purchasing outside 200 000 tons.
So...
Right.
...the D3 output will go into our box plants and that's why it's so vitally important that we were able to produce linerboard as opposed to just lightweight mediums because that's where the important need is in our box plants and of course in the conversion process you use two liners to every one medium.
So we will absorb this D3 output right into our box plants as a result of the outside tonnage that we currently purchase and the growth rates that we've had on a pretty consistent basis.
Okay.
So that rebalancing process is more or less eliminating the issue for you? Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Well it's eliminating the issue of having outside purchases.
Right exactly.
And being able to consume internally yes.
Right.
Perfect.
Okay.
Again in the first quarter we did not purchase any outside tonnage except for specialty grades which is what we've traditionally done.
Perfect.
Okay.
Okay.
So the second half if I understand your question correctly it's around the impact of pressure-sensitive and market pulp on the margin.
If you look at it the pressure sensitive is a pretty small business.
And so it's not a huge – it does – I mean like I said it does take the margins down a little bit as well as pulp but again it just kind of piles on to the bigger – what's going on in office.
Okay.
So on balance it was probably a net positive overall then just those two items right? Yeah yeah yeah.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Next question please? Next we have Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Hey guys.
You've highlighted export prices as a headwind.
How much of that is tied to you selling more tons into the export market post-D3 or is that just a function for the erosion in export prices? And ultimately what are you guys baking in into your 2Q guidance for export prices? Well again we're not – the D3 production is staying within our own system.
So that is not being produced for export.
So where we are in terms of any export/domestic sales is just balancing out our system quarter-to-quarter.
Okay.
Mark do you have anything to add to that? No I don't have anything to add no.
Okay.
And then can you provide some color more on the mix headwind that you guys called out? It's a bit more pronounced than I would have expected.
Yeah Rick go ahead.
I don't – I think Judy in terms of price and mix we calculate it all together.
When we gave the numbers in the bridge $0.09 per share year-over-year in white papers and Judy explained all the components and then we gave $0.03 in export liner prices year-over-year in 2Q.
And then in domestic medium and corrugated products mix we had $0.04 per share which gave us a total in 2Q to 2Q and then you had the amount in the bridge Phil for the first quarter.
So it's a combination of price and mix; it's predominantly more price than mix but it's – in general it's been through the different product lines that Judy expanded upon in white papers.
Got you.
I mean on the corrugated and medium side I guess it was – it is a big – larger hit than I would have expected since most of your business is integrated.
So were there any dynamics just the way you're selling in terms of boxes or is it just a function of more – I'm just curious because it seems to be more pronounced than I would have expected the white paper part I could appreciate it.
Phil it's just more a function of when the specialty products happen to ship in a particular quarter something like that.
So it was a little lighter in the first quarter than in comparison to the same timeframe a year ago.
So it's just more timing more than anything else.
It's a small number.
Medium obviously those published prices dropped now up to $20 so – and as Paul alluded to earlier there is quite a spread now between liner and medium.
So that's a larger portion of the $0.04 that Rick's talked about.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess I'll just take a crack at what Anthony was trying to parse out earlier.
I mean if you – can you help us frame what the headwinds – how much of the headwinds that you saw in the first half would dissipate in the back half? And I'd appreciate a big chunk of that to D3 weather and then perhaps adjusting for maintenance but can you kind of help us quantify what can roll off in the back half? No it's – again it's too speculative.
No problem.
And just one last one for me then I guess on capital employment.
I appreciate you guys raised your dividend.
Historically you guys have been very opportunistic when your stock sells off.
Do you kind of viewed the recent pullback as buying opportunity how should we be thinking about stock buybacks this year? Well again we talked before CapEx acquisitions dividends and share buybacks so again those are – it remains those four talking points.
So again we'll consider all of that and that's generally a board matter.
Just to amplify on the dividend because we did announce a dividend increase.
We thought in this low yield environment that we're in that yield would be important to our investors because it's – you get that while you wait for better things to happen if you will.
And so we think having a good yield to import and then our story on share buybacks has never changed.
We tend to remain opportunistic in share buyback and if something happens in a world like group debt causes things to happen that we don't think should affect us that could create a buying opportunity and we've been fairly successful in doing that over the past three years or four years.
And we're going to continue that sort of philosophy as opposed to just steadily buying a little bit every day.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
Next question.
We'll take one more question if anybody has anything.
Next we have Al Kabili from Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow-up and that we really appreciate the bridge that you laid out.
You did in the second quarter really explicitly talk about the synergies year-over-year.
Are you netting those synergy benefits against inflation so that underlying inflations actually higher than what you have in that bridge? I'm just trying to understand where the synergies fit in the second quarter bridge that you highlighted to us.
Thanks.
Al this is Rick West.
You're absolutely correct.
Our accounting systems don't allow us to really bridge the two some you can but you're definitely right.
If had there not been synergies and that's what I alluded to when I did the first half of the year comparison the bridge numbers would have been worse.
So there is an embedded benefit of synergies in those numbers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate that Rick that helps.
And then just my last or follow-on question is just on DeRidder and it sounds like we're at 80% production.
We are at well below that in terms of expected run rate to full earnings.
So is this just higher costs until you optimize it and where specifically you mentioned the dryers but again just bridging the gap between the 80% production levels and the earnings contribution where that gap really lies and again confirming that you think you're going to get there at the end of the year? Well again if you go back to a normal startup curve on the paper machine or any paper machine whether it's a new machine or a converted machine first quarter we're still on the curve of learning but also when we shift to the grade mix significantly to liner liner inherently has a higher input cost wetting chemicals et cetera.
And so we very quickly were able to address the input cost chemicals and so again we feel going forward we have a very competitive cost position but I think you also said there's inflation at play.
And so inflation is there but just summarizing we feel confident the machine is going to contribute what we've been saying and it's more back end loaded obviously.
But let me just add to that.
You're right on cost.
Our costs are higher than they will be when we optimize but don't forget the thing that I mentioned earlier on the call we're running at 80% of capacity.
The last 20% that we get is probably has a cost of $150 a ton lower than the first 80% because all your fixed costs have already been absorbed all your labor is already been absorbed.
So as last 20% the cost is really low and that will bring down your costs a lot because the incremental margin is so high because you've already absorbed all these other costs on the first 80%.
And then in the meantime as we develop these grades and learn to make them better the costs are coming down.
But you're right our costs are disproportionately high to the production rate because of the reasons I just gave you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
I appreciate that.
Okay last question for Judy.
Just on the white paper side the office papers you guys markedly outperformed the industry in the first quarter and I wondered if you could talk to that and sort of – if that outperformance you think is sustainable? So (1:05:36) shipment piece of the office papers business we have just seen strong performance with our key customers and we'll continue with those key customers and hope to see that going throughout the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
But I mean any sense of just that level of outperformance Judy like you said being up in a down market is pretty notable.
So I don't know if that's something you think you can continue to do or is there some timing variances in there? So the bulk of our performance in Q1 is synergies and that will continue.
And again from a standpoint of our strong office business performance by our customers and we expect that to hold.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
Just to add on that we've got a lot of synergies in a white paper business on a much smaller volume than is in the brown business.
So synergies really made a big difference there because they are substantial and they're on a lot smaller business than the brown business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That helps.
It's good to see.
All right.
Thanks and good luck.
Okay.
With that operator the time is up and thank everybody for joining us today and we'll talk to you on the 2Q call in July.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your line.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan.
And please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and thank you for participating in Packaging Corporation of America's second quarter 2015 earnings release conference call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA.
And with me on the call today are Paul Stecko our Chairman; Tom Hassfurther Executive Vice President who runs our Packaging business; Judy Lassa Senior Vice President who runs our White Papers business; and Rick West Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Mundy who will succeed Rick as CFO effective September 1.
I'll begin the call with an overview of our second quarter results and operations and then I'll turn the call over to Tom Judy and Rick who'll provide more details.
During our prepared comments we'll be referring to slides that are posted on our website.
I'll then wrap things up and we'll be glad to take questions.
Yesterday we reported second quarter net income of $114 million or $1.16 per share compared to last year's second quarter net income of $100 million or $1.01 per share.
Second quarter net income included net charges for the Boise integration and the DeRidder Louisiana mill restructuring of $2 million or $0.02 per share.
Excluding special items net income was a record $116 million or $1.18 per share compared to last year's net income of $114 million or $1.15 per share.
Net sales were $1.5 billion in both the second quarter of 2015 and 2014.
As shown on slide four earnings of $1.18 per share were $0.15 higher than our prior guidance.
Higher than guidance earning of $0.06 per share were driven by outstanding operations in both our mills and box plants especially considering that five of our mills were down during the quarter for their annual outages.
The benefits from the work we completed in the first quarter at the DeRidder mill during its extended annual outage were realized faster than we expected.
The ability to produce virgin high-performance linerboard grades on D3 plus the improvements we made on D1 allowed us to make more lightweight containerboard and other specialty grade at DeRidder and shift other grades to accounts in Valdosta mills.
This resulted in record productivity on a tons-per-day basis and lower mill cost at all three of these mills.
In corrugated products our sales mix improved seasonally more than we expected contributing another $0.05 per share.
In addition lower mill outage costs lower purchased pulp costs a lower tax rate and other items each contributed an additional $0.01 per share in earnings.
Looking at slide five earnings were up $0.02 per share compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Production in sales volume increase has added $0.10 per share to earnings a richer mix in corrugated products increased earnings by $0.02 per share lower energy costs increased earnings $0.07 per share.
Lower chemical costs increased earnings $0.02 per share and a lower tax rate improved earnings over last year's second quarter by about $0.04 per share.
These earnings improvements were partially offset by lower white paper prices and mix changes which reduced earnings by $0.10 per share higher labor and benefit costs of $0.05 per share lower export containerboard prices of $0.02 per share higher annual outage costs $0.03 per share and higher wood costs of $0.02 per share.
EBITDA and margins in the packaging segments were up over second quarter of last year with EBITDA of $267 million and sales of $1.142 billion or a 23.4% margin compared to the second quarter of 2014 packaging EBITDA of $259 million excluding special items with sales of $1.145 billion or a 22.6% margin.
Moving into more details of operations.
Containerboard production in the second quarter was 937 000 tons up 91 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter driven primarily by 79 000 tons or 875 tons per day produced on D3 machine at DeRidder.
The D3 machine produced 59 000 tons of linerboard and 20 000 tons of corrugating medium.
With the D3 production we reduced our upside purchases of containerboard by 56 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter.
The D3 machine contributed about $0.06 per share to our second quarter earnings.
We plan to take our D3 machine down at DeRidder in September for 13 days to install additional dryers which will provide the capability to achieve full design capacity of 1 000 tons per day and lower cost.
We pulled up some work from next year's DeRidder annual outage to better utilize the downtime and also accrue benefits earlier.
Our containerboard inventory at the end of the second quarter was down 4 000 tons from year-end levels and about 1 400 tons below the end of the first quarter.
Our ending inventory level at the end of the quarter is where we wanted to be to meet our seasonally stronger third quarter demand especially with the lost production from the planned D3 machine outage in September.
Our containerboard inventories at our box plants are also higher than what we've historically carried as a result of transportation issues which I think most of you are familiar with.
Looking at changes in containerboard mill costs our overall wood costs are up year-over-year driven exclusively by our Northern mills.
Wood costs in our Southern mills are actually slightly down.
Energy costs in our packaging business were down compared to both the second quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year driven by lower purchased fuel prices and also lower usage.
Purchased electricity prices were up compared to last year's second quarter.
However purchased electricity consumption was down about 20% from both the conversion of D3 machine from newsprint to containerboard which requires less electricity.
And we also self-generated more electricity at our mills which more than offset the higher prices.
I'll now turn it over to Tom who will provide more details on containerboard sales and our corrugated business.
Thank you Mark.
Corrugated product shipments were up 2.1% in total and per work day over a very strong second quarter of last year.
As Mark said earlier in corrugated products our sales mix was better than we expected when we provided guidance and also compared to last year's second quarter.
Part of the richer mix we believe is coming from additional higher value-added volume as we migrate the Boise packaging plants towards higher-margin business.
We are making progress but the migration takes time to complete and we have more work to do.
Our outside sales of containerboard were up about 21 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter with domestic containerboard sales down 4 000 tons and exports up 25 000 tons.
Domestic prices were comparable to last year and export prices were lower.
I will now turn it back to Mark.
Thank you Tom.
EBITDA and sales were down in our Paper segment compared to the second quarter of last year with EBITDA at $37 million and sales of $281 million or a 13.2% margin compared to the second quarter of 2014 with EBITDA of $45 million excluding special items and sales of $295 million or a 15.3% margin.
I'm pleased with our Paper segment results considering the earnings impact from lower paper prices which we were able to partially offset with improvements in operations.
I'll now turn it over to Judy Lassa who will provide more operating details.
Thank you Mark.
Office paper shipments which represent about 65% of our volume were up 3 000 tons compared to last year's second quarter or 1.7%.
Printing and converting shipments were also about 6 000 ton over last year's second quarter.
Pressure-sensitive paper shipments were down about 8 000 tons compared to last year driven by market conditions and pulp shipments were up about 2 000 tons versus last year.
Paper prices were down compared to last year's second quarter driven primarily by changes in industry trade publications for major grades and changes in the mix of paper products we sold.
With the most recent published paper price decrease of $10 per ton the current published price per office paper is $35 per ton lower than the average price for the second quarter of 2014.
Fortunately we've been able to offset some of the earnings reduction from lower published paper prices and mix changes with continued improvements in both paper mill cost and productivity.
During the second quarter we also completed annual outages at the International Falls Minnesota and Wallula Washington mills.
Wood costs were comparable to last year while energy chemical and freight costs were lower than last year's second quarter.
I will now turn it over to Rick West.
Thank you Judy.
As mentioned earlier earnings improved by about $0.04 per share compared to the second quarter of last year from a lower tax rate.
Our second quarter 2015 effective tax rate of 35% was about 2% lower than the second quarter last year primarily due to an increased domestic manufacturers' deduction resulting from having less tax net operating losses applied against taxable income that we had – the net tax operating losses were acquired with the acquisition of Boise.
The third quarter tax rate is expected to be about the same as the second quarter of 2015.
As shown on slide six cash provided by operations in the second quarter was $196 million after deducting $78 million in cash tax payments for federal and state income taxes.
Other uses of cash included capital expenditures of $86 million common stock dividends of $54 million share repurchases of $36 million and a scheduled term loan payment of $2 million.
We ended the quarter with $164 million of cash on hand.
I'll now turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Rick.
Before I move to the third quarter outlook I want to update you on the progress in achieving synergies from the Boise acquisition.
As we reported in our fourth quarter earnings call in January 2015 we realized $100 million in synergies in 2014.
The remaining $100 million of targeted synergies consists of both capital project initiatives and other identified opportunities to increase productivity and optimize operations.
Through the first half of 2015 we've realized about an additional $30 million of synergies with more in the second quarter than the first quarter.
This brings our total earnings improvement from synergies to $130 million.
At the end of the second quarter our annual run rate realization of synergies is at about $170 million or 85% of our $200 million synergy target.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect higher containerboard corrugated products and white paper shipments and lower mill annual outage costs and lower chemical costs.
White paper prices are expected to be lower with announced price changes in industry trade publications.
And finally the September outage on D3 machine at DeRidder will result in about 13 000 tons of lost production.
Considering these items we expect the third quarter earnings of $1.28 per share.
Finally yesterday we announced that our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $150 million of the company's outstanding common stock.
Together with the remaining authority under previously announced programs the company can repurchase $205 million of additional shares.
This share repurchase program together with our dividend increases announced earlier this year demonstrates PCA's strong operating performance and cash generation as well as our continuing commitment to return value to shareholders.
With that we'll be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we made on the call constituted forward-looking statements.
These statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
And with that operator I'd like to open the call to questions please.
The first question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
And...
Morning Anthony.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> ...congratulations to Rick and Bob on their transitions.
Thank you very much.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> On DeRidder I was wondering if you could give some color on what work was completed maybe a little bit faster than expected in the quarter.
And then following the installation of the dryers in September it's principally all of the large work on DeRidder done and then the $60 million EBITDA contribution that you had guided to I think late last year is that still intact on an annualized basis? Yeah.
Anthony if you go back to the April call when we talked about coming out of the March outage we explained the problems we had had with the vendor-supplied equipment on D1.
And so we were essentially running a crippled to that period of time until we could get the corrected hardware.
And also we're still ramping up D3 and working on overall cost efficiencies and productivity and continuing to fine-tune the grade mix.
But we've learned very quickly on D1 how to overcome the vendor issues.
And by the end of April we had the corrected equipment supplied to us.
We took the downtime and primarily changed out few of the components that had to be corrected and then came on strong with the machine for the month of May and June on D1.
So D1's proven to be very successful.
We're very pleased with where we are with the work we did.
And then D3 we talk on the call that we are – it's that basically 80% range in terms of 1 000 ton a day goal.
And so we moved up in productivity and efficiency and achieved our goals in terms of product trialing and also worked on cost.
And so D3 has proven to come on very quickly.
And then we also identified during the same time and this is going into your question about the September outage.
We had mentioned that we're going to install probably four dryer cans during the September outage.
We realized that with the benefits of the capability to produce linerboard that we had additional dryers available.
So rather than just take an outage and then install four dryers we have the ability to install additional dryers and rearrange the last section on a machine to achieve this.
And so we're actually installing six new dryers and we are rearranging some of the earlier section dryer cans so that we have a full dedicated high-pressure section which will ensure us that we have the ability to dry at 1 000 ton a day rate.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And the initial guidance on $60 million EBITDA and I think the initial design capacity was 355 000 tons are those two still unchanged? Yeah.
We're still standing by the $60 million EBITDA which – or $0.09 per share per quarter basis.
We still have that as our target.
And the 355 000 tons a year is based on the 1 000 ton a day productivity on the machine.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Great.
And just one follow-up on containerboard.
During the quarter Pulp and Paper Week lowered Western liner prices $10 a ton.
I'm curious if that's something that you saw in the market and if there's any impact to PCA in the second half of the year? Anthony this is Tom.
I would say that it's very little impact.
That was just basically a reflection of what has taken place in the past.
So it was no big impact.
And of course we're not big net outside sellers on the West Coast anyway.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
I'll turn it over.
Thank you.
Next question please.
The next question is from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks everyone good morning.
Again congratulations Rick and Bob.
Rick really appreciate all the help over the years with the Investor Relations.
I guess the first question I had could you give a bit more color Mark in terms of – or Tom how you were able to get a richer mix through your efforts within the Boise system and then more broadly within the legacy PKG system? Yeah let me start that off and then we'll turn it over to Tom.
And if you think about the acquisition when we acquired Boise there were few different parts of Boise.
One of them is the Tharco business which are really a stock-block business and the Hexacomb business which at the time of the acquisition were being run as separate entities within the Boise system.
And so we quickly identified the opportunities to integrate that entire system.
I'm going to let Tom elaborate on it now.
Yeah George.
What we've basically been able to do is kind of break PCA's DNA if you will to Boise.
And you've heard us over the years talk about the kind of mix we run the hard to do the things we want to get paid for et cetera.
And so we've been working hard on both the Boise legacy box plants the Hexacomb plants and the Tharco plants to be able to do that.
There are some segments of the business that quite frankly don't make some sense and there are others that need to be enhanced.
So we work very hard on doing that.
I'm not going to go into great details but that's essentially what we've done and what we'll continue to do.
Was there any operational effort that you brought to improving the mix as well? So obviously you always focus on the hard-to-do content in the market.
Was there anything that operationally you did different that allowed for that without getting into specifics? Or was it really just – which markets you targeted? Well I think from an operational standpoint certainly one of the benefits comes in freight and that's getting the business to run in the right place.
So businesses move back and forth depending on best locations.
And in addition we did have – this was seasonally stronger in the second quarter than we actually thought.
I'll just add that especially in the ag business in the Pacific Northwest with the record heat they had out there the crops came in earlier than they expected.
So that was somewhat of a lift for us as well.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
The next question I had again just on pace of activity early in the third quarter can you give us your normal review of shipments and bookings? Are you seeing any signs that back-to-school or things like Halloween are trending better than expected quicker than expected or being pushed out relative to what your customers have traditionally pulled at? Our early third quarter trends and we've only got about 10 or 11 days of July to base that on but we're up about 2% again over the previous year which of course was a larger number and a good year than previous year.
So we're kind of tracking about the same.
Regarding some of these promotional trends and things like that I think we saw a little bit of that a little earlier in the second quarter than we typically would.
And – but I think overall it's pretty stable.
Okay.
Last one housekeeping I'll turn it over.
Both the D3 ramp and the Boise synergies in total where would we see those if you – where would we see those in the 2Q-to-2Q bridge table that you provided? Thanks very much and good luck in the quarter.
George this is Rick.
In the 2Q-to-2Q bridge table if you look at the components that we talked about it's really in all of the areas.
We had said in our – in fact in our second quarter 2014 conference call that the packaging mills we were looking for productivity optimization and cost reduction.
In our white paper mills we were looking for just basic improvement.
In our box plants we said in the second quarter of 2014 we were looking at optimization of box plant operations and also lower corporate overhead.
And so when you look at the 2Q-over-2Q a lot of that is driven in each of the areas as you can see in the volume area an optimization and as we said on the call productivity does two things for you it's not just giving tons that makes it a cheaper mill cost per ton produced and I think you can see that in our energy and chemical costs somewhat in labor and benefit costs.
So in terms of the synergy realization it's coming in each of those areas as part of the bridge.
We don't specifically bring it up because there's other things we do.
And George this is Paul Stecko.
One real simple fact that substantiates what Rick said once we got DeRidder in a position to make the optimum grade not optimum for DeRidder but optimum for our system.
All three mills Counce Valdosta and DeRidder had all-time production records.
And that translates into very good cost also.
So...
And the mix I would imagine.
The fact that we produced those – that level of efficiency on cost and volume is a testament of the integration that got put into place once DeRidder could do its thing.
Got it.
Well congratulation on the quarter.
The next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Yes.
Good morning Chip.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Congratulations Rick.
And Bob good to be catching back up with you again.
Thanks Chip.
First question has to do with I guess D3.
And you mentioned it added $0.06 in the quarter so you annualize that that's about two-thirds I think of the ultimate goal.
And I was just wondering I would imagine the other third should come from I guess about another 15% or so of production.
And then I would imagine the additional dryers would lower your cost there especially as you make linerboard.
Do you think those two activities that is the additional dryers plus the production could actually allow that to exceed your original goal? Where we are – we've committed to the fact that we know we're running the machine obviously better than we did at the beginning of 2Q.
And as we ended up the quarter we started 3Q.
We're somewhere in that 90% of goal range.
But more than that we really worked on the quality and the cost input the performance of the machine it's running extremely well.
And we fully expect that the financials will be there.
The extra tons in terms of finishing up the incremental tons to get to the $1 000 (sic) [1 000 tons] (26:45) target your overhead is already covered.
And so the contribution is very significant.
So going from the $0.06 2Q earnings contribution to the goal of the $0.09 is what we're planning on and we see that as achievable.
Again the machine's performing very well and its cost structure is very competitive with the rest of our system.
Got you.
I know it's early days but do you see your CapEx edging down further next year assuming no major obvious changes in your footprint since you won't be doing as much work at say DeRidder? And also could you talk a little bit about downtime? I would imagine I think you said in your comments you're doing some things now that might have been done later.
So could that actually reduce the amount of downtime you take next year? Regarding the capital level for next year until we have a better chance to really assess what the opportunities are we're going to say that our CapEx for 2016 would be in the same range of $275 million to $300 million and that's providing that we have opportunities now which – obviously we've identified various things that we're analyzing.
That being said we plan on looking at a shutdown plan for next year.
I mean we saw the opportunity to move up some of these items that would have waited until next year some boiler work pulp mill work that will give us an immediate advantage in terms of operating efficiency at the mills coming out of September.
So again that does change how we look at the outage plan for 2016.
Hopefully all the work we're doing at DeRidder allows us to get DeRidder going forward into the normal shutdown mode that we see in our legacy system.
Don't forget I mean this year hasn't been just about D3 the mill.
We've worked on over 300 various capital projects at the mill that was part of that capital spend for the year.
So we're very very aggressively going after opportunities to capture the benefits at DeRidder.
And Chip let me just add to that.
DeRidder is a huge mill.
The good news is – we have some problems at DeRidder.
And the good news is when we overcome those problems that's going to get more money to the bottom line.
Mainly there's opportunities at DeRidder that we can capitalize down the road that were not in the original synergy plan.
In other words when we put our original synergy plan together to tell you what happens when you put the two companies together immediately what are the benefits? But after you do that and we're pretty close to having that done then you get into normal continuous improvement-type activity.
So just because we'll be done with the $200 million in synergies that does not mean – that was just an initial one-shot program you get these synergies.
But there'll be a long-term operations improvement program at DeRidder as exists in all of our mills and we continue to want to take costs out of our system and that will happen.
And that's kind of reflective also on D3.
We're highly confident that this dryer change will get us everything we want from that machine.
What's really significant about that in our original design we contemplated making a lot more medium than we are.
And we complicated the drying situation on that machine when we're making probably two-thirds linerboard on that machine.
So not only will we get to the 1 000 tons a day we'll get to it a much tougher grade to make than we originally contemplated.
Now beyond that looking down the road a year or two I certainly feel that I'd be disappointed if we can't get more out of that machine in terms of lower cost and a little more productivity but that's down the road a year or so until we get through with the first phase of this operation and that's the point Mark made earlier.
But I wanted to emphasize it.
Got you.
And last quick one is I know you guys being so largely integrated (31:23) the market you mentioned that you've reduced your purchases.
And I sit here and you think on the linerboard side especially the virgin quality whether it's recycled that's made at a virgin level or virgin itself there's just basically no capacity coming on because we know Pratt doesn't really fit that bill.
And yet the market's growing.
So I'm just wondering even with you all backing off the market are you having any difficulty getting virgin board out there or is that not a problem? Well Chip this is Tom.
I'll just say this number one is that's one of the reasons why we're doing D3 in terms of the linerboard because we internally need linerboard in our system.
And our purchases you know I mean were very high before.
We did the acquisition.
We did the D3 conversion mainly because we needed to supply ourselves.
And so we're doing okay.
We think we're definitely in a sweet spot there's no question about that.
And you're absolutely right there is very little growth if any in terms of virgin capacity out there.
And yet there is still – that's the primary market.
And there's a very large demand for that.
And of course as I think you've stated before the outside market has shrunk dramatically.
So the integration in terms of demand not necessarily with supply but in terms of demand has gotten to the point where anybody looking at doing anything in terms of adding mill capacity if you don't have it internally integrated there is very few customers out there that are net buyers in the marketplace.
Thank you.
Next question please.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
One or two housekeeping first off can you give us an update on the EPS impact from outages as it rolls through the year? Yes Mark.
Just to give you what we've said previously we had said of course it was $0.15 actual in the first quarter.
In the second quarter we had guided to $0.16 we were able to pick up $0.01 with lower cost at our I-Falls mill so the second quarter was an actual of $0.15.
As we go to the third quarter we were looking at $0.09 but that's up to $0.11 in the third quarter the DeRidder outage for 13 days is an extra $0.04 per share.
But we were able to reduce the Jackson outage by $0.01 per share so the net difference would be $0.02 lower in the third quarter.
And then in the fourth quarter we had said $0.19 and it's up to $0.20 with that.
So we're now at $0.61 of annual outage cost compared to $0.59.
So a pickup of $0.04 from DeRidder but a reduction of $0.02 with the I-Falls second quarter and the Jackson third quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then is that a number you kind of consider normal for a year order of magnitude? No.
As we said previously in the second – in our first quarter call you'd probably look at a normal year of about $0.55 a share $0.56.
It's premature because it depends upon the amount of work you would do.
But considering the fact that we had the extended outage at DeRidder in the first quarter it'd probably be more in line still with about $0.55 or $0.56.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Now you'd mentioned the West Coast liner really no impact that there were some also shifts in medium pricing.
Does that likewise have minimal impact in terms of your corrugated pricing et cetera? Yeah Mark.
This is Tom.
Yeah.
That was – I mean there is some impact.
There is no question about it but it's very very small for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then lastly you did pick up the pace of share repurchase in the quarter.
And how should we read that? Is that being opportunistic on stock price or is that just a function of where your financial strength is right now and you would intend to continue at that type of rate pretty much regardless of share price in terms of repurchase activity? Primarily that was based on an opportunistic situation when the stock started dropping.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Terrific.
Thank you.
And thank you Rick for all your help over the years.
Thank you Mark.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning gentlemen and congratulations again Rick and welcome Bob.
Thanks.
A couple of questions for you.
First let me start with just kind of taking a step back it's been a couple of years since you bought Boise and you've done a lot of work.
And it sounds like you still have a little bit more on the synergy side.
You're working through particularly on the corrugated side.
As you kind of take a look at the businesses acquired getting back into the – or getting into the papers business that you hadn't done much in the past with how do you assess that as you look today? I mean you've done some work.
You've got what you wanted mostly done there.
Is that still something that you view as a long-term fit within the organization or something you're still kind of taking a look at or how do you think about it? Without getting too far ahead of ourselves we're continuing to make operational improvements.
The business does not require an inordinate amount of capital to take care.
And so it generates a lot of cash.
And we stated this on prior calls in spite of some of the markets pressures it's a good cash generator and it doesn't take a lot of our attention right now in terms of resources.
And so that being said we're going to continue just running the business for the time being.
And – but we will obviously assess all opportunities that come along in the future.
And Chris just to amplify on that this is Paul Stecko.
It's only our EBITDA in the white business is about 12% of our total EBITDA.
And that number will decrease over time as if we grow the brown business as we like.
But that 12% or 13% of EBITDA doesn't require a lot of capital support.
And we like that free cash and we like having the ability to do something with it.
And so the white business has performed in line with our expectations and maybe beat it a little bit because of the synergies.
Okay.
That's helpful.
The second question I had was as you look at – you mentioned inventory as being a little higher with freight logistics and different elements there and then timing of outages.
Is there a way to estimate A are you at a level that you're comfortable with you're happy with as you look through your corrugated operations? Is there a way to estimate how much that's going to add? Is that the logistics the freight some of the other problems that'll end up staying with you? Is that two three four days? How do you think about that? Let me go back and – last year when we were into the full first year of integration of the Boise legacy systems and giving us a West Coast presence of Pacific Northwest primarily but a bigger West Coast presence.
And looking at how we supplied the system with tons obviously you're reaching out further on a transportation cost basis.
And then with the transportation issues with the trucking availability trucking costs rail availability rail cost we realized obviously it makes sense to reassess the overall inventory in our box plant system.
And so where we had assumed we would run it obviously was not an ideal situation.
And so we talked about this in the last October's call that we intended to move our inventories up to take that into account.
And then as we work through 1Q and 2Q I think where we are today we're feeling comfortable that this is a manageable inventory at the year-over-year higher level.
That being said it's all being determined by what happens with transportation availability and cost.
But again I think where we are in today's world our inventory is around a manageable level and a necessary level for us to service our customers.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Good luck in the quarter.
Next question.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Thanks couple of things.
You've obviously talked a lot about optimization and productivity in the quarter since you did Boise.
But as we think about D3 coming online is it fair to assume that the re-optimization of the containerboard system that happens after D3 settles in is going to be similar order of magnitude opportunity of what you've already accomplished with D1? That's really speculative.
We'll continue to focus and fine-tune on the great mix opportunities.
And as Tom grows his business it gives us that much more flexibility with how we supply the box plant's needs now.
But truly I'd only be speculating on anything regarding that question.
Okay.
So if we come back to the question of outside board purchases being down last quarter you said I think that D3 could help you eliminate 200 000 tons of outside purchases over time.
Can you give us a better sense of what period of time that might be? Well we are not purchasing basically at commodity grade outside linerboard.
And we continue as we always have to purchase small amounts of specialty linerboard such as white top grade.
But when you think about – the machine itself truly allowed us to cease being dependent on the outside market for ground commodity-type linerboard grades.
And so – and we've done for years and we've always gone out and taken advantage of what was available for the specialty type linerboard.
Tom do you want to add to that? Probably just say also I mean it's provided us an opportunity in the lightweight arena that we didn't have before.
Exactly.
And that was an area where we purchased and we had a desire for a higher virgin content obviously.
So these – the work we're doing on D3 is actually satisfying the demands that we have (43:04).
And Mark to get to the bottom line you mentioned the 200 000 ton a year number we gave you? Yeah.
The actual number for last quarter which is one-fourth of the year was 56 000 tons.
So if you multiply that by four you can see if we continue at that rate we'll see the 200 000 tons.
And the reason is we're growing.
So not only do you have to add the 200 000 tons of outside you're going to add the tons we'll need (43:38) growth and you know our growth this year is up a couple of percent then a couple of percent on a big number gives you a fair amount of tons to add to that total.
So we'll be well over the 200 000 ton target.
Okay.
That's what I was looking for.
And just one last simple question what's driving the decline you saw in label paper? Obviously that's a business Boise has put a lot of effort into building? Judy? Yes this is Judy.
So a couple reasons Q2 of last year we were still selling discontinued pressure-sensitive grades out of I-Falls as a result of both of the closure.
Also the strong dollar is impacting our international sales as well as kind of having a weaker demand globally.
We've also had some mix changes domestically.
So we really think this will improve as we ramp up those new products on W3.
It's a pretty long transition time because they're very technical very – but we've got a lot of things in the hopper right now.
Okay.
Super.
Thank you Judy.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Looking at the balance sheet you've really de-levered since the Boise acquisition.
Can you talk about what the appetite is to potentially look for other transformative type of M&amp;A opportunities for you? You know again historically we've always looked at opportunities we've always been conservative.
We consider what the value of an acquisition would be? What the returns would be? How much you're going to pay? What's the multiples? But yes to your point we're obviously – the balance sheet's in good condition.
And so if the right opportunity came along as we've said over the years we'd be evaluating it.
And I guess from a perspective I just want to make it very clear because you raised an important point we don't let the money burn a hole in our pocket.
If we've got a lot of cash that doesn't mean we're just going to go out and spend it.
If we didn't have enough cash and it was a terrific M&amp;A opportunity we'd borrow the money.
So we look at an M&amp;A not from a respect that we've got the money.
We look at it strictly is it a good thing to do? So the fact that we have money it's a consideration but it is far from the main consideration.
That makes sense.
And then in terms of smaller opportunities you have been active in terms of increasing integration rate with box plant acquisitions.
Can you talk about what the marketplace currently looks like in terms of opportunities to pick up box plant assets? Alex this is Tom.
I would say that there are some opportunities.
They're limited.
Obviously we were – we initially started this process quite some time ago and a number of independents have been bought up over this time period that alludes to the fact there's very little outside purchases going on anymore domestically.
So they're not as abundant as they use to be but there are some opportunities.
And obviously as Mark said we're exploring any of them that make any sense to us.
Got it.
And just last one from me looking at your shipment number for the quarter it looks like it's about 100 basis points better than where the industry is.
Over the years I think you've grown faster than that relative to the industry.
And so the question is given the larger footprint do you think it becomes more difficult for you to be able to really grow 3% above the market which is where I think the business has been over the last decade? Let me answer it this way.
We plan on continuing to grow it in the manner that we've done over the last 15 years.
And again that's taking advantage of opportunities in terms of being mindful of the margins from the business.
And looking at what that contribution is from each component of business you take.
So but yes I mean the plan hasn't changed the model hasn't changed.
And so we certainly have the – the bigger footprint actually gives us more flexibility and more opportunity to go out and continue doing what we've done.
So that's our plan.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Mark Wilde of BMO Capital Markets.
Yeah good morning and congratulations on a very good quarter.
Mark I just wondered thinking about D3 you're about 75%-25% kind of a liner-medium.
What's the ultimate mix going to look like there? I think where we are right now we're satisfying what Tom needs in his box plants.
That being said we have an enormous amount of flexibility on the machine because of the virgin capability on a machine making the high performance liner.
But this 70%-30% 75%-25% range that we're at is ideal for us right now but reserving that condition as things change we certainly have an enormous capability to move with whatever Tom needs.
Yeah I might add this Mark.
Your question is hard to answer until you know what the demand situation is out there.
But in an ideal world what D3 should make would be above 75% liner and 25% medium.
And the only reason medium fits in there is that it would supply only a very low cost freight on medium.
So it's a lot cheaper to ship medium into the Metroplex in Dallas from DeRidder than it is from Tomahawk Wisconsin or Filer City.
So that's a big freight savings when you can do that.
And linerboard always wins over medium unless the freight penalty changed that equation.
So if the demand for liner gets higher you might have to eat some freight.
But again in an ideal world 75%-25% right now unless the marketplace changes.
Yeah.
Okay.
Tom Hassfurther where is your integration level right now? We're at 85% Mark.
And you want to get that to north of 90% still is that right? Yeah.
Yeah.
We want to continue to get it up yes.
That's still our goal Mark.
Okay.
All right.
And then the last question I had Mark and this isn't specific to PCA but can you just address the issues of what would be required to convert uncoated white paper capacity over the linerboard? I mean if we've got very little virgin capacity coming into the market it seems like one of the things you could do is you can take an uncoated freesheet mill where you've got a kraft mill and you've maybe got big paper machines and look at a conversion there.
Any thoughts on the difficulty of that? Well I'm going to answer that a couple different ways.
First we don't have any plans to convert anything.
But also we talked on the last few calls about the complexity of that.
And then again and I've stated this over the number of years that you can convert anything to do anything but again at what cost and about what opportunity.
DeRidder was a unique example because we have the virgin kraft fiber that we made available to the machine.
And so it not only not only made sense at the time to convert it to the medium production as originally planned two years ago but because we had the virgin kraft availability it was that much more compelling for us.
But that being said it takes a unique set of technical capability a lot of what we did on the machine was our own in-house technical expertise.
So again the degree of difficulty is great the cost is great and again you have to weigh that with your opportunities.
So that's how I want to answer that.
All right.
That's helpful.
Thanks very much.
Good luck in the third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Hey good morning guys.
Congrats on the quarter.
Quick question price mix was awash in 2Q certainly illustrating you're well insulated due to your integration level.
But pricing was a lot more choppy in 1Q.
So what I'm trying to figure out on a quarter-to-quarter basis what's changed and in your 3Q guidance are you baking any slippage on export prices or the West Coast price cut? Well it's pretty flat actually Philip.
But we did of course tell you that exports were up about $0.02.
So that was a bit of a headwind for us.
But other than that we continue as we talk about to manage our mix and continue to proceed forward with that and start to transition some of this – continue to transition this Boise legacy business (53:02) into kind of what PCA's model little bit more like PCA model.
Okay.
I guess it's that transitioning piece right because 1Q caught us by surprise in some of the volatilities on price.
But okay that's helpful.
And I guess a question for Judy.
On the uncoated freesheet business I know you took some downtime in 2Q.
But with prices coming down sequentially in 3Q do you expect margins getting back to that double-digit level next quarter? And just curious to get your thoughts on your outlook on uncoated freesheet prices now that the tariff should be starting to kick in in the back half of the year.
Philip this is Judy.
So third quarter is a seasonally stronger quarter so our expectation that that would still happen that will help us.
It usually has a typically a heavier mix to the office side of the business.
And of course with no planned outages and no J1 turbine incident and our mills running better on costs and productivity we would hope for that to improve.
As far as the tariff situation the preliminary ruling cut size imports to date are down about 33 000 tons through June with about 21 000 of that being in 2Q.
But we really haven't seen any of the effects of that in the market yet.
But as customer inventory decrease we expect to see some impact.
How much? We're not really sure at this time.
That remains to be seen.
The short answer there it's really too early to tell what's going to happen.
Okay.
Very helpful.
And just one last one for me.
Glad to see the synergy ramp up back on track.
Appreciate the color you provided earlier.
If we take the first half run rate and (54:47) a slower 1Q ramp seems like you'd be able to realize most of that $200 million synergy target this year.
Can you kind of help frame what the opportunity is for 2015? And is there some opportunity for upside going forward? Again we've stated that the goal is $200 million of synergies.
And we are quickly approaching that on a run rate basis.
We've also mentioned in the past we've got some discrete opportunities and the biggest opportunity that is looking at us right now is the International Falls turbine generator which will come on line at the end of September.
So that's another example of how we get to the final run rate $200 million goal in synergies.
But as Paul mentioned earlier also synergies typically associated with bringing two companies together and then integrating the companies.
And so the goal of getting the $200 million by the end of 2016 we see us finishing up the integration into next year.
And obviously we're well on our way to accomplishing the $200 million run rate goal.
And that being said after that the opportunities are just to continue to be accretive for the company as we go forward as we've done in the legacy business.
But I don't want to speculate on anything else on synergies except that we've got – identified a number of discrete opportunities that we're very comfortable with.
Appreciate the color Mark.
Thank you.
Next question? And our next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Good morning Debbie.
Inc.</span></strong> To the extent you can can you just talk about your customer exposure? Kind of – I know this is very broad based but which customers would you say in the corrugated market are really either outperforming or underperforming? And then your exposure to the e-commerce I realize it's hard to kind of estimate but what kind of growth are you seeing or expecting in that market? I'm going to start off and I'm going to hand it off to Tom.
We're not going to get into specific customers.
But across the board we've seen growth in our system.
Obviously a little bit of weakness in the last few years with the West Coast drought.
But other than that I think again it's across-the-board growth.
Tom do you want to add a little more color to that? Yeah.
Debbie we have thousands and thousands of customers.
So it's you know...
Yeah.
We have 30 000 customers.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I know.
I realize that.
I thought just maybe more kind of housing-related versus e-commerce like broader bucket.
Well I think if you look at some of the – if you just look at some of the industry trends obviously e-commerce has been strong and continues to grow.
The housing market depending if you're in straight building materials that's – you can just go on housing starts and kind of dictate what kind of demand you're going to have there.
I think remodeling and that sort of stuff has probably picked up just a little bit.
Those are reasonably strong.
But you can go through lots and lots of segments and come up with a lot of different answers here.
So I would just leave it at that and just say that on an overall basis I mean you know what the demand is doing for boxes and it's tracking a lot closer to GDP and certainly very close to the non-durable numbers.
And I think that will continue to be the same going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And just one final question.
When DeRidder is fully ramped up what would you expect your OCC virgin fiber mix to be? That's something that we consider proprietary.
But again we have the capability with the pulp mill right now to supply again the current ratio is between OCC and virgin kraft.
Again it's no different than what we're doing at Counce.
So again we've got a lot of flexibility there.
But I don't want to get into the specific ratios of virgin versus recycled in the sheets.
Yeah.
But an important aspect of that question and I'll add to it is that we also want to pursue – we're not only working on paper machines.
We're also working on pulping capacity at DeRidder because if and when and I think it's more a question when OCC prices start to go up again and if they go up a lot we like the fiber flexibility of being able to put in more virgin and eliminate OCC in the facility and not be dependent on it totally.
And so pulp capacity to us virgin pulp capacity is another very important part of what DeRidder brought us.
And that's the same model that we use at Counce same flexibility.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And Rick congratulations on the retirement.
Thank you.
Next question please.
And the next question is a follow-up question from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi guys.
Hey George go ahead.
...make it a quick one.
As we look at historically what you've done with share repurchase you've always said that you would be opportunistic.
In fact that's how you framed the second quarter repurchase activity and we were certainly happy to see it.
Considering though that a lot of the operating issues in the first quarter were from things that are usually one-off Packaging Corp.
tends to run very very well.
1Q wasn't as good of a quarter.
Would you have wanted to buy back more stock in the quarter given that you had gotten an opportunity in the market driven by a one-off factor that was operational? Or did you really acquire the stock that you would have liked in 2Q? If you can frame it anyway you can that'd be great.
Thank you and good luck in the quarter again.
Yeah I'm going to let Paul get into that.
That's a board matter and we've discussed that in depth at the board level.
Yeah.
What we've said George is we're opportunistic.
And if the stock is down and we think the reason is not a good reason.
And my favorite comparison is every time for the past couple of years there were problems in Greece we got hit by it too and we don't have any plans in Greece.
We don't sell any paper to Greece.
So why are we being hit? And we used that opportunity to buy stock.
So we don't have a list of specific types of opportunities.
You look at what's going on at the time and you make a decision.
And at times we have bought stock just to buy some and keep up with our buying program but we mix that with opportunities.
So we just don't sit around and wait for an opportunity that may or may not materialize.
We have a plan to buy so much stock over some period of time but we'll accelerate or de-accelerate that rate depending on what we see in the marketplace.
So that's kind of a long-winded answer to your question.
All right Paul.
Again thanks for the thoughts and you have a good quarter.
Talk to you soon.
Okay.
With that operator we're out of time so I'd like to thank everybody for joining us today and I look forward to talking with you on October for the third quarter call.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This will conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your line.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan.
And please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and thank you for participating in Packaging Corporation of America's third quarter 2015 earnings release conference call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA.
And with me on the call today are Paul Stecko our Chairman; Tom Hassfurther Executive Vice President who runs our Packaging business; Judy Lassa Senior Vice President who runs our White Papers business; Bob Mundy our Chief Financial Officer.
During our prepared comments we will be referring to slides that are posted on our website.
I'll begin the call with a through review of our third quarter results and operations.
And then I'll turn the call over to Tom Judy and Bob who'll provide more details.
I'll wrap things up and then we'll be glad to take questions.
Yesterday we reported third quarter net income of $128 million or $1.31 per share compared to last year's third quarter net income of $104 million or $1.06 per share.
Earnings included a $5 million or $0.05 per share net gain for special items related to the Boise integration including the sale of the former St.
Helens mill site previously operated by Boise Incorporated.
Excluding special items third quarter 2015 net income was $123 million or $1.26 per share compared to third quarter 2014 net income of $124 million or $1.26 per share.
Third quarter net sales were $1.5 billion in both 2015 and 2014.
Turning to slide three.
Third quarter 2015 earnings per share excluding special items were equal to the third quarter of 2014 driven by improved volume of $0.07; lower cost for chemicals $0.03; energy $0.03; and repairs $0.02; and a lower tax rate $0.03.
These items were offset by lower white paper prices and mix $0.13; lower export containerboard prices $0.03; higher fiber costs $0.01.
And we're pleased that we matched last year's record third quarter earnings considering that lower prices and mix in our Paper segment and lower export containerboard prices adversely affected earnings by $0.16 per share.
Looking at our – Packaging business EBITDA and margins excluding special items were up over last year's levels with EBITDA of $268 million and sales of $1.14 billion or a 23.4% margin compared to the third quarter of 2014 packaging EBITDA excluding special items of $262 million with sales of $1.18 billion or a 22.3% margin.
Keep in mind that third quarter 2014 revenues included over $36 million of sale that related to the discontinued newsprint business at DeRidder and other divested operations.
Containerboard production in the third quarter was 933 000 tons up 75 000 tons compared to last year's third quarter driven primarily by the tons produced on the D3 paper machine at DeRidder.
As mentioned during last quarter's call we took D3 down in September to install six additional dryers in order to provide the capability to achieve full design capacity of 1 000 tons per day.
The outage was executed safely and efficiently started off ahead of schedule and achieved all objectives.
The achievement of our designed capacity objectives puts us in position to fully optimize our entire containerboard platform and improve our manufacturing and freight costs.
Also just as importantly this allows us to respond quickly and efficiently to future growth and service our customers' needs in a timely manner.
Our containerboard inventory at the end of the third quarter was up 6 000 tons versus the second quarter levels and about 2 000 tons above year-end 2014.
As we've mentioned on previous calls containerboard inventories at our box plants are higher than what we've carried historically due to the transportation issues that I think most of you are familiar with now.
Our containerboard mills operated very well during the quarter with energy and chemical costs lower than last year's third quarter while fiber costs were slightly higher primarily at our Tomahawk Wisconsin mill.
I'll now turn it over to Tom who'll provide more details on containerboard sales and our corrugated business.
Thank you Mark.
Our corrugated product shipments set a new record up 1.3% in total and per work day over a record third quarter of last year.
This compares to industry shipments which were up 0.9%.
Pricing for corrugated products during the quarter remained stable compared to both the second quarter of 2015 and the third quarter of 2014.
Our outside sales in containerboard were flat with the second quarter and up about 12 000 tons compared to last year's third quarter reflecting an increase in export ships.
Domestic prices were comparable to the second quarter and last year's third quarter while export prices were fairly flat with the second quarter but about 8% lower than last year's levels.
We expect outside sales of containerboard and corrugated product shipments to be lower compared to the third quarter with three less shipping days and some seasonal slowdown in demand that usually occurs during the Christmas holiday period.
Our corrugated products mix will be seasonally less rich in the fourth quarter as the produce business in the Pacific Northwest as well as the display in high-end graphics business for the Christmas holiday period normally falls-off during the quarter.
However we do expect overall corrugated product volumes to be slightly higher than last year's record fourth quarter.
I'll now turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Tom.
Looking at our Paper segment EBITDA excluding special items and sales were lower compared to the third quarter of last year with EBITDA of $46 million and sales of $292 million or 15.8% margin compared to the third quarter of 2014 with EBITDA of $56 million and sales of $313 million or a 17.9% margin.
Although sales prices negatively impacted our EBITDA by almost $20 million we were able to cut that impact in half through our cost reduction and efficiency improvement efforts.
Additionally at our International Falls mill we also completed the successful installation and startup of a 53 megawatt turbine generator to replace four small inefficient units.
With the new turbine generator the mill is now capable of producing 70% of its electrical power requirements compared to 38% previously.
I'll now turn it over to Judy Lassa who'll provide more operating details.
Thank you Mark.
The drop in revenues versus last year that Mark referred to were driven by lower prices and mix changes while total shipments were essentially equal with last year's level.
Compared to the second quarter prices held up fairly well dropping only slightly and volume was up 5%.
Office paper shipments which represent about 70% of our paper volume were down about 1% versus last year but up over 4% compared to the second quarter.
Overall the mills ran well during the quarter compared to last year's third quarter; cost for wood chemicals and energy were lower offset slightly by higher prices for purchased pulp.
There are also improvements in maintenance costs and labor and benefit costs.
We had no maintenance outages during the third quarter.
But in the fourth quarter we will have an extended recovery boiler outage at our Jackson Alabama mill which will reduce production by over 28 000 tons primarily on our number three paper machine.
Also our volumes are expected to be seasonally lower and our mix will be less rich in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
I'll now turn it over to Rob Mundy.
Thank you Judy.
As expected and mentioned during our last call third quarter 2015 effective tax rate of 35% was the same as the second quarter and about 1.5% below last year's third quarter.
We currently expect the fourth quarter of 2015 tax rate to be similar to the third quarter at about 35%.
As shown on slide four cash provided by operations in the third quarter was $237 million that's after deducting $76 million in cash tax payments for federal and state income taxes other uses of cash including the capital expenditures of $76 million common stock dividends of $54 million share repurchases of $55 million and debt repayments of $27 million.
We ended the quarter with $187 million cash on hand.
So year-to-date in 2015 we paid dividends totaling $147 million repurchased shares totaling $101 million and we've made $31 million of debt repayments.
I'll now turn it back over to Mark.
Thank you Bob.
Looking ahead as discussed earlier we expect seasonally lower volumes of corrugated products and containerboard as well as a seasonally less rich mix in corrugated products compared to the third quarter.
In addition we expect seasonally lower volumes and a less rich mix in white papers.
With colder weather wood and fuel costs are also expected to be seasonally higher.
Finally as previously reported maintenance outage costs are expected to be $0.10 per share higher in the fourth quarter due to the planned 24-day outage at our Jackson Alabama mill for a major rebuild of the recovery boiler which will reduce production and increase costs.
Considering these items we expect fourth quarter earnings of $1.03 per share.
Now before I move on to the Q&amp;A portion of the call I want to announce that effective October 31 Judy Lassa will retire.
On behalf of all of us I want to both congratulate and thank her for the 33 years of outstanding service and dedication.
She has agreed to continue to be available to us over the next 12 months on an as-needed basis under a consultation agreement.
Paul LeBlanc who currently reports to Judy as Vice President of Sales has been named Vice President of Boise Papers reporting directly to me.
With that we'd happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on the call constitute forward-looking statements.
These statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors on our Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
With that operator I'd like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the bridge from third quarter to fourth quarter if possible.
I know that you had called out the Jackson rebuilds on your prior conference call and that was $0.10.
I guess historically I thought that seasonal factors typically were in the $0.07 to $0.08 range.
And then maybe mistakenly I had thought that DeRidder might make a bit more money in the fourth quarter than the third quarter but I recognize maybe seasonal factors might have affected that.
But I didn't hear anything else that was really going on and I wasn't quite sure if I'm missing something or – because the magnitude of the decline from 3Q to 4Q is a bit bigger than what I had anticipated using those inputs.
Can you help me out there? Yeah Mark.
You're correct when you said that historically if you went back over the years the 3Q to 4Q impact was in that $0.08 range going from three to four.
However with Boise if you think about it we're a 50% bigger company.
So on a proportionate basis if you go through the various elements we're more in the line probably $0.12 a share of seasonal Q3 to 4Q.
And the elements you're looking at would be box volume and mix going from third quarter to fourth quarter mill volume going from third quarter to fourth quarter.
You've got white papers volume and mix in the fourth quarter and then wood and energy costs typical increase.
So you got those four items that now would be more likely in the range of that $0.12 area.
So if you combine the $0.10 outage impact along with the $0.12 and then $0.01 of other you get from the $1.26 to $1.03.
And we did have – again last year we had about the same amount of seasonal costs in last year's fourth quarter but it was partially offset by containerboard volume from the pre-build of inventory that we called out in order to support the 2015 beginning of the year heavy maintenance schedule on our containerboard business.
That was about 45 000 tons of pre-build.
And so we don't expect to see that type of pre-build this year.
We now have the capacity with our D3 machine at DeRidder to support our Q1 maintenance downtime without that type of heavy pre-build.
So in essence this pushes some of the earnings out of the fourth quarter into the first quarter of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Oh okay.
That's...
Tom you want to elaborate on that a little bit? No I think you summed it well.
I think just overall I think what people should realize we've undergone a big transition.
We were a company out of capacity buying a couple hundred thousand of tons on the outside to support our demand.
But with D3 and other productivities (16:18) we got through synergy we can now fulfill all of our internal demand with the additional capacity and we still have room for growth over the next several years.
And so there's no need to pre-build inventory because we can make it as fast as we can sell it in the first quarter.
That wasn't the case when we were short of capacity.
So I just kind of looked at that another way if that helps.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And that's real helpful.
One quick follow-on if I could just on the Jackson project.
I think last quarter actually pretty sure last quarter you had called that out as being an unusual project and that next year your maintenance and outage expenses probably would be lower than this year.
I think you'd said $0.05 or $0.06.
I just wanted to verify that that's accurate? And also can you fill us in on what the capital costs on the Jackson project are? Yeah.
The Jackson outage this year involves – the big project is the rebuild of the recovery boiler.
That was a 1973 vintage recovery boiler.
And we're basically replacing the entire bottom of the boiler putting a new steam generating section and doing other various maintenance work on the project.
It's a $10 million capital spend and again this boiler will be good it's lasted since 1973.
We expect to get another 40-plus years out of the boiler.
So – and this was a minimum effect of capital spend.
We did study some various options looking at basically new boilers and complete rebuilds.
And so compared to a $75 million CapEx spend we've avoided that and we're at $10 million level that gets us very very good efficient operation for many years to come.
Regarding your comment about where we were with next year we did call out that this year being $0.60 amortization for the outages next year would probably be $0.55.
Where we are now looking the fact that we got the capability at DeRidder; 2014 was $0.48 of amortized shutdown expense.
We told you the $0.55 there's going to be something in between that $0.55 and $0.48 that gets us into a more normalized range.
And so we'll give you details in the January call when we give you specifics about our plans for next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Next caller please? Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
Yes and good morning.
First of all yeah I just want to make sure it's clear we did see that would call out that $0.10 and we had thought maybe the outage impact would've been an increment but thanks for clarifying that the outage at Jackson is part of the $0.10.
The question I had is – and I think you answered it but I just want to clarify is you look back at 2014 you called out a $0.07 higher maintenance in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter and the earnings dropped $0.10.
So that would suggest that the other impact was $0.03.
So maybe the way to think about that $0.03 is that you still incur the $0.12 of seasonality but that pre-build you mentioned might have offset $0.09 of that; is that in the ballpark? Correct.
The pre-build had big impact of offsetting that.
You're exactly right.
And Chip the other thing last year was an unusually large pre-build because of the huge DeRidder outage and the pre-build this year because we don't have all that work to do at DeRidder is less and we'll give details in the January call.
But you're exactly right.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
That makes that clear.
And then looking at the – that maintenance so I understand that $0.48 in 2014 around $0.60 in 2015 I think you said $0.55 in 2016 and then in 2017 the more normal flow will be between $0.48 and $0.55.
Is that right or did you suggest that maybe next year could be between $0.48 and $0.55? What I'm suggesting is that I think 2016 is going to be even lower than the $0.55 as we look at things and as we're concluding this year.
When we gave you that $0.55 I believe that was on the July call and again with what we know now.
So I believe the number will be somewhere between that $0.55 and $0.48.
And so that's why we're saying it's going to be heading to a lower normalized number that we can provide more clarity on in the January call.
Got you.
And you mentioned – last question that you're now in a position to better supply your need.
Obviously D3 helps there.
But of course you all have shifted the output of that machine more towards virgin and I guess two questions.
One is how has that dryer project gone and sort of what kind of incremental benefits do you expect? And secondly would that mean that you might on the margin be buying a little bit more medium on the open market as we go forward and which would seem to be a good thing given that market seems to be a lot looser or at least there's more availability than certainly you would see on the linerboard side? Regarding the first part of your question on the project we took the machine down for its intended work in September.
We accomplished all of the dryer work and fine-tuned up some of the wet end and again started the machine up.
The outage instead of 13 days was just approximately 10 day outage but executed very well.
Machines started up flawlessly quality is great.
And again with the work that's been done in the back-end of the mill to support the virgin kraft fiber production we truly have the capability to meet that 1 000 ton a day of productivity off the machine as a virgin quality linerboard.
And so we can supply whether it's a medium mix linerboard mix that the machine has tremendous capability.
And so going forward for the foreseeable future we have the ability in our legacy system and DeRidder to supply our needs.
As Tom grows the box plant business and takes that cut up into the system we will reach a point where we are out of capacity.
Right now the DeRidder facility is at its design and we're very pleased; but regarding the outside purchase of medium; that'd be a high-class problem to have in the future years.
Okay.
And I guess the last question is are we sort of at the end of the Boise synergies? Or as we look at 2016 do you see them helping to offset some of the cost change – well assuming there are cost changes on the upside although I would imagine chemicals and energy are helping you.
But could you sort of update us on those synergies if you could? Thank you.
We've said on the July call we're not going to give you specifics right now.
We'll give you a summary on the January call.
We told you in July that we were on target for the year heading towards the $200 million run rate and we called out a few items one of which has been the I Falls turbine generator project that's an example.
Your comments about the efficiencies as we said we were able to overcome the year-over-year price decline impact on the white papers side with improvements in that business and that was an example again that we've said we'd be continuing to make improvements in operational efficiencies.
And that's a great example.
And that would be a direct synergy.
So those are the type of things that we're looking at and we're very pleased with how that's all rolled in.
But again and we've mentioned this in July we're one company now and we're not going to be getting into the specific synergy items.
But we will give you a summary in January of where we are.
Yeah Chip I'd add.
Again it gets harder we're going to make the $200 million by the end of what we've predicted that we were $175 million and we'd get to the $200 million over the next year which would be in the next year.
But it starts to get muddied after a while after you get the standalone-type projects of what is really just normal efficiency improvement or what is synergy related.
In other words comes from putting two companies together.
And we don't want to spend a lot of time trying to do nothing but accounting.
We'd rather spend our time on nothing but improving the operations.
And so that's why we'll give a summary at the end of the year but it's – and we're going to make our numbers and there's more operational improvements that will happen in 2016.
We're just calling them normal operational improvements.
We're not calling them synergies anymore.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Next caller please? Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Is it mostly...
Good morning.
Yeah.
Is it mostly due to comps or have you lost any market share? I don't think that's the case.
But just seems like volumes for corrugated was a little weaker during the quarter.
I mean you guys have historically outpaced the broader market and guidance for 4Q seems pretty soft growth as well.
I just want get some color on what you're seeing on corrugated volumes? Phil when we look at the third quarter and we built our guidance of $1.28 we had estimated obviously a little bit higher volume.
We did come in at the 1.3% year-over-year.
So we are off about 1.2%.
Tom do you want to add little color to what you saw? Yeah Phil.
Keep in mind the economy is certainly not performing as we would hope it would.
And I think it weakened a little bit in the quarter.
But still we beat the industry by almost 50%.
And that's against of course record comps from the previous quarter – previous year's quarter.
But we – also in the past if you recall when we had higher growth rates it was a mix of both organic growth and acquisition growth.
And we haven't made an acquisition now for about 18 months.
So you're now talking about fewer organic growth here.
Got you.
I mean and that's a great segue.
And my next question was going to be are you seeing a little more competition on box assets in the M&amp;A side and could you look to grow more organically from just building some new box plants? How are you going to tackle that I guess ultimately? Well I think that – sure it's a little more competitive.
There's no question about it.
You see the amount of activity that's going on and also those multiples have gone up dramatically.
So we're very delighted with the fact that we were at the leading edge of this in terms of the acquisitions.
But – and there's a lot fewer available.
If you look just what's happened in the last quarter I mean there's been some pretty significant acquisitions both in box plants and the mills; independent mills got acquired.
So there continues to be quite a bit of activity there.
That said we're still looking at opportunities and we will continue to do so.
I feel good about a couple of them.
So we'll see where things go but also we'll continue with our strategic capital investments as we have in the past to find opportunities where they're best suited.
Yeah.
And just to be clear we outgrew the industry in the third quarter and when you outgrow the industry you increase your market share.
So your earlier comment about losing market share it's the opposite.
We outgrew the industry and by definition we've increased our market share.
And then as Tom pointed out it's not as much as this previous quarters but we still outperformed the industry.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just one last one from me.
A major competitor of yours is idling significant capacity for containerboard.
Just curious to get your view on supply/demand over the next year or so in light of some of the new capacities that's coming on.
Thanks.
Yeah.
You know for anti-trust reasons I don't want to comment on that.
For PCA we run to demand and that's how I'd answer that.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck in the quarter.
Next question please? Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari of Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Tom just a follow-up on Phil's question.
You said that you were interested in opportunities and actively looking at opportunities.
Is that on the box plant side or the mill side or both? And then just following up on that I mean one of your large competitors made a large acquisition of recycled mills.
Would you be interested in recycled mills given you've been more levered to virgin historically but OCC has been lower for longer than many of us expected? We're primarily looking at box plant acquisitions.
We would like to add to that side of the business.
As far as recycled mill capacity we're not actively looking at that.
And quite frankly I think as Mark made very clear our projects that we've just completed at DeRidder position us very well to accommodate the growth going forward for quite some time.
So I think our mill system is in excellent shape.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just switching to white paper I was wondering if it's possible to parse how much of the $0.13 hit in the quarter was from price versus mix.
And then just following up on that post the boiler rebuild in Jackson is there any incremental volume that you'll be adding in Jackson or is there any impact to the mix at Jackson? Are you referring to – again year-over-year there's a $0.13 paper price mix going from third quarter 2014 to third quarter 2015.
And then – so again for the fourth quarter you're probably in that $0.11; but – in terms of the year-to-year impact but not quarter-to-quarter.
Yeah.
And then I'll just – I like to put – the only comment I'd like to make on that are; the index is down $35 a ton quarter-over-quarter from last year.
There is a lot of mix impact and it really is in all of our segments.
We have more commodity in our office segment less recycle in premium.
We have a more offset and less envelope in the mix center are creating converting.
We're still experiencing price erosion on the pressure sensitive which adds to that as well.
And then pulp has been down quite a bit (32:02) down $70 per U.S.
shipment and about $80 to $100 on shipments to China.
So all those components add to that mix.
And the question on Jackson I mean the Jackson piece doesn't impact – I mean it's the overall business mix for Q4.
We built inventory for the Jackson outage.
So just some more commodity in office in Q4 and some more offset versus envelope in premium (32:26).
But the recovery boiler outage does not affect the paper machine.
You won't get any more tons off of paper machine by the rebuild on a recovery boiler.
Hopefully we'll get a little more with the burning capacity which means that we can buy – less purchase pulp down there and that helps the cost side of the equation.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America.
Hi guys.
Thanks for all the details.
I just wanted to piggyback on the maintenance question and then the sequentials really into first quarter.
So would it be fair piggybacking on Chip's question then that we should be expecting a more favorable seasonal pickup 1Q versus 4Q to the tune of $0.09 you get all that in 1Q or would that be somehow spread over the other quarters? Again we only give guidance one quarter at a time George.
And so...
Understood.
Again and I did say this.
We looked at this year's maintenance amortization of $0.60.
We did call out $0.55 but we know now looking at where we are.
We do believe that the maintenance amortization for the year will be lower than the $0.55.
How much? We'll qualify and quantify that in January but I can tell you just inherently looking at the shutdown activity next year the bulk of the heavy lifting done we did all the big major work at DeRidder.
The white paper mills have two years of time to fix a lot of opportunity.
And so we're going to be truly into a more normalized annual shutdown activity in 2016 but I can't give you the detail right now.
And we'll clarify that on the call in January.
Okay.
Understand.
Figured I would give it a shot.
Now I think you had mentioned third quarter was maybe off a little bit from your expectations on volume.
Fourth quarter I thinking you're guiding for a slightly higher corrugated shipments if I heard you correctly.
Tom could you talk at all to bookings and orders early in the quarter relative to what's in your guidance? Yeah George.
I've got 10 days of data and after 10 days of data our bookings and billings are running about 1% over previous.
And keep in mind that those were record quarters and record comps.
So it's a – we've got some tough comps but we're still running slightly ahead.
Okay.
My last two ones I'll ask them in sequence and turn it over just for time sake.
This question I think has come up in the past.
If you could remind us what's your view on the uncoated free sheet capacity you have and its suitability over time if you need more containerboard capacity for conversion? Obviously they wouldn't necessarily be well situated given the fiber mix but I want to see what your view on the optionality of that would be or whether you think a further expansion at DeRidder would be more likely if you could talk to that? And then the other question I had with demand this is certainly not your fault but demand being a little bit softer than perhaps we would have seen earlier in the year.
With the mills now running more normally does it suggest that you'll need or you'll have the ability to run with less inventory in 2016 than you were running in 2015? Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
George regarding the first part of your question we are not contemplating any conversions currently.
I'll finish that comment up with comments we've made for many years now.
Anything can be converted at a certain capital investment providing you have the fiber availability and the market demand.
Regarding the last part of your question inventory with where we are we do have the capability to supply.
But we have a lot less pressure.
I'm not going to quantify what we intend on doing next year.
Our current inventory is up a couple of thousand tons over the beginning of the year.
We're comfortable at that range.
But yeah we've got a lot more flexibility now.
That's why we don't have to do the bigger pre-build.
And so – so we now have built in some capability to overcome some of the transportation challenges.
But again we don't expect those challenges to ease off.
We expect them to become more of a challenge in the upcoming years but we have a lot of flexibility for those.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Next question please? Our next question comes from Mark Wilde of Bank of Montreal.
Good morning.
Good morning Mark.
Question first for Judy.
Judy I just wondered if you could talk about any impacts you're seeing so far from the anti-dumping duties in the white paper business? Certainly.
So the July market stats with the preliminary CBB (37:57) in place at the end of June and the ADD (38:00) announced for the end of August really started to show some signs of movement on imports being done by 36 000 tons and like a real reduction in China and Indonesia.
But customer inventories are still high with some of the pre-buying that took place.
And we think the impacts could begin to show up maybe mid to quarter end.
Okay.
And then I just – looking at the trade data the other day it seems like you can see this drop in cut size imports but it looks like kind of converting grades might be going up.
Can you speak to that? I can only speak to what we're seeing in the stats because like I said we don't participate there.
Okay all right.
The other two questions I had were on the containerboard side.
One I wondered one of the indexes moved down in the trade papers this last weekend and if you could just comment on whether that is – there's any impact from that in your fourth quarter numbers.
And the other thing I wondered Tom Hassfurther are you seeing any impact in your specialty business from all of these evols that have gone in? Because when people first started putting in evols they talked about how quick they were to change from product-to-product and that they could go after more of that specialty business and I wonder if that's really happening in reality? Okay.
Mark let me answer the first one regarding the index change.
I see that will have very little impact for us.
The changes that have taken place if you really read the detail they're basically related to 100% recycled media.
There's a whole variety of quality levels of course with 100% recycled medium and the core quality obviously and I was trying to find a home.
So it's an area we don't really participate in.
It does sometimes get reflected in grades that we do we are in.
But I think most of our customers understand that it's really about the quality of semi-chem and their need for semi-chem.
So we're not – I don't think we'll see much impact at all regarding that.
The specialty business and evols.
You asked what evols do.
It's pretty hard for me to tell exactly what our competitors are doing with evols but I think if I was to generalize I would say that not much has changed in terms of how people are using evols more output purposes.
And if you really see what's going on when people install evols many of them take out two or three flexors to put in one evol.
So if you're going to do that it's going to be pretty hard to run a lot of graphics on it given the output that you have in two flexors and going to one evol.
So I don't think that's going to have some – having a dramatic impact either.
Okay.
All right.
Sounds good.
Good luck in the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Next question please? Our next question comes from Chris Manuel of Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning gentlemen.
Two questions for you.
First cash usage here it looks like you had stepped up repurchase a little bit in the quarter.
It's been kind of level almost what you've done all year-to-date.
Can you comment a little bit on uses of cash going forward? Do you anticipate picking up repurchase a little bit? Are there – is that reasonable or unreasonable? Again where we're looking at right now as we build cash we're going to remain opportunistic in our stock buyback.
As we summarized we bought back $55 million worth of stock in the quarter.
We've paid down some debt and continue to pay the dividend and build cash.
So got a lot of firepower here and we'll continue to do – take advantage of that.
But again we don't have any stock buyback targets.
And again it all ties into where you're looking at capital for the year.
So we've got a lot of opportunity as we wrap up the year and go into the new year with our use of the cash.
Okay.
Second question I had was now that you've got the DeRidder machine fully running or fully capable I think your integration level has kind of moved to the 83% 84% range.
So a) if you could kind of verify that and then b) appreciating that you run the demand so you'll fill all your needs internally for box – box plants first that remaining I don't know 16% 17% that you have how would you characterize the export market today for price demand? Are you having any difficulty finding a home? Are you seeing any further price reversion beyond just currency? Or how would you have us think about that and your ability to continue to run kind of flat out in export or would you think about bowing that back a bit? Well I'll handle the export pricing first and then talk about what's going on.
Right now the pricing in export is – pricing has gone down.
It's primarily driven by currency which is the largest factor.
Trade flows is another one and economic conditions around the world.
So the massive slowdown that you saw that's taken place in China as an example obviously has some impact.
And of course the currency situation around the world is the primary impact.
Export demand remains pretty stable quite frankly.
It's not – there's a bit of a global slowdown but the export demand is still pretty good.
We're just going to have to deal with some of our pricing issues going forward as a result of those items I just mentioned.
And regarding integration level we're currently at 85% level.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you guys.
Next question please? Our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly of CLSA.
Thank you.
Just two simple questions on the cost side.
You've highlighted some meaningful cost pressures this quarter and you did last quarter too.
So I'm wondering as you think about the boiler and other productivity projects whether you think you have enough to offset that over the next year if these current kinds of cost trends stay in place? And second you obviously had some fiber issues last summer that were weather-related.
Do you expect weather aside to be in much better shape this year? Regarding the first part of your question on costs historically we're always working every day addressing cost efficiencies and opportunities within the mills and box plants and that will continue.
And that's not changing.
So on the second part of your question regarding fiber we did see a better summer weather wise.
And so harvesting conditions and wood availability improved significantly compared to the fall and winter months and early spring.
The Tomahawk commentary regarding wood prices was primarily related to the fact that it was a catch-up issue that so many mills and paper mills and saw mills run their inventory so low during the winter.
The pricing pressure remained even though harvesting conditions improved.
But all-in-all the wood harvest and wood volume has improved considerably year-over-year.
So you won't carry more wood going in this winter? Well we'll carry the normal amount of winter wood build.
We do that every year.
The industry – as an example the Gulf Coastal region the Mid-South region you always end up traditionally with the winter rain periods.
And so it's a typical winter wood build.
But again what we're seeing to date; we haven't seen the fall or rains that we saw last year in some of these areas.
So it's a much more normal season right now.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Next question please? Our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The negative mix impact on corrugated in the fourth quarter so is that all seasonal or is there anything else happening? I know you talked about the economy being slower than where we were earlier in the year.
Is that having any impact on the mix or is that all just a seasonal impact? That's all seasonal impact Alex.
Very good.
And then on the cost side so certainly the seasonal uptick makes a lot of sense and then we see every year.
But what about the decline in oil prices that we saw in the middle of the year? And I think diesel will probably be about $0.50 a gallon lower in the fourth quarter chemicals are continuing to come in.
Is that going to have much impact on the business? Oil price has been down for a year.
Natural gas prices have been down.
And so we haven't seen any relief in terms of transportation costs.
Rail and trucking have continued to raise rates regarding overall costs regardless of what the – what their diesel fuel was.
So in terms of fuel that hasn't changed basically year-over-year.
And we don't burn any oil in our boilers.
And natural gas has been pretty stable.
Yeah.
Okay.
And just last one intra-quarter it was reported that Turkey put in some tariffs on kraft linerboard from the U.S.
I know you're not a big exporter but you do put in some product into Europe.
But were you putting any products into Turkey and what sort of – if you were what sort of the plan for that product? Alex I really can't talk about what markets we ship into and stuff so we'll just leave it at that.
Obviously we're small in the export market to begin with.
Okay.
Okay.
I'll turn it over.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Next question please? Our next question comes from Scott Gaffner of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Inc.</span></strong> So if I look at 3Q it sounds to me after we've gone through everything that really the only item that came in below expectations was the corrugated product shipments or was there anything else that came in below your expectations heading into the quarter? Yeah.
You got it right.
I mean it was a great quarter except we're just a little bit lighter on volume compared to our original forecasting model that we had built our guidance on for $1.28.
So the $0.02 miss was directly related to that little lighter volume.
And to put that into perspective the first half of the year we were up 2.5%.
We had forecasted about 2.5% for the third quarter and we came in at about 1.3%.
So when you adjust that for yield that basically – had we made that 2.5% would have been right on our number.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And so as we look at the fourth quarter guide I hear a lot of seasonality a lot of – around demand and input costs and again maybe the only thing that's changed in your mind is corrugated product shipments I just – and it sounds like we may be misestimated a lot of the seasonality here.
Is there anything other than corrugated product shipments as we go into 4Q that is below where you would've expected it to be maybe midway through the year? No.
As far as where we would've expected just the box volume is softer but then again it's – it all is related to the normal seasonal softness and it's spelled out in the earnings.
And our box volumes forecast is predicated on what we see today.
If the economy starts to pick up that's going to be a positive.
If the economy slows down more that will be a negative.
And so there's uncertainty about this number but as Tom mentioned we expect our volume 4Q-over-4Q to be up in corrugated.
So when you say soft we'll still be up.
We may not be up as much as we had hoped and if the economy picks up a little bit that'll obviously help us.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
And just last question on the guidance.
I realized historically you've only given one quarter forward on the guide.
But it sounds to me as if the fourth quarter guidance really isn't that far off from what you expected before.
It's more – our models had differing seasonality and they are maybe based on history versus where the company is today.
Any thoughts around possibly giving further out guidance so that you don't have this volatility in the stock on a day like today? No.
We're comfortable with giving guidance one quarter at a time and we'll leave it at that.
Yeah.
I think we're the only company in the industry that even gives you a firm number one quarter at a time.
So we don't give you full-year guidance but I don't know of anybody else that publishes one quarter in advance.
So we think we're ahead of everybody in that regard and we're not going any further ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question is a follow-up from George Staphos of Bank of America.
Hi guys.
Quick one.
Just on capital allocation maybe for Tom and Bob if we are to understand that multiples for corrugated assets have maybe trended higher over time and certainly you were ahead of the curve a few years ago with what you were doing you're still going to need if you continue at your historical trend more converting capacity at some point.
Have the returns gotten such where it makes more sense to do greenfield or basically what I'm asking are box plant greenfield investments at this juncture higher returning from what you can see relative to the suite of acquisition opportunities you've got out there right now in box plant? Thanks guys and good luck in the quarter.
Let me start with that again.
Looking at the opportunities that have been presented in the last year or so obviously we've been looking at them.
As Tom mentioned there was some rich prices.
We had capacity within our own system to continue growing the volumes.
And so we've been pretty judicious about how we look at the assets and the inherent value and it's all related to the book of business.
And so going forward if you were to look at capital allocation into the box plant side of the business as opposed to building a greenfield box plant theoretically you're always better to go buy an existing book of business than an existing plant.
And so with that Tom you want to add any color there? I would just say George that our strategy is not going to change.
I mean if we find an acquisition that meets our financial objectives but primarily meets a great customer base great management team and obviously accretive to earnings and it makes sense for us to do a buy under those circumstances I mean we'll do that.
In addition we'll continue to look at strategic capital investment where that makes sense and – which we've done in the past.
So if we're in markets where we're out of capacity in terms of converting capacity and we've got customer base who desire to do significantly more business with us or they're expanding or whatever the case might be I mean in those particular cases we'll certainly invest in the strategic capital.
So I think our – just because we haven't made an acquisition in the last 18 months doesn't mean we're changing our strategy by any means.
That said also keep in mind that what is able to be acquired out there is getting less and less every day because of the activity that's going on.
So those – that capital may flow into other buckets.
But we'll see what comes up as the future goes.
That's all fair.
Thanks for the time guys.
Again good luck in the quarter.
Thanks.
Next question please.
Our next question is a follow-up from Mark Wilde of Bank of Montreal.
Yeah just on the – going back to the box business Tom Hassfurther I just wondered we've seen these ISM numbers slipping over the past few months.
And historically they've correlated pretty well with the box business.
Can you tell me based on what we've seen in the ISM do you actually expect box volumes to soften further over the next couple of months? Mark I really can't predict what the future is going to hold.
All I can tell you is that as I indicated that the numbers didn't set what we had hoped they would be.
So we didn't have a lot of tailwind quite frankly from the economy in the third quarter.
But I can't predict at all what's going to happen in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then one other question I had is just going back to this integration level.
You've always operated since you became public in a pretty tight band on integration.
I'm curious if you saw a good mill asset come up over the next year or two would you actually be willing to take that integration level down further for a good mill asset? I don't want to speculate on that because that's absolutely purely speculative.
And I just don't want to get into that.
And Mark that's a question it's so open-ended.
If somebody wanted to give a mill away for next to nothing that was good asset we're really interested in things that are almost free.
But to pay the normal price no.
Yeah.
I don't see any giveaways right now.
Me neither.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Next question please? Mr.
Kowlzan I see that there are no more questions.
Do you have any closing comments? I'd like to thank everybody for joining us today and look forward to talking to you on the January call for the full year 2015 numbers.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining today's call.
You may now disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you are ready.
Good morning and thank you for participating in Packaging Corporation of America's fourth quarter and full year earnings release conference call.
I'm Mark Kowlzan Chairman and CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Tom Hassfurther Executive Vice President who runs our Packaging business and Bob Mundy our Chief Financial Officer.
During our prepared comments we will be referring to slides that are posted on our website.
I'll begin the call with a review of the fourth quarter and full year results and then I am going to turn the call over to Tom and Bob who'll provide more details.
I'll wrap things up and then we'll be glad to take questions.
Yesterday we reported fourth quarter net income of $104 million or $1.07 per share.
Fourth quarter net income included net nonrecurring charges primarily from the Boise integration of about $400 000.
Excluding these special items fourth quarter 2015 net income was $105 million or $1.08 per share compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 net income of $114 million or $1.16 per share.
Fourth quarter net sales were $1.4 billion in both 2015 and 2014.
We also recorded full year earnings excluding earning special items of $443 million or $4.53 per share compared to 2014 earnings excluding special items of $459 million or $4.66 per share.
Net sales in 2015 were $5.74 billion compared to the $5.85 billion in 2014.
Excluding special items total company EBITDA in 2015 was $1.106 billion compared to $1.144 billion in 2014.
Details of the special items for both fourth quarter and full year 2015 were included in the schedule that accompanies the earnings press release.
Turning to slide 3 fourth quarter 2015 earnings per share excluding special items were $0.08 per share below the fourth quarter of 2014 driven primarily by lower white paper prices and mix of $0.10 higher annual mill outage costs $0.03 lower corrugated volume $0.02 lower containerboard production $0.02 lower export containerboard prices $0.02 and higher depreciation expense $0.02.
These items were partially offset by lower costs for energy of $0.05 mill repair costs $0.03 and freight $0.02) as well as our lower income taxes of $0.04) per share.
Our earnings were $0.05 per share better than our fourth quarter guidance.
Operational performance contributed about $0.06 per share in total which included about $0.02 for energy $0.02 for mill repair costs $0.01 for wood and $0.01 for chemicals.
Also as we continue to optimize logistics our freight was $0.02 better than forecast and our tax rate was also $0.02 better.
These items were more than offset however by lower than forecast containerboard production and box volumes of about $0.04 per share.
Looking at our packaging business EBITDA margins excluding special items were up over last year's levels with EBITDA of $252 million and sales of $1.09 billion were 23.1% margins compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 packaging EBITDA excluding special items of $250 million on sales of $1.1 billion or a 22.3% margin.
For the full year excluding special items packaging EBITDA was $1.009 billion with sales of $4.48 billion or 22.5% margin compared to full year 2014 EBITDA of $1.015 billion with sales of $4.54 billion or 22.4% margin.
During the quarter our containerboard mills operated in a very cost effective manner.
Containerboard production was 903 000 tons which was a 24 000 tons decrease compared to last year's fourth quarter as we ramped the demand and unlike last year's fourth quarter we did not need to pre-build any inventory for our first quarter 2016 maintenance outage.
As a result we reduced containerboard inventory about 2 500 from the end of September and year-end inventory was flat with 2014 year-end levels.
And now I'm going to turn it over to Tom who will provide more details on containerboard sales and our corrugated business.
Thank you Mark.
As Mark indicated our corrugated products demand was lower than expected during the quarter down 1% in total and per work day compared to last year's record fourth quarter and up 1% for the full year.
Pricing for corrugated products during the quarter remained stable compared to the third quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2014.
As expected mix was seasonably weaker in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
Our outside sales in containerboard were flat with the third quarter and up about 7000 tons compared to last year's fourth quarter.
For the full year outside containerboard sales were up 52 000 tons over 2014.
Export prices were about 2% lower than the third quarter and about 6% lower than last year's fourth quarter levels.
Domestic prices for linerboard were flat with the third quarter and last year's fourth quarter.
Domestic prices were medium or flat for the third quarter and lower than last year's fourth quarter due to published medium price changes.
I will now turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Thomas.
Looking at our Paper segment EBITDA and sales were lower compared to the fourth quarter of last year with EBITDA of $28 million and sales of $273 million or 10.3% margins compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 with EBITDA excluding special items of $45 million and sales of $284 million or $15.8% margins.
As we mentioned on our third quarter earnings call our Jackson Alabama mill was down for an extended period for a planned rebuild of the recovery boiler which reduced production by 20 000 tons and increased operating costs.
The drop in revenues versus last year's fourth quarter was driven by lower prices and mix as total shipments were 5000 and above last year's levels.
Office paper shipments which represent about 70% of our total paper volume were up 4% versus last year.
Prices held up very well and as we indicated on our last earnings call volumes were seasonally lower versus the third quarter.
Overall the white paper mills had good cost control during the quarter and the rebuild of the Jackson Mill recovery boiler was successful.
For the year white paper 2015 EBITDA excluding special items was $161 million and sales were $1.14 billion or 14.1% margins compared to full year 2014 EBITDA of $186 million with sales of $1.2 billion or 15.5% margin.
Office paper shipments improved 1.1% versus full year 2014 and although sales prices and mix negatively impacted our EBITDA by 31% we were able to cut that impact by over half through our cost reduction efficiency and mix improvement efforts.
And now I'll turn it over to Bob Mundy.
Thanks Mark.
If you turn to slide 4 will be our cash provided by operations in the fourth quarter was $221 million after deducting $75 million in cash tax payments for federal and state income taxes.
Other uses of cash included capital expenditures of $97 million common stock dividends of $54 million share repurchases of $57 million and debt repayments of $17 million.
We ended the quarter with $184 million cash on hand.
Our fourth quarter 2015 effective tax rate of 32% was about 2% below last year's fourth quarter related primarily to state rate reductions that we were able to achieve compared to our estimates filed in the fourth quarter of 2014 and it was 3% below the third quarter of 2015 primarily due to the passage of the tax extenders act just prior to the end of the year.
For the full year cash from operations was a record $763 million and free cash flow was also a record $448 million.
Our key uses of cash for the year included capital expenditures of $315 million common stock dividends of $201 million we repurchased 2.3 million shares for a total of about $155 million and we had debt repayments for the year totaling $48 million.
As we normally do at the beginning of each year PCA derives estimates of certain items for the upcoming year.
Capital expenditures we expect to be between $250 million to $265 million DD&amp;A is expected to be about $352 million or about $5 million higher than 2015 recurring DD&amp;A pension expense estimated to be $27 million $5 million below 2015 primarily due to our adopting of the spot rate approach or 16 [ph] versus the single discount rate approach for calculating expense.
We expect to make cash pension payments of $37 million in our by [ph] federal and state effective tax rate for 2016 is expected to be about 35%.
Based on our current long term debt with current LIBOR rates interest expense in 2016 would be about $91 million and cash interest payments would be about $84 million.
Regarding the current planned annual maintenance outages at our mills the total earnings impact of these outages which includes lost production direct costs and amortized repair costs is expected to be $0.49 per share the current estimated impact by quarter in 2016 is $0.07 in the first quarter $0.16 in the second $0.10 in the third quarter and $0.16 per share in the fourth quarter.
Now I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Bob.
In summary 2015 was a very successful year for PCA as we completed the integration of Boise and achieved full design capacity of our converted DeRidder Louisiana number 3 paper machine.
The significant part of the integration effort was related to the rationalization and optimization of the Boise legacy broad [indiscernible] system as well as optimizing the product mix freight and warehousing logistics of our containerboard system.
Regarding synergies we achieved on run rate basis a $200 million target and finally we achieved record cash from operations and record free cash flow in 2015.
Looking ahead for the first quarter we have scheduled maintenance outages at our Valdosta mill one of our machines in [indiscernible] mill and one machine at the DeRidder mill.
Labor benefit costs will be higher with annual wage increases and other timing related expenses and seasonally colder weather will increase wood and energy costs.
Our tax rate will also be higher in the first quarter.
These items will be partially offset by slightly higher containerboard production and corrugated product shipments and lower scheduled outage costs.
Finally over the weekend Pulp and Paper Week a trade publication lowered its published price for domestic linerboard and medium by $15 and $20 per ton respectively which will adversely affect earnings.
Everything considered we currently expect first quarter earnings of $1.00 per share.
With that we'd be happy then to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we've made on the call constitute as forward-looking statements.
The statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the direction of the economy and those identified as risk factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
And with that operator I would like to open the call to questions.
Certainly.
Your first question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Good morning Mark Thank you good morning Mark.
First two questions if I could first one being just quickly could you give us a sense as to what was happening to demand and volumes as the quarter progression? You noted that fourth quarter is a little weaker than you had anticipated was that towards the end of the year or was that towards the beginning of the quarter? And then second if perhaps we could just get a little bit more detail on the bridge from 4Q to 1Q I imagine that the adverse price maybe is $0.02 or something like that but what are the other bigger elements if you could sort of size them first a little bit that would be really helpful? Thanks.
Yes Mark let me start off with the volume discussions.
Your question regarding how did the quarter go we indicated our first 10 days were flat with the third quarter what we saw happening by the latter half of October we saw some decline that we had not expected that continued into the early part of November and then through that mid-November Thanksgiving holiday we saw the volume picked back up and it was a rather nice recovery and so again there was again a sustained recovery through the latter half of the quarter.
And also I think Tom can add a little color to that the quarter itself and obviously the volume was what we expected but again there was a lot of moving parts taking place as I mentioned on the script with the rationalization and optimization effort.
Tom? Yes Mark I will just add to that.
We did take out some pretty significant volume and facilities quite frankly regarding the Boise legacy business specifically the Tharco business which quite frankly just did not fit our model from a margin standpoint or from a long term strategy standpoint.
So we went through a lot of that in the fourth quarter got that behind us.
As Mark indicated the volumes tailed off in the second half of October and in early November that picked up quite significantly all the way through the end of December going into January.
So that kind of gives you an idea where the trouble was.
And then regarding the bridge Bob we'll ask you that bridge question.
Yes Mark you had indicated what you either thought that I guess the price impact of your small number I think we'd agree is it is something that we don’t see that being very large for the first quarter.
The other items seasonal items like dependent [ph] with weather and those types of things energy and wood I think you would normally expect is what are some of the timing items which those timing items a lot around late labor type things wages type things like [indiscernible] we said at the beginning of the year that stared up staying with us throughout the year but they are heavy in that first quarter.
And then just we'll have some timing things just from a [indiscernible] perspective the freeze in the mills repairs and materials things that you usually starting into the year we getting on to new initiatives and what not.
So those are some of timing thing to that sort of fits that at the beginning of the year.
So those would be some of the bigger items both in the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Sorry good morning.
I guess one quick sort of clean up question is did you – do you have a good idea Bob of what the deferred tax will be or I'll say it differently how the cash tax rate might defer from the book tax rate in 2016? It is about 1% difference.
There were about - there was about 1% difference between the two.
It is I think the tax the tax rate is 35.29 just over 36.
Got you and did you say what the year-end 2015 debt was again? Year-end 2015 debt was or net debt was about $2.1 billion in regards with cash at 184.
Okay got you so the debt was 2284 [ph] then? The debt was 2309 less the cash of 184 so the net is 21.25.
Got you okay and then you mentioned the Pulp and Paper Weak adjustment over the weekend I guess two questions how does that flow into your box prices? In other words is there more of an impact we should expect in the second quarter which I guess it would be a lag? And maybe talk a little bit about how much of your business is affected by it? And then lastly would you at least on the kraft linerboard side was there any surprise to you in that move? Let me start off with that and I am going to hand it over to Tom.
Obviously it took us all by surprise and we're not going to quantify the impact but still trying to analyze the total impact it is in our guidance but again there are very strategic points that take place for pricing and where we have upwards of 15 000 customers everybody is different in terms of how the sales [ph] take place.
But Tom why don’t you add a little color to this? Okay yes Chip I hope you could understand that I mean basically when it comes to discussing the lags or how much the impact is with our customers and things like that I mean those are contracts we've been having with our customers that's the only people we really discuss that with.
So it is hard to add any real color to that.
And as Mark indicated we're still sorting through it to some extent.
But nonetheless I mean just top paper mill of course came out to be a great surprise I think yes big one.
And keep in mind as the first line of work increase that we've seen since 2005 [ph] now just hearing some of my takes on it and what I think is perhaps going on but one is the large decline in the sites of the open market has made it much harder I think for trade publications to assess what's really happening.
I think that you know you basically then cited a move in the traction of the market associated with a small reach and then broad rest that across the entire country and translate that into linerboard pricing kraft linerboard pricing specifically.
So I can speak for PCA we’ve not seen any changes in kraft linerboard and so we are very different than most of our favorite supporters.
Now they did give some specific pricing associated with recycle linerboard and apparently use that as further rationale to take down kraft linerboard prices and of course that’s bothersome because they know that there is a big difference between recycled and kraft and are essentially two different products when it comes to linerboard.
So it seems that they are heavily influenced by this pricing of recycle linerboard and try to translate that into lowering kraft linerboard across the board.
So that’s pretty much the extent my comments at this point I can assure you will continue to assess and monitor things going forward.
Thank you that’s very helpful and I guess the last quick one is and I know it's very early days but you mentioned a great point in time about the very limited open market that’s out there and so obviously that makes it a big challenge to - for anyone to sort of gauge where that is it's really about boxes and in that vein were they being taught maybe changing at least to help PCA might index their pricing of boxes to something else that's more broad that is very easy to observe like fiber costs or maybe even the – like the PPI? Chip you know we've had the discussion before they're back already last number of years obviously they have said something we don’t want to get into on the call.
It is complex and it is not straightforward as some people might think it is.
So obviously there are different ways but again this is something that right wrong or different.
The market has changed so that's all I want to comment on.
Okay that’s all very helpful.
Thank you.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Scott.
I just was wondering could you talk a little bit Tom I think you mentioned you walked away from some of that Tharco business it sounded like that was in the fourth quarter.
If so it was just margin issue with the Tharco business and so should be feeling the effects of that throughout 2016? Well Scott I mean I’m not going to get into great details about that business but obviously you know that’s primarily a distribution business and as I said it dented our market models nor did it did our long terms strategies.
It is - some of it is significantly different than the way we go to market and so we are therefore some of that business was not a fit.
I'm not saying all of it I'm just saying some of it you much take into case.
But I mean in addition I mean if you look at our volume I mean one of the other reasons that the volume was awesome what it is that I don’t think we've got the economic tailwinds that we had started in the fourth quarter.
GDP numbers suggested the economy grew only about half a percent and the last two months of the ISM data [ph] indicates the manufacturing activity may have contracted for the first times since 2011 during our fourth quarter.
So I think that’s and I think some of that’s clearly due to the strong dollar that’s impacting exports and we’re getting some of that from our customers as well.
So I think that we’ve got this Boise legacy business that we have adjusted somewhat behind us now and will allow us to focus on the things that we do best at PCA and get back to growing our business like we expected.
I think that's simple metrics Scott if you look at the year-over-year margin contribution from Tom's side of the business it speaks for itself in terms of what this rationalization effort has contributed and so again as Tom just lastly mentioned we needed a little more economic tailwind to boost that.
Understood and then just following up on the commentary before you mentioned during the quarter you saw some acceleration in demand I think you said late in the quarter.
Has that carried forward so far in the 1Q or is that are we back to more November like numbers? Tom has got the data for the first 13 days of the month.
Yes the first 13 days of bookings billings are flat with last year’s January which was a very robust year pretty robust month I should say up 4.1%.
So I would say that the demand pick up that we had in December has carried over to January.
Okay.
We were very pleased that right through the holiday weeks the volume was very good.
All right and then just lastly on the outside sales I think you said you had an increase in outside sales during the quarter was that to the export market or something domestic? Both went up a little bit.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Okay.
Next question? The next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Good morning Mark.
Couple of questions Tom with output and two finer points on this would it be fair to say that if we backed out the Tharco – shutting of the Tharco volume that your corrugated volume would have been at or above the industry numbers? I’m not going to get into that detail Mark you could just you know but you can do the math I think that you're not overall [ph] telling [ph].
Yes okay.
And then the other question I had Mark Kowlzan if you could give us any color on the duties on uncoated freesheet imports and whether that has changed anything and kind of where you see the market moving in the first half of the year? You know the post data shows a significant reduction in imports starting in the third quarter which is after the preliminary rulings were issued.
The imports were down around 200 000 tons in 2015 and most of the decline was in fact in the second half of the year as we previously mentioned and we do have some customers that are buying imported paper.
We know that many of them bought additional inventory earlier in the year before the rulings came out.
So typical market dynamics were in play and it’s a little bit too early to tell but it is very obvious that the trade case has significantly slowed the imports and which is really just creating a level playing field.
But I think you see that in our volumes again one indicator I think our total paper volume for January were up 3% and so we had finished the year strong in paper volumes and going through the first three weeks of January.
So again I think the trade case is having a positive impact.
Okay.
And then finally if I could Bob Mundy can you just give us an update on sort of what is still sitting up there on share repurchase authorization and how you’re thinking about sort of use of cash this year particularly in light of the big drop we’ve seen in the stocks in recent weeks? Yes yes Mark it is about 93 million remaining of the authorization.
So anyhow then our use of cash as we talked maybe a little bit of color as to where we see some of that for 2016 and I think it’s Mark will sort of comment on share repurchases I think our strategy of continuing to be opportunistic will continue.
Of course CapEx as I indicated was and Mark had said in the last quarter’s call that we expected it to be down versus 2015 because of lot of the heavy lifting behind us and so that’s – that obviously is high as it was in 2015.
Anything else Mark? I think that’s it.
I will turn it over.
Okay thank you.
Next question? Next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Good morning.
Mark your stock got selected yesterday pretty much in line with everybody else but your business model in the past has tended to outperform somewhat.
Do you think your business model is less able to outperform at this point or are the internal opportunities less attractive? You have heard us talk about rationalization.
Our priority in 2015 was completing the two-year integration of Boise and executing well on that.
And so a big piece of that as we’ve indicated was this rationalization and the readjustment of the entire Boise legacy box system and so in doing so we concentrated on that.
As you think about it we haven’t made any acquisitions of box plants.
The last one was in April of 2014.
And so we’re right now through this last era we've purely been on organic growth mode.
We’ve been avoiding over extending ourselves and so recapping right now where we are we’re poised for growth.
If you go back to the 2012 2013 period we are open market buyers.
We had integrated up into the low 90s and we had – we've gone through roughly five acquisitions of box plants.
We built a new plant in Redding but a new plant in the [indiscernible] and so we have a lot of the acquisition and organic capability.
And so we have reset the stage for that.
We’ve got the containerboard ton for Tom we’ve got the acquisition integrations done.
All the work that Tom did on the legacy Boise Tharco system is behind us.
So I think again the model remains very strong and relevant and so that’s what we’re going to plan to execute on.
Again we have got the balance sheet and we’ve got the tons to move into the market as we seek that.
So would it be fair to say that we should expect you to be more aggressive on upping your integration levels now? Well that's – we talked about that on some calls last year that the goal will be to move back up into the low 90s and we’ll do that with a combination of designed box plant acquisitions and organic growth and so be mindful on the acquisition side looking at the quality and the multiple paying but again we are looking at that we are ready and capable of executing on that.
Super thank you.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi everyone good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Most of them have already asked and answered.
I guess maybe Mark a question for you or maybe it is probably more for an economist.
I mean you mentioned that ISM [ph] got progressively more negative in the back portion of the quarter.
You saw volumes for your business pick up as we approached quarter end.
How do you reconcile that and should we be worried if at all that what we saw in the last two months in terms of macro data doesn’t translate to your business in the first quarter? And then the related question I had the rationalization effect of primarily the Tharco business how long will that be a headwind for you will it be more or less if maybe not line item in details visible in terms of your overall growth rate through the third quarter of this year does it continue all the way into the fourth quarter do you feel you have most of it behind you where and lot of it had been done already in the first quarter of 2015? On the first question regarding the economy in the ISM [ph] obviously the last reported ISM data showed a contraction.
What we think was happening or what we have to believe happened as the Holiday period came on Internet commerce have reported in the various segments was very strong and so I think we were a player in the Internet commerce but that also plays into the fact that we said that mix was not enriched as we expected.
And so I think that is a large portion of what you see.
Regarding any overhang and impacts of the integration and rationalization of the Tharco business I think again we need the economy to give us some tailwind.
With that being said Tom and the group of fully prepared and focused now on rolling that business instead of just how they go about rationalizing.
Tom do you want to add some color to that? Yes I would just add George.
The ISM [ph] numbers tend to be somewhat of a trailing number also.
So the way we go to market is fast as you know people - boxes and trends we see are kind of leading edge as opposed to maybe the ISM the import trailing edge.
I would say the ISM data probably ended up showing what we saw in October but probably hasn’t come out really to represent what happened at the end of November or December or through December I should say.
So and the rationalization effect of Tharco of course whenever you – whenever you eliminate something or sort of resize something and you’re going to be dealing with that certainly going forward but that’s said I mean it’s totally behind us now were not in terms of comparing numbers month-over-month or quarter-over-quarter but we’re very poised now to move forward and have gotten all those efforts behind us which were important to us we'll be back to operating like PCA.
Okay and thanks for that Tom.
A related question perhaps and my sense is what you think you saw in the fourth quarter was more inventory contraction and then hopefully more of a back to normal approach from your customers but I don’t want to put words is that what you think you saw and then related question.
Have you seen your bad debts move up at all is there anything in your data right now that is suggesting whatever we've been going through both within the sector and broad economy is the fun edge of a recession or do you think it is more inventory contraction.
We're back to normal at this juncture.
Let me yes on the bad debt piece of that we have actually see bad debt losses on the bad debt piece of that we’ve actually seen our bad debt losses actually declined and so that’s been very favorable for us.
And then on the the question about the economy and we said this before our customer base being two thirds local accounts they’re very nimble and they are very capable of responding very quickly and I think Tom said I think they were some response from our – lower customer base to as the economy in the news the daily news that we saw every morning as we watched first business news and people got cautious and probably ran some of their volume inventories lower levels.
But that being said they can respond on the partner side just flip these up.
I don’t want to try to qualify or quantify.
George I'll agree with that and what we’ve seen over the last few years quite frankly this is something that just recently.
We've been seeing that our customer base is very sensitive to inventory levels and our very estimate quick adjustments and so its let’s say going into October they were a little less optimistic about the Christmas season or something like that.
I mean they can adjust inventories very quickly so this is something we see and so it's actually changed the seasonality a little bit of our business as well.
Okay I appreciate it guys and will turn it over.
Thanks next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
You guys talked you being a player in ecommerce I was just under the impression a lot of this growth is in recycle boxes maybe that’s not the case and you can correct me but does this impact your ability to kind of grow with it trend? Debbie this Tom I’ll handle that.
So I mean as you can well imagine as the right ecommerce is drawing I mean virtually that anybody who has got a consumer related process in ecommerce somewhere or other and it is not just all recycled anything.
I mean it's still required for performance boxes and it is still required traffic boxes it requires all sources of things that we currently supply.
So no we don’t feel the least limited in drawing in that region.
Okay and then I guess if I move to kind of growth from M&amp;A how important is this to your strategy you had mentioned quality in the multiple but are other things out there that actually fit your criteria? Yes we continue to explore acquisitions and there are some things that would fit our criteria now it takes two to tango at this side so we need somebody who is who wants to sell and at the same time we're an anxious buyer so to make this thing work but nonetheless there are some quality assets out there fewer than they were before but I think as Mark indicated earlier we will remain a disciplined acquirer.
So we're not changing that part of our strategy.
Okay great.
Thanks I’ll turn it over.
Thank you.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
You referenced export prices lower sequentially in 4Q and I’m wondering if you could speak to what you are seeing in the beginning of the year in export markets either in terms of pricing with the strong dollar or what underlying demand looks like? And then can you remind us what percentage of you containerboard last year was exported? Okay Anthony as far as demand goes I mean demand is pretty flat right now.
I mean again we are relatively small player in the export pocket so you got to keep that in mind.
But we are in numerous regions and you’ve got some that are down I mean obviously if you take China and then some of the effect in Asia that’s down and then you've got some others that you’re actually back a little bit and then Latin America South America is relatively flat so it is pretty flat on an overall basis.
We don’t talk about forward pricing.
I gave you some indication of what happened up to this point in packaged pricing but anything going forward is really between us and our customers.
But I will say that obviously the strong dollar is a headwind for us when it comes to that.
Anthony regarding the export volumes we are currently just under 10% of our total containerboard volumes going in export but again moving that into about 35 different countries worldwide that’s up from a few years ago when we were open market buyers of containerboard and needed those tons and we shipped all those tons back into our own need.
So with DeRidder and their capability we've been able to service some of our legacy customer requirements around the world but its again small portion less than 10%.
Okay that’s helpful and then switching to white papers the $0.38 headwind you saw last year from lower price mix in terms of the mix piece of that is there anything in 2016 between the mix between office paper pulp specialty papers that would be a meaningful tailwind or headwind in 2016 in terms of your mix of white paper? Again just elaborating a little bit on the mix what we saw happening last year a lot of the on cut size in particular you saw a lot of it shipped from the high end super bright Laser Inkjet type cut size into the more commodity type cut size the 92 bright cut size paper and so that trend continues and it's just the market that we're living in right now.
And so that being said we are comfortable there and we get our volumes up so we’re feeling good about that.
Okay that’s helpful.
I’ll turn it over.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Hey good morning guys I understand PPW cut was largely backward looking and generally appreciate the color you provided earlier but the market and just a reaction to your stock our investors are actually concerned that there could be further price erosion.
Can you just provide any color on pricing in terms of outlook supply/demand and just competitive activity in the broader market that would be helpful? Again for trust reasons we're not going to get into a discussion about pricing.
Okay.
We just cannot go there.
Can you just talk about supply/demand and just the competitive active in the marketplace at the start of the year? Again we've commented our volume is in line with where we were last year we were flat but again I think we’ve indicated that we need a better economy stronger economy as far as some tailwind and so at the end of the day we have a system that can respond.
We have a system that’s ready for growth but Tom you want to add any more color to that? Yes I would say that I mean I think you need to think of it like this reaching for the supply standpoint kraft linerboard standpoint you are talking about kraft linerboard it really hasn’t grown significantly in years and so very much in balance and run rates that are probably on average something closer to 94% 95% which is very healthy and demand that all we can do is go up what our trends are which we indicated was moved upwards in December period over into January and were now compared to the 4.1% jump we saw January a year ago so.
Those are the best we can tell you in terms of the trends and I think that the I think there is a lot of industries that would - are very envious of the fact that we've got a 95% run rate in an industry like this based on kraft linerboard price.
Okay that’s helpful and I guess obviously there has been a big focus on pricing coming flipping a little bit here.
But on the offset are you seeing any major cost tailwinds with this pullback in energy costs chemical prices it did seem like freight was a larger tailwind.
Can you kind of help quantify and what the potential net impact would be on margins in 2016? Yes I will let Bob give you a little more color but obviously through the year last year we did see the benefit of natural gas pricing and so there is a benefit to the lower petroleum input cost factor and we did as we indicated on calls last year.
We are concentrating heavily on the transportation efficiency and capabilities within our system and how we supplied Tom's side of the business from the middle.
So we saw that so Bob do you want to give a little more color? Yes I would say obviously Mark said was absolutely correct plus on there being that energy side we’re just Mark talked on the last call about as an example the turbine project we did an international call that we got partial benefit of this year that will continue for the whole year.
So we see pretty much on all the inputs nothing really - those favorable trends should continue.
One of the reasons in the fourth quarter we did better is because really at I Falls we overcame actually the electrical rate went up as an example but because we’re purchasing so much less electricity we turned that into a $2 million plus just year-over-year just a fat mill [ph] problem.
So those are types of things that will certainly help us in 2016.
Okay this is one last one from me I mean you guys mentioned that you guys are ready for growth M&amp;A.
You guys have been kind of absent from that market whether it’s the box market or paper.
I know valuation hasn’t been an issue or something that is reason why you have been reluctant be as aggressive.
I mean given the pullback in valuation across the board has the pipeline kind of improved or how do you seem to have valuation come in as well in as well in the open market? Thanks.
I don’t think at the current time I don’t think anybody has a real good feel for what these current valuations are.
We just know that again compared to historical valuations on box plant acquisitions the multiples had gone up.
And at the time as Tom mentioned the number of plants and books of business that were available that we would be interested in were fewer and so we have plenty to do with the integration and optimization effort with Boise.
So we were less compelled to go and chase these last year as an example.
But that being said we are looking we won’t get into what we believe is a fair multiple when we do something we will let you know.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning gentlemen.
Couple of questions for you one sort of on a volume and then I want to come back to kind of the price cost element a little bit.
As you look forward to 2016 I know you already said when you laid out sort of a guide for 1Q that you are anticipating little bit higher volume.
But even kind of thinking about the industry or yourself specifically however you wish to address it as you look forward to 2016 I mean we had a point – point and half of corrugated consumption improvement interesting looking at 2016 with half of it still going to food and bev and ecommerce continued to pick up and extra shipping day this year because of a leap year that is worth half a percent.
How do you think on a go forward basis as you assess the economy and what you are seeing and feeling that did you think the industry can enjoy another point point and a half kind of year? Let me start off with that and I will turn it over to Tom.
Again if you go back in the last few years for the first time and a long time start to see box demand fall in line in a trend line with GDP growth.
That being said in 2014 the GDP numbers were coming on a lot stronger economists in general people in general were pretty bullish as 2014 fourth quarter proceeded.
We went into the first quarter of 2015 people were talking about in the 3% GDP range.
Obviously bags [ph] are provided down the GDP numbers themselves fell far below what our earlier expectations.
So again that being said if you believe what we saw happening over the last few years that box demand was much more hopelessly tied to GDP I think again all things being equal but from an industry perspective you got to have an economy that is going to give you that table and Tom you want to… Glad to say chris we're not economists don’t spend a lot of time trying to be economist.
But we do look what those look their claimed their economist say about us – about the business going forward and I think it’s fair to say that most of them our consensus would be around 1% to 1.5% growth barring any foreseen circumstances.
So I think you’re probably in line with what our expectations are.
That’s helpful and then second question I had I do get that we look in the publications and we see $15 and $20 of price decrease.
But I mean I also kind of help me think this through with the page after that article finishes up and they list key consumable.
So effective cost to produce a ton of kraft linerboard and a ton of kraft medium both of those are down.
Our these were 3Q over 3Q numbers and we don’t have all 4Q yet but they’re down $25 to $30 a ton because of lower fiber energy transportation et cetera.
So seeing - on one hand seeing pricing down a little bit less than what cost of produces would sort of imply that on a per ton basis you’re actually making the same or even more money.
Looking at your results and looking at your margins getting a little better might suggest that.
Does that seem like an unreasonable way to kind of think about things or I know you said you were surprised to see price come down but considering some of the costs came down as well is that maybe not such a ridiculous thing? I think people are not taking into full appreciation is the labor cost benefits inflation that takes place year-over-year.
If you go back the last price increase was 2013 so this would be we’re coming up on three years and yet that would be three full years of a company’s labor cost benefits inflation and that is a significant factor in that cost.
So even though we get some tailwind between energy costs some of the other input costs you throw medical into that and so that you got a big piece of that people aren’t appreciating.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
Just two quick ones please.
One of the rationales over last two years for keeping inventories at high levels has been freight and it sounds like the railroads are now easing so I’m just wondering if you will revisit the strategy or perhaps the bottleneck in box hasn’t changed it is just on frac sand and other commodities? I think we’re seeing some box car availability that we did not see.
Obviously the rates are not as good in some cases that we would like to see.
It’s not that the railroads of lower grades necessarily and in some cases some of the full mainline service rail they truly choose not to want to still serve some of locations.
So it’s not as easy in a straightforward assumption as you might think.
Our costs are down due to the actions that we took to optimize that the inventory and last year established a higher inventory level.
We believe we’re at a level that sustains and balances out and optimizes the transportation piece of the equation.
But that being said that does offer you a little bit of relief in terms of what the rail industry is going through and so a lot has taken place with how we are managing transportation.
But again on the trucking side of the equation there has not been any let up on the regulatory pressures that the trucking industry is facing and so again although more box cars maybe out there available it’s how we utilize them and our work price.
The margins have been sufficient to say that you’re being quite rationale.
Just last question then you’re obviously reluctant to discuss price and that’s just fine is it fair to say you’re sure as heck not talking to issues well? No comment on that.
All right thank you very much.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Next question please? Okay your next question comes from the line of Andrew Feinman with Iridian Asset Management.
Good morning.
So I would just first question is CapEx for 2016 I don’t know if you can give a number but I know you said it would be lower but how about can you tell us what it would be in terms of the percent of depreciation and amortization? Well yes let me give you the number and we’re - we commented with we’re probably going to be targeting that $250 million to $265 million which is down from the $314 million actual I don’t have the full calculation on part… Yes I mean that was the number I gave earlier I think indicated that deprecation is going to be about $350 million so..
Yes so 75% area so we’re going back to historical levels and that’s what if you think about last two years 2014 we spent $425 million last year $314 million high return opportunities.
This year it still be continued discipline to reduce capital.
But yet at the $250 million and $265 million level we do reserve the right as Tom comes forward as an example with good acquisition opportunities and/or good cost reduction high return opportunity that might get identified in a last box planned from the middle.
We would update you on future calls.
Right so when you say you have exerted the right you are saying that if he has an opportunity you could a little higher.
Absolutely and as far as uses of cash Andy if you've taken remember your buyback stock pay dividends pay down debt or make some high return acquisitions or high return investments that go right to the bottom line.
So the discipline was instilled for that very purpose to really focus everyone’s detention on where we want to go.
Well okay thank you for that.
So I – your stock is down from 80 to right now it's at 49.
It was over 80 and so I just wonder how you would get comment on that in terms of whether it presents an opportunity for you I’ll stop with that.
Well let me just comment.
We purchased 914 000 shares of stock in the fourth quarter and so we’re going to be opportunistic.
That being said 2015 was a very strong year.
We are only off 2014 is all time record earnings by couple of percent and so earnings were down just couple of percent and yet the stock is down and doing what it is so I don’t understand that rationale totally.
So we’re going to keep doing what we do and again we've got strong balance sheet poised for growth as I said earlier and we’re going to keep doing what we know how to do and what our model tell us works.
And with that operator I think we’re out of time.
So I think I’d like to just basically end it there and appreciate everybody joining us today and look forward to talking with you on the April call.
Again thank you for your participation.
This concludes today’s call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining Packaging Corporation of America’s Q4 and Full-Year 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Your host today will be Mark Kowlzan Chief Executive Officer of PCA.
Upon the conclusion of his narrative there will be a Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kowlzan and please proceed when you’re ready.
Good morning.
I’m Mark Kowlzan CEO of PCA and with me on the call today is Paul Stecko our Chairman; Tom Hassfurther who runs our Packaging business; Judy Lassa who runs our White papers business; and Rick West our CFO.
Thanks for participating in this morning’s call and after the presentation we’ll be glad to take any questions.
Yesterday we reported Q4 record net income of $227 million or $2.33 per share.
Earnings included special items of $1.07 per share of income from the reversal of tax reserves for both PCA and Boise related to alternative energy tax credits and after-tax costs totaling $0.41 per share relating primarily to PCA’s acquisition of Boise Inc.
on October 25 2013.
Excluding special items net income was $101 million or $1.04 per share compared to Q4 2012 net income excluding special items of $59 million or $0.61 per share.
Net sales were a record $1.3 billion compared to $737 million last year.
The $0.43 per share increase in earnings was driven by improvements in PCA’s earnings of $0.23 per share compared to last year’s Q4 and a partial quarter result from the acquisition of Boise of $0.20 per share.
The PCA earnings increase of $0.23 per share resulted from an improved pricing mix of $0.36 and volume $0.04 which was partially offset by cost increases in repairs of $0.03; fiber $0.03; labor $0.03; energy $0.02; depreciation $0.02; chemicals $0.01; and other items $0.03.
I should also point out that the $0.20 per share contributed by Boise includes a $0.06 per share deduction for all interest expense incurred during the quarter from the additional debt that resulted from acquiring Boise.
Whole year earnings excluding special items were $320 million or $3.28 per share compared to 2012 earnings excluding special items of $201 million or $2.06 per share.
Net sales were a record $3.7 billion compared to $2.8 billion in 2012.
Full year earnings including special items were $436 million or $4.47 per share compared to 2012 earnings of $164 million or $1.68 per share.
Detailed special items for both Q4 and the full year were included in the schedules that accompanied our earnings press release.
We finished 2013 with another outstanding quarter setting all-time records for sales earnings and shipments.
Our demand was steady throughout the quarter for both packaging and white papers and December volume was particularly strong.
We are pleased with Boise’s results which included only two months and five days of operations.
Boise’s earnings per share results benefited from early synergy realizations and also by the successful integration of PCA and Boise which we’ll talk about in more detail later in the presentation.
For the year our earnings were up 60% over 2012’s record earnings and strong cash flow has allowed us to pay down $150 million in debt since we acquired Boise on October 25.
Looking at more details in our packaging business PCA Corrugated Products shipments were up 4.4% in total and per work day over last year’s Q4.
Shipments were strong throughout the quarter up each month on a per workday basis and again it’s a very tough comp with PCA’s Q4 2012 shipments up almost 6% over 2011.
Including Boise’s shipments from October 25<sup>th</sup> through year-end total PCA shipments were up 24%.
For the year PCA’s total shipments were up 5.7% and up 6.1% per workday compared to 2012 all of which came from organic growth.
Including Boise’s partial Q4 shipments total 2013 shipments were up 10.7% and per workday up 11.1%.
Both domestic containerboard and [export] sales demand remained strong in Q4 except for South America where the impact of cold weather on produce crops has lowered demand.
Our containerboard mills produced 803 000 tons in Q4 including 141 000 tons of production by the former Boise mills.
We completed an annual outage at our Filer City Michigan medium mill in October which resulted in production losses of about 6 700 tons.
For the year total containerboard production was 2 749 000 tons.
PCA’s total containerboard inventories at year-end which for comparison purposes includes PCA and Boise tons at year-end 2013 and year-end 2012 were down 1 000 tons.
The ending inventory is a little lower than we had targeted considering there were two less mill production days in Q1 compared to Q4 and our Counce Tennessee linerboard mill will be down for a week in March for its annual outage.
Pricing for domestic containerboard and boxes remained very steady during the quarter but we did see some limited price reductions in export containerboard particularly in Latin America with the weather-related demand issues.
Looking at white papers our volume was up about 1% compared to last year’s Q4 driven by growth in office papers which more than offset declines in printing and converting and pressure sensitive papers.
The grades that declined in volume were significantly impacted by the permanent closures of two machines and lost machine [color] at the International Falls mill in October.
The closures reduced capacity by about 115 000 tons annually.
These closures however brought the mill into pulp balance and eliminated the need for purchased pulp which should improve profitability in 2014.
White papers’ income was disproportionately affected in the partial quarter of PCA’s ownership by the annual shutdown of the Jackson Alabama mill which occurred in November.
This shutdown reduced production by about 10 000 tons and increased operating costs.
We ended the year with our white papers’ inventory down about 14 000 tons compared to last year and 11 000 tons below Q3.
In Q4 we notified customers and began implementing price increases of $60 per ton for office papers and printing and converting grades.
In February we notified customers of an additional price increase of $70 for printing and converting grades $50 for branded business papers and $70 for private label.
The price increases are effective March 3 2014.
Finally we continue to make improvements in day-to-day mill operations and are finding additional opportunities for synergies in the process.
I’m now going to turn it over to Rick West our CFO who will provide more financial details.
Thank you Mark.
In Q4 cash generated from operations was $188 million and for the year was [$608 million].
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $104 million and for the year were $234 million.
Common stock dividends of $39 million were paid or $0.40 per share and for the year dividends of $109 million were paid.
We did not repurchase any shares of PCA common stock during Q4 and for the year share repurchases totaled $8 million.
[Cash tax] segments were $45 million in Q4 and for the year were $91 million.
We ended the year with $191 million in cash.
We paid off $109 million of debt in December and an additional $41 million in January making our total debt reduction since the acquisition $150 million.
With the debt pay down our long-term debt is now at $2.509 billion.
I am happy to report that the IRS audit of PCA’s 2008 and 2009 tax returns were completed during Q4 and all claimed alternative energy tax credits were allowed.
As a result we were able to reverse the tax reserve recorded for the Filer City biofuel tax credit of $104 million which we have fully used to offset past taxes owed.
In addition as a result of an IRS Chief Counsel Memorandum published in Q4 we were also able to release a Boise tax reserve of $62 million related to the taxability of the alternative fuel mixture credits.
As we normally do at the beginning of each year PCA provides estimates for certain 2014 items.
We expect total capital expenditures to be between $380 million to $400 million including normal capital required capital for synergies [Foiler Mac] and the DeRidder Conversion project.
DD&amp;A is expected to be about $340 million.
Pension expense and funding is expected to be about $25 million and $5 million respectively.
The combined federal and state effective tax rate is expected to be about 36.5% with a cash tax rate at about 31.0%.
Based on our current long-term debt with no additional debt pay downs and current LIBOR rates our interest expense in 2014 is expected to be about $87 million and cash interest payments are expected to be about $80 million.
That’s about $10 million [along with] combined interest expense for Boise and PCA prior to the acquisition.
I’ll now turn it over to Paul Stecko who will comment on synergies in our Boise integration efforts.
Thank you Rick.
This integration has obviously been our number one priority for the last four months.
Our plan was to have our top three executives lead the specific aspects of the integration in what I term a very hands-on day-to-day fashion.
Mark Kowlzan led the mill integration; Tom Hassfurther led the integration of all packaging operations and Rick West led the integration of financial shared services and IT operations.
We also had very strong support from Boise personnel in this endeavor particularly Judy Lassa who is now Senior Vice President of White Papers Virginia Aulin who’s now Vice President of Human Resources for PCA and Bernadette Madarieta who’s now our VP and Controller.
This team’s off to a great start and I want to emphasize that a tremendous amount of work has been accomplished.
When we announced the agreement to acquire Boise on September 16 we estimated synergies of $105 million which would be achieved over three years or about $35 million per year.
Our synergy estimate is now $175 million and we think we can get to a run rate of $75 million to $80 million by the end of the first year.
Actions taken immediately after the acquisition on October 25<sup>th</sup> and essentially completed by the end of the year were the elimination of about $25 million in overhead costs primarily from reduced headcount and lower corporate governance costs.
Although not counted in our synergy estimates with the acquisition of Boise we also inherited tax-loss carry forwards of $135 million which we can utilize.
These loss carry forwards are front-end loaded and already reduced our 2013 tax payments by $9 million and will reduce 2014 tax payments by $38 million.
The remaining tax loss carry forwards will reduce payments by about $6 million per year from 2015 through 2028.
Finally a few comments on the DeRidder paper machine conversion project.
After the closing of the acquisition on October 25<sup>th</sup> we announced that we were putting the project on hold until we could perform a complete technical review.
This was expected to delay the startup of the project from mid-2014 till Q4 2014.
This is still the case.
In addition to ensuring technical accuracy we also wanted to fully utilize our expertise and make any changes to the project that could further improve its returns.
That process is continuing and we have found ways to improve the returns.
We expect to be in a position to provide an update on the cost of the project and the expected returns sometime in March.
With that I’ll turn it back to Mark for the Q1 outlook.
Thanks Paul.
Earnings improvement is expected from a full quarter’s operation of Boise including synergies and lower amortization of annual mill outage costs.
White papers’ prices are expected to improve in Q1 as a result of our announced price increases.
Our largest containerboard mill in Counce Tennessee will be down in March for its annual maintenance outage which will reduce production and increase operating costs.
We normally have increased costs from colder weather of about $0.06 per share compared to Q4 for such things as wood energy and transportation.
So far this year however the extreme cold temperatures and significant snowfalls across the country have impacted all of our mills with higher-than-normal cost increases for these items.
Costs at our conversion plants are also being impacted and we’ve had some plant closures.
It’s very tough to predict how these extreme weather patterns will impact PCA for the entire quarter but it’s probably cost us $0.03 per share already with about a month and a half left to go in the quarter.
Labor costs are expected to be higher with beginning of the year wage increases for both salary and hourly employees and certain benefit costs will be higher primarily FICA during Q1.
We also expect a higher tax rate.
Considering all these items we currently expect Q1 earnings to be from about $1.00 to $1.05 per share excluding special items.
With that we’d be happy to entertain any questions but I must remind you that some of the statements we’ve made on this call constituted forward-looking statements.
These statements were based on current estimates expectations and projections of the company and do involve inherent risks and uncertainties including the (inaudible) in the economy and those identified as “risk factors” in our annual report on file on Form 10(k) with the SEC.
The actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
And with that Operator I’d like to open the call for questions.
First question please.
(Operator instructions.) Your first question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
Yes good morning.
My questions the first one is on the synergy target which you just raised and is impressive to see certainly.
Can you give us an idea of where you found the increments of what you thought at the beginning and were some of those increments maybe in ways the white papers business is run as part of PKG? As a matter of fact the biggest area was in the white papers.
We didn’t have much in it initially and as we started to operate the business we discovered a lot of opportunities.
And on the brown side we have the big things such as [braid] optimization and transportation opportunities along with sales mix but as we got into the actual operations of the mills and the box plants again a lot of smaller items made themselves available to us.
Okay and then just one quick follow-up.
You all mentioned that the Jackson outage impacted white papers in Q4 and of course the $15 million in the paper segment was certainly more than we were looking for to begin with not even being aware of that or building that in consciously.
How much of an impact was that and should we sort of add back that number and then make our own judgment on pricing as we look at 2014 per quarter? Yeah I’m going to let Judy comment on that.
Yeah that’s about a $4.5 million impact here on EBITDA in Q4.
Okay.
But I would imagine you would have other outages you take in your system so I mean is that sort of a normal per quarter amount or was that an outsized amount?  No it was pretty close to a normal amount with a little bit longer run than our other outages.
Hey Chip this is Paul.
I think the point that we were trying to make is we only had the business for two months and so we had an annual shutdown in the two-month period and usually Boise would have a shutdown once every three months.
This was once every two months so it was disproportionate because of the stub period only that we owned it.
They did not have a full quarter to absorb that hit – it was over a much shorter period.
Gotcha very clear.
And the last quick one can you talk a little bit about your box demand experience so far this year maybe in January? Yeah if you look at January this is both combined PCA and Boise we were up 2.5%.
And again considering where we were from the tough comps a year ago we were looking at a combined Boise/PCA 11% last year in January over the prior year.
So our 2.5% performance in January we felt good and again it was up against a tremendous prior year number.
And the weather hurt us a little bit on demand.
That’s hard to quantify and hopefully we’ll make that up over the rest of the quarter if this weather ever improves.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
On the corrugated side when I back out the volume growth from legacy PCA it seems like Boise’s box shipments may have declined year-over-year.
Am I reading that right and can you just talk a little bit about the volume performance of the Boise business? Yeah Anthony this is Tom.
All I can tell you is we really only have the information for the sub period which was very flattish over the previous year so that’s really all I can comment on in terms of the comparison.
Okay.
We would comment in January where we did have a full month of each box that Boise was up about the same amount that we were in January of this year.
So that’s our best current comparison.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then regarding the weather you referenced impacts to box plants.
I’m wondering with Valdosta has there been any impact to mill production from the very severe weather in the south?  We’ve been fortunate that we haven’t had any direct impact on the productivity per se but we’ve obviously had the impact on raw material goods transportation issues along with finished goods transportation issues because of the icy roads and the rail problems.
And nationwide if you go all the way from the I Falls the Canadian border down to the Gulf coast we’ve seen massive railroad problems with the extreme cold snow and ice.
So in that regard the mills have been productive but again the cost impacts are there.
I would add to that just what Mark said – we’ve been a little bit lucky too.
One of the problems is the rails in this long cold weather they are having maintenance problems and the rail system has slowed noticeably.
And in January we had at several of our mills less than a day’s worth of chemicals and if we did not get a rail ship in time we would have had to shut those mills down.
And we were fortunate we did get some just in time switching the rail cars and we were able to keep our mills running.
And knock on wood we’ve got another month and a half to go to get through this but transportation is as big an issue in and out of mills as your other costs.
Okay that’s helpful.
I’ll turn it over.
Your next question comes from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks hi everyone good morning.
Congratulations on the year.
Two quick questions actually on papers: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the size of the synergy increment the question being previous to Boise you didn’t have a white papers business.
Now you do and so it’s interesting that you had so much incremental synergy gain in a business where there was no direct overlap with your existing business.
I was hoping you could provide a bit more color on that and then more broadly having owned the business now for a few months and it seems to be performing well certainly relative to your expectations could you advise the community here how you see the papers business fitting in ultimately to your strategy guys? Thank you.
Yeah let me take that one George.
With regard to the synergies we do have a lot of synergies – and the synergies is in operating expertise.
We weren’t in the white paper business but we operate mills and there are a lot of practices preventative maintenance being one of them that we think we’re pretty good at and we’ve applied those principles in the white paper business.
Now that said we actually did a poor job upfront estimating the white paper synergies because we’re primarily a packaging company and we focused on those synergies.
But again as we got into the white paper business a lot of synergies came out of it and I would say that about half the increment – and that’s just an estimate at this point – came from additions to white papers; the other half came from things we found in the brown.
With regard to your second question what we think about the white paper business I’ll say again we’re primarily a packaging company.
But when it comes to white papers we see some excellent opportunities to create shareholder value and that’s what we’re here to do – create shareholder value.
And the first way we can do it is by obviously improving operations in white papers and we’ve already stated to do that; and then we got a little bit of help in that market conditions as you know have improved significantly since we made this acquisition for white papers.
And third we feel we have the ability to build on a very very strong competency that this business has and that is excellence in logistics and customer service.
So overall I would tell you that compared to the time of the acquisition we’re very encouraged and we feel we have a real opportunity to create significant shareholder value in this part of the business.
Although it’s not nearly as big as packaging it’s going to add a lot of value to the enterprise.
Thank you Paul I’ll turn it over.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you good morning.
On the white papers business the second largest player seems to be walking away from some business.
As you think about your volumes for white papers in 2014 do you expect to benefit from any incremental business going your way that the competitor’s walking away from? Judy? I don’t have a comment on that.
Okay.
And on the packaging side can you let us know what the mix between domestic and export is including Boise and where the integration level is as well for the box plants including the Boise assets right now? Let me handle part of that and we’ll let Tom take some of that.
Regarding the integration level we’re currently looking at about 90% integrated.
If you think about what we said over the last four years we expected to be at 90% plus by the end of 2014.
We are there so everything we’ve been talking about regarding the importance of DeRidder and the ability to supply tons is still very true.
Regarding the export and the balance of domestic and export I’ll let Tom get into that.
Alex I’d just say that on the balance between domestic and export with the combined company it’s still virtually the same.
We’ve reduced our export footprint as we talked about in previous quarterly calls during the year and Boise has pretty much maintained theirs.
But going forward we’ll still be very much what I call a small specialty strategic player in the exports market.
And then just one last quick one from me: the increased synergy target I think looking at the D&amp;A number today it’s a little bit lower than what I think you’ve previously talked about.
Is any of these increased synergies due to lower D&amp;A or is it all higher cash synergies that you’re seeing? No the synergies did not have any impact on DD&amp;A.
In fact the synergies to DD&amp;A came in about what we expected.
And one thing I’ll point out when you look at the step up in value of the fixed assets and the overall assets it’s probably not as great as you would expect because the Boise assets were revalued in 2008.
So in total I would say that the total step up in DD&amp;A only impacted depreciation expense year-over-year from 2013 is if we’d acquired Boise on January 1<sup>st</sup> through the entire year to 2014.
DD&amp;A only went up about 15 with DD&amp;A going down in the paper business some and up in the packaging business.
Great help everyone thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Thank you.
Two questions: one on the segmentation are you including basically the same things in the paper segment that Boise had or have you made some adjustments? The only adjustment we’ve made in the reporting of the paper segment we now report the W2 machine at Wallula which makes corrugating media within the packaging segment whereas Boise kept the media machine in the paper segment and we felt that was a better representation of both businesses to move it into the packaging.
Okay thank you.
And then second so Boise was roughly $0.20 accretive in the just over two months that you had it.
Is it fair to think of the acquisition that if you’d had it for the whole time it would have been closer to $0.30? And if you times that by four it would have been close to $1.20? And then hopefully you’ve even got good things going on with price and some other things and [encoded] for instance so that again we’ll see how things play out but potentially you can get even more accretion – throw synergies on top of that as well – which assuming that there’s some validity to that process of thinking how do you think about the dividend which really was established before you had Boise and now we’ve got all this additional earnings and cash flow? Is it appropriate to think about sooner rather than later repositioning some of that cash flow into raising the dividend again? Mark this is Paul.
I would say as a general answer it’s yes to about everything you said.
But let me clarify that now with regard to the dividend.
What we said initially our number one objective with regard to proceeding was to pay down debt.
And our goal was and we said it at the time of the acquisition was to pay down $1 billion worth of debt over say the next three years.
And that was based on what we thought we could do.
Now admittedly we underestimated the synergies and we’ve also got this tax benefit on a tax loss carry forward.
So I think there’s a possibility that we can be in the position to do both because the one negative of your stock price going up and there’s only one is that the yield on your dividend goes down.
And so we may be in the position to be able to meet both goals and then both goals would be to pay down that $1 billion in debt and with the excess cash do something to continue to improve the yield on our dividend as we go forward.
And so I think there’s more of a possibility of doing what you said than less of a possibility.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with Credit Agricole Securities.
Thanks.
Mark as we think about the synergy optimization it sounds like you’re already talking about re-optimizing the mills in the existing expanded synergy targets.
Should we think about this as a two-step process then where you’re going to re-optimize the mills and then you’re going to figure out what D2 is going to make and then probably re-optimize again after that? And the second question do you expect your overall fiber mix to change very much? I mean some of the past repositioning of mills that Boise has done have made some pretty major changes in fiber over time.
I’m just wondering if that’s a piece of your strategy here? Regarding the first part of your question on optimization the way we’ve been approaching Boise is just what we’ve done at PCA over the years.
We’ve got a very strong technical organization that is dispatched to the mills on a weekly basis and so we basically just incorporated the Boise mills into that routine.
So we have multiple activities taking place at all of the mills and so there’s a parallel path forward on how we’re optimizing and that’s also including the DeRidder piece of the equation.
So everything’s happening in a parallel fashion so we’re not doing anything in a linear fashion by any means.
And then regarding fiber I don’t expect to see anything change in that regard.
And I would add again back on your first question we don’t view this as a two-step process.
We have a big picture that says “These are the capabilities we have these’ll be the capabilities after the DeRidder conversion is online; this is our supply this is the demand.” As Mark said earlier our integration level got to our goal of 90% and that’s the main driver for doing the DeRidder conversion.
We need a bigger runway for the next five years.
We are growing; we need tons from somewhere and the DeRidder conversion is where we’ll get them or our integration level will get too high and we don’t want that to happen because it impedes your ability to serve customers.
But no we know what we’re going to do.
We know what we’re going to make.
We’re just figuring out again on a project what’s the optimum way to do that to construct that to make sure we get the highest return.
But it’s a one-step plan albeit that the last step in the process is the conversion project.
Alright that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies and Company.
Good morning guys.
From what I understand you guys are probably the only national containerboard producer on the West Coast.
Has that opened the door for you guys to leverage your existing relationships to win some new business from the independents? When you say we’re the only national producer on the West Coast that’s not- Yeah that has a footprint out there on the West Coast.
We don’t have a [milk] footprint on the West Coast.
Obviously the media machine at Wallula and the DeRidder machine puts us much closer to the West Coast from a transportation point of view so we get help there and that’s our transportation synergy.
But all the big players have box plant capacity on the West Coast.
Okay that’s helpful.
We didn’t have capacity in the Pacific Northwest so we joined… We can now say we are on the West Coast.
Others could have said that before us.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then based on some of the moves you guys are making in terms of pushing out D2 and some of the synergies you’re looking to unlock can you provide some clarity on how we should be thinking about CAPEX for 2015 and 2016? Not at this point.
Yeah we stated earlier that our target for the year is around $400 million and so that’s what our plan is calling for for this year.
We haven’t really taken a look out into ’15-‘16.
Okay and then one last housekeeping question.
Can you give us some color on the tons you guys are looking to take in terms of a maintenance standpoint for the full year? I know there’s some comparison differences – last time you guys took a lot more in Q2 than in Q1 so I just wanted some more color on that front.
You know we generally don’t comment on forward quarters regarding tons but just obviously we have Counce down for its annual this quarter and then at least to help you understand Q2 without getting into tons we’ll have the I Falls and the Wallula mills down primarily and Tomahawk for Q2.
But I don’t want to get into going forward tons impacts.
We’ll do that quarter-by-quarter when we talk about the quarter.
But Q1 should be a heavier quarter is that correct? No.
Counce is down for its annual at the end of the March period so it’s just one week.
Historically Q1 was our heaviest downtime quarter.
That will not be the case this year because one we have more mills; and two because of equipment deliveries for example even Counce is pushed out until the end of Q1.
So it will not be our normal pattern; it’ll be more uniform this year than skewed towards Q1.
Alright thanks guys.
Your next question comes from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Yeah good morning.
I wonder if it’s possible within that CAPEX number of about $400 million for this year is it possible to get a sense of how much of that is the D2 project? No we don’t want to get into that right now.
Again as Paul mentioned we’ll be discussing probably that during the month of March more in detail.
Okay away from that Mark is it possible to get a sense of sort of what the CAPEX looks like at the other Boise mills and what that looks like relative to depreciation at the Boise mills? No we’re not prepared to do that on this call Mark.
It’s primarily an earnings review and we’re not we don’t really want to get into that today.
Okay the one other question I had then going back to kind of Mark Weintraub’s question about debt reduction and potentially a higher dividend is it fair to say that the targets that you set initially with that three-year debt reduction goal of $1 billion that that wouldn’t have assumed all the news we’ve had on pricing on [uncored free sheet] over the last three months? That would be fair to assume.
Alright fair enough.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Thanks.
I just wanted to follow up on some of the CAPEX questions.
I believe you mentioned when you provided the initial synergy outlook of $75 million to $100 million to achieve the $105 million or so of synergies with the increase in the synergies that you now expect can you just update us on what you think the synergy-related CAPEX will be in total? I think we may have misstated; I’m not sure exactly what we said.
We said that the cost of getting the synergies would be from $80 million to $100 million so you got the $80 million to $100 million part right.
But those costs were not all capital.
They also included such things as severance costs for the headcount reduction.
So that number’s an all-in.
Some of it’s capital; some of it’s not – it’s a one-time expense.
As we sit now that number is below $80 million as we’ve had a chance to refine it so probably in the $70 million to $80 million range is our best guess today down from $80 million to $100 million.
Okay very good.
And that’s with the increased synergies as well I take it.
Yes it’s with the increased synergies as well.
Okay terrific.
Then on a related topic on the synergies can you help us with how much and maybe I missed this but how much synergies you realized in Q4 and what the run rate today is on the synergies? I would say that we said I’m not going to get into the specific EPS amount Al but if you look at it what we said on the call was immediately after October 25<sup>th</sup> and through the end of the year we had got about $25 million in corporate overhead costs.
So I’ll let you do the math on that because it’s kind of difficult if you’re coming in through to the corporate and that’s an annual number – taking out $25 million in annual costs of corporate overhead.
And then Paul mentioned that we would be at an annual rate of about $75 million to $80 million by the end of the year so that’s about as much granularity as we’re able to give at this point.
Okay alright that’s helpful.
And then to the degree you can comment on just the order book – I believe you mentioned volumes were up 2.5% combined Boise and PCA.
As you sort of look at the order book to the degree it gives you some visibility there how is that looking versus last year? Are you seeing a notable uptick there because we’ve heard from some others that they have seen that? Well again as I mentioned you know we talked about the January number up above 2.5% combined PCA and Boise.
That was up in terms of a very tough comparable of 11% in the prior year.
So again our 2.5% we feel is a good number considering the big comp from the prior period ten months before.
Let me say it another way – we’ve had some quarters last year where we were up 6% but last January was an anomaly when you’re up 11%.
And so beating an 11% up by a lot is hard to do so yes the 2.5% we were pretty pleased with compared with what we were comparing it against.
So if you wanted to call it an uptick I guess you can – I don’t know if I’d want to go that far.
And then as I said earlier things were exasperated by weather.
We had box plants down from several storms and that’s hurt our volume a little bit but you’re going to recover some of that and we’ll probably recover that if the weather changes in February.
So it’s kind of a hard question to answer.
Okay I appreciate that.
And final question I guess Rick just housekeeping – the corporate line item on the segment reporting is there any flavor you can give us how we should be thinking about what that amount is for the year? I don’t want to predict for the year because we’re continuing to go through the corporate line and as you get synergies it may change.
But I would say that in the past we have kept all corporate overhead as one item when we were one segment; whereas with our reporting in Q4 we are allocating a portion of the corporate overhead to both the paper and the packaging segments and only retaining the part that’s not allocated which would be more true corporate functions in corporate.
So I think it’s a little too soon to do that.
We can probably give you a better idea after the end of Q1.
Okay thanks and good luck the rest of the year.
Your next question will come from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning gentlemen and just a couple follow-up questions for you.
First could you maybe help us a little bit with the timing or the phasing as you anticipate the two price increases coming through? How much have you realized thus far how does that kind of fade through over the balance of the year? Does it typically take a quarter or two for the UFS pricing to phase in? This is Judy I’ll take that one.
So the price increase that we announced back in last quarter depending on product or grade mix our price realization to date is about $40 to $50 a ton excluding the volume that’s tied to indices.
And as we’ve commented in the opening remarks we do have another price increase announced out there but we won’t talk about how that’s going to come in.
Okay.
And I think Mark and I and Rick we’re new again to the white papers business having not been in that segment for about twenty years.
But if you look at some of the indices they have tended to but in a little bit of the increase each month.
It’s almost like a box price increase as opposed to a containerboard increase that usually goes in on one date.
And so that will probably be the case this year but we’ll see.
Okay so it sounds like you’ve got maybe two thirds of it in there as of the end of the quarter so the first price increase – but the rest will be in during this quarter maybe? No what Judy said is on the businesses that we have unilateral ability to raise the price we’re up the numbers that she gave you; but we have stuff also that’s tied to indices and that moves only when the index moves.
So the answer to your question is you have to know how much is tied to indices and how much isn’t and that’s company proprietary information that we don’t discuss with anybody because that information would be useful to our competitors also.
So we don’t talk about it.
Got it.
Second question is with respect to you talked about – and I know you discussed this a few months back as well – moving up the D2 conversion from kind of midyear towards the end of the year.
You alluded to a couple elements in there where you said that you would improve returns and what you wanted out of the business.
Can you maybe give us a little color as to how you intend to improve returns? Is it coming from maybe it costing less to put in? Is it coming from maybe it having more capacity from the 300 000 I think that was originally slated to come on? Or is there even an element that you figured out how to lower the cost curve of the new mill when it does come online but at the same capacity? Can you maybe help us a little bit there with what you were able to do? Yeah without getting into the details I can tell you that since the announced acquisition in September we’ve been heavily involved in analyzing and reviewing the entire detailed scope of the project.
And again with my task of heading up the mill integration I’ve personally been involved with all of the engineering staff on a week-to-week basis for reviewing all of this so that’s where that’s all focused.
And I would add that we will not share that information with the public until we share it with our Board of Directors.
And we’ve got a Board meeting at the end of this month and we owe them a status report on what we’ve found what we’re going to do how we’re going to improve the return etc.
Once we do that then we’ll be free to discuss that.
Can you maybe share with us that the plan is still that it’s going to be 300 000 tons when it comes on stream or is it… As I said earlier we’re not talking about any specific detail until we talk to the Board about the detail first and unfortunately for you you’re behind our Board in the pecking order.
So we’re going to have to stiff you on this one.
[laughter] Okay.
Last question I had is I used to have an old number I used for kind of making the CAPEX in the $125 million range for PCA.
Including appreciating now that you’re a little bigger with the Boise element in there what would you sort of estimate that sort of a maintenance CAPEX number would be? We’re still looking at that Chris and I’m not going to break out and parse out the estimated capital.
You know it’s something that takes a while.
As Mark looks at the integration of the mills and what we need to do it’s just too soon.
We’ve got the full number and I can’t parse that out at this point.
Yeah but you are incorrect about the number.
Our CAPEX number varied through the last decade say from $110 million to $125 million.
About half of it was maintenance; the other half was a project to improve profitability and reduce costs.
So you had the right number but only half of that is pure maintenance capital.
The other half involves the capacity addition and things of that nature.
Okay thank you and good luck guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Cherecover with D.A.
Davidson.
Good morning welcome to the Pacific Northwest.
Just a couple quickies to kind of follow on to Mr.
Weintraub’s questions.
It’s appropriate that Walulla’s now in packaging.
Am I correct that newsprint is still in the packaging segment as well? That is correct.
Okay and along that line it appeared that Boise’s packaging margins were well below your historical margins and that made us a little nervous but your margins in Q4 were kind of in line with your generally terrific margins.
Have you already fixed the system or is that due in part to the re-segmentation? We’ll let Tom Hassfurther answer that.
Steve this is Tom here I’ll comment on that.
You know we’ve already done a lot on the packaging side of the business obviously starting with headcount which we discussed earlier.
We’ve brought a lot of operation expertise to Boise which has already begun to yield some results.
The geographic footprint is important to us and has allowed us to expand some customer base into the Pacific Northwest where we did not have a footprint before.
But I’d just say as we talk about many acquisitions one of the most important aspects of any acquisition – and that includes all of PCA – is the people.
And you know the people that make the difference at Boise we’re very very pleased with them the progress they’re making.
There’s a great opportunity in my opinion to continue to bring Boise into the PCA culture which gets them focused on much more hard-to-do value added business and getting paid appropriately for it.
So I think there’s a lot of upside in those plants and we’re very very encouraged with the improvement they’ve made already.
So if pricing and input costs were to remain constant we should see these kind of low-20% EBITDA margins approach the mid-20%s I suppose.
I would say yes.
And you have to remember when you look at Boise even in terms of volume we were about three times the size of Boise anyway.
So acquiring the Boise packaging business was about a quarter bigger than us so you have to factor that into how you look at the margins and the average.
But as Tom said we’re very happy.
Terrific.
And one other quick clarification please.
I think you said embedded in the $0.20 accretion from Boise there was $0.06 associated with interest.
Can you just clarify was that to your benefit or it might have actually been $0.26 without that interest hit? You’re correct in your last statement.
What we did is we had to take on debt to acquire Boise so we felt it was appropriate to take the entire interest expense on that new debt and for reporting purposes this one quarter apply that interest expense of $0.06 against the Boise earnings on a standalone basis.
So therefore before interest it was $0.26 per share; after the full interest to acquire Boise it was $0.20 a share.
And the other reason we did that is we had given guidance to the street before the Boise acquisition of $0.84 for PCA.
So we wanted to have a valid comparison of how did we do against the $0.84 target and so that’s why we isolated that interest to Boise.
And PCA actually came in at $0.84 on that side and Boise took the entire brunt of that interest expense which we thought that was a fair way to do it.
So without that interest expense it would have been $0.06 higher at Boise.
(Inaudible) going forward as we do a more normal allocation.
And by extension if we annualize it it could be more like $1.40 than $1.20 I suppose the accretion.
As we said earlier we don’t really want to get into that number and in the future quarters we will probably report only PCA earnings and will not isolate Boise as a separate.
Okay well you’re one company.
Congratulations thank you.
Your next question comes from the line John Tumazos with John Tumazos Very Independent Research.
Thank you for taking my question and congratulations on all your great achievements.
In terms of the DeRidder project my question is do you believe that the capital costs can be accurately estimated? My impression is there’s a plethora of natural gas and oil-related projects in Louisiana.
There was just a project of Shell that the capital overran 60% in the first four months of studies and they canceled it.
My impression is it’s very hard to get contractors these days because of the oil and gas boom.
You know as we’ve looked at the project we’ve also been meeting with the general contractors and I’m not concerned with that right now.
We currently have contractors onsite working on part of the capital program at DeRidder regarding the OCC plant that was again a critical component to the announced plans at DeRidder and again we’re not having that problem that you discussed.
So that’s all I’m going to say about that.
Thank you.
And with that we’ve basically run out of time.
And so thank you for joining us today and I look forward to talking with you at the end of Q1 on the April call.
Have a good day thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
